And yet because it's surprising to some people
or because it's too boring, we just refuse to accept it.
Yeah, well, you noted that like people tend to gravitate
to extreme positions, it's pretty clear.
Politics too, for a lot of reasons.
But I also think there's something about human nature
where people don't like to say, I don't know.
And that's like, it's really interesting, I think,
that we don't, we don't admit, we don't know.
People respond with certitude to things
that we have absolutely no idea about.
And I feel like that is much more of the issue
with consciousness is that we really don't know.
And I disagree with like sort of Dennis' position
because it's about, he's claiming to know.
And I think that it's actually most courageous
just to say, I don't really know what's going on here.
The reason I think it's totally reasonable to say
we don't know is because look at polarizes all of us.
Like this is one of those issues where experts
can come out of completely different extremes.
And there's no consensus.
And like when that's happening,
probably nobody knows what's going on.
We have not come to consensus yet.
And so I think there is something deeper going on here
that needs to be addressed and it's not simple
and certitude is not the right response.
So to me, it's just, I would say I don't really know,
but I find interesting to delve into what it is
that I don't know, like the details of what we don't know.
Cause that's where it gets interesting.
There's lots of things we do know,
which is what tends to get rehashed
when we respond with certitude.
Like I know what I know, but I don't,
I'm more interested in what I don't know.
Well, let me just follow up there.
So this was a debate between two extremists.
One extremist saying there's no such thing as very well,
it's an illusion.
And the other one, actually a middle ground,
but at least extreme from a certainty perspective,
which is saying here's the definition.
But the reason why I gravitate towards that position
is because it at least provides us
with an operational paradigm
by which we can do exactly what you're suggesting,
which is explore what we don't know.
So if we take it as like, okay,
here's a working definition of free will.
Now let's find all the areas where it breaks down,
explore them scientifically.
It's at least useful, right?
Whereas an extreme position saying,
no, nothing is free will, it's an illusion, it's not useful.
I can't do anything with that.
I think it's quite hard to have a definition.
I was challenging one of my friends yesterday, Kenneth,
about imagine you wanted to become a billionaire,
give me an objective to optimize.
And it's really, really difficult
because you can start to scratch around
and talk about diversity and information, accumulation,
all the stuff, novelty, interestingness,
but you're really scratching around.
And it's the same thing here.
We're talking about consciousness and free will.
And these are very subjective things.
And when Keith was talking about
the Dennett-Sam Harris debate,
because it's not like free will
is about maximizing the expected reward,
although perhaps if you created an agent
to do such a thing it would,
maybe you could tune it to behave in such a way
as humans behave.
But from my perspective, free will is about the subjectivity
and about the agency, those two things.
And I can't really describe those two things
in any more detail than that.
Yeah.
Well, one distinction that I think I want to make is that
I would separate in my kind of like questioning
and thinking free will from consciousness.
Like I think it's two different questions for me.
I could see why you might want to combine them,
but I just think they're different.
I've thought much more about consciousness than free will.
So on that I think I'm not,
I haven't really thought through
how to address free will very well.
But my consciousness I think,
to me it's about the issue that's really problematic
is when it comes to like quality and things like that.
Like there are other aspects of consciousness
we might talk about that I think they're less problematic,
but that is very mysterious and I feel unresolved.
But in case we're making a general point here
about these kinds of discussions and yeah,
I think the general points that he's making are reasonable.
And so we have David Chalmers coming on the show next month.
Oh, I was gonna say, did you read his book?
I mean, that's like, now that was a book.
I really liked that book because it is about not knowing.
The book is basically trying to tell,
that's how I interpret it.
I'm no philosopher,
so maybe I don't even understand what I'm reading,
but my interpretation was basically a big argument
about why we should admit
that we really don't know what's going on.
There's very few books like that.
I love a good book about not knowing things.
I don't know if you guys know that
like one of the very first neuroevolution experiments
cause I was in the field of neuroevolution was Chalmers.
He actually did it long before all this stuff
he's famous for.
He re-evolved the rules of back propagation.
Amazing.
Sighted him many times for that.
Amazing, he comes up absolutely everywhere.
He's such an interesting guy.
I wanted to talk a little bit about some of that stuff
because there's not a lot of new work
in your space at the moment.
And I suppose like one way to frame the question
is clearly poet and enhanced poet are fascinating.
And they are much more divergent than many other algorithms.
But are you aware of anything
which has been artificially created
which is extremely divergent?
I mean, more so than poet even
or is that currently the state of the art?
Well, there are still things going on.
Like one place to look is under the name quality diversity.
Like you can find a website.
I think it's called Quality Diversity Optimization.
Unfortunately, the word optimization
I wouldn't have put in there,
but that's what they're calling it.
And that's basically about,
QD algorithms are basically about like novelty,
like novelty seeking things combined
with the notion of quality.
And so you can see like the latest there.
Like those are divergent at some level.
Like almost every paper that there's like 150,
I think the last time I looked.
But the thing about it is it is not yet connected
to the mainstream of machine learning,
which is why you're not hearing about it
or noticing it as much.
That's always been a problem historically.
Going back to neuro evolution,
it's often evolutionary,
but there are some,
there is some drift out of that I think recently.
Like people have sent me preprints.
I think something's gonna come out soon, for example,
trying to build on like the idea of poet.
And like that are much more kind of
machine learning, reinforcement learning oriented.
And so there will be things.
There's a trickle coming out in that direction.
And then now we're seeing like
there's open-ended learning symposium workshops,
like popping up at mainstream conferences.
I know I'm speaking at, I guess, is it iClear, I think?
There's gonna be a workshop on open-endedness.
And so there's definitely some momentum.
I think it's still early and could fizzle out,
but you're seeing stuff.
But in any case, to the question,
do we actually see something more open-ended than poet?
I think the answer is no currently.
I'm not aware of everything going on, but that's a pretty,
like maybe like there's some things
that improve on it in one way or another,
but I wouldn't call it more open-ended.
No, I think that that's a pretty high bar.
Like, and there is headroom, I think,
to be more open-ended than poet,
but it's a high bar, it's really hard.
And I think when people see poet, they focus,
from machine learning perspective,
they focus more on the curriculum learning aspect of it.
Like the curriculum learning aspect
is like a certain perspective you could have,
and you could think about it as like,
how do we get something really intelligent
for a certain kind of problem that has generality?
Like I think about something like that,
and this is like give some clues in that direction.
But that's not really going towards the part
that like inspires me to the open-endedness side of it.
You know, what I really wanna see is that
it just continues to invent like totally out
of the blue crazy stuff forever.
