to understand what we're talking about.
And so it's, there's still a little bit of this room for obfuscation
where we fail to address the mystery itself
by just deciding to focus on the definition.
Yeah, I mean, I think if we did understand it
or had a clear definition,
you know, we wouldn't be having so many interesting papers coming out,
like on the measure of intelligence.
And that was the thing that I liked about Chile's paper is,
hey, as long as it's an operationally useful measure,
then that helps us.
It turns out, while it's kind of a nice framework
to think about things, there isn't yet a measure of it,
you know, kind of working on that and he's working on that.
But again, I love the idea that we just,
you know, the goal here, like you said earlier,
is really to talk about things.
You know, it's to communicate, it's to learn,
it's to make progress, it's to explore and to some degree,
to make life better, to exploit.
But it's all about just doing almost the minimal necessary
to enable communication and exploration, I think.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I totally agree.
Like the ultimate point is to explore.
And yeah, I just like to go to places that are ambiguous,
like on purpose for something.
I feel like that's what we're supposed to do,
like if we're talking about science or art,
those are like the really interesting uncomfortable places
where you're going to learn something.
It's almost like how in physics,
physicists always want to go to where two great theories collide
and nobody knows what happens.
Like what happens at the surface of a black hole
where quantum mechanics and general relativity collide.
There's a lot of unknown and ambiguity there.
That's where the real progress is going to come from.
You're sitting right on the boundary of chaos and order.
You're trying to straddle that straddle line.
Exactly, exactly.
Well, Professor Kenestan, it's always an honor.
Thank you so much for joining us.
Thank you.
That was super fun.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
Amazing.
