And I think your ideas are like that.
At least they were for me.
And I started come to this line of thinking
that I just wanted to ask you about,
just to see if it's completely off base,
or if there's any, maybe any kind of truth to it,
which is, and I know I keep repeating this, Tim,
and I apologize,
but one of the most beautiful quotes I ever heard
was from Claude Shannon many decades ago.
I heard this, and he said, you know,
we have knowledge of the past, but we cannot change it.
We have no knowledge of the future, but we control it.
And I realized back then that there's this duality,
and it's reflected there in that asymmetry of time,
but also in the way I think about science and engineering.
So there are the two sides of a coin
where scientists use engineering to control
in order to gain new knowledge.
Whereas engineers take the knowledge that we have,
and they use it to gain control, you know,
by building a better building,
crossing a water stream or whatever.
And it's also similar to the exploration
versus exploitation, you know, trade-off.
And I'm coming around to this way of thinking that,
yeah, you know, objectives can be quite harmful
when you're in that exploration, you know, phase,
trying to learn new knowledge,
because just as you point out,
who knows what the stepping stones are gonna be like?
And all the kind of, let's say,
quote-unquote counter examples
that I were thinking of before,
it's because they fall more in the engineering side of things,
which is, okay, look, we have some knowledge,
and we do have a very specific goal
we're trying to do with that knowledge,
you know, build a faster rocket or whatever.
And so, yeah, we just go down this kind of very
refinement, objective-based kind of goal,
but it's really not gonna lead us necessarily
to new knowledge or new insight.
Is this kind of a fair dichotomy or not?
Yeah, I mean, you know, it's nice to keep to hear you're
coming around to that way of thinking somewhat.
It's like a while, isn't it?
Hey, I'm open-minded.
It's, yeah, it's interesting to connect to Shannon.
That I appreciate and is an interesting connection.
And I think the dichotomy is pretty fair,
that like in search of discovery,
yeah, a lot of engineering principles
are not really the best tools for innovation necessarily,
especially basic, like basic exploration.
And it's true also that it seems like engineering
culturally kind of pervades scientific education,
at least in some sciences.
I don't know, like I only know about my own experience
in computer science, but like I was in
computer science engineering major at U Penn
that was like computer science engineering is like one thing.
And so, yeah, a lot of engineering philosophy
is like stuck in with the science.
And maybe there is like some conflation there,
but I also think like another thing to consider,
which might be a little bit more out there,
and controversial is that I think it's worth
questioning whether artificial intelligence
really is only science.
And is that actually what we're doing?
Like a lot of the discussion about AI will come back to,
you know, that's not scientific,
or does it kind of attack or a way of looking at like
an idea where like we can sort of invoke science
and slavery to put something down.
And, you know, one interpretation is just that,
you know, maybe there, it was a good scientific insight,
but somebody just missed it or something.
They're not seeing the big picture.
But another interpretation is that actually
this is not science, and it shouldn't be,
it shouldn't be caged inside of that,
only that way of thinking.
And I've actually written about this,
was much less received, much less attention
when I wrote about it, but I thought a lot about it.
Like that in some ways I think AI is,
has a lot of connection to art.
And I don't mean just in the sense that like
you can use AI to generate art.
I mean, you can do that, obviously.
But I mean, in the sense that like,
art is about the reproduction often, not always,
but often it's about the reproduction of natural artifacts
in an artificial way.
Like, I mean, when you paint a picture
of like an apple or something, like a still life,
and nobody's expecting it to be a real apple.
Like that's not the question.
And nobody even expects there's necessarily
a faithful reproduction of an apple.
Or let's say like, you know, Van Gogh's Starry Night,
it doesn't look anything like a real Starry Night
that I bet anybody on earth has ever seen,
even if they're on drugs.
And yet, what does it do?
What is the value of Starry Night then?
Since it's not accurate.
Scientifically, it's not a very good job.
Well, it actually gives you new insight
into something about Starry Night
that you hadn't really thought about.
And that's what's thrilling about it,
is that like it gives you a new perspective
on something that you're familiar with.
AI is also concerned with the reproduction
of natural phenomena in artifice.
It's the same thing.
And in a similar way, like an algorithm is,
I think it's just another way,
it's kind of like another painting.
It's just a painting that's expressed
rather than through brush strokes,
it's expressed through code.
But if you look at it that way,
you can understand that like,
it can be an interpretation of nature
without being accurate.
And that can still be valuable
just as Starry Night is valuable.
And the reason it can be valuable back to science
is because some of the thoughts it gives you
will be stepping stones
that then lead back to scientific insights.
So we're straddling between science and art here.
But the thing is,
it's not necessarily a harmful thing to do.
And so we should actually consider whether,
like to the extent that an algorithm actually
is an artistic inspiration,
which I think a lot of what I was doing was,
like when I was building things like Neat,
I was inspired by like,
the increases in complexity in nature.
I was never under the delusion
that Neat is an accurate depiction
of how evolution works in nature.
But it's kind of an ode to nature in a way,
like the way a painting might be.
But it's never discussed in that way.
You said in your presentation last time
that you were becoming a little bit more radicalized
because you were doing it to not computer scientists,
artists, and all of a sudden they were saying to you,
oh my God, Kenneth, like,
finally, my parents keep saying to me,
why are you doing art?
Why are you wasting your time?
And now I understand,
now I actually have a sense of purpose,
it means something.
And I think what you were saying a second ago,
because it's quite interesting you said,
or a starry night.
And you could say that's a kind of model
or a kind of representation.
But is it fair to say that you're actually more interested
in analogizing the process itself?
Like analogizing the process of discovery in AI with art.
Is that what you mean?
Yeah.
I think there's an analogy between art and AI.
It's more than just process.
It's like, it is a branch of art.
Like it's literally about like reproducing natural phenomena
in artifice, which is what artists do.
The difference is that the,
the, I mean, art is, you know, you might say it's like,
there's more of an aesthetic emphasis
or something in art, but I mean, that's just a choice.
I mean, that's what we're doing in AI.
We're interested in,
so one exception I should say for the artists
who are listening, which are probably few,
but I want to acknowledge that that's not the only thing
that art is concerned with.
When I wrote about this, I actually,
I wrote a paper on this.
It was one of the weirdest things I did
because I actually went to like a real library
and was researching art history and things like that.
I felt like a real like scholar or something in the library.
But so I got a lot of, I got some criticism from artists.
And like one of the things they were pointing out was that
it's not always about the reproduction of nature.
Like there's some modern art that has nothing to do
with reproducing anything.
It's just about like the pure aesthetics.
So let's just acknowledge that that's not all art is about.
