important thing is basically a model of the world, a model of the lived world is essentially a model
of me in a particular world. So most of the pressure on early learning is just finding out,
first of all, am I separate from my mother? If I am, what bits of the world can I move?
Sure. So distinguishing between my body and non-body. And clearly, as one gets more sophisticated,
more skilled, then one develops quite a sophisticated and deep, literally with
hierarchical depth, generative model of me. But of course, that entails the kinds of things that I do
and the kinds of things in this world, in this culture, things like me do.
So I think that's one way of looking at scripts. And that has to be learned.
And as I think you're sort of highlighting, using culture, using and culturalism
that brings with these deontic cues, these counterfactuals that say, well, you can be
that kind of person or that kind of person, or possibly more relevant, in this setting,
you'll be that kind of person in that setting, you'll be this kind of person.
Just to give us, to scaffold and to provide priors, empirical priors, we call them
mathematically priors, that are informed by experience and the structure learning and evidence
accumulation, that shape the structures that you will entertain. And of course, if we are
99% of our time is basically spent modelling the embodied me in some transaction or interaction
with the embodied you, then a lot of these scripts are going to pertain to the kinds of things,
the behaviours, the social norms that would apply in that context. I do emphasise the context,
you know, I think we can be different people in different contexts, we can contextualise
our models in the same way that if I was bilingual, I would contextualise my narrative
or the spoken narrative, given what I thought you would understand and I would understand
from you. And having that context sensitivity that underwrites the generalisation of one model
for multiple contexts is this context sensitivity. So the greater the latitude or scripts you have
in front of you, I think the more apt you will be to cope with any new context in later life.
I think stories, you know, even down to the level of reading fairy tales at bedtime,
some of the sort of most caricatured but enduring Shakespearean
memes or structures or scripts are all there, you know, I'm a fairy princess,
so I'm some sort of hero. All the green fairy tales, for example, they have that sort of
life structure in them that I would imagine most people would be able to identify with one
character from a fairy story that, you know, five years later will be one character in their
favourite Enid Blyton book or, you know, whatever children read nowadays through to, you know,
the political and other dramas that we read in adolescence. So I think that's absolutely right.
And probably, you know, there must be a vast literature in terms of Evo Devo, the sort of
combination of developmental psychology and evolution, so this notion that, you know,
evolution is just not the selective pressure acting upon a person, but the person builds
is in a particular environmental eco-niche that is, you know, a game massively and deeply encultured.
And because we, if you like, shape that culture and that eco-niche, that encultured eco-niche,
then the eco-niche itself now becomes such a subject of selective pressure at another level.
So there's a sort of nice dance between the environment learning about the denizens and
the phenotypes in that environment and learning about, you know, learning the culture of this
environment. And they both have to be optimal hand in hand as we go forward.
One of the things, continuing on with the idea of scripts, is that is reading losing its grip,
losing its grip and culture and society as one of the main forces to learn the scripts that are
the models that are generated in order to understand a theory of mind of others, to understand yourself
and understand the world. I mean, what in your view, because a lot of people now are reading less,
they're getting their information from TV programs. I mean, that's been going on for 50 years, but
with the internet, there's a lot more distractions so that the kind of scripts that may be
taught these days are short scripts, as opposed to book length scripts that go into some
degree of complexity. I just wondered if you could react to that.
Yeah, I can, but I gotta react as a pure layman. I have no professional insights here. I do know
people, you know, who make this their life work. I think it's a fascinating area, but you know,
I'm just going to say that's an incredibly engaging point, especially with the advent of
social media and the increasing potency of adverts, mini films within 10 seconds now,
designed to provide extremely information, rich uncertainty, resolving material,
precisely tuned for brains that can only attend for 10 seconds or 30 seconds, even to, you know,
synchronizing the cuts in the editing with the natural temper of our eye movements,
the way that we visually palpate the world. So, will that have any material effect on
the temporal depth of the narratives and the scripts that we sort of start to inscribe
in our generative models of the self of me or different kinds of me that I could possibly be?
Again, as a layman, I would be surprised if there's any real damage being done, to be quite
honest, you know. There's long stories with the long-term denouements are still intensely
attractive from an epistemic point of view and in terms of identifying with characters and the
like. So, there is ample evidence that people still want the long stories. Unfortunately, it may
not be, and you'll have to ask me why I say unfortunate, but unfortunately it might not be
the textual story, but certainly if you look at things like Game of Thrones or your face police
dramas or season one of the next HBO mega drama series, these are structured long narratives
which people are still find unavoidable and will commit to. So, in terms of there being a sort of
sea change in short, sharp, fast, trivial, not trivial, but fast narratives with early closure,
scripts with early closure. I'm sure that there are lots of opportunities to indulge in that,
but on the other hand, there's plenty of evidence, I think, that what people actually commit to
when they settle down, especially during the coronavirus pandemic, to go through their box
sets. The box sets are, I think, an epitomization of the long stories. Of course, the best box sets
are those that translate in an easily didesimal form, the best books. So, you know, I would be
more optimistic than one might think from a lay perspective.
Well, I think I appreciate you sharing that. I'm just curious as to whether it might have
implications for your own mapping program and your own notion of generative models, because
the way we generate models depends on an input. And if the input is a book, you're going to generate
one class of models. If you're playing, say, computer games, which I don't have anything against,
I think it's actually, they're fun, but you're generating a different kind of model making
about the world. And those do make a difference, because if you say communication is a shared
activity, and they're in a reading culture, you share the activity, although you read alone,
you share those books intellectually with those around you in your culture. If that culture
starts to shift, then you're sharing them with a smaller group of people who model according to
books, as opposed to, say, playing computer games. Yeah, I think that's an excellent point.
One aspect of that point brings us to an important sort of paradigm shift at the end of the 20th
century, which was towards sort of an embodied perspective, an inactive perspective, a situated
perspective on sentient behavior, which tries not to deny the key role of the physical way in which
we sample our information, get information from the world. And indeed, on some radical accounts,
the very physical, embodied act of soliciting sensory information from the world could be
read as perception. So I think one attractive example of that is the finger fluency that
teenagers now, in fact, millennials now have in terms of being able to type on an iPhone.
No, I don't have an iPhone. So I just don't have this fluency. But they will have a substantial
part of their motor and premotor and supplementary motor area devoted to this fluency, which would
parallel parts of my broker's area, problems area 44, that I devote to using more my favorite words
when writing them down. So there will be physical differences in our motor compensate,
our communicative acts that will be written into and entailed by different brain structures and
different fluences. So I think that's absolutely right. So the new authors may not now be people
who are writing books, they may be people who are engineering games. And so there's more money
in that than there is writing books. I can attest to that.
If you just want the money, that may not be a good thing.
It begs the question, is that a good thing or a bad thing from an evolutionary perspective?
I made no judgments, but it certainly is a reality that you could reverse engineer if you
gave me a young person's brain from 2015, relative to a young person's brain in 1915.
There will be structural differences. And if I understood the nature of their
genetic models entailed by their brains, I will be able to say that this is the kind of
youngster who reads books. And I will be surprised to see
the gross differences between all of their friends in their conspiracies or their in-group,
whereas the millennial subject would have a different kind of brain who would have
different kinds of fluences. And you'll be able to see, well, this is the kind of new reader
who probably does engage in narratives by watching Netflix or playing games online with their
friends and siblings. So as a neuroscience, you could see
same territory, but different maps. You can see the mapping has been of a different kind and
different quality. But the territory is recognizable, but the map of the various trails and where
you're going is take some use to getting used to because you don't have that part of your brain
which has looked at that kind of map before. Yeah, you don't have that sort of physical language.
You can't articulate. And if you can't articulate, if you can't do, then you can't see. You can't
understand. So the essence of understanding others is the notion of this shared narrative,
which means that if I see you doing something, then I can use my models of the kinds of things that I
do to infer what you intend. So if I can't do something, then I can't understand. I can't
make sense of you if you did the thing that I cannot do. So that's not a sort of mystical
statement. It really does bite hard, say in neurology, where people with Parkinson's disease
may have difficulties adopting certain facial expressions or responding swiftly in terms of
initiating certain kinds of movements, which means that they can't do it. But crucially,
they can't recognize those kinds of actions, those communicative acts in other people.
So you just lose the language. So I could never, in any true way, understand what a finger thumb-flipping
youngster on the tube is trying to do, because I just don't have that as part of my geratin model.
So I can't model them. They are another species for me. I mean, not in any malignant way, but they
are now a different generation. And I'm not part of that generation. There will always be a communicative
barrier, which is not a bad thing, but there will always be that barrier simply because they have
a different way of expressing. And I think it comes to the notion which you brought to the table
around about the modalities. The modality does entail the physical ways in which we communicate
and which we share narratives. And if I don't speak that language, or I am not able to play a
particular computer game, or I'm not a subscriber to Netflix, then there is going to be a fundamental
disaggregation or disaggregation of different cultural groups, being generational or clinical.
Literally no longer speaking the same language, which is often the way a generational divide is
put. A breakdown of communication, because the medium at which communication is used, is just
different enough. It's just like, if you hear a dialect, even in your own native tongue,
you still have to strain a bit. You may pick out some words, but there will be other words which
are not familiar to you. If you go to Edinburgh, you're going to find maybe in a pub there that
there's someone, you're missing some words, which are common to everyone there, but are not common
for you. Yes, no, absolutely. The dialect is very interesting because that introduces a degree of
uncertainty. If you just think about what things are we attracted to and the valence of things,
and if the key imperative is indeed this imperative to resolve uncertainty, then the uncertainty induced
by what did she say? It starts to become slightly aversive, and it is that kind of
noisiness, that sort of uncertainty, which irreducible uncertainty, which you will ignore,
and you'll go to another more reducible kind of uncertainty. Yes, this is my kind of book,
this is my kind of story, this is a TV series for my age group, because I understand what's
going on, and at the end I will get that to Newmont, I will resolve that uncertainty. But if you infer
you're never, for example, new kinds of popular music that just do not, you don't have a geratin
model for you, you can't predict what's going to happen next, you will actually find them quite
aversive because they do not afford the opportunity to resolve uncertainty, to improve your model of
the world in any meaningful way, and you'll stick to, as you get older, you will certainly stick to
the kinds of information that do have that epistemic performance. So, I mean, there is kind
of an emotional homostasis that I think that people naturally drift to. So, if there's something that
is incoherent, not particularly understandable or pleasant, they either avert their eyes or pretend
that they didn't see it. This is part of human nature, of what you choose to see, and what you
choose not to see, in respect to John Berger's ways of seeing. And again, I think that comes from
reading, which I think is a segue, and let's go take a time machine back to York. You're now about
10 years old, none of the metals, none of the accolades or the fellowships are there. You're a
boy reading a book. Tell me a little bit about that environment in which you are reading a book.
It's an environment that is shaped very much by my family, particularly my parents, really. So,
I think to understand that environment and the books that I would pick up and read,
you had to understand why those books were there. So, my mother was a nurse,
and when she got married, it was in the age where it was, you know, the script's word that you've
sort of invested in your children as a mother, and the father went out to work. My father was a
civil engineer, which meant we had to move around the country very much like an army child to wear
the new stunch as he was actually a motorway bridge engineer. So, we had to move around the
country, and he spent a lot of time on site. So, I had this curious mixture of an extremely bright
man with a passion for physics and engineering, and an extremely bright mother whose only focus at
that time was how to bring up children properly. So, she got this very lucky.
Very lucky.
Loads of books on psychology, popular psychology, for her edification and enrichment,
that was a nice compliment to my father's books, which were largely all engineering,
and his favourite book was Spacetime and Gravitation, by Sir Arthur Eddington.
And I only found out about four years ago how favourite that book was, because apparently when
trying to court my mother when they're in their teenage years, he'd made her read it as well.
That had to be true love.
It's the only book on your list. You have seven books. I have never heard of this book,
so I did a little bit of research. The most recent review I could find was in the Bolshevik American
and Mathematical Society, January 1921. And the only place I could find to buy a copy was
Walmart Canada's website for $89.40. It also said, the other two pieces of information,
it had no reviews, and two, it was almost sold out.
So, please tell me what age you read this book. Your mother read it as a teenager. How old were
you when you read this book? I must have been about 10 or 11 years of age. I read it several times.
But it was at a time where we were actually having maths lessons at school, so the narrative,
the language of maths was starting to emerge. I'm surprised there were no reviews of it,
because I think, latterly, it's seen as a classic in the sense that it was the only accessible
way that an informed early 20th century layman could get a good handle on general relativity
in Einstein's notion. Sir Arthur Eddington, the author, was famed really for being able to translate
Einstein's ideas into a way that enabled people like you to grasp the essence of it.
And it's still, I think, a very readable book, if you want to understand not only what is
general relativity, but also how you might take those baby steps conceptually, and possibly how
Einstein and people at that time were thinking out of the box and logically
arguing themselves to the way that this world must be. So we're coming back to some generative
models of a very grand sort here, certainly in the context of physics. So that was probably
my favourite book, because it really did have that epistemic affordance that we were talking about.
It really did not only engender a whole space of counterfactuals about the way that the physical
universe could work, but also provided a denouement in terms of resolution and certainty. So the big
thing about the story that that book tells, which is basically a story of conceptual exploration in
terms of the way that the physical universe might be structured, but it was written by somebody who
