Barcelona. But the thing for me was I could see me in 10 years time and that there were
different possibilities about the way you used your life. Because I had assumed that I was going
to be a good boy, probably thought at that time that I was going to be a psychologist
because of my father's passion for mathematics. I probably already had committed to a life as a
mathematical psychologist, like some kind of scientist involved in the brain. But I was
impressed by Orwell's sort of moral and political convictions. You didn't have to do that. You could
just say, no, I'm leaving this country and I'm going to go. So just a different way of scripting
your life was a real thing. And it actually happened. And here was this eloquent young man
talking about how he chose to spend and risk his life. At a time when I was at school I had to
make choices about exams and the kind of education and the career path that you were likely to pursue.
And clearly those sorts of questions really did not bother George Orwell. He was out there
doing the right thing, having adventures. He left Eton and went to Spain to join the
partisans there. One of the things I love about Orwell, and it comes out in homage,
is his humility. Beware of my partisanship, my mistakes of fact and the distortions inevitably
caused by having seen only one corner of events. There's a beautiful
sense of humbleness in that statement. Because anyone who's been in a situation like that knows
that what you're seeing is not the whole context. Things that are going on or orthogonal to you
are multiple. You have no knowledge of them. And so what you're reporting on is what you've
experienced and what you've seen. And there are very few people, Orwell was one of them,
who was able to acknowledge, I can only tell you what I experienced, what I saw.
And I can also tell you, beware of the propaganda from abroad written by people who have never been
here, who have never been in battle, who have never seen the things that go on. Because they have an
agenda. One of the things that is interesting about homage as well is his humor arises. I love
this quote. For some reason, all the best matadors are fascist. I think I've been thinking about
that. Maybe it's the public display of the power to slaughter the bull in front of a stadium filled
with people. That would be attractive. There is a certain level of fascism in the matadors role
and performance. A wonderful play of language. And the thing with Orwell is he's able to layer
his observations with these kinds of deep insights by just the right metaphor at the right time.
Orwell also, in addition to his reporting on the war, had things to say about the
ruling class in England. I'm just wondering, as a young boy growing up, if that had any impact at
all. Here's a quote on class, whether the British ruling class are wicked or merely stupid is one of
the most difficult questions of our time. And at certain moments, a very important question.
I think it did influence me. I mean, it's difficult to say whether those books influenced me or whether
I have chosen those books because I have subsequently adopted a particular political
and worldview. But I suspect the former. Interestingly, your point about, beware
the being partisan on the basis of the secluded amount of evidence that you gather from
your exposure to the world. In contrast, I probably inherited a lot of my political views,
not obviously from my parents, but also by just assuming that Orwell was right.
So I subsequently grew up to be effectively a socialist of an understated sort. But if I had
to commit to one side of the political divide or another, I'd certainly be in Orwell's direction.
Simply because I took him at face value because of the honesty and the integrity of his writing,
both the fictional writing, but also the what struck me a bit, him writing about his own
experiences as a young man. You're absolutely right. I mean, that autobiography is
an excellent example of honesty, brutal honesty. And, you know, he talks about when he was shot.
He says two things went through his mind. First, his poor wife, what was she going to do? Her husband's
killed now in Spain. He says, my second thought was, this is just crazy. This is stupid. This is
some random shot of I'm standing in a trench. I'm not being heroic or anything. I'm just shot
talking to someone. It is absolutely beyond my comprehension that I'm going to die in this stupid
pointless, senseless way. And all the nurses and all the doctors said the same thing.
Anyone shot through the throat, they always die. You didn't die. You are the luckiest man alive.
So there's Orwell saying, you know what, amongst the absurd, there's also random luck.
I had both that day. The absurdity of being shot in the place I was shot at the time,
along with the fact that I survived when I shouldn't have survived.
I forgot about that, but now you've reminded me. Yes, that was a very important part of, yes.
Thank you. Again, I think going back to generating models is, and again, it's generating models
and uncertain to go together in this way, is that there is a degree of randomness and chaos
and luck that's involved. And you find that in reading as well, that basically a character
can have some either good luck or some bad luck. Things that are happening outside of his or her
control. And whether a homeage to Catalonia is one of those books, and I think there's something to
be said, that there is a certain degree of random spin the wheel of you end up in Spain as opposed
to Portugal or Thailand or wherever. And things happen there that would not otherwise have happened
to you if you'd gone another way. It's the counterfactual again. So what we're learning then
from your reading list is there are a lot of counterfactuals that the characters and the
authors are talking about. Yes. From Eddington to Orwell. So maybe there's a lesson here that
delicious diversity. Yes, the diversity and the counterfactuals continue to proliferate if you
allow them inside of a creative imagination found in the right series of books.
She leads us to Lateral Thinking, which is a nonfiction book by Edward de Bono. What
was your age approximately across this one? About 30. So this was one of my mother's books.
A whole series of popular psychology books, but I remember that one in particular.
Simply because it drilled down possibly in a sort of popular psychology fashion
on how we thought. And in fact, it actually addresses exactly the model building, the
creativity. So the lateral thinking could be read as just thinking outside the box,
gaining access in your head to that diversity. Those counterfactuals that enable you to render
your understanding, your narratives, your model of the world generalizable and context sensitive.
So I can't remember very much about it, but I do remember being intrigued by the importance of
letting go of preconceptions and celebrating the brain as literally a fantastic organ, a
generator of fantasies and hypotheses and counterfactuals to enjoy itself in thinking about
different ways of solving problems or explaining this and that. And it's certainly something which
became a scientific question in later life, thinking about how on earth do you get a computer
to do this? If you wanted to simulate Ahar moments and insight in silico,
how would you engineer that? What are the principles that underwrite that kind of
that particular sort of creativity and imagination and resolution? So sometimes
the creativity is almost paradoxically in finding simple solutions.
Passing various explanations. Oh, it's just like that, deflationary explanations. So
I got a sense of that from what I remember of Edward DeBona's natural thinking.
For me, I read it quite young as well, is that some ways it was kind of a simulation program
of surprises, of how to surprise yourself. And in some ways, it's like a test crash in the car
to see what gets bent, see what works, what does it, how you can make it a little bit
stronger and better and so forth. And that lateral thinking was that way of testing
the model that you have. And you test it in hard ways that surprise it because you know,
no model has all the answers. That at some point, there's going to be a model failure.
And what you're looking for is how best, most efficiently, to get to that failure of a juncture
and to learn from that. And by improving the model, go back through the process. And it's in
basically an indefinite process because the model never gets totally perfected.
Yes. That's one of the things I think I took away from that book.
That's it. I'd forgotten that aspect, but you're absolutely right. And of course, that is exactly
the structure learning we were talking about before. Testing against the evidence at hand,
breaking the model, reassembling it, adding little bits in or taking stuff away. That is exactly the
thing that underwrites how we learn to live in this world. So technically, that would also be
known as Bayesian model selection where those hard tests of your hypothesis, your explanation,
are essentially seeking out data that would disambiguate between the hypothesis is the
right model or this is the wrong model. So good informative data is often the data,
the evidence that destroys your hypothesis, breaks your model, that road tests your car
in a destructive way. But then you know that was wrong. And then you move on to something which is
I haven't seen, got that perspective. I haven't remembered that perspective, but it does feel
absolutely right from a first principle account of sentient behavior.
Because in some ways, I mean, De Bono's book on lateral thinking kind of underlies
the process of scientific thinking which sets it apart. And maybe it's that kind of process
that's difficult to communicate to a non-scientific audience. Because to think that there are people
who are trying to break their models in a world where most people are trying to protect their
models at all costs, you see that they're talking cross purposes.
Yes, that's a good point. So if I was lecturing students in psychology or physics, I mean,
the whole point of a good experiment is it provides definitive evidence for or against
your hypothesis. So good data is data that will actually enable you to move on from a particular
hypothesis. So there's always a counterfactual in science is the null hypothesis and the
alternate hypothesis. And what you want are those data that allows you to disambiguate.
If you get some data and you're left 50-50, that's a bad scientist. Again, it's just another way of
saying asking the right questions. So what is a question? It's just a move on the world
to solicit some data which resolves your uncertainty. I think that's a lovely description
of the scientific process. Begs the question, what instances are people trying to protect
their model or their ideology? Is that part of this sort of confirmation bias and
base optimal maintenance of a particular gerative model? If you can find the right
environment and the environment or the culture permissively provides the right evidence,
perhaps that's a viable solution as well. But of course, then you take away this context
sensitivity, this counterfactual richness that we were talking about before you can't generalize.
That 1984 utopia will work provided everybody commits to that and there are no external
perturbations. There's nothing else in the universe that's going to come along and undermine it.
Re-contextualize it. Again, your Markov blanket is a useful metaphor in this case where
if you have one that is so thick it's impenetrable, it can't be changed. It's not subject to question
and answer. It is the Titanic, it will never sink. As opposed to I think the scientific process,
Markov blankets are like the universe. It can be in multiple shapes and configurations.
Some we learn from better explanations are better shapes than others,
but no one has the right to say one is the preferred, the only shape.
Yes, absolutely. I was just thinking about a very thick Markov blanket. I've never heard
that before, but it's a lovely idea which of course would render you completely insular.
Isolated, you're very thick and immutable, unchangeable and provided that thick blanket
protected you from the rest of the universe that would be fine, but of course the universe is going
to be rolled out blanket at some point. Then you get this dynamic. It's a very good point from
the point of view of physics because the whole point of the Markov blanket is that we're not
islands. We have to exchange with the world outside our heads, the world outside our communities.
If you're a cell, the world outside your cell boundaries, we are open systems and that does
require exactly this transformation and mutation and dynamics and reshaping of the Markov blankets
separate me from not me or you from not you. It did occur to me in your earlier
conversation with me that there might be a range of these Markov blankets and that
there may be an element of the population where that blanket is so overwhelming. It can't be
changed. On the other hand, it's so fragmentary that it's easily destroyed. Either of those
are not going to be productive of a happy life, of a life that's rich with texture and able to
accommodate surprise and uncertainty. That's absolutely right. You can see examples of this
all around you. The Markov blankets that are so friable, so labile, so capricious that they only
exist fleetingly is a very different definition of things that dissipate, die and decay.
All of those D words which have negative connotations are just descriptions of the dissipation of the
Markov blanket, a thing losing its thinness as the Markov blanket disappears. Stuff that doesn't
exist or decays or dies or dissipates very quickly, that's at one end. Stuff at the other end can
exist but it exists like a stone or a diamond for as long as it is allowed to exist and does
absolutely nothing. That Goldilocks regime in the middle where we live, which is not a stone
but neither is a forest fire. Let's go to Lord of the Rings. It's interesting you mentioned
growing up in the countryside in York. As you probably know, J.R.R. Tolkien grew up in
countryside in Worcestershire outside of Birmingham. In some ways, the Lord of the Rings is
his perception of that childhood, of that place, of those people, of those times,
the culture, the myths, and he brought in all of the myths with the Slavic, Finnish,
Celtic, Greek, Norwegian. He was a great linguist at Oxford University. We have the chair there.
These books, I think, had a profound influence on multiple generations. I'm not
certain if they're read today, they would have been in the past, but I'm very pleased to see them
on your list because, again, we're back to 1984 in a way. We're looking at
symbols of power, sources of power, the most powerful people setting the communication
moral agenda of what people can do, what they can think, and that the power in this case
is one ring by someone who is power hungry, Sardon, living in his castle in Moldor.
We have a small group from the forest, the Hobbits, Frodo and Sam, who venture out on a
reverse quest, which is a counterfactual, if you like. This is not Odessus. This is the office.
They are at home, unlike Ulysses, who was trying to get home. So, being at home, they needed a
reason to leave, and the reason to leave was to take the ring that Bilbo had given Frodo,
his cousin, to go back. It was only one place where it could be destroyed, which was the center
of this power. And the whole story is the journey back to Mordor, in order to destroy
the ring that threatens to destroy Middle Earth, which is where the Hobbits lived.
So, how old were you? Was this on your mother's bookshelf as well? It wouldn't have been
amongst the psychology books, but where was it? This is my book.
And in a different way from 1984, I think this is my first exposure to the fantasy literature,
another world. This was much more escapism. It wasn't about having your eyes open. I recognize
everything Tolkheim was writing about, whether it was the countryside and idealized countryside
that against his homestead, or the mountains that I was familiar with, with the Pennines,
and indeed with the occasional trips to the Welsh mountains or the Scottish mountains.
And also, I can't remember why, but I also loved sort of old English folklore and the tales of
Sir Arthur and Merlin. If I could have been one person at that age, I would have liked to be Merlin.
But all of these notions and narratives and the atmosphere and the compass of this new world
that Tolkheim had created was very, very comfortably with all the things that I loved,
but it was somewhere you could escape to. That had all the right ingredients. The one ring,
the simplicity, the David and Goliath kind of situation, the overwhelming odds,
the heroic venture with a small fellowship that within this fellowship, they could find the
resources, creative resources in order to overcome what seemed to be impossible odds.
Yes. The hallmark of a great story. Will they do it?
Will they succeed? Rather than the George Winston ending in 1984 where he says,
I love Big Brother. Here, Big Brother is in for a fall.
One of the things I think that's interesting about the Lord of the Rings is the symbolism of going
back in England to really preanglesaxon England, certainly before 1066,
with the Normandy invasion, that there was a sense of people living with nature as part of nature,
that really the big changes came with the agricultural and industrial revolution,
and that that changed everything. It took communities away from the forest, destroyed the
forest, and that was in a sense something I think the token regretted very much. The sense of if
you want to just, that was the power, the new power was these new technologies that were coming in
and basically changing everything and everyone. There must have been changes that were going on
