was actively involved in securing the evidence for it. It's a 1919 expedition off the coast of Brazil
for the eclipse. It's a great, in terms of science history, it must be such an exciting time
for scientists who also were explored as an adventurer.
It was an adventure story as well as an exploration of science. Is that what really
kind of hooked you on science at 10 years old? Was this both?
Yeah, I think so. I mean, I think as with most people who subsequently became natural philosophers
or natural scientists in the Victorian sense, those opportunities to find out how things worked
again had this epistemic affordance that was irresistible, and that particular book just took
you to the edge. If you ever have the chance to read it, you will see that it actually starts off
with exactly something that we've already focused on as a fundamental way of engaging
with the world, which is questions and answers. If the purpose, if we are here
in virtue of being curious creatures, then what does that mean? It means that we basically
seek answers, and how do we do that in an informed and efficient way? We have to ask the right kinds
of questions. Questions and answers are central to model building and then living in the world.
Interestingly, space, time, and gravitation starts off with a conversation that is just
a series of questions and answers from and between three protagonists with slightly
different perspectives on the way the world works, the mathematician and the physicist and so on.
So it actually starts with just a conversation. That's what I meant by, it was a fascinating
insight into the way that people were asking their questions and offering answers, some correct,
some incorrect, at that time. But it really pulls you in as well, because you would be wanting to
ask that question, and you want to hear what the answer was. It was a very compelling reading,
just the first chapter, and it's a device that I subsequently used when writing with friends in
philosophy proper, as a best way to get to the heart of the matter, to get into the narrative
through a series of questions and answers. But then the adventure, as you said, the practical
adventure of going off and doing these experiments and the history of experiments that underwrite
this particular view of the world, which was very different. I mean, that's something very
refreshing about the way that Arthur Reddington paints a picture of the universe, where they
have different shapes. Well beyond, does the universe have an edge? What shape is it? Is it
hyperbolic? There's a notion of it at the edge of the universe even exist. Does it close back on
its own big circle? What about hyperbolic? Also, hang on, I never thought of that. Yes, of course,
it could be like that. And it was just so fascinating, just again, a little bit like the
other counterfactuals that we were talking about before, the different ways that it could be,
which you never imagined, but now you had. And once you'd had that experience of imagining
another way of looking at things, then that made it easier just to entertain other kinds
of counterfactuals. And of course, that's the mark of a good scientist. A counterfactual is
just a hypothesis. The mark of a good scientist, a natural philosopher, is asking the right questions
by bringing counterfactuals or alternative hypotheses to the table. And that takes imagination.
From imagination, you're going to have creativity coming out of that, because the more you can
imagine, the more you can create and construct and different models. So you're learning this at
10 years old, a book which was read by both of your parents, that actually was a condition for
the father's decision to want to marry the mother, and she went along with this.
So did this become something you talked about in the family? Did it become kind of a family
touchstone, space and time and gravitation? I mean, it has everything, all the questioning and answers,
the process of inquiring the world. I mean, did these things come up at home?
Not at all. No, I had to. My mother was completely non-mathematic.
I would have told my father off if he introduced that in family conversation.
So no, no, this is all under the cover. It was all implicit.
My father was a great educator, but in the best way possible, in terms of just providing
learning opportunities. So he gave me a slide rule and said, how does that work?
Never spoke about it again, but I spent months working out how a slide rule worked at that age.
So before I ever met the concept of a logarithm in mathematics, I already had a fundamental
understanding of the arithmetic and geometric transformations and the role of logarithms,
simply trying to appease my father because he'd asked me a question, which I'd never told him
the answer. And I think that space time gravitation was one of those devices. He said, read that.
It's like a slide ruler. But I did notice it was interesting he managed to trace down a copy.
Although we never discussed it, we do discuss things now, he's retired, but not in those days.
But it's interesting that after I had read it several times over the years, before I left home,
he made sure he got the book back. And he's going down in his favourite bookcase.
And he won't let me have it until he passes. For him, it was a very important book as well,
but it was all done silently. Now, my mother would not have found those kinds of counter-factuals
at all entertaining. I repeat, she was much more into psychology and ways that people thought and
think. So she was much more verbal in her analysis. So there was discussion of general
relativity around the table. I've heard you say as well that underlying everything, the foundation
is a mathematical. That mathematics is the place that you start and then you go up from there to
explain the world. And I'm wondering again, if this book space and time and gravitation
was one of the early influences for that view of reality of model making, starting with a
mathematical equation. Yeah, I think that's absolutely true. I mean, it's both true that I
have said and believe that mathematics, I think, is the most efficacious language,
the best shared narrative that we have, that transcends most other spoken languages or written
languages. And its unreasonable efficacy boils down to its simplicity and its delicate but
beautiful structure. So I think, as a vehicle, as a way of talking about ideas, and ultimately has
to be reduced to the formalism of mathematics before I think anybody else will understand it
ultimately. And not about now, but in five or ten hundred years time, all the great advances I think
have or can be articulated mathematically. I'm just catching myself there because of course,
you might argue that natural selection was a great biological idea that wasn't necessarily
mathematically couched. But I think in terms of making natural selection work, then you would
you would certainly then formalize it in terms of genetic algorithms and fish price,
fundamental equations of evolution and the like, which actually are very close to the
same equations that underwrite the free energy principle in terms of us as curious creatures
making inferences about the world. Right. We are inferences making creatures, for sure.
Let's turn to the first of the fiction choices, one of my favorite and I think favorite of many
people, 1984 by George Horwell. What age were you when you first read 1984?
I can't remember with any veracity. I must have been, I'm just imagining where it was. It was on
the bookcase at the bottom of the stairs where my mother kept her favorite books.
And in virtue of being in that house at that time, I must have been about 12 to 13.
Okay. So you pull it off your mother's book shelf. Was this a book that you just devoured over a day
or two or you lingered over for a longer period of time? I think I probably devoured it. I've
quite a slow reader. So now, in fact, I have to confess, since going to university and since
committing to a rather hectic, work-orientated career, I don't read for pleasure anymore because
I have to review scientific papers and the occasional book nearly every day. So I just have no
space for pleasure reading. But in those days, you have the time and the space to do it for
pleasure. And I probably was quite voracious in going through it. So my mother had a collection
of penguin classics. So I just went from right to left. I remember that. I do remember 1984 as
being particularly compelling. There were other things that Aldous Huxley in the Doors of Perception,
but 1984 was quite enchanted and frightening. So I do remember that one quite acutely. So I had
it gone through it quite quickly, late into the night under the covers, which at all kind of
stuff. What did you find at 12 years old that was the most compelling part of 1984?
If it's a long time ago, I'm remembering this like you might remember a dream and not very well.
We're talking over half a century since I actually read it.
But the kind of the feeling that you had, can you remember that feeling, that experience?
Yes, it was just the horror of realizing that my comfort little world shouldn't be taken for granted.
When the veil was slowly lifted on the kind of world that the protagonist in 1984 had to contend
with, it was an eye opener that such societies, such cultures could actually exist and may actually
exist in other parts of the world. I didn't know at that age. So it was just a revelation that there
were other universes, universes of a cultural sort of an attitudinal sort, going back to these
the norms that, how should I behave in this context, in this society? So that was an eye
opener and curiously attractive because it was just so frightening. And once you developed this
hunger for another kind of culture, another kind of society and what you couldn't do in that society
all sorts of things which must resonate with everybody. All the little phrases like room 101,
double fiction, all of those classic things which, whether or not you like the word meme,
I think the meme applies to these things that once you've seen them, they stay with you for life.
Every few pages was an eye opener. And of course, there's always this, I can't remember if this
is true or false or a made memory now, but there's always this sort of notion that he could get out
of the city and go off to these green fields and escape with his girlfriend at some point.
So I love that as well. And I think that's possibly because the way I was brought up in Yorkshire,
there were two bits of my life. There was sort of hard work, sometimes actually getting used to
being in a new school because we're moving around a lot, settling into a new environment. And then
holidays off in the Yorkshire moors. So I've always had this polish of this sort of always light reading
about things like so far from the madding crowd, getting out there back to a quieter pace of life.
And I just remember there was this escape for the protagonist in 1984, if he could get there,
if he could realize it, but it was clearly never going to happen in any meaningful way.
That was again quite attractive. Yeah, it was not the hobbits in that case. This was a pretty
dark world that's portrayed in 1984. And what's interesting is it's a book that has endured
for 60, 70 years, and I think it's about 70 years and it's now out of copyright in 1984.
But let me just give you a couple of phrases here from the book. The party told you to reject the
evidence of your eyes and ears. It was their final, most essential command. In other words,
your ability to do what you're talking about in your paper of asking questions, asking better
questions, resolving the uncertainty, you no longer have the autonomy to do that. That has been script
from you. Question and answers are over. This is the script, the only script. There are no
questions and we may change the script tomorrow. We may be at war against East Asia tomorrow,
we may not. We'll let you know. That's the world of 1984 and part of the horror of that is
another of the quotes. Not merely the validity of experience, but the very essence of external
reality was tacitly denied by their partnership. There's no generative models that are done
independently in 1984. It is a chilling book and it's a book that fits into some of your other
early fiction as well. It's a statement about power and those who seize power never voluntarily
relinquish their power. Those were great excerpts. I've forgotten them. It's all coming back now.
Yes. I was wondering whether you were going to talk about the ghosts of that withdrawal of our
life affirming, and I would say mathematically necessary
quest for evidence for our own existence, whether that was being recapitulated in the
modern era by things like fake news. In a sense, you could imagine fake news,
this is basically saying the truth does not matter, Obama, truth decay. There is no
evidence of any worth out there anymore. I think that's equally frightening,
but painted in black and white by all. Well, I think that's, you know,
in that imaginative book. Well, again, let me give you a couple more quotes to refresh your
recollection. He's talking about the ideals set up by the party was something huge, terrible,
glittering. A nation of warriors and fanatics marching forward in perfect unity, all thinking
the same thoughts and shouting the same slogans, perpetually working, fighting,
persecuting 300 million people all with the same face.
And then power is carrying the human mind to pieces and putting them together again
in new shapes of your choosing. Again, I could perhaps see a 12 year old are all reading this,
and some of this, it seems to me now is reflected in your own research and your own modeling,
is it is a way to showcase what the human brain mapping should be. It should be have the freedom,
the basic freedom to generate models of the world without manipulation and without interference.
That there should be some choice in this. And there's George Winston with his girlfriend Julia
trying to find some small way to model a traditional relationship and being unable to do that, being
bounded in in such a way that the only thing they could do was to submit.
They could no longer question, they could no longer answer, but they love big brother.
So, I think with 1984, we find a book where, again, curiosity comes up in Orwell's world,
there is no curiosity that's allowed, there's no creativity, there's no imagination.
And so creativity and imagination go across just language, you go across music and goes
across the mathematics that you use to describe the universe, because it may disable and disable
institutions that have a vested view and what the model of the universe is. Copernicus,
this is you had your Copernicus moment when you were talking earlier about suddenly, I understood,
growing up in New York, that York was not the center of the universe, there were things going on.
In other places that were quite terrifying, the way to interrogate the world was not universal,
it was local. Yes, absolutely. And perhaps that was, I mean, looking back, clearly,
you can see that kind of utopia is just not sustainable, it's everything. Sure. So, one way
that philosophers describe this sort of the ability to pursue life as a curious creature
is self-evidencing, the existence is just acquiring evidence, asking questions and acquiring the
evidence for your own existence. So, mulling over what the excerpts that you've just shared with us,
what that is describing is completely unsustainable and is frightening because it cannot exist,
or it does exist, it wouldn't exist for very long. It is the exact opposite of self-evidencing,
that latitude, that creativity, that opportunity to ask questions, to reaffirm and then change my
mind about my place in this world. So, perhaps that's why it was curiously frightening. As you
say, very dark. Yeah, it's a system, a lot of what Orwell wrote about in the 40s, we can see playing
out in various countries today, where there are more totalitarian measures, authoritarian measures
to limit free expression, which again, whenever I hear limiting free expression, it's limiting the
right to question. Question is the challenge. The challenge is the model may not be right,
it needs improvement. We need better and more detailed answers, and that requires being able
to say the current model is flawed. And so, you have millions and hundreds of millions of people
who don't want the questioning, who are quite happy to have the party decide what the truth is,
and that everything else is false. Are they happy? Good question. Good question. Whether that brings
some kind of emotional resolution, maybe it is at just an emotional level that happiness for them
is having the security that there is a community of people who have faith in a particular stagnant
modeling of the world, that the model of the world, of course, probably never existed, because
these are fantasy models, but they believe them to be real. It's not a simile or a metaphor,
it was like Napoleon saying I am Caesar, not like I am like Caesar, I am Caesar.
So there is that kind of internalization that can go on and seems to be going on.
Yes. You're tempting us to be into a political discussion of contemporary.
No, I don't want to go there. But we may go there a little bit in terms of the next book,
which is quite political, Homeage to Catalonia, which is another George Orwell,
this is nonfiction as opposed to fiction, but it is absolutely memorable. I can remember reading
this very young as well, so I'd be very interested how old you were when you read this and what kind
of influence it had on you at the time and now. So clearly my mother put all her George Orwell
penguin classics in order. Next to 1984.
And that one was in a similar spirit to just realizing the world could be in a different
way or there were realizable universes out there, so you should never take your own world for granted.
What I took from the Homeage to Catalonia was the autobiographical aspect. I didn't,
until you reminded me, remember it as an autobiography. I thought it was just a story
about a young man's adventures watching a war in originally things that started in
