when you were growing up in York as well in the rural area. You could probably see even in your
childhood that things were not going to stay the same. Yes, absolutely. My father was instrumental
in that in terms of building a lot of the infrastructure. Certainly in England at that time,
that's when a lot of the technology and infrastructure which we currently enjoy was being
assembled, so things were changing. Of course, mixed with the slight sadness that my father
had to leave the home to do that. I didn't necessarily see this infrastructure building,
the mechanisation of England as necessarily the best thing because it entailed the absence of my
father. Certainly it's a younger man, but you're absolutely right. Another author I used to love
was Thomas Hardy because it just took you before this time. It was just a much safer time. It always
struck me that the past is a much more comfortable, pleasant place to be because there really is no
uncertainty about the future because you know what happened. Certainly in a so pre-technological
setting, I've always been drawn to dramas in an escapism sense, stories and literature
that is in a quieter, gentler, more contemplative time, usually with lots of fields and grass and
vegetation. The thing about the past is that it's basically drained of most of the surprise
because we know what happened and what didn't happen and there can be revelations that come
up here and there that change our idea of what happened and we may be a little bit surprised
by it, but being surprised about a new piece of information from the past is quite different
than being surprised about what's happening today or what may happen tomorrow to prepare for.
I mean just to perhaps put this in context, at that time there was CND and the Cold War
and I remember having government information films at school about what to do in the case of a
nuclear explosion. So there was a genuine fear that the world was going to, certainly amongst my
age group, probably naively, there was a genuine fear that the world was going to explode.
Watching pictures of nuclear bombs go off induced the kind of deep existential
fear and angst that you have during a nightmare. So there was certainly in the era of Thomas Hardy
in Wessex or in Middle Earth, you knew there couldn't be a nuclear bomb, but there were still
great challenges ahead. There were still dramas and betrayals, so there was still
a really important narrative, but it certainly did not entail the kind of devastation that
industrialization and technology and nuclear technology would entail if it all went wrong.
Right.
At that point in sort of English history.
Yeah, it's interesting as well because I know you've written a lot about communication and the
importance of that, is that it's been said of Tolkien's trilogy that he's really writing about
the loss of communication between man and nature, that there were lines of communication and that it
part of what he was trying to do was to write about that breakdown and the relationship between
man and nature. With climate change these days, we can see that actually that breakdown has had
quite significant consequences. If we could move on to Lord of the Flies from Lord of the Rings to
Lord of the Flies, I'm not certain if there's any perfect segue for those two titles, but
we're going to try our best. Were you living with your parents in York at the time you read this?
Yes, about the same time, probably a little bit older because I also remember
doing that at school or at least having having discussions at school. So obviously I got to
the stage of doing my studies for English literature, but I had read it previously,
and this was at the tail end of my mother's collection, but I think spoke very beautifully
to psychology and the way that we relate to each other when circumstances change. So this was
portended a growing fascination with psychology and psychiatry, and eventually I became a
psychiatrist en route to becoming a theoretical neurobiologist. So this was an eye-opener,
not in terms of the way that the world works, but in terms of the way that we work, for me.
Again, a very compelling read. I mean, you read this as an adolescent, and really it's a book
about adolescents without adult supervision of, in a sense, dividing into factions, and the factions
might be called, one would be maybe Ralph, who was more of the, for civilization and democracy and
consent and rule of law, and then of course there was Jack, who was just the opposite, who was
into hunting tactics, power games, domination, Piggy, who was the intellect and the rationalist,
and Simon, who was the incarnation of good and holiness. So we had all of the adolescent
characteristics there put together, and from your observations as a psychiatrist in the past,
was it a reasonably valid look at how adolescents divide into factions and the kind of values that
emerge from that? Yes, I think it is. Beautifully painted, there's different dimensions and aspects,
and also very apt descriptions of all my classmates, the different classmates that you could be
and I have to say, almost, you had a choice, you could become any one of those people in
different contexts. So again, different scripts for different ways of coping, and coping here
in a very changeable, unconstrained context where you were in charge. I mean, it certainly
it certainly was a detailed picture of adolescence, but in many senses one could imagine
grown-ups disintegrating in exactly the same way, without the societal infrastructures and cultural
constraints in play to keep us all together, all reading from the same old sheet or hymn sheet.
But certainly, as an adolescent, he was a good library or repertoire of different ways of
behaving. I can remember wanting to have mixtures of the key characters, and I was growing up at
that time, having moved because my father was now building motorways in North Wales in England,
so moved to a different school where there were a lot of people where the nearest city was Liverpool,
and some of them were beautiful characters, very sort of compassionate, some very religious,
some hard people. So I felt sometimes obliged not to be piggy, which was a natural tendency
given my intellectual leanings. I deliberately tried to be un-piggy and learned. It took me
about six months to smoke a cigarette without being sick, but I had to do it to get that age,
like Jack might have appreciated. So it was great to see all these characters
on different ways of behaving, play out, but also how all those traits become very much
accentuated and caricatured in their expression when the breaks are off, when the context and
the constraints are not there, all the paranoias come in and the outlandish, surprising ways of
responding when you can't predict what is going to happen can sometimes lead to quite catastrophic
outcomes. That's a very interesting observation. I hadn't thought about that, but you're right.
It's they arrived with one script, but where they're in an environment where there were
multiple scripts that could be used, and there were surprise. It's how they dealt with surprise
on different scripts that led to the conflict, which is kind of interesting as well with
Token, who's in a sense created the Middle Kingdom that it's filled full of piggies and
Ralph's, but the other characters aren't there. Jack is not there in tokens, idealized communication
of man and nature. So there is that interesting juxtaposition of Lord of the Flies and Lord of
the Rings. And one which I think certainly had more influence in terms of a scholarly
and studied approach to personal interactions, which I should not have been surprised,
rolled forward 10 years, and I was studying psychology, university, and then subsequently
psychiatry as a practicing condition. So there was a richness there that was
possibly underwritten to a certain extent by reading those books. Another book, I remember,
was Animal Farm around that time, which seemed to have the same sense to it. This is the
disintegration of the psyche at an interpersonal level that could be afforded, if all those
constraints or that harmony that Tolkien was restoring in his long story was not attained.
Yeah, it's, again, looking at those books that we've discussed, it really is a question of
harmony's juxtaposition with power. And does power ultimately capture harmony for its own purposes
and defines it in such a way, an Orwellian way, that it has the best of both worlds and everyone
else has a script, which is the worst of all worlds, but it's their script and they believe in it.
So there is, I'm glad we're working on this metaphor of scripting, because in a sense,
what we've been discussing in this conversation are the various scripts that appear in the
literature here, the diversity of them, how in some ways it's the same script, but in different
contexts. You know, suddenly in Lord of the Flies, you have adolescent boys without supervision
in a state of nature. What kind of disintegration happens and what scripts arise out of that?
Catcher in the Rye by J. D. Salinger, an American novel, a classic, which is on your list.
Again, about an adolescent going through a particularly difficult psychological time being
kicked out of his exclusive school in Pennsylvania and making his mission to save all the innocent
children of the world from going off the cliff through ignorance or their own innocence.
So what drew you to this particular book?
That was the last book I read, so I've been in my late teens, if not early 20s then,
and I can't remember how I came across it, but I do remember reading it while traveling.
I don't remember where I was traveling, but becoming absolutely engrossed. So that was one
of those books you just couldn't put down. I don't know why I was so engrossing. It had the same
kind of completeness that Lord of the Rings brings to the table in terms of defining
a complete universe where all the rules are known. Nothing is resolved, but all the contingencies are
in play, and indeed there was a little map in my version of Lord of the Rings. You could actually
see where you were that was bounded, and in the same subtle way, but in a different way,
I think Catch and the Rye had that. This was a little universe which was, I can't remember now,
because it's, as I say, more than half a century since many decades I read it, but it had that.
This was a little island, a little bounded island of a few days in a young man's life
where they just got into that little island, that little sort of epoch. It was completely
self-contained, an episode, and you didn't have to worry about the past or the future.
You just were in this particular bounded critique, description, adventure within this epoch,
and that was very comforting, but also very frightening because, again, there's this sense
of disintegration. I probably misread it. What I remember from this was, and it probably is again,
a made memory due to my psychiatric training later in life, but I remember it as basically what we'd
now describe as an early psychotic break, a young man experiencing the first psychotic break and
disintegration again of the psyche, a disconnection of the connectivity that ties our world models
together inside our head, and all the delusional mood and the misperception of what matters and
what's going on in just daily life and daily transactions with relatives and friends and
teachers, and indeed, I think it was the one point that ends up in a psychiatric asylum.
So I remember it acutely because, of course, within a few years I was actually dealing with these
people, students at Oxford University who were experiencing the early symptoms of schizophrenia
going through very similar episodes and weekends. It was just a very poignant, very personal.
I thought it was almost autobiographical, but obviously it wasn't. It read as if it was.
Again, it had an honesty in its disintegration and its chaoticness, which as a student of
the way things could go wrong. It was very engaging. So it was obviously influential as well
in terms of career path and in terms of your own modelling of the world, particularly adolescence
in the world, would have been, in a way, modeled by Holden Caulfield and his inability to kind of
accept a larger reality. There's one quote I'd like to share with you from the book,
which shows the quality of the writing and I think the essence of the story.
She wasn't doing a thing, I could see, except standing there, leaning on a balcony railing,
holding the universe together. That, to me, is the epitome of great art, putting the mundane
with the sublime, the local with the universal, the ordinary with the meta in one simple sentence,
leaning against the balcony, holding the universe together.
Somehow making that kind of a cosmic connection between two very disparate,
again, your counterfactuals, put together in one sentence in order to make a profound point
of the interconnection that goes on between counterfactuals.
Perhaps it was that style of writing and that beautiful juxtaposition of things which just
could not normally go together within our unnormative appreciation of the world,
which made me think it was autobiographical, to have that ability, not dissimilar to the
sort of lateral thinking, and certainly almost formally identical to something called
night's move thinking or derailment and schizophrenia, where things jump about and there
are collisions and juxtapositions and associations that are completely implausible in one's normal
internal narrative or indeed spoken narrative. The kind of thing that exactly is the required
to build a new model, to be creative. I imagine it's the kind of thing that Van Gogh had in a
visual context. The other thing about that particular example about the balcony and holding
the universe together is that it has this grandiosity, which again is a hallmark of
certain kinds of psychosis or manic depressive psychosis, that the true or false impression
that your existence matters in terms of, in a manic sense or nipotent sense,
matters in terms of the existence of the universe, but also notice within that holding the universe
together, that your influence transcends or encompasses the entire universe, a complete
loss of boundary. There is no boundary between you and then you get into notions, froggy notions,
of ego dissolution, but of course, given our previous conversation, the dissolution of the
Markov blanket. Now you're not responsible for holding the universe together.
Yes, exactly. The blanket dissolved, but therefore a fraction of a nanosecond exists and you see
something you haven't quite seen before. It's interesting that line between imagination and
schizophrenia, where imagination at some point along a continuum is no longer a healthy vehicle
to resolve uncertainty. It is a vehicle that's basically the steering wheels coming off and
the brakes don't work. Yes, I think that's a very nice way of putting it. Just on logical
arguments, that has to be right in the sense that we still have people with this kind of psychosis
in our population. So from an evolutionary point of view, that speaks to the fact there is something
very adaptive about having a type of tendency. There's something that promotes your ability
to survive and to live in this culture, in this world on an evolutionary timescale,
if you've got this propensity for exploring counterfactuals. But as you say, you can go too
far. So there has to be something slightly schizophrenic about all of us if we're going
to make a difference or indeed survive in this world. But when it goes too far, which then gets
into the clinical domain, which I think if I read that now and applied psychiatric criteria,
I think you get the diagnosis there. But it is all about coming back to the reduction of uncertainty
and inference. It's all about inference. In a sense, what are delusions and hallucinations,
if not simply falsely inferring something is there when it's not? Or what is an agnosia or a
neglect syndrome where you say, this is not my arm or I can't recognize that person's face.
So that's basically inferring something is not there when it is. But in both instances, it's
a sort of a disorder of inference. It's making the wrong sense of the sensory impressions.
Clearly, we have to suspend our commitment to the sensory evidence in order to imagine
perhaps the most beautiful example of this is dreaming. So this is something very close to
the heart of one of my most senior and close colleagues in consciousness and sleep research,
Alan Hobson. So if you want simple evidence, the brain constructs its own realities and its own
expirations for the world, then you need to look no further than dreaming. And this is at the heart
of consciousness and sentience. But that sentience is an active construction that the brain has
generated, where you use the sensory information during waitfulness, at least, to constrain and
shape and do the structural early. A very delicate game. And if it goes wrong, you can easily see
how you can fall into a state of psychosis. And indeed, you can possibly understand certain
sleep disorders along those lines. Yeah, that's interesting. I didn't thought about that. But
it makes sense because in a dream state, the input from the world is cut off. So what is being
filtered in is not from experience. It's from the data banks of models in your head
that then create their own counterfactuals without any kind of countervailing
reality check with the evidence at hand. Yes. So you can imagine that that's a nice example.
Every night you put on a very, very thick Markov blanket. That's the way sleep is,
is a thick Markov blanket. One that you can't throw off to cool down until you wake up. It's there.
Dreams are the hallucination from inside a thick Markov blanket.
Alan Hopson would love that. I'll tell him that.
Okay, so we're coming then to the human condition and Halden Caulfield and Catcher and the Rye,
where let me give you a couple of quotes to remind you some of the nice parts of this book,
the nature of truth. It's partly true, but it isn't all true. People always think something's
