all true. Again, one of those leaning on the balcony kind of statements,
the human condition. Among other things, you find that you're not the first one
who was ever confused and frightened or even sickened by human behavior.
And that goes back to some of the earlier books on the list as well,
is that realization of the diversity of behavior and that there are things that are going on
outside of York in places like Catalonia that I was never aware of.
Far from the Maddening Crown, Thomas Hardy. That's a book I'm familiar with. I went through
a stage of loving Thomas Hardy, read everything. Again, I think a contemporary of D.H. Lawrence
and writing about relationships between the classes and particularly and far from the Maddening
Crown, you have the wonderful Bathsheba and her estate, a very accomplished, self-reliant woman
who suddenly decides that she will risk everything for a rogue named Troy who really
just cast his luck to the fates and doesn't really take care of her, but she's willing
to risk everything for this, even though there are people around him, men around her who wish to
court her, but she will have nothing to do with them. So we're seeing, in a way, a kind of self-destructive
streak set in a class setting. What was the book, Far From the Maddening Crown, for you growing up?
It was in part escapism of the sort that one enjoys with Tolkine and the other
great fantasy like stories. The inherits from the fact that it was in past times, so you
knew, coming back, that you knew there were going to be no nuclear explosions or walls,
the parameters were set, but within those parameters there was intense tragedy. I think
you're picking up on the self-destruction. That was the tragedy and certainly in the context of
all the men who could have made it all right, self-evident naughtiness of Troy. Within the
parameters of this little world, in the southwest corner of rural England, we sort of took on a
magnitude which was quite horrifying. You just couldn't believe it was getting worse and worse,
how awful Troy was, particularly from, I do remember feeling very sorry for Gabriel. I do
remember the opening thing where he loses his sheep, and that was horrible as well, because I
used to love animals. I wanted it to be a better point. So this sort of getting back to the Yorkshire
Moors aspiration was underneath a lot of this. But it was, for me, again the perversity of
a failure to properly develop a theory of mind or infer the intentions and the nature of another,
by ascribing them inappropriately the attributes that you would have of Sheba would have had to
Troy. She failed to infer what kind of person he was, and unfortunately have to witness the
evidence towards the end of the story that he wasn't the kind of person that she was. So
it's a failure of a shared narrative in a romantic and interpersonal sort, which is irresistible.
As a story, as long as it doesn't happen to me. In a way, far from the maddening
crowd, the central heroine there, you can see that the deficiency is she didn't have appropriate
scripts to model the world of men and what the capabilities were and what the dangers were.
Her model was inadequate and she was unable to ask the right questions in order to update that model.
And so she just got deeper and deeper in holding on to the model that she knew,
even when it was clear that it was failing her, she was unable to let it go.
Yes, I mean, naivety of the sort that inherits from not having access to those counterfactuals.
So had she read Thomas Hardy, she'd been fine.
He judged the obscure, I would recommend.
So the book kind of ends with the world is largely made up of compromise.
And the compromise, I take that to mean in a larger sense, maybe a little bit like leaning
on the balcony kind of metaphor, is that the compromise is with your ability to control
the scripts of others and your perhaps inattentiveness in updating your own scripts
in order to have a more meaningful, effective way of communicating others, what you intend,
what your motives are, what you wish to see happen.
That was wonderfully put in, in particular that notion of updating your own scripts as part of
that, I would say, existentially necessary way of updating your world models.
So actually that word updating plays a really central role in formal mathematical descriptions
of model optimization and structural, and it's called Bayesian belief updating.
It is literally updating your belief states on the basis of evidence.
So if compromise is basically being able to accumulate and assimilate evidence in the service
of updating your beliefs, basically updating in order to improve or optimize your model
of the world, then compromise is, if you like, an entirely and complete description of the way
that we live. Yes, and another one that's perhaps a little darker is that the compromise
of the updating of your scripts is also dependent on the power of whatever
mondo you're living under, that somehow the updating isn't equal across the board.
And I think it's important to understand that culturally that updating process
is viewed in very different ways and has been done historically.
Now, the power is the environment.
Yeah, it is. Absolutely.
It's terribly, what I would hope is not, so you won't find an Orwellian Utopia in Wessex,
though. This is why it's so nice to read Thomas Hardy.
This has been a delightful conversation, Carl. I very much appreciate you coming on the show
and sharing with us your in-depth knowledge of science, of neurology,
of mapping of the human brain. We could go on for a very long time. You've added a lot.
The books you've chosen are classic, and I hope that the viewers will appreciate the
insights that you've brought to those books and to the general conversation on how we use books
to model our world and how that model influences who we are, what we are, what we see, and what we want.
That was a lovely closure. I greatly enjoyed talking to you.
We talked about all my favorite things. Thank you.
Thank you, sir. You have a great day, and I will let you know when the show is up.
Thanks a lot, Ben.
Thank you. Cheers.
