Canada and you get a blend. So, is that why there was such a push to approve? And I, we know about
the push to, to boycott and not build. But is that a big reason why we wanted the Keystone
Pipeline so that we could import heavier oil to merge with our light oil?
Yes. But, but, but an important
and is we're already importing it. You know, I mean, Canada is the biggest source of foreign
oil to the United States. And we're importing just as much oil from Canada today as we would have
with the Keystone XL Pipeline or without it, which is the case today. It's just that instead of being
able to get here by a pipeline, it gets here by, by trains and trucks. So the Keystone XL,
in my, I mean, it made sense to me just purely as a scientist, because it's, it's, it's a more
efficient way of getting the oil to the United States. And empirically, it's a safer way. I know
people hate to hear this, but I would much rather trust a pipeline than a bunch of train cars
knocking around in rail yards for, to prevent spillage and explosions. And there were a lot of
explosions and some of that's been fixed. But to be clear, the US is in no way constrained on its
supply of oil from Canada, because Keystone XL didn't happen. It just cost a little more to get
here. While we're on that topic, there is this Byzantine media blitz that's all over the place
on Twitter and elsewhere that the US is a oil exporter. Can you just briefly unpack how much
oil and oil products the United States uses daily or yearly and how much we produce domestically
versus how much we import? If you could just summarize that in as simple terms as possible,
because I think there's a lot of confusion about that. Right. So, so when, when we hear people
talk about, oh, the US is a net exporter of oil, okay, they're talking about crude oil plus refined
products like diesel, gasoline, et cetera. Okay. Now, nobody else in the world except the United
States defines net exporter that way. A country is a net exporter of oil if it exports oil.
If it exports more than it imports, okay. But since we're an energy launderer, we get to redefine
what it means to be an exporter. Exactly. So now without, you know, and again, I'm not, I'm not
trying to be critical. The US imports a lot less crude oil than it did say 10 or 15 years ago.
Because of the shale situation. Right. We had to import a lot of light oil 10 or 15 years ago,
because we had our production had declined. So we've, we've pretty much eliminated that we don't,
we no longer have to import other countries light oil. But since we don't produce very much of the
heavy oil ourselves, we never as a strong word, we, it's very unlikely that we will ever
and stop importing other people's oil until the world just doesn't use oil anymore. As long as
we're in the business of exporting refined products, we need heavy oil or we can't do it.
That's just that simple. So when people say we're energy independent, first of all,
it's, it's, it's really not true. It's really not true.
Well, compared to Japan and Europe and the UK, it is, but, but go on.
Well, it, but it's still not true. I mean, we're, we're a whole lot more energy independent than,
you know, than, than Japan and Europe. Okay, absolutely. But, you know, now we're talking
about, you know, well, you know, who's, I mean, of a bad lot, who's the best?
Well, but so we're 80 to 85% energy independent. Yes. But let's talk about,
I mean, you could break that down if you like, but I want to talk about the oil part, especially,
I think we're at, we consume 20, 21 million barrels of oil per day and we produce 12 or 11.
Yeah. Well, again, now, you know, we consume, so, so nobody consumes crude oil.
Right. Right. Except the refineries.
Except the refineries. So America consumes 20 million barrels a day of refined products,
not oil. Okay. Okay. But so what we're, so to keep the arithmetic straight,
you know, let's talk about how much crude oil goes into American refineries
and the amount of crude oil that goes into American refineries is something around the,
you know, around 13 to 14 million barrels a day. Okay. The United States produces
about 11 or 11 and a half million barrels a day. And so you could say, oh, well, we're almost there.
You know, a couple of more million barrels a day and we're there. Well,
but what I just told you a little while ago is except that we turn around and export three or
four million of our produced barrels elsewhere, because we can't use it in refineries here.
So we have to then import more appropriate oil to replace that and also get back to the 13 or
13 and a half million that goes into our refineries. And we consume 20 million barrels worth of
product. Product. Now, and somebody is going to say, in fact, you said it to me in an email,
not very long ago, well, wait a minute, that doesn't make sense. How can we have 13 million go in and
we get 20 million out? And the answer is the simple answer is, is that a lot of what we consume are
natural gas liquids, many of which don't come from, from this refining column at all, they come from
natural gas, completely different source. And so, you know, an awful lot of what we consume go into
the plastics that you talk about, go into all sorts of natural gas liquids that and then there's biofuels.
Okay, there's, you know, a million and I don't even know what the night number is, but it's,
it's more than a million barrels a day of what we call gasoline comes from corn,
but that's counted in our consumption. And then there's another thing called refinery gain that
when you, when you take crude oil, which has a very high density, and you refine it into products
that have a lower density, there's actually an added volume, there's more oil, there's more product
that comes out than goes in. So you take all that confusing gobbledygook that I just mentioned,
and the arithmetic does add up. But, but just, just to make it clear and to get back to your,
your, your laundering comment, Michael Levy or Levy is a guy that he used to be an energy analyst,
and now I think he's part of a hedge fund or something like that, because he's a smart guy.
But years ago, he, he talked about, he said, now, if a country manufactures no automobiles,
zero, but buys five million automobiles every day from, let's say Italy, imports them, paints them
green, paints the cars green, and then exports them back to Italy and Europe and sells them,
are we a net exporter of automobiles? No, we're a net exporter of green paint. That's what we've done.
And so the, the oil refining analogy that Michael was talking about there is,
I buy oil from you, I put it into my refinery, I turn it into gasoline and diesel and other
products, and then I sell it back to you and I call myself a net exporter. I'm selling you green
paint, man. Now I'm not criticizing the process. I mean, you know, you want to make money, it's a
legitimate way of making money and you're, you're providing a product that people need, but let's
be honest about what you're doing. You're exporting green paint. So in this discussion, I've come
away so far with two main takeaways. Number one is we're not going to seamlessly or in any near
term time frame get off of oil because it is central to our modern way of life. If we radically
change our way of life, we then might be able to get off of oil. And then the second takeaway
is our system is so complex, our global supply chains, and the systemic risk from any international
hiccup due to Russia or China or a financial meltdown or any other international risk
really can gum up this just in time global import, export of green paint in this case,
the hemoglobin inputs to our modern economy because in autarky or a world without trade,
the US has plenty of oil, not as much as we used to, and what we have now is mostly
light, tight oil, which depletes very rapidly, but we still have a lot, especially relative to
most countries in the world, but we cannot produce the things we need just from our oil. It has to
be either build different types of refineries and why would they do that because they're not
getting the signals from the market to do that, or we need to continue to merge our oil, mix it
with heavier fractions that we get from other countries' flavors and types of oil, yes?
Yes, and let me add one important footnote to that, and that is you talk about we could build
new refineries or different refineries, okay? I mean, we're talking tens of billions of dollars
per refinery, and it's like a 30 or 40 year investment, okay? So we live in a world today
where most of the investment money, the smart money, rightly or wrongly, doesn't believe there's 30
or 40 years of investment life in an oil refinery that somehow we're going to be driving electric cars
and, you know, true or untrue, and you and I know, you know, we don't think it's true, but it doesn't
matter. Well, we think it's true for a different reason. Well, okay, fair enough, yeah, yeah,
but the point is that you need credit, you need somebody else's money to make these big
capital-intensive projects happen, and if the investment community says, now, you know, we don't
see it, guys, you know, if you could do this in five years, we'd talk about it, but 30 years, forget it.
So that's a problem. Now, you know, will that change? I don't know, maybe, maybe not, but
so just because somebody says, well, we could do it doesn't mean that it's realistic to expect
that it will happen. So what are the risks you see from the current refining situation
and the current diesel, I don't know if shortage is the right word, but the very high price of diesel
and the burning of oil for heat in places in Europe that didn't happen before the war.
In the next 10 years, are there risks you see to the refining situation in addition to what we
discussed? Well, sure. And some of those risks, let me just back up and say for a moment,
unknown to most people, the guy who's running Russia right now, Vladimir Putin,
has a PhD in energy economics. I didn't know that. Yeah, he wrote a thesis on basically why
his thesis is that the Soviet Union fell apart because it mismanaged its oil resources,
that it didn't invest in the necessary infrastructure and refining and therefore
was at the mercy of the West. And so what's happening right now, this mega hiccup, as you call
it, you didn't say mega, I added that. What's happening right now with diesel and with natural gas
is not an accident. I mean, this guy knows exactly what he's doing. I'm not one of those people that
you secretly admire as Vladimir Putin. I'm just saying he knew exactly what he was doing.
He said, look, I got all the cards right here and I'm going to play those cards.
And when those cards, when playing those cards don't work to his satisfaction,
he plays another card. So right now he's bombing energy infrastructure in Ukraine.
The guy knows about energy. Say what you will. If you Google Putin's PhD dissertation,
you'll see there are lots of people who think that, you know, he had a ghostwriter do it or he
plagiarized it. You know, I don't care because that's not the issue here. Point is, is even if all
those things are true, this man knows more about energy than all the leaders of NATO put together
because he somehow did have to pass his defense. So we're dealing with a guy who understands how
to play energy much better than any of our NATO leaders. And I would argue probably any of the
other leaders in the world. So this was a planned intervention. So is it likely that we'll see
something, you know, will a hiccup have the same implications in the future? We don't know. But
this one's here to stay, I think. This is, in my view, this is part of a radical restructuring
of the world order. And whether Putin lives or dies or stays in power or is taken from power,
I don't think that's going away. I think the world is pretty evenly divided. And one side of that
divide sees natural resources and the means of production of those natural resources as the key
to their success. And they're not us. And their idea is not a bad one.
Well, let me let me put you on the spot here. So usually at around this time, I ask my guests
some personal questions about the future. And I think I'd like to withhold that opportunity until
we have more of a less of a chemical discussion and more of a organic human discussion about
future trajectories. But I will put you on the spot and ask, given everything you just said about
the importance of oil and oil products to our current way of life, and the mega hiccup in
Ukraine, and what that portends for a biophysical awareness of what holds our system together,
if you were energy czar or benevolent dictator in this country, what are some of the measures you
might consider to make our path either the United States or the entire global culture
more resilient to maybe a more energy scarce, less affordable future?
Yeah, you are putting me on the spot. Not that I didn't expect it. I don't have solutions. But
if it were me, the word I would use is cooperation, that rather than beat our chests about, you know,
how we are the badass United States and we're a net exporter of oil and we don't need no stinking,
you know, whatever's in Saudi Arabia, a bit of humility would be a really good thing.
And say, you know what, whether we love these guys or hate these guys, we really need these guys.
And these guys need us. I'm not, you know, I'm speaking generally, but whether it's Saudi Arabia,
whether it's Russia, whether it's China, that, you know, there's this aggressive kind of approach
that we seem to be taking. And when I say we, I'm not talking about political parties. I'm
talking about we as the United States of America and NATO, certainly in the last few years. But
I mean, it is, it's, I mean, it's a recipe for disaster. If you want to maintain
our civilization in some form like we're used to. Now, if you don't, that's another conversation
altogether. And I'm not, I'm not even beginning to suggest that we just, you know, shuck all the
plans of decarbonizing and, you know, trying to consume. I mean, we really do need to
radically modify our behavior towards energy as a species. But that's not the question you're asking
me. And so if, if the, if the question you're asking me is how do we manage the, the, the
systemic risk, the way you manage it is cooperate. Now, there are red lines that you cannot cross.
I mean, somebody does something that's so horrible that you say, look, you know, we can't work with
you anymore. I get that, you know, and I'm not, I don't have a degree in diplomacy or I probably
would be a different person. But that, that's what I think is, is important. And, and, and, you
know, as far as managing this current crisis, you know, all of this aggressiveness, you know,
I think just gets us faster and faster to an outcome that doesn't have anything to do with
what we're talking about has to do with, you know, nuclear war or war, which is, you know, okay,
you know, how much do you want to be right is being right? The answer is, is, you know,
is preserving the planet. The answer, I mean, probably neither one of those is the right answer,
but something in between, right? Well, yeah, the challenge is that our species historically,
when there is a phase shift to a smaller physical pie, cooperation is against outgroups is not the,
the first thing that we fix. And that is, that is worrisome. But in addition to the nuclear war
risk and the financial overhang, you've laid out a case for the complexity of our energy
infrastructure and all these different products that don't just naturally spring out from a
barrel of oil, there's a big intermediate step, which is the refiners and that process.
Art, I know you are leaving for a well-deserved vacation in the morning. I think this was very
helpful conversation, at least for me to understand that how oil turns into these other products.
There's a ton of other things I want to talk to you about, but maybe we
close this if you have any other final thoughts on this broad topic of diesel,
oil refining, etc. And then I'll have you back in a couple months to talk about
many other topics relevant to our energy future, including one that you and I email about a lot,
which is what can renewables do and in tandem with depleting fossil fuels and what are the
barriers and opportunities there. So any closing words, my friend?
Yeah, my closing words are that you shouldn't expect, nobody should expect
that whatever the problems that we identify, let's just say here in the United States,
since we're both here at the moment, nobody should expect that we're going to solve these
problems in the near term, whatever they are. And if you do, then you probably don't understand
them well enough to really have a vote at the table. You're entitled to your opinion.
But when I hear people say, oh, well, we just need to get these refiners off their ass and
tell them to make more diesel. Well, I think we've pretty much put that to rest. You can't make
something without making a lot of other things and you can't make something out of something
that doesn't have what you need in it. So the idea of, well, let's just stop importing other
people's oil and use our own. Okay, live on gasoline, everybody. You're not going to get your diesel.
Oh, whoops, I didn't know that. Recognize that all of these people, these groups, whether they're
refiners or oil producers or whatever, they actually have a business to run. Now, you may not
approve. I may not approve of their corporate governance and their ethics and all of that.
But when you have political leaders who stand up and say, well, these guys shouldn't charge us
as much because they're making a lot of money right now. Okay, you want to apply that across the board
to all corporations and all sectors? Okay, I can get behind that. But you're not going to get away
with singling out one sector and saying, well, you guys can't charge us much. But if Amazon or
Facebook or Apple or Facebook wants to do it, well, sure, why not? I mean, it's just so unrealistic
to make comments like that. Okay, so it's red meat. I get it. But my point to your listeners who
presumably are on a more thoughtful level is if you want something, let's make sure that it's
realistic and feasible. And just because it sounds good, it probably has all sorts of problems
