After gasoline comes diesel. So gasoline comes off first, kerosene, jet comes off next,
and then diesel, and then heating oil, fuel oil, sorry.
Yeah. Well, I mean, I don't, this is, I'm in preparing for this podcast, I'm actually learning
some of these things. So what is kerosene used for currently the same lighting and lamps and such?
Well, not so much. Kerosene, I mean, so the words kerosene and jet are usually hyphenated,
okay, because they're not exactly the same, but their principal use, as far as humans,
as consumers are concerned, is for aviation fuel. Got it. That's the main use.
Okay, so gasoline, then kerosene, jet, then diesel fuel. And diesel is also called distillate,
and it also functions as heating oil. For example, on the east coast of the United States,
very prevalent. Yeah. Well, I mean, heating oil, technically, is actually a little bit heavier.
There's a fair amount of overlap between kerosene, jet, diesel, and fuel oil. It's a spectrum,
okay? Okay. Of which kerosene is the bottom and fuel oil is the top.
Okay. And fuel oil is what, for ships and such?
It's used for shifts, you know, and again, like ships are required to shift to a lighter
type of distillate when they're within territorial waters for environmental reasons.
They get outside of jet. Because the heavier stuff is more polluting?
Exactly. So the heavier stuff is what you'll hear is, it's called bunker fuel. Don't ask me why.
Okay. So when you're within the territorial waters of a country like the United States or Europe,
where they have concerns about emissions and air pollution, the ships are required to use
a lighter form of distillate that doesn't pollute. When they get out to sea, they can do what they
want. Although, and just to cover that and complete it, the marine community got together
a couple of years ago in 2020 and said, all right, we need to regulate more carefully what we burn
at sea. And so a tremendous effort was made to lower the sulfur that was emitted and to basically
clean up the act when it's at sea. But still, it's, you know, there is a double standard.
So octane, chemical precursors, butane, propane, gasoline, kerosene, jet, diesel, fuel oil,
what's left after all that? Just some really heavy gook.
Heavy gook, which is used to pave our, you know, our roads, asphalt, various kinds of lubricants,
you know, when you lubricate your bearings, I mean, if you've ever looked at the stuff that
comes out of that tube, I mean, it's thick and pasty. I mean, it doesn't look anything like oil.
And then there are things called paraffins, which are, you know, very, they almost look like wax,
and they're used for, well, I mean, when you want to keep mosquitoes out of your yard, when
you're having a barbecue, you might, you know, put some kind of a thing that looks like a candle
into something on a pole, and you light it, and that's paraffin. So yeah, so that's,
by the time you get to, you know, to the bottom of the distillation tower, I mean,
you're basically talking about tar. I mean, that's what it looks like. It's black, gooey tar.
So in the same way, well, not in the same way, in a very different way, but the same metaphor
that Native Americans used every part of a buffalo, current Americans use every part of a barrel of
oil, it seems. We do, yeah, because it's all, it all contains energy. So this is a tangent,
but we've emailed about this before. The whole electric car battery emission story, you know,
that's a topic for another day. But in each barrel of oil is the roads that the electric or regular
cars up will drive on. And how in the heck will the world create roads if we don't have the bottom
10% of the sludgy asphalt from every barrel of oil that is the leftover, which we use to
not only create roads, but to maintain and repair them. I've just went on a bike ride today and
someone just smoothed out the asphalt, which without it, I would have had a bumpy ride.
Is this a topic? I don't even remember hearing or reading about how we're going to replace asphalt
if we have to go fossil free. Yeah, these are some of the details that somehow
often get left out of the story, because we, the public, are assumed to be energy blind. And
maybe the politicians who spin these stories are nearly as energy blind as the public that
they're speaking to. But if you read our mutual friend Vashlav Smil, for anyone who wants to
get a little bit more deeply into energy than we're talking about right now, the guy's written
more than 40 books. That guy writes as many books as I have podcasts, but go on. The guy's,
he's amazing. He's written 40 books, right? But I keep pestering them to be on this show and
eventually I think he'll crack, but he's like, I'm too busy writing books, Nate. I don't want to do
any interviews, but go on. Yeah, so, you know, he says that the four pillars of modern civilization
are plastic, steel, cement, and fertilizer, all four of which require petroleum.
How does cement require petroleum? Well, you've got to extract the materials. I mean, if you've
ever, you know, if you've ever seen a sidewalk that's broken or somehow cut, you'll notice that
it's full of rocks, right? And so the cement making process is very energy intensive, that you have
to extract just like you extract iron ore from a mine in South America or you extract oil from
deep in the subsurface. All of the operations that go into getting the materials and assembling them
for cement require fossil fuels. So you've got plastics that come from oil and natural gas liquids.
You've got steel, which has to be extracted, the iron has to be extracted, it has to be transported,
it has to be heated at very, very high temperatures, usually using coal. We don't really have a very
good way. I mean, we could theoretically, you know, smelt metals using electricity, but it would be
unbelievably complicated, super expensive, and we're just not, we're not engineered to do that
at this time. So steel, fertilizer is something that most people don't even think about very much,
but I mean, most of the reasons that we have nearly 8 billion people on planet Earth today
is solely because of fertilizer, which is made from petroleum. So at the end of World War One,
the world population was a little bit more than 2 billion people. And without fertilizer, it would
have stayed at about 2, 2.2, 2.3 billion people because the planet couldn't feed more than 2 or 2.3
or 4 billion people, but a couple of German guys figured out how to liquefy air under great pressure
and temperature, which provided the source of nitrogen needed to create fertilizer. I mean,
humans have known how to make fertilizer forever. We just didn't have enough free nitrogen on planet
Earth to do it until Haber and Bosch came along, figured this out, and all of a sudden,
we could fertilize the world and we could start growing the population because fertilizer expanded
the productivity of the soil. And so most of the problems that we have on planet Earth today,
in my opinion, are because we got too many people. And we got too many people because of fertilizer,
but you can't do fertilizer without petroleum, mostly hydrogen from natural gas,
other fossil energy. So those are Schmiel's four pillars of modern civilization. And I mean,
I'm as sympathetic as I know you are to people that put the environment first. And I think you
do and I do. But when they talk about, you know, well, let's just get off of fossil fuels, they're
cutting the pillars off of the four elements that uphold modern civilization. You know,
it's okay if you want to do that, but it's not that it, you know, it's got real consequences.
I mean, you know, you're bringing down the civilization that you want to keep. So you
can't have it both ways. There are alternatives to many of these things. For instance,
there's biodiesel. Can we talk about that for a moment?
Yeah, so you can essentially synthesize the, you know, the heavier components of diesel
using things like soybeans and, you know, other agricultural products. Now, it's not exactly the
same, but it's similar enough that you can actually run a diesel engine off of it. Okay,
that's what's called biodiesel. And people say, Oh, well, you know, easy peasy. Let's just,
let's stop using oil, let's start making biodiesel. And, and, and I'm one of those who say,
I wish it were true. And, and so what are, what are the, the obstacles to biodiesel? Well,
first and foremost, in my opinion, is that you're using a food product to create energy,
which means that you're competing for food, which feeds human beings and animals and, and the rest
of the planet. So same argument there is with corn ethanol. Exactly. So you're, at the very least,
you're making it more expensive to get food. And at the very worst, you're crowding certain people
out of the food market because you want to make, you want to make energy with it. The, the biodiesel,
it turns out, is not as energy dense as the diesel from petroleum. So it's, it's, it doesn't have
the same level of efficiency. You have to put more energy in to get the same energy out, which is,
you know, kind of inefficient. Turns out that it's, for reasons I couldn't even begin to explain,
it's tremendously corrosive. And so whereas you can put diesel into a pipeline and just pipe it
all over the country, with biodiesel, you actually have to put it into a special truck
that is sealed on the inside. So now you're using real diesel to transport biodiesel.
Just as an aside, I read the other day about now, there's a, there's a, a kind of, of a tanker ship
used to transport coal that runs on wind. Okay. So we're using wind energy so we can move the
world's worst polluting fossil energy around the world. I mean, you know, the irony there is just,
is just exquisite, I think. But so, so the transport part of it is a problem. And, and, and it also
turns out that it's corrosive to the engine when you, when you put it in. So I'm not trying to
make a case against biodiesel. I'm simply trying to say that, you know, your premise was, well,
aren't there alternatives? And yes, there are alternatives. And none of those alternatives,
at least from a purely, from the standpoint of efficiency, can compete with the real thing with
diesel. And it's the same for many of the other alternatives. We can over build solar and wind
and via hydrolysis, create fake fossil fuels, CH4 and other things that could be chemical
precursors for some of the other things on your list. But that is massively more expensive and
complicated than the current refined stuff that we're pulling out of the ground. And just turn it
into this distillation to create all these products. So, you know, one of the things that I increasingly
point out to people is all these technological answers to our energy and environmental situation,
these newfangled tech that creates alternative energy, all of these plans are predicated on this
200 year history of more and more energy available to humans every single year with the
exception of financial crises, COVID and a few big recessions. Every single year, we've had more
access as a species to energy. And I think that also blinds us to the potential of technological
fixes to this, because at some point, we're going to have less energy every year. And so, what does
technology do for us then when we have a declining amount of access to energy every year? So, that's
something that I think about. Well, and it's an important thing. So, it's not just availability
of energy, it's the cost of that energy. And so, I mean, energy costs go up and down as everyone
who pays any attention knows, but the unfortunate truth is that energy kept getting cheaper and
cheaper up until around the beginning of the century. And it's been getting more and more
expensive ever since then. And so, all these technological fixes were based on an assumption
of not only abundance, but cheap. And the cheap went away, and the abundance is on its way out,
as you point out. And hopefully, one of the things the world is starting to awaken to with
what's happening today is it's getting really expensive, and all the money in the world can't
necessarily get it all to the right place at the right time. So, maybe there's beginning,
all the supply chain issues that everyone is frustrated by. I mean, that wasn't something
anybody, well, I wouldn't say anybody, but that wasn't something the average person thought about
two or three years ago. Now, everybody's aware of it. And that's a good thing. And my point is,
is that all of these alternatives to say diesel, aside from their cost and et cetera, et cetera,
they're not without environmental consequences. And that's something that somehow doesn't come
across when we're being pitched on so-called green products. And again, I'm not trying to,
in any way, dissuade people from using more environmentally sound practices and products,
but everything has a consequence. So, as you were speaking, lots of thoughts
are rolling through my head. Let's get back to the different fractions that are distilled off
from a barrel of oil. If we were headed to a world, let's just say hypothetically,
that there was a diesel shortage, and we had this machinery around the world, and we needed to have
X amount of diesel. But at the same time, we had switched to electric cars or people didn't drive
as much because there was public transportation. In order to get to the diesel, in order to produce
diesel, we need a certain amount of oil. And we first need to burn off those fractions that are
lighter than diesel, and gasoline is one of those, and gasoline is 40 to 50% of the volume of a
barrel of oil. So, you can't just say, oh, I need this asphalt, or oh, I need this diesel.
The only thing you could say is, oh, I need this octane or butane, and that's the first thing that
comes off. Everything else, you have to burn off all this other stuff before you get to it.
So, this itself is a complexity problem in our global system. Yes? What do you think about this?
100% true. You cannot, I mean, it's a process. It's a sequential process. You can't get from
A to D without going through B and C. And what you just said was that the B and C part of the
process are like more than half of all the stuff that comes out of oil. So, what are you going to
do with it? Let's just say you live in a world where nobody really needs very much gasoline.
Okay, that's great. But you need the diesel. What are you going to do with all that gasoline?
Are you going to bury it in the ground, or are you going to burn it? I mean, what are you going
to do with it? If we get off of internal combustion cars, we're still going to need the diesel
machinery and the asphalt and the other products from a barrel of oil. So, what do we do with it?
Can we shift our refineries so that what's currently the gasoline could actually be diesel,
or doesn't it work that way? The refineries don't work that way, but there is a process
which is called reforming. And so, it is possible to take gasoline and using some fairly intensive
chemical processes, you can basically add carbon to it. So, going back to where we started,
you know, all oil is carbon plus some hydrogens around it. And so, the problem with the light
parts of the distillation process and up through gasoline is there's not a whole lot of carbon
in there, at least compared to the kerosene jet, the diesel and the fuel oil. So, chemists know how
to, you know, how to force more carbon into those compounds and then can essentially synthesize,
or they reform the lighter molecules back into heavier molecules. That's not...
At a cost, at a big cost, probably. And there's a scaling problem too. I mean, you can do it,
you know, you can do it for relatively small volumes without that much difficulty.
But if you're, you know, if you're talking about, you know, let's take half the gasoline or a quarter
of the gasoline that we refine and let's turn it into something else, whoa. I mean, now you're
talking about two and a half million barrels a day of something just in the United States,
a quarter of all the gasoline that now has to be reformed into something else. And that's a scale
that's, you know, as far as I know, is just, you know, we're not set up for that.
So, is this... So, let's talk about U.S. refineries for a moment. Do we have a problem
with a matching, a mismatch between the type of oil supply and the eventual desired products
going forward because we have primarily light oil?
No, not really. And that's because we live in a connected world. And so, we take
a lot of the light oil we produce and we export it. Okay, we're currently exporting...
Because other countries have heavy oil and they want the light oil so they can get the butane
and propane and other things. Yeah, and there are specialized refineries in parts of the world
that are just geared toward gasoline, okay? And such refineries actually exist in Europe.
They're generally kind of smaller refineries. They exist in Latin America. They exist in China.
These are the teapots you hear about, okay? So, these countries, most other countries are a lot less
gasoline driven, excuse the pun, than the United States. Most other countries in the world use,
you know, at least a third diesel, two-thirds gasoline, or 50-50. But they all use gasoline.
I mean, automobiles that run on gasoline are all over the world. So, there's always a need.
It's just, we don't need it here. So, we export three, four million barrels a day of light oil
in the United States. So, a lot of what we produce just goes somewhere else. And then we turn around
and we import heavy oil. So, you hear about, you know, all this theater that goes on between
the U.S. presidents and the kings of Saudi Arabia. Well, what's that about? Well, it turns out that
Saudi Arabia has just the, you know, the perfect oil that you can just dump right into an American
refinery. It's got exactly the right consistency. And so, we don't have that oil. And so, we need
that oil from someone else. And Saudi Arabia is a perfect place to get it. So, they have the perfect
oil period, or they have the perfect oil for our situation. Now, so, the average refinery
in the world is very similar to the average refinery in the United States. It takes, you know,
kind of a medium-heavy input grade, much heavier or heavier than the average oil the United States
makes. And you can get to that level two ways. You can either buy the perfect oil, say from Saudi
Arabia, or you can take a little bit of our light oil and mix it with some nasty, heavy stuff from
