there's kind of a general recognition that diesel is somehow important to our lives,
or it's a name of an actor in a Pulp Fiction movie. The reality is that we assume that oil
equals gasoline, but oil equals far more than gasoline, and each barrel of oil
requires a certain sequence of when the different products are distilled off.
With me today for a second conversation on the great simplification is my colleague
Art Berman, who is a petroleum geologist, who's going to explain the importance of refining
and other products than gasoline in a barrel of oil, what this means for the future, why we are
currently having a diesel shortage at higher prices, especially in the east coast,
and what this all means for the future. Please welcome Art Berman.
Hello, my friend Art. Hey, Nate, how you doing? I'm good, how are you, sir? I'm doing very well,
thanks. So, you and I have never thought about this, but we've probably been parties to 10,000
emails in our little group over the last decade, and there are, as you know, the first podcast I
did with you was in January, and since then some large energy relevant world events have happened,
and so a lot more people are becoming less energy blind as a result of the NATO-Russia
situation, and so there's a lot of things that we could talk about, and I expect we will talk
about in the future. But let's take it one topic at a time. There's been a lot of
information in the news about diesel fuel and some of the shortages of various fuels in Europe,
and so on our first discussion, which I hope everyone can go back and listen to,
and you did a very helpful PowerPoint that was attached to it, we talked about what is oil,
where does it come from, how much is left, the relationship to our economic system.
Today, I would like to cover what do we get from oil, and I think there's a common assumption in
our society that, oh, we get oil out of the ground to create gasoline, and that is true,
but that is just a tiny part of a much more complex puzzle, which with your help today,
we can unpack for our listeners. So let's start there. Do you have any comments to that brief
intro? Yeah, sure. Now, I think you're absolutely on the right track. First of all, I fully agree
that the world is becoming more energy aware, and by that, I think we both mean that whereas,
say, a year ago or, you know, 10 months ago, you talk about energy and people didn't really
think about it all that much in their lives. You know, if a gallon of gas costs more than
they're used to, okay, that's a drag and they'll complain about it. But I think that the events
of the last several months, certainly since the Ukraine invasion, have heightened the world's
sensitivity to the fact that energy is really important. The inflation that's affected the
world is due largely to cost of energy. That's not the only source, but it's the biggest one,
in my view. And people are slowly starting to make that connection, but, and the big but,
is that the rest of it is understandably just kind of a black box for people. So,
you know, you mentioned, well, you know, gasoline costs too much, and I don't use diesel, but I
guess it's a big deal. And I don't think people really understand where all that comes from,
what has to happen to get it, and nor do I expect them to understand it. And so,
you and I know each other well, and I'm a geologist. I'm a petroleum geologist. I'm not
a chemical engineer. Chemical engineers are the guys that design and run refineries. I'm
not a refinery expert. I know a fair amount about it. And maybe that's perfect for the people who
listen to your podcast, because I'm not going to, I don't know enough to get everybody too confused,
you know, about, you know, isomers and polymers and alkaloids. And, and so, you know, let's keep it
simple. But, but I think there's, there's a huge amount of information that will should
cause people to say, oh, okay, I never knew that before. And that's my hope.
And that's what we're after. And I'm less concerned about forecasting oil and gas price
movements or imports and exports in the next six months or anything like that. I'm trying to get
a lot more people to understand the energy landscape so that we can make better
intermediate and long term decisions. So let's just start with, with diesel. What is diesel?
Why is it important? And why is it in the news?
Diesel is one of the many refined products that are created from a barrel of oil. And in the United
States, so we, we have a culture, a society that runs a whole lot more on gasoline than it does on
diesel. That's not the case for most of the world. There are a lot of reasons for that. But let me
just keep it simple and say that in the end, diesel is cheaper to use and it has, it's more
diverse in its, in its uses. So diesel is important because it literally is the hemoglobin of the,
the world economy. So all of the, sure, go ahead, Nate.
I often say that gasoline is the hemoglobin of the world economy, but to be technically correct,
gasoline is the hemoglobin of the consumer economy. Diesel is probably the hemoglobin of
the actual industrial transportation systems and the heavy lifting of the world economy, yes?
Yeah. And, and, and consumers, you know, you and, and me and everybody else,
when we order products, most of those come to us in some fashion, thanks to diesel. So diesel is
the primary fuel that runs mines, oil rigs, all of the extractive operations that get the raw
materials out of the earth and into our grubby little human hands. It is the, the primary fuel
that runs ships, trains and trucks, which are the main way of moving those natural resources from
where they come out of the ground to where they can be converted into products. It goes back into
those same forms of transport to distribute it to the rest of the world. So, you know, just to use
an example, we, we want it, we want steel. And so we mine iron ore, let's just say in South America,
using diesel powered equipment, we put it on a ship, which uses diesel, we send it to, say, China.
China manufactures it into steel from iron. An awful lot of that process uses fossil fuels.
They put the finished product on a boat, send it, say, to the United States by diesel. It gets
picked up, say, in the port of Los Angeles, either by a truck or a train. And it goes out to its,
its consumers of whatever that steel product is by diesel. So by the time it finally arrives,
you know, I might put it in my gasoline powered car if I bought a, you know, a steel pipe at,
you know, at Home Depot or whatever. But everything that led up to it is principally diesel.
There's a one clarification in what you said. And then I have a bunch of questions.
I am not a consumer. I am a human. But other than that, that was a good description. And
can't we just use gasoline to replace that diesel? Why, why do we have to use diesel for all those
things that you mentioned? Well, put most simply, it's first of all, because all of the, the equipment
that uses diesel is designed for it. So let's just say it were, it was a coin toss, you know,
you could use either gasoline or diesel. Somebody made a decision 30, 40, 50 years ago that we're
going to use diesel. So even if it were a bad decision, and it wasn't, by the way, I'll get to
that in a second. If we decided that we wanted to change, we'd basically have to scrap all of the,
all of the equipment that runs our transportation and mining system or retrofitted or something.
Which is probably tens of trillions of dollars of equipment or something.
And decades of time and not to mention a big waste of, of material. But the reason that diesel was
chosen over gasoline way back when is because it's a more energy compact form of fuel that it can,
you know, to, to use the cliche, it has more bang for the buck. So the, you know, with, it's, it's
more energy dense. It has more energy per, you know, for cubic meter than gasoline. So we, you
know, it's a more productive fuel and it runs more efficiently. So it costs less. The fuel itself
costs more per gallon or per liter or whatever you're talking about than gasoline. But it runs
so much more efficiently that in the end, you end up saving a lot of money. So that was why
30, 40, 50 years ago, the decision was made, let's use diesel for all this equipment.
But if that was true, and this is going to get to a core part of the topic we're going to discuss
today, if that were true 30 or 40 years ago, why didn't we run all of our vehicles on diesel
instead of gasoline?
Well, in a lot of the world, they do run most of their vehicles on diesel instead of gasoline.
But here in the United States, where the automobile started was invented, for that matter,
we have a peculiar kind of oil. It's called a light oil. And we'll talk a little bit more about
why that's so. But for right now, let's just say our oil is light and it lends itself to
manufacturing gasoline. It's a very easy, quick step to go from US oil into gasoline. And let's
go back in time and think about what was going on in the early 1900s. So Henry Ford is trying to
commercialize an automobile. And the first Model A or whatever it was actually ran on ethanol. It
ran on alcohol. And that was for a variety of reasons. But just about the time that automobiles
or internal combustion engines were being thought through also in Europe, actually a little earlier
in Europe, there was this huge discovery of oil just north of where I'm sitting here in Houston
at a place called Spindletop. And most of the oil produced in the United States up in the world,
up until that time, came from kind of crappy little wells that produced a couple of barrels
of oil a day. And people were smart and they said, well, gosh, oil would be nice. We could use some
distilled form of it. But we don't get the volumes. And this discovery at Spindletop,
it blew out millions and millions of barrels a day. And the whole world said, oh my God,
we had no idea that you could get volumes like that. If we can get volumes like that,
then let's rethink this whole ethanol formula. Let's use oil. Another historical fact that's
interesting is that up until that time, until the automobile, the main use of oil was for kerosene,
for lighting. John D. Rockefeller and his Standard Oil Empire, I'm a little concerned about what they
did with all the products that come out of a distillation tower before you get to kerosene,
but I'm guessing they just dumped it on the ground or burned it because kerosene was the
product Americans demanded for lighting. So there's so many questions that I want to ask you.
I mean, I've spent 20 years researching energy and its importance to our society. But I know very
little about the processing. And I think most people just assume, oh, there's oil in the world
and it's pretty uniform. And we turn it into gasoline and a few other things. So was the oil
that we had at spindle top also relative to the rest of the world, light oil? And what are the
differences in oil and in the salient differences around the world without getting too much in the
weeds? Sure. So let's just say for argument's sake that all oil in the world is essentially the
same. Okay, it's not. But for this high level conversation, let's say that it is. And so what
determines whether an oil is light or heavy, its density basically, is how deeply it was buried and
to what temperatures it was exposed to. So think about the earth as a kitchen. And you've got all
kinds of dead algae plankton that settled to the bottom of the ocean, got buried and went deeper
and deeper into the earth. And the organic matter that made up their bodies and their cells is slowly
converted into oil. And to the extent that that oil is less cooked, it's going to have more of the
heavy parts that make heavy oil. And the more and more you cook it, the more and more it changes its
form and becomes lighter and lighter. And so when Rockefeller wanted to make kerosene, he didn't go
to Texas. He found a field in on the Ohio-Indiana border, which was very shallow and just happened
to be relatively heavy oil. So the United States is not exclusively light oil, but predominantly it
is. And so Rockefeller happened to intentionally find some heavy oil so he could get the kerosene
out of it. Now the oil at spindle top would be fairly useless for kerosene because it was
buried more deeply, exposed to more heat and more pressure and all those heavies, the heavy
parts of the petroleum molecule, were essentially burned off. They were naturally distilled off.
And so the oil at spindle top, and of course I'm generalizing hugely here, but is mainly a gasoline
prone kind of an oil. And so you can't really make very much or very good diesel or kerosene
out of spindle top oil. We have a lot of oil refineries in the world and in the United States.
So what you're saying is the oil refineries kind of accelerate the processes of pressure and time
that Mother Nature did over millions and tens of millions of years to create lighter or heavier
oil and the various things that are distilled from it?
Yeah. I mean, what happens in a refinery, it looks like an alcohol still.
Instead of putting in corn and water, you put in crude oil and you heat it up. And when you heat
it up, the light stuff comes off first. And what is the light stuff?
The light stuff is going to be natural gas and natural gas liquids, things like
propane and butane. When you go out and buy a lighter to start your charcoal grill,
or if you smoke cigarettes, a cigarette lighter, that's butane. If you heat your house, if you
live in the country and you don't have a pipeline to your house to deliver natural gas,
you buy a tag of propane. That's how I heat my house, propane. So propane is just one step
heavier than butane, which is one step heavier than methane, which is natural gas.
So we have a refinery, which is like an alcohol still, and the inputs is a barrel of crude oil,
which obviously for a U.S. refinery, optimally would be U.S. oil because it's close and we don't
have to import it. And we heat it up. And to what like temperature level are we talking about?
Hundreds of degrees. And let me step back and say actually not. Most of the oil that goes into U.S.
refineries, or let's just say at least half is not from the United States because the United
States oil doesn't have the necessary components to make the cash products that the world wants,
like diesel, kerosene, jet fuel, etc. That's the reason that the U.S. imports oil because
our oil isn't right for what the world needs. It's right for some of what the world needs,
but not the rest of it. So we're an energy launderer.
We are an energy launderer. That's correct. That's right.
So it's heated to hundreds of degrees, naive, non-person who got seized in college chemistry.
Why doesn't it explode if it's gasoline and butane and propane? There's no oxygen in there?
Yeah, it's contained in a pressure vault. So it's maintained at a pressure in which, and you're
right, there's no oxygen. So any kind of volatile reaction is not able to take place. But talking
about those temperatures, I mean, we're talking about, if you want diesel, you're talking about
something like 400 degrees centigrade. Well, let's start at the top and go down the
entire barrel if you're willing, because I think this is important to understand.
So we put in a barrel of oil, well, thousands of barrels or whatever in the mix, and we're
probably importing a different sort of oil to combine with our light, more cooked oil that's
in the United States into some of these big refineries all over the nation, but a lot of them
are in the area where you live in Texas and Louisiana. And at a lower temperature, the whole
barrel is being cooked, right? But at a lower temperature, like 150 degrees Celsius or something
like that, the lighter fractions are boiled off or distilled off. And you said that is butane
and propane. And then what comes after that? Gasoline. So gasoline is, you know, I mean,
so oil is just a chain of molecules that have a carbon center with various hydrogens around the
outside. And so natural gas, methane, is the simplest. It's got a carbon in the middle and
four hydrogens. So it's CH4. Okay. And then you can, you know, you start doing, even though I
wasn't terribly good at math either, I mean, you know, you can do the, you know, C2H8 and, you
know, and so it's just a, it's a very simple step that the lightest stuff comes off first,
because it has a lower boiling point, if you will. I mean, that's kind of what we're talking about
here. So butane is, you know, got a few more carbons and a few more hydrogens than methane.
Propane's got a few more than butane. There's a bunch of other stuff that, you know, there's,
there's, you know, there's, you know, heptane and octane and all that. But what are those used for?
Those are used for, you know, for similar, they're flammable substances that are used for
different kinds of fuels also, but they're, you know, they're a little bit more, I mean, we don't
consume them ourselves. They're mostly used as feedstocks for other petrochemical processes.
Like creation of plastic bags and medicines and football helmets and things?
Yeah, yeah. So I mean, yeah, like, like baggies and, you know, all the plastic that we use
come from these natural gas liquids that come off before, before gasoline.
So the heavy type, I mean, the light type of oil that we have in the United States is good for
those plastic product precursors. It's great. Absolutely great.
Okay. So precursors, plastic, octane, things like that, then propane and butane, then gasoline.
And at this point, how much of the barrel of oil is left roughly?
Oh, probably 80%. So the, yeah, so we're talking about, yeah, so, I mean, roughly speaking,
something a little bit less than half of a barrel is gasoline.
And like 20% is diesel. And then the various natural gas liquids, those are about 15%.
So we take off the 15% right away, and we've got 85% left to play with.
But 40% to 50% of it is gasoline. Yeah, yeah, it is.
And then 20%. So what comes after gasoline?
