And so I will grant, for the sake of argument, let's say that, yes, it's giving a possibly,
no, not a possibly, that's a dodge.
It's giving a less than accurate depiction of reality in order to accomplish their goals.
Like in general, that's really, I think, like we mentioned, how slogans have to be.
And we could pick an example that we all disagree with.
The anti-abortionists stop killing our babies is what's on their signs, right?
So that's catchy. It shares a lot of the same problems and a lot of the same strengths.
But the problem is, or the difference is that I disagree with their goal.
I do agree with the Black Lives Matter goal.
So if their sign says Black Lives Matter or stop killing us,
I'm kind of fine with it delivering a message to the uninitiated's head
that isn't exactly a perfect map to reality because it's achieving goals I care about.
I realize this isn't a generalizable philosophy, but I'm just prepared to bite the bullet on that.
This is a, you had that throwaway line about pedophile priests or something.
If there was a big movement to strip the Catholic Church of a lot of its powers and liberties that it's abused for ages
and it's used those to become fabulously wealthy and to abuse children,
if people are marching in the streets saying, stop raping our kids,
it would be kind of disingenuous because most people's kids aren't being raped,
but they're using that as a shorthand to point a big neon light at the Catholic Church and saying, everyone look at this.
Yeah, kids are being raped. It doesn't imply a number.
And I think the implication there is any is too many.
And yeah, so certainly in that case, yeah.
Well, probably in any case, either of the ones that we talked about, right?
So I guess there's that.
And I would also just put out the legitimate question of what is the alternative
if you're going to have a rally or a march or something to garner attention
short of carrying a sign with a QR code that people can scan to go to your website.
Is there an alternative other than having a slogan that can't perfectly capture the essence of your argument?
I'm looking at the George Floyd protest pictures in a front and center.
There's a sign that just says, I can't breathe.
And another one, am I next?
Those are good signs.
Yeah.
Well, but the first one's wrong because they can breathe.
I'm being an asshole on purpose.
But that's my point.
It captures the emotion and it's doing it to an end that I think everybody who's not an alt-right police dictator fascist lover can get behind, right?
And I realize that just painted people who disagree with me into a corner.
So let me walk that back.
But does that make sense?
It does.
But I think that's my main problem.
I don't really care about getting the police, you know, philaters, alt-right people on our side anyway because they never will be.
I'm more worried about the people in the middle who see that's something that they are not being told the truth to or that they get that impression, I guess.
And it's the people in the middle that I am more worried about because, you know, they're the ones that are going to decide to go with one side or the other.
And I would like them to go with our side.
Are you concerned that they will see a sign and then do their own independent research and do some facts and figuring with numbers and determine that the sign was misleading and therefore throw the cause out?
No, I'm concerned that they will hear someone say that black people are killed at about the same numbers as white people, which is a rate that's six times higher than white people.
But since black neighborhoods have crime rates at about six times higher, this is justified, and they will be like, oh, what's going on here?
Why are all these protests, if resources are being used correctly?
I mean, like, and so one of the things too that came out of the Discord is the number of police encounters per lifetime.
Yes.
And we, you know, there's there's not at least during the, you know, I also have these conversations while I'm doing my day job.
So like, I can't spend an hour doing research, so I didn't find anything to give good numbers on this.
But I'm prepared to guess that with with a high level of confidence to the to the sake of a, let's say, $100 if anyone wants to give me some right or wrong on this, that black people on average are stopped more by the police than white people.
And that's going to be true across every neighborhood.
No, here's the thing is like, I'm on Black Lives Matter side.
I'm on your side.
I want this movement to succeed.
So like, I think that given the number of police encounters go up, your odds of being killed by the police go up because you don't die in a police encounter.
You don't die at the hands of the police without encountering them.
And so if you stopped 500 times and the rates of being killed are only one in 10,000 or something, your your odds of being killed are much higher.
If you stopped 500 times, then if you stopped five times, depending on where you live and what kind of lifestyle you lead, you know, I don't think I don't remember the last time I had an altercation with the police officer, maybe once in the last five years.
And so like, if I was stopped three or four times a week, I'm away to and from work.
Yeah.
You know, so like the one time where you show impatience or you, you know, they again, they get you out of their car to feel you up and kind of.
And you show Sandra Bland thing again to with the talking to strangers.
That was the whole sort of premise of that book.
Oh, nice.
Yeah, I'm glad it ties in.
I was going to say just like the one time that you show annoyance and this is one of the things that I drew contention with with Harris's podcast because he's mentioned this before.
And is he's correct, but it's so easy to be correct when you're not when this isn't a problem that you really have.
So like what he what he's correct about is that if you're stopped by the police, what you should do is cooperate with everything that they're saying.
Now, as lots of videos over the last few years have shown that often gets you or that doesn't always guarantee that you won't be shot to death on the sidewalk.
But, you know, like if you're pulled over and you know you did nothing wrong, what you should do anyway is have your license and registration ready when they come to the window.
Have your car off.
Have your keys on the dash.
Do all the things they taught you in driver safety or somebody should have taught you or, you know, if no one taught you Google what to do when I get pulled over and just do those things.
But, you know, again, you have the car off the window down, and you just do what they say and, you know, live with the fact that you're being stopped for no reason.
That's what Harris says to do.
And then if you're a savior detained and you're arrested for nothing that you did, you don't resist, you come back the next day with your lawyer as if everyone can do that.
Again, that's really easy to say from from Harris's perspective, and it's it's true if your odds of this happening to you are very low.
But again, if you're the kind of if you're the guy that gets stopped every other day on the way to or from work, and it's like, OK, I'm getting stopped again.
This is literally, you know, three hours out of my week that I'm being spent groped by the cops.
You know, this one time I'm going to tell him to fuck off and keep going to my work going to work.
Then he's going to tackle you and arrest you and then you're going to be, you know, or your career is ruined forever.
And I think that's that's exactly what I was trying to get at that like the movement makes it sound like the answer to this problem is to remove racist monsters from the murderer.
From the murder force.
But the problem is drastically different.
It's exactly what you said.
It's a system that is corrupt and that protects bad people and that can harass anyone at any time for any reason, basically.
And those are the things we want to change.
So the movement may not even fix the problem if all the people who are pushing it who join up get the feeling that what they have to do is fix the problem of murderous racists being
being in here rather than the system being fucked up and making people's lives miserable in this way.
Is that what they're actually calling for?
Again, I like I'm looking at their website and I see defund the police is the main hashtag here.
The things they're calling for are all awesome and would help quite a lot.
It's just the messaging behind it that that is less than honest, I guess.
I again just wonder is this messaging coming from Black Lives Matter?
Is it coming from like reporting?
And in that case, like if I just came from again, yeah, like I don't know outer space and I heard, oh man, people are having some kind of conflict here.
And on one side they're saying, I don't know, stop killing black people on the other side.
They're saying in white genocide, I would be like these both seem like pretty incompatible exaggerated claims of the sort that I would expect the media to report on.
They actually Google for two seconds to see what they actually are saying.
Whether or not they're being like misrepresented or exaggerated or even, you know, like it's probably the case that the people in charge of the movement are saying the, you know, defund the police do these reform measures.
And then but maybe, you know, some random person on the street waving a sign is going to say something like cops are racist and and and the police.
And but like, but yeah, maybe that person gets interviewed.
I don't know. That's not how are you going to stop that as Black Lives Matter?
And is that really your top priority?
Well, I get the impression that most people aren't like Googling their actual goals and what they're pushing forward in in Congress.
And instead just is that what matters fault though?
Are they responsible for fixing the fact that people have the wrong impression like what I'm saying is what they see is what people are yelling in the protests on the streets.
And that is you're never going to get people yelling in protests on the street that statistics show that.
No, but what they are yelling is what people see.
And the organizers of the protests have some or at least some influence over what gets yelled on the streets, right?
I don't agree that they should be spending their time and resources on trying to organize people in such a way that they are all like yelling the statistics.
I think that that's not the best use of their resources and time.
And I just think that this is always going to be human behavior.
Like you have movements that have leaders and all this one, I think actually does not have centralized leadership.
But maybe that's part of the issue.
Well, somebody put out those those policy goals.
Yeah, there are the articulate people who are composing the goals and writing the website.
And there are the angry people whose like cousin just got shot marching in the street waving a sign.
And that is how like protests and things like this are just going to happen.
Like if we could solve this through civil discourse, then that would be ideal, of course, but we're not living in this ideal world.
And I just have a hard time holding Black Lives Matter responsible for things that seem like it's not even their fault.
Yeah, there's there's this great scene in Malcolm X the movie where a whole group of like black men show up outside of I think it was a courthouse.
I don't remember the exact details, but they are all really pissed off, but they're all dressed kind of similarly.
And Malcolm X is out front and there's sort of a face down with some white authority figures there.
And he raises his hand and like makes a signal and all the black man just like turn pretty much at the same time and walk away.
You know, at first I was like, nothing happened. Why didn't he make something happen? There was an injustice being done.
But then I realized like he was showing his power.
He was like, this group of people behind me are doing what I said.
And that was a huge demonstration of power to the people he was speaking with.
And I guess, I guess that's what you need. You need like one, you need some sort of leadership that has.
Yeah, you need a leader.
I think you need Malcolm X and you need Martin Luther King.
Someone who will give rousing speeches and someone who will.
No, no, no, no, no. No, what I'm saying is you need both the leadership, the Malcolm X who can talk and make demands and negotiate.
And you need the large crowd behind him who is willing to do what he says and also showed their displeasure.
And so maybe you do need a mob that is riled up by slogans which may be incorrect but are emotionally compelling in order that you have that base of people who are angry,
who have demonstrated they are willing to loot and burn stuff so that you can negotiate if you have the leadership.
And so it doesn't matter entirely what they're yelling as long as what they're yelling keeps them motivated, right?
Am I thinking through this right?
Like, I'm literally going through this thought process as we're speaking.
It sounds like we need a light lord and people who will take his mark.
Yes! Thank you, Steven. Oh my God.
Thank you for...
And I used gender and language there because that's what Quirrell used during his Christmas speech.
Yeah, but everything else he was saying there.
Thank you for lightening the mood, Steven.
This is an upsetting topic, but...
I think we're kind of on the same page.
I still disagree with the statement that the signs are factually wrong because the signs again are saying black lives matter.
Stop killing us.
Will I be next?
I can't breathe.
These are not scientific or statistical statements.
Right.
I don't think those are incorrect.
I don't think that the impression someone else takes away from what they have seen in all the chaos is really necessarily what black lives matter needs to be worrying about, at least at the top of their priorities list.
I also am sort of, like I said, playing devil's advocate, so I don't...
I obviously think that honest epistemics is good practice.
I just don't think that that's usually how human behavior works in these kinds of scenarios, and that's maybe the whole rationalist versus barbarians sequence.
I forget if we've even done that one yet.
No, we haven't gotten there. It's later.
You adapt your strategies for what your goals are.
In this case, they are not trying...
Or maybe to some extent they're trying to resolve this through diplomatic discourse.
But that hasn't been working.
Malcolm X and I was just thinking, yeah, the original American civil rights movement had incredibly articulate, well-organized, nonviolent...
These were model protests, and yeah, this should have still happened in 2020, so I can sort of get on the side of the people who are mad.
Okay, it's 2020.
Oh my God.
We've been through this so many times.
Well, to be fair, the problems are different. The ones that they had in the 60s...
They're different, but they're the same.
There's still an element of racism here, and that's another thing that I'm wondering.
I think that obviously racism is not the only problem, or I don't know, maybe even the main problem, but with the main problem being more just the militarized, overfunded police that are out of control,
but it does affect black people more than most other groups.
So yeah, what's my real opinion?
That's what I'm trying to figure out now, now that I'm kind of like taking off the black fedora or whatever, when you're pulling devils advocate you wear a black fedora, right?
I need to... I don't know, the thing is that I almost... I have a hard time even talking about some of the other things that I wanted to bring up,
and it's like, I feel like this isn't even my fight.
It's definitely a fight that I support, but I got pulled over by a cop, or I've been pulled over by cops many times, and I've had good and bad experiences,
but I've never had experiences like my Hispanic or black friends have had where they get dragged out of the car,
I had a Hispanic friend who was playing a little keyboard and sitting in his car,
waiting to deliver Christmas presents, and somebody saw him and it was in a white neighborhood and they were like,
he's casing the house for robbery, you know, called the police.
The police show up, drag him out of the car, arrest him, slash all of the seats in the car, looking for drugs or whatever, impound the car.
It's just like... I think they found a tiny amount of weed in the car, which justified them being able to put him in jail,
and impound his car, and this is just not even one of the worst things I've heard.
I don't want to get into too many, and here's my anecdote.
There's a pattern to the anecdotes that is concerning, and I also don't know how much I even get to really talk about it as someone who's not as directly affected as other people I know.
I think that, like, I still, I understand the contention that the mental model that the blank slate viewer would get from watching the movement is like,
like you said, Inyash, like, oh man, I didn't know that like the KKK ran the police force, they're out there killing black people left and right and willy-nilly.
I do think that, depending on what news you watch, that might be the impression you get.
I'm with Jayce that I don't know if you just, maybe if he even talks to a random attendee of one of these rallies, that might be the impression you get,
because maybe they're wrong and they've got an incorrect, poorly calibrated statistical analysis of the situation because they're emotionally charged,
or maybe they're deliberately misleading people because they want to get attention to this very worthy cause.
