So, like, I, again, I get how that's kind of a problem, I think, and this is kind of a fun conversation because we're all kind of emotionally charged,
or at least I don't have anyone knows this about listening to me on the show, I rarely get emotionally charged about anything, so for me to have an emotion is nice and refreshing because I'm dead inside.
My mind just killed right now.
Well, I don't think it's wrong to have an emotional reaction to it.
If I was so emotional that I was unwilling to engage in discussion or to see my people.
We're not straw tokens here on the Beijing conspiracy.
Yeah, or if I couldn't see the people I'm disagreeing with as people or something, if I was that far angry, then I would have a problem.
But I think it's right and proper to be bad when, you know, so if the rallying cry is, you know, stop killing us, then the response, and this is actually a quote from, we'll post this in the show notes.
Eleazar Yudkowski wrote a medium article called A Comprehensive Reboot of Law Enforcement.
Of course he did.
Oh, if you haven't read it, it's really good.
I'm sure it's excellent.
It's a 23, 23 point argument or not argument, but 23 list items for the agenda of helping solve this problem.
And I, it's not that long of a read.
I recommend everyone check it out.
If you want to get into some of the longer winded parts of it, there's a second link at the bottom.
And he elaborates on one of his points, which was a zero tolerance for deaths of unarmed persons caused by interactions with law enforcement.
And this is what I really enjoy about like philosophical debate books or essays or whatever is that it's a taught practice that you are to anticipate your opponent's responses to your arguments and respond to them in advance.
And so anyway, I will just read the one paragraph here that I really like from this.
He says, I am fundamentally on the side of any faction, group or just plain people whose only request is please stop killing us.
If the response is, but we aren't killing most of you most of the time, statistically speaking, I also support their further request.
Please kill us even less often or please kill us so infrequently that we no longer feel afraid.
If this requires an extremely low frequency of killing or harsh public public penalties for killing them, so be it.
And that is, I think a really great way to put this, like it also has the downside of being too long to put on a sign.
You know, maybe you could fit please kill us so infrequently that we no longer feel afraid on a sign that that actually might work if you have a big sign.
So it doesn't drive the point home for emotional salience to the people taking pictures of the crowd or something, or seeing pictures of the crowd that is.
But that one sentence I think encapsulates the marches when they're talking about fear, you know, the deaths specifically involved, right?
It's, it's not, it's not that like, I don't know, everybody knows somebody has been killed by the cops.
There simply aren't enough police murders for that to be true.
Again, please kill us so infrequently that we no longer feel afraid.
I am, I've mentioned this before, I think I, when I'm in the right headspace, I can get very empathetic to the point where Paul Bloom would be able to say that's probably a problem.
But like, I can very easily put myself in the situation.
And I, and I know that I'm under imagining it and it still puts me in a properly terrified headspace.
And that really drives this point home for me.
If I'm black and I get pulled over, I don't know what the fuck's going to happen with the rest of my day or the rest of my fucking life.
And that is terrifying.
And again, if I can get there as a white guy who never sees the cops, it probably helps that I literally never go outside.
I think I filled up my gas tank for the first time since January last weekend.
So my ability to be interacted with is less.
But the actual fear that lives with people and just as it is disproportionately people of color, that's the core complaint of the community.
I know that it sounds like I'm arguing with somebody who's not like someone who's not here because that's not you're, that's not you're correct me if I'm wrong, but you're not challenging that.
No.
Exactly.
So I don't know why this is what happens when I get emotionally charged.
I make points that I'm.
You start fighting an imaginary opponent.
Yeah.
Yes.
Thank you.
I do that in my head all the time.
It's such an obnoxious habit.
I try to catch myself and I noticed I'm doing that in my head, but I, depending on the kind of day I'm having, I'm more or less successful with it.
So I guess that's what that's what they're saying.
But I, I, because I agree with that and I can't think of a more succinct way to put it on a sign and march in a group.
And so like that's the thing is like, if there was another way to do it, again, a QR code that they could carry around in the sign that actually might work.
And it goes to a well thought out.
It only needs to be a few paragraphs.
You know, it doesn't need to be a book to really drive the point home.
But if you're there trying to get quoted for a headline, you know, what do you say that that is 100% of actually true and actually gets people's attention?
Can we solve that problem?
I don't know.
I so maybe I'm just not paying enough attention.
But how is it that everyone has this impression of what Black Lives Matter is about, including myself?
That is who's everyone, by the way, like, where, where are you pulling this from?
Is it just in your typical mind?
Because I have not, I don't get the impression that this is.
I have, I don't know.
Wide, I guess, social contacts.
I don't even want to say friends necessarily.
Some of them are friends.
I know a lot of different people all over in various places.
And those of them who are not very in touch with the movement at all, definitely seem to have this impression.
And I don't know if it's from what they've read in news articles or if they've heard people speaking at rallies or where it's coming from.
But that seems to be the impression that people outside of any specific movement have.
Okay, can I, this might fault Italy flat, but my brain just made this association.
I don't actually know what JK Rowling said that was supposedly transphobic.
And I just revealed that he doesn't listen to the mind killers podcast.
I am not caught up on any podcast right now.
And it's really upsetting.
But the thing is that I got the impression that she said something horrible.
And now she is a bad with the capital B or problematic.
And the thing is, but I know, and I think people generally are starting to become more savvy to this that like the media, all news outlets are just like outrage maximizers or just will actually click click maximizers.
I expect everything to be exaggerated to the point of ridiculousness when I see anything in the news.
I like, okay, yeah, let's share.
I'll read up on that later and see.
Or like in the case of JK Rowling, I'm like, I don't fucking care.
As a trans person, I do not give a shit of JK Rowling is transphobic.
And like, probably she said something that like my parents who are like, pretty uninformed, but well meaning ish might say, and I would just roll my eyes and be like, whatever, like you don't, you don't know enough about this for me to care about your opinion.
And I'm not taking that into account anyway.
Like, this is off topic now, but I was just kind of drawing the parallel there of when I hear something.
When I like when people have generated enough outrage or interest or morbid curiosity about something that's in the news, I like never take it at face value that this is what happened.
Or like this is the true factual thing.
Yeah, but I got a question for you then.
Like, if you have you've heard of this crazy outreach thing that all these people are pissed off about and you're like, oh my God, probably more clickbait bullshit.
Nothing that bad actually happened.
And then you hear that there is rioting downtown a few blocks from Colfax businesses are being burned because of what JK Rowling supposedly said.
And there's people demanding laws be changed.
That's why I didn't look it up because I don't that's not happening.
No, that's not happening.
But like, if if those things were happening, and you were like, oh my God, all this outrage is over something that isn't actually that outrageous.
Stop burning things and stop trying to change laws.
Like, that might be a thing for you.
Right.
I just it might.
But I think that like those matter.
What is happening is actually quite outrageous.
And I do think that they should change the laws that like if I looked into it and I found out that it was out JK Rowling said some dumb thing.
My mom might say I be like, OK, then this is quite a disproportionate reaction.
And I would probably like the against the protests.
Yeah, but what if you looked into it and it turned out that it wasn't the fact that the KKK have taken over the police and are using them as a excuse to.
Again, he was saying this.
No one's saying this, but like what is that if that is the impression that you got and then you looked into it and that wasn't the case.
Wouldn't you be like less supportive of Black Lives Matter?
No, I would think that people in the news naturally do their thing of exaggeration.
But like I actually just read the Wikipedia article about the George Floyd protests and I am quite mad about what has happened.
Another thing that I should probably disclaim is that my two best friends were in fact killed by a cop.
So I have a horse in the race here or a appropriate metaphor for being emotionally compromised.
Right.
I don't know if that even counts as compromised.
Well, yeah, I'm struggling to find words here mostly just because it's a million degrees.
So hot.
So I, I don't know if we have can put a neat bow on this, but I am going to just go ahead and try and segue a bit just because we are nearing the, I don't know, the last bit of our this section anyway.
It seems like the problem more is like, how do you succinctly illustrate a message this complicated to a crowd that is uninformed?
And that, I think that's a hard question to answer.
Is that sort of where we're at?
I don't know.
I don't think no, I don't ever think that would be what I would try to advocate for.
Be more along the lines of how do I make the general message be more reflective of reality?
Even the five word message be something that I could get behind wholeheartedly so I don't feel like I'm misleading people for good purposes.
Because in my opinion, even for the best of purposes, it's not good to mislead people because once they find out you've misled them, you've lost their allyship.
I mean, so then, I know we're going to go in a bit of a circle, but like, what is the five word message that you disagree with?
Like, Black Lives Matter?
So it's none of the ones that we've talked to?
No, I don't disagree with any of the specific words or any of the slogans I've seen, just the feeling.
And maybe this feeling is entirely something that is due to the news media trying to create outrage.
And maybe this is something that we got to take up with the media instead then.
But the general feeling seems to be somewhat misleading.
And I don't think the average middle American would feel like they were given a correct impression of what solutions are being requested.
I think I hear what you're saying, that they'll hear about this problem and they'll be like, oh my god, that's terrible.
And in the off chance they do any of their own independent research, they'll say, hold on, that doesn't sound like it actually lines up with what I thought this was saying.
Maybe these people are being misleading.
Well, that sucks and they will fall off the wagon of supporting them.
Is that the concern?
Yeah, and also that I'm not even concerned they're going to do their own research.
I'm going to concern that they will be presented by research by the right because that's going to happen.
People aren't going to do their own research, but someone with a horse in the game who wants to keep the police brutal and evil is going to give them this other side, which while it's also very misrepresentative,
shows that the other side was like trying to play to their emotions.
I think that both sides are going to be trying to play to people's emotions and I just don't expect that anyone doesn't know this.
I don't know.
Then again, I might be typical minding with like everyone knows the media is bullshit.
Yeah, or maybe you're definitely, you're definitely typical minding there.
Or maybe I'm just very naive.
I think it's a complicated thing because like, and then, you know, just to wrap this up, I think in the next couple of minutes, because there's one more thing we've got to talk about before I finally go to bed with or without making a last ditch stab at installing my microwave.
Like, this seems to be a general problem across all political campaigning.
And it like you can't make a quick soundbite headline, hashtag, etc.
That reflects reality, like totally gives an accurate map of the territory because the territory is takes more than five words to describe.
And so I'm trying to think of a not Trump or, you know, anything from I don't even know what Biden's campaign slogan is.
Is it not Trump?
Literally just not Trump.
Yeah.
So like, this is I think going to just be a problem across anything where you are trying to get anything done politically or through the system.
And if that's the case that this is just an a terrain where epistemic, I wish I thought of the right word before we recorded because I keep stemming at I keep stammering after this, you know, a full, wholehearted epistemic understanding is available.
It or excuse me, it might be unavailable across the entire terrain of political campaigning.
Right.
And if that's the case, then that's just the name of the shitty game and that's the those the shitty rules.
But it's the shitty game that we all have a stake in.
And so if you are of the variety who like is just kind of needs an epistemically pure life, then anything involving politics just might not be for you.
I literally can't think of anything political whatsoever or involving political reform, etc.
That can be or that is advocated, honestly, and very, very quickly.
Yeah.
Anyone got any last thoughts on this?
Fuck the police.
Gosh, now my brain is thoroughly killed at this point.
All right, speaking of things that are killed.
This is late to the party because we do a biweekly podcast and this happened like two days after our last episode.
But for anyone who's listening to this who doesn't already know, which I'm guessing is nobody slate codecs that wonderful resource of thoughtful insight and like hard discussion on every topic under the sun is gone.
Scott Alexander was approached for an interview with the New York Times and they never got past the initial questions because one of the first ones was probably was along the lines of, can we publish your real name?
And he was like, no, thank you.
I published under a pseudonym for a reason and the long and short of it is that he was told that there is a New York Times policy of using people's real names.
He said, please don't.
And they're like, well, we're going to and he's like, then I will delete my blog so that you guys have nothing to report on.
And they said, fine, go ahead.
So we did.
He did.
I mean, in the sense that Scott Alexander deleted his blog.
You know, it's, I have a lot of thoughts on this.
Like on the one hand, it's really annoying because it's now much harder to link to a slate star codex post.
You know, a lot of the vocabulary, you know, Molok,
The worst argument in the world.
Right.
All of those are Googleable and probably have pages on less wrong.com.
So like, you can share the vocab with somebody, but you can't link easily to the original post.
That said, it's the internet.
Nothing has gone forever.
Way back machine preserved the entire website.
And also Scott wrote, I archived it.
I'm not a monster.
Yeah.
So in the event that he wants to be that he's comfortable at some point to restore it, he totally can.
It's not obliterated.
