I totally agree.
Yeah, but if someone is saying, you know, stop killing us, there's a white genocide happening.
I think the fact that there is not a white genocide happening is actually relevant to the issue.
But like if you're talking about, say, the opioid epidemic and there was some kind of movement that was like stop drugging us, it wouldn't be exactly correct.
But I feel like it's hard to get an entire like correct statement in one quick phrase or hashtag or banner anyway.
And I think I can see the utility of the slogan.
That's what I'm trying to say from the perspective of it being strategic.
No, I understand.
As a white person, I see the utility of opposing white genocide because I do not want to be murdered.
But that is why an organization that claims there is white genocide.
I think it would be in everyone's interests to know that there isn't an actual white genocide happening, right?
Like the truth matters.
That's one of the...
The truth does matter, but did Sam Harris disprove Black Lives Matter's claims or did I...
I didn't read...
I didn't listen to the podcast episode, but like...
Well, no, because he, I mean, he made this point.
But the fact that the amount of black people killed is sort of proportional with crime rates in black neighborhoods is sort of besides the point.
It's about general police brutality overall.
And the fact that that one particular number may be in proportion doesn't really capture the actual statistical facts of how police treat minority communities, which is really badly.
But it does capture the emotional aspect behind that.
Yeah. Are you saying that was what Harris said?
No, no, no. What Harris said...
That was not the conversation?
That was basically how the conversation ended up.
Yeah, like basically, even though the actual...
And we should probably cover the Simpson paradox here if we want to actually get into why the numbers are what they are.
The metric of black people killed may match the greater crime rate in black neighborhoods.
But the fact remains that the black neighborhoods are overpoliced in terms of the police targeting black people far out of proportion to how much they should be targeted, harassing them a lot,
Extracting a lot of money out of those communities through fines and fees in order to fund themselves and continuing to militarize and make their presence more and more onerous for people while not actually helping reduce the crime rate very much.
So it is a burden. It is unfairly placed on black communities.
And quite honestly, the police need to be fucking reformed for all communities, as it is anyway, because police brutality is a problem for everyone.
So for a number of reasons, Harris isn't actually correct on this, but the slogan that they use doesn't quite capture that.
I don't know, a better slogan would be like, stop the cops.
I mean, if you want to motivate people, there is no better slogan than stop killing us, right?
Yeah, I mean, yeah. Also, as a white person, I also...
It doesn't feel like Black Lives Matter excludes me.
It was a movement started by black people because they're upset about being killed all the time, the other things that you mentioned.
Yes, but it was pointed out that the over-policing in black neighborhoods is crazy.
Black people are pulled over far, far more than white people and have their cops searched far more, much more than the demographics of a neighborhood would suggest.
And importantly, the cops, when they stop and frisk black people, they find drugs and weapons at a far lower rate than they do on white people,
which means that they are basically stopping a whole lot of black people and harassing them for no reason because of this prejudice.
So they are not even correctly implementing their heuristics of who's more likely to commit crime because they are getting more negatives off black people.
All sorts of bad things with what they've been doing.
Yeah, and that's what I eventually brought in because it's hard to find statistics on easily calculatable who's pulled over the most across the country.
I'm sure those are out there, but I knew that some of the most salient and obvious statistics came from the stop and frisk in New York.
So anyone can Google those and find them.
It's the first thing that comes up when you Google stop and frisk.
Can I say something about that when you're done?
Yeah, of course.
But it was like, I just cut and paste the numbers and then a link to the article and it was, I don't have the numbers in front of me,
but it was something like tens of thousands of more people, you know, I think these were in the hundreds of thousands a year.
So whatever it was, it was many times more black and Latino people were pulled over or rather stopped and frisked by the police.
And weapons slash drugs were found at a slightly lower rate than among the stopped white population.
And if this didn't show a bias that wasn't even playing into the favor of stopping crime, this clearly showed a bias in the part of the police.
And it was this fun moment during the conversation where it's like, well, hold on.
I would expect then to see numbers that would show disproportionate stopping of minority people or something.
And I was like, dude, look at the numbers from that.
And he's like, well, hold on.
Wait.
And they found less.
And I was like, yes, these other numbers mean and they're just like, well, that's fucked up.
Why aren't people protesting that?
And it's like, bro, that's what they're out there protesting.
However, in his defense, that's not what's on the banners.
But it was just a nice kind of getting to watch a light bulb go on in someone's head.
It's almost as fun as getting to watch one go off in your own head.
Stephen had been talking about the stopping frisk or statistics on who they pull over more.
This reminds me.
I was actually talking to a friend about cops a little while ago because I had a weird experience with a really friendly cop who pulled me over.
On the East Coast, cops are way, like, I don't know, my experiences with cops is just all negative.
They're like super mean and gruff and have no sense of humor.
And I'm always like, oh my God, okay, cops pulling me over.
I better make sure not to move my hands off the wheel.
But this guy comes over and he's like, hey, I just noticed that your plates are expired.
And I know the DMV is closed right now.
Things are really hard with COVID.
Here's my card.
Give me a call if you have any trouble with this.
But I'm just pulling people over to let them know the DMV is actually taking appointments and you can go on their way.
And I was just having this weird mental implosion where I was like, is this a police officer?
What is happening?
But I was talking about this experience with someone who's left here longer than me.
And they were like, oh yeah, I have about, like, maybe about 50% of my experiences here with cops are like that.
Because I was like, is it always like that?
And they're like, there's this other thing that happens where they just, like, right up your ass on the road.
Like, you won't see them and you'll just be driving along doing the speed limit.
And suddenly a cop's going like 120, they're on your butt and they're trying to like get you to make a mistake so they can arrest you or something.
And I was just like thinking, well, I don't know.
I feel like maybe they're just, I mean, yeah, that's definitely like, I don't love the fact that they're speeding around in their bullet cars for reasons.
But I was like, well, maybe they're just trying to get you to like move over so they can go in the passing lane.
And it's like, nope, there was like, I was in the right lane.
I was doing the correct speed limit.
And I was like, huh, that's weird behavior.
And then I was like, wait, if they put their lights and sirens on, they have to call it in, right?
But if they don't, do they, because I've had cops do this before too, and it's kind of baffling behavior.
It does feel like they're just trying to harass you or freak you out.
And I don't know if this is true.
And I don't know if either of you know this, maybe if they don't put their lights and sirens on, but you pull over anyway,
and then they like search your car and find drugs or something like, then they can call it in, right?
But if they don't put the lights and sirens on, that means that they didn't call it in, right?
So they can't use that as a negative.
It doesn't look like they're pulling a bunch of people over at random if it's not on the record.
I think that the lights and sirens directly turn on the camera on the car.
And I don't think they have to call in every time they turn their lights and sirens on.
Or at least something about it being on the record.
I don't know.
Again, this may just be me concocting some conspiracy theory.
I think the record is that it definitely turns on the dash cam for the car.
But this might have been a few years ago, statistic back when they couldn't just leave the lawn all the time.
I would be surprised.
I'll take that back.
I wouldn't be surprised, but I would be disappointed if their cameras weren't on all the time in the hood of the car.
It's really easy to, I mean, you know, for a hundred bucks, anyone can get forward and backward cameras on their own car
and have those cameras recording all the time.
And so I'd be kind of annoyed if our police vehicles were not fitted with, you know, muggle technology that was really easily accessible.
That said, I think that the, like, it would be weird and stupid to pull somebody over on the highway, especially, well, it really had any time,
but especially, you know, after dark, with their lights off, because that's a great way to get hit.
And that's one of the main reasons that, you know, the lights are on and flash both ways.
It's a signal to traffic coming up behind the stop to vehicle.
By the way, there's a cop car up here.
Don't hit the car that stopped on the side of the road or the people standing next to it.
Unless you are pulling the lever in the trolley problem.
Right.
Which is a, I mean, I guess I just, even that joke, I never, like, it doesn't, it strikes me as much less like,
Yeah.
Of a head scratcher than a real trolley problem.
Yes.
And that's interesting.
You mentioned, like, an encounter with a nice police officer.
And this is something that I've changed my mind about over the last couple of years.
I can't remember, maybe it was during one of the last protests a couple of years ago or something,
but I remember Inyosh was on the, like, no cops are all bad.
And I was on this side of like, no, some cops are bad.
And I've had an update over the, you know, having analyzed this issue with people and having nothing to do while sitting at home,
you know, for the last, I don't know, 3000 years during this pandemic.
And I am now fully on board with the, even if you're a good cop, the system itself is too fucked up for good cops to really,
really do much.
Yeah.
So like, yes, any individual encounter you might have may or may not be with a nice police officer,
but they're part of a system that is, is overwhelmingly negative.
Yeah.
And also like, yeah.
Oh, well, okay.
I was going to say, yeah, good cops do exist.
And it's great that there are some, but the institution as a whole protects all cops very strongly,
which makes it a great place for evil people to go because they can do whatever they want and they know they'll be protected.
And so more and more evil people go there, more and more good people can't stomach to be there anymore.
And the whole thing rots.
Well, and the good people get forced out.
Yes.
You make complaints about, hey, I watched this officer brutalize somebody and they're, they will, you know, they'll haze you.
They'll give you shitty shifts.
They'll give you a, whatever, a region two hours away from your house to give you a four hour round, round way commute.
Or you just have to like, watch George Floyd get like, knelt on for nine minutes until he like suffocates.
Yeah.
Or wait, that was George Floyd was the.
Yeah, that was George Floyd.
That was George Floyd.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That reminds me, we should definitely put in the show notes.
Dave Chappelle's 30 minute special.
I think it's on Netflix, but if not, it's also on YouTube.
It's not really funny.
So that, that, you know, holds your laughter there, Jase.
The it's, it's mainly a response to all this.
And I thought it was really well done.
And I mean, I've never, I have cried watching comedy shows before because they deliver some heavy emotional beats.
But, you know, Rachel and I watched this and where I, I guess I wasn't watching her face, but you know, I'm assuming she was too.
But I mean, I'm crying and then it, then it ends and I'm looking at her and I was like, well, that was really great.
Like it was a really beautifully constructed kind of monologue on this that I don't know.
Like I, I think of the special he mentions that he didn't watch the George Floyd video for at least a few days.
I'm happy to say I never, I'm not happy to say, let me rephrase that.
I won't hesitate to say that I have not yet watched it and I probably won't.
I don't think I have the stomach for it.
And I know it's terrible.
I know it would wreck my day.
And I think it's kind of just like, you know, people who know that their food is made in terrible conditions but don't want to Google pictures of factory farms.
I think it's the same sort of reaction keeping me away from this.
But I'm just happy to be like already at the conclusion that I need to be after watching it.
Like I wouldn't, I don't think I'd get much more out of watching it other than sad because I don't need persuading.
I'm mad enough already.
Like it's not going to make me more upset.
Yeah, mad and sad enough already that I don't need more motivation.
But he mentions that he watched it.
I think, what was it, eight minutes and 47 seconds or something?
He says that was the time on my birth certificate.
And Dave Chappelle brings, he brings a lot of this home in really great ways.
You know, I know that he hits some beats with parts of his humor over the last few years that aren't awesome.
He said some body transphobic shit.
I still like him.
Yeah, I mean, and like it's kind of like he said transphobic shit.
I won't get derailed on that.
But it's like, I think that this is perfectly palatable to everybody who, you know,
whether or not you agree with 100% of his humor all the time.
Yeah, I don't agree with the idea.
This isn't really a comedy special.
Right.
That's why I was laughing when you mentioned it because I was laughing at the fact that you called it a comedy special.
