I wish I guess it was titled that, but yeah.
But no, I don't agree with the idea, you know, of people being problematic the way that they would, you know, using some leftist circles.
This person's problematic throughout everything they've ever created and nothing they've said is valid.
And it's just he can have shitty opinions about trans people, but great opinions about Black Lives Matter and all kinds of other things.
And I don't know why.
I don't know.
It's like, I wonder if people think that if they watch Dave Chappelle talk about Black Lives Matter,
they're going to start becoming transphobic just by osmosis or something.
You're allowed to have your own opinions.
No, man, that's how opinions work.
You listen to someone and they can have your opinions now.
I guess.
I haven't broadcasted this special to enough people because I haven't like posted on my work Slack channel or anything because it's not 100% the kind of thing that you share with work.
So like, I haven't gotten feedback from people who like, oh, I won't watch it because I don't like Dave Chappelle.
I'm not sure if that's a reaction people get or not.
I might have said that a few years ago, but.
I'll also say that I think problematic is one of those words like complexity that I have no idea what the fuck it means.
I take that back.
I have some idea what the fuck it means.
I'm pretty sure that the person using the word problematic has no idea what they're talking.
I mean, they have not articulated the point they're making.
They get to just use this lazy catch-all problematic to say this person said something I disagree with or whatever, right?
It's their way of saying boo.
Boo this person.
They've got a black mic on their record.
Yeah.
So, Jayce, you mentioned that the thing about the cop, like just pulling up right behind someone and tailing them, trying to get them to do something wrong.
That is like, that is one of the major problems in all this is that cops basically no one can go a day without breaking some sort of law.
Maybe that's exaggerating a bit, but because there's a book called three felonies a day, which I think is an exaggeration.
Is that like the statistic where like you ate several hundred spiders in a year?
Well, yeah.
There's a book with an actual name.
Is there a spider's Georgia felonies anyway?
No, but there, I mean, with how many laws there are in our society, it is nearly impossible for anyone to simply live a normal life and not break some sort of law on at least a monthly basis.
And in particular, traffic infractions while they're not felonies are so ubiquitous that most cops, not most cops, a lot of cops have a sort of game where they say, let's just follow any random person until we can pull them out.
Until we can pull them over and it's impossible to not get pulled over within the space of five minutes or so because there's just so many.
If they're three inches away from your bumper and like you're doing the speed limit, that's really intimidating and you're going to freak out and probably like turn without signaling.
Yeah, slam your brakes on.
I don't know.
I used to drive an ambulance.
People freak out when they see an ambulance coming and don't know what to do.
It's kind of a problem, especially like you want people to actually just get out of the ambulance as well.
But with cops, they want you to fuck up so they can give you a ticket.
Yeah.
I mean, that's part of the thing.
Like basically everyone is guilty at all times.
So cops can at any time pull over anyone they want, which is just a ridiculous thing in our society.
We should not have this whole everyone is guilty at all times so that the authorities basically basically choose who they want to target because everyone's guilty.
And one of my more fun statistics that we picked up over the course of this discord discussion was that the worst visibility is the less frequently black people are pulled over.
Like on really bright sunny days, black people get pulled over a lot.
When it's like raining, it drops and like during the night, it drops a lot just because the cops can't see who the people are.
So they can't target black people as much.
It's pretty fucked up.
But I think that was what you weren't done.
Go ahead.
Oh, well, that this last thing was what kind of brought the discord commenter over when they realized that in America, everyone is guilty at all times and the cops can randomly enforced use force on whoever they want for no particular reason.
And they're like, that's that's basically you're living in a tyranny.
Why aren't people protesting this?
And that is when everyone slept their forehead and was like, what do you think we're doing?
Well, and it's this kind of brings it back to the central point.
Like what they thought we were doing because of the signs was saying, you know, black people are killing or excuse me, black people are killed by the police disproportionately.
Yeah.
And so they they read the signs there and they, you know, they weren't here watching the protests.
And so they're like, well, hold on.
That doesn't seem to actually be the thing.
What are they actually complaining about?
Or that's not quite charitable.
They were saying, like that it's not clear to me that their central argument is is frankly true.
Yeah.
And so what it what it amounts to is that while the the messages that fit on signs to carry out a rally or that fit in hashtags are overly brief, the broad message that you get, you know, if you go to their website, if you go to blacklivesmatter.com and hit the about page.
It doesn't say anything like, I mean, so it uses language like, you know, we want to protect.
I should just pull it up, but I hate typing while we're recording.
It uses language that is about as as succinct as it can be.
I think the about could probably fit in the tweet.
But it's it's it's definitely too long to fit on a sign to carry, you know, at City Hall.
And so, like, you know, I guess I just need to do all two quick things.
One, I'm not 100% cognitively present for this recording.
It's been a crazy long day and we're recording later than we ever recorded.
So if I'm a little jumbled, that's why.
But I'm also just I need to be perfectly clear before, you know, the opportunity slips by.
I'm 100% in favor of the protests and of the black lives matter movement.
I, you know, any any discussion about the epistemic solid solidity, solidity, you know,
whether or not the the slogan on the signs or whatever is epistemically sound.
This that's more this is more just like a discussion abstracted about that sort of phenomena.
I use the example during the discord conversation of like bumper stickers endorsing a political candidate.
So I see I told you I was tired.
What I'm trying to say is that I'm 100% in favor of the movement and everything that they're doing and that they're arguing for.
We're having an abstract conversation about like, when is it okay to be, I don't know, less than 100%.
Like I said, epistemically sound in your sound bite arguments.
And I think that this is sorry, go ahead.
Okay, I agree with you 100% on being on the side of we need these police reforms.
Everything that black lives matter is pushing for is stuff that needs to be done.
And oh my God, thank God, someone is finally doing it.
So absolutely with them.
On the other hand, you said like, maybe their slogan isn't 100% accurate as if it was like a minor thing.
But from my understanding, like most people get the impression.
And even like if I didn't already know what the issue was, if I was from a foreign country and I was going into this cold,
I would have the very distinct impression that the issue is that a militarized racist police force is targeting and murdering black people because they are racist.
Is that not the impression that you think one would fairly get from the movement?
I think that that's, that is the impression one would fairly get from the movement.
And that's completely not true, right?
That leads to the core contention here.
Like I'm okay with the message that you get from the quick sound bite without doing any digging in.
You know, so if all you see is news coverage of the protests and you see the signs,
I'm okay with the message that people get from that being a little inaccurate because I agree with all of their goals.
And I realize that that's a slippery spot to be in, but I sort of am okay with that.
Are you okay with anyone on the alt right at all pointing out that what I just stated before is literally factually false
and therefore anyone who reads that, who reads that refutation will then say black lives matter as a bunch of liars.
Why are people supporting them?
I mean, there's nothing that they could possibly say that would convince the alt writers.
Sure, but what about people who are in the middle?
What you said sounded like you said we are protesting against the fact that a militarized police force is killing black people disproportionately or like,
or because they are racist, they are targeting black people more.
Yes, there's a racist force out there that is murdering black people.
Is that wrong?
I think that's not...
I think it's an oversimplification for sure, but I mean...
I mean, I think it's an oversimplification to the point where on the face of it, it's wrong.
Can you explain more?
They aren't death squads created to weed out black people and not even created.
They have not become death squads that try to weed out black people.
Even though the result of their absolutely corrupt system that protects what used to be pedophile priests and now is murderous cops
and needs massive reform and does end up making the lives of black people dangerous and scary
and really drastically negatively impacts black communities much more and makes their lives more dangerous,
all that is true, but saying, you know, there's this racist government organization murdering black people is so far from that.
That's the impression that you certainly get.
I think that that is a fair interpretation of an outsider who didn't know how things actually are on the ground,
what they would think, or just someone in middle America who doesn't watch the news very often and doesn't know a lot of black people.
What I want to know is, is it like the impetus of the person who is being oppressed to make sure they like are doing science and posting statistics
and big numbers on their signs while they're doing their protests?
Or like, I think just the way politics are done is that people will oversimplify and come up with a catchy slogan for a much deeper concept,
a much deeper issue that has all of these other...
Right.
Because basically what you were saying was, this is a thing that sucks.
It's like a bad system that does disproportionately affect black people.
And that's kind of, I think, the impression I've got is that is what people are saying.
I mean, maybe in like a much more emotionally charged words, but I don't disagree with that.
On the one hand, like I do agree because I believe Zvi has this great post called You Have Five Words
that says, anytime you want to reach more than a thousand people, maybe more than ten thousand,
but the more people you try to reach, the less words you have to do it in.
And he says, if you're trying to address the nation, you have five words. That's it.
Trump succeeded because he needed four. Make America great again.
Or in some cases three, build the wall, right?
You can...
Lock her up.
Yeah, yeah. You can never have a complex message.
So on the one hand, yes, absolutely. You have to be simple.
And also, like it's really fucking hard to motivate people.
And so focusing on the deaths, like lots of times it takes someone being murdered to affect any change.
And then it's also the salient issue to the deaths.
Yeah.
And while I agree with you on all that, like for the practical purposes, that's why we're doing this, right?
To affect change.
But I think one of the problems is that for the practical purposes,
anyone who can turn around and say, look what they're saying, it's obvious bullshit, right?
That also really hurts the cause.
I don't think what they're saying is obvious bullshit.
Unless I maybe have been out of the loop.
If people have been like...
If people representing the movement have been like going up at a podium and going on TV,
claiming that making up statistics or charts or lying about what is actually happening.
But I don't think that they are.
They're talking about people who have been killed, like George Floyd.
They're talking about events that have happened.
If your five words are racist police, murder black people, that's...
Is that what they're saying?
I'm just saying, is that your five words?
Because stop killing us, I guess, is their three words, which works.
Or Black Lives Matter, which I think is hard to disagree with.
Also, stop killing us at Black Lives Matter.
I think as slogans go, you'd have to be a monster to disagree with those.
Right.
But they don't imply any sort of statistics.
That's how good slogans work.
They certainly imply, as I was saying, that the impression most people get or seem to get
is the one I stated before, unless I'm wrong about that.
Do you not get that impression from their public face?
I don't, because I am already here and I'm informed about this.
Maybe I could see the possibility that an outsider, someone from another country,
or whatever, coming in and looking at the press.
But then I start to wonder about, is it just the media too?
Because is it what the Black Lives Matter representatives are saying that's giving them that impression?
Or is it the way it's being reported on?
The sensationalist media?
I'm playing a little bit of Devil's Advocate here,
but I don't just want to have this be a podcast where all three of us agree with each other enthusiastically
because that's not good air.
Yeah.
Well, we're not.
On the points, on the questions you're raising, Inyash.
So I am, like Jayce, unable to put myself in a position where I don't know what their actual message is.
So I can't quite say what my interpretation would be if I just got back from the ISS without internet
for the last 18 months and then saw a bunch of headlines or something.
But I'm willing to even grant.
Okay, let's say they're getting, let's say that the general population is getting the wrong message.
Like you said, the alt-writers will take the ammunition and go nuts with it,
but they'll do that literally no matter what.
So I don't think that the goal should be make your message palatable enough to persuade the alt-writers
who are already inclined to disagree with you no matter what.
I think that it should be let's try and get attention and get shit done.
