Okay.
Although I don't think I had heard that before.
That does sound like a very Mark Twain thing to do.
Yeah.
Instead of just saying, don't use the word vary.
He gives more practical advice.
I think that the application of calling out a mysterious part of your plan, whatever it is with the word magic is generalizable beyond solving friendly artificial intelligence.
I've at least used the technique in small form, like when talking with how to, I'm not architect level.
So like, when planning out something with a coworker at work, and look, all right, well, we'll find a way to do this or, you know, whatever, bus messages from here to there or something.
And I'm like, all right, well, since that's not an actual implementation, I'm going to, you know, let's put magically move this from here to there.
So that we know that this isn't like a solid part of the architecture yet.
And I think complexity is a good word to look out for.
And it makes me think of, I have an issue with people using the word just, not as injustice, but, you know,
I just wanted to let you know.
I mean, even that's actually not so bad.
Mainly it's like, if someone says, Oh, that's just because you're whatever a Democrat, or, you know, oh, we're just atoms.
And that's close to like the not near that we've talked about, or at least isn't the sequences somewhere.
But I find that in most are like, Oh, why don't they just go out and get another job or something, or whatever it is.
Like, so many times when people use the word just, it's using, it's doing a lot of heavy lifting that I don't think they realize that it's using.
So I have this little flag that goes off in my head.
Whenever someone uses the word just kind of the same way that I think Dan Dennett had an article at some point somewhere that said whenever someone uses the word, obviously,
he also has a flag that goes off simply.
That's what it was.
Yes.
I use a lot of I like to read stuff on Blinkist, which is a app that creates, or I guess someone writes them distillations of long works of fiction.
And it's great because it's like, here's an entire novel in bullet form, but it gets so obnoxious sometimes when it's like, And how can you do this?
Well, simply you just have to reconfigure your entire life goals and and learn to be assertive.
It's as easy as that.
And it's just like, I feel like the original author probably didn't put that in there.
Or if they did, then they're douchebag because like, I just, it drives me nuts.
You know, and I always hear this with like programming, people think programming.
Oh man, there's this stereotype, you know, that programming is hard and boring, but actually it's easy and fun.
And I'm like, no, if you tell kids that, especially or if like somebody who is not already psyched about learning programming, and you tell them it's easy and fun,
they're going to try it, find that it's hard and boring and be like, well, I guess I must be an idiot because I'm not, I'm not finding it easy and fun at all.
That's anyway, sort of.
It's a nice combination of all four of those things.
Probably someone who wrote like programming textbooks back in the day is the kind of person who would find programming to be fun.
And as an extension of that, probably like easy enough to understand in concept that it feels easy and fun to do it, right?
Yeah, or you're already at like, I learned this when I was trying to teach art lessons for beginners.
If you've already like reached, like if you have an art degree, and then you're trying to explain the basics to somebody, it's so easy to just inferential distances again, coming all back to the sequences.
But you can talk right over their head without realizing it.
I was trying to like teach how to draw the proportions of a human face and I kept having people like raise their hand, be like, wait, go back.
Where do I put the eyes? Where do the eyes go? Stop.
Like they're in the middle.
No, you drew them on the forehead.
Surprisingly lower than you think they would be.
Yeah.
I went over that in detail.
So I was a bit annoyed, but it seemed like people weren't listening, but I'll say like you have to, I don't know, from like the perspective of someone who's like obviously this thing.
But like you really have to hammer something home if it seems unintuitive, you know?
Because people are usually trying to draw a face and the face like starts at the eyebrows and ends at the chin.
So the eyes are way up.
You're not thinking about the whole skull part of the head.
But it looks super weird if you put the like eyes way up on the forehead.
Anyway.
Yeah, I actually feel like learning to draw would be a really good, like I might do that once we start being able to like have,
in person meetings again, but learning how to see is sort of key to learning how to draw things correctly.
And a lot of people see things in symbols and you don't realize you're doing it until it's pointed out that like,
actually, that's completely anatomically incorrect.
Were you looking at the thing?
Like, oh, yeah, no, wait, no, I wasn't.
Oh, dude.
Yeah.
When I had someone teach me how to draw a hand and particularly fingers, I was like,
well, that that tells me a lot about how my mind works.
That was very interesting.
Hands are complex.
Your brain wants to simplify it into.
I don't know.
Usually people draw like a bunch of little hot dogs.
Yep.
Little thing.
And I'll blame them hands are awful.
Humans are really hard to draw.
Like I actually like to teach people.
Okay, we're getting like off topic, but I like to teach people to draw humans or animals because they're the most complex things like drawing
blacks and blacks and whatever.
Super easy.
If you can draw a human, you can draw anything versus squishy.
I can draw small straight lines.
Pretty good.
You know, like a neck or cube, but I really, I've never been, I've never had anything like whatever.
And I guess it's probably, I mean, some people have some no doubt native talent for it, but, you know, they get there and then make it look easy through lots of hard work.
But I, you know, I've seen people who can, you know, sit there during notes, you know, in high school rather than take notes or sit there and sketch something.
And it comes out looking amazing.
And I have no idea how they can put what's in their head onto the page with their fingers.
I'm not dexterous enough.
Yeah, exactly.
It's practice.
But I think that's the only thing and just totally a one sentence aside that like anything that looks effortless, but you try and is really hard.
It only looks easy not because the person who's doing it is like just naturally really good at it, but because they put in a lot of work to make it look that easy.
Yeah.
And some things look really easy.
And you're like, oh, I can do that.
And then it turns out to be fucking impossible without lots and lots of practice.
I think juggling is a really easy example to pick up like to illustrate this point quickly.
Like watch somebody who's good at juggling for 30 seconds on YouTube or Reddit or whatever.
And then, you know, it's like, oh yeah, they just throw it and catch them.
That's easy.
And it turns out that the word just there is doing a lot of work.
They are doing that, but it's the all of the little motions and and whatever maneuverings involved that are like, I guess, sub noticeable.
Those those have a lot of hard work there.
So they're just tracking the trajectory of three balls at the same time and using their two hands to keep them in the air and make sure that they maintain those trajectories at just the right rhythm.
It's easy.
Right.
All right.
Well, I think that covers these two.
Yes.
Did you guys have an additional anything to add?
That was pretty thorough.
Yeah, I think I'm good.
Okay.
For next time, we are covering the posts my wild and reckless youth and failing to learn from history.
Spoiler alert.
My wild and reckless youth is not nearly as sorted as it sounds.
I don't know.
It depends how you feel about epistemic hygiene.
I like the one after the other two.
Go on.
I was going to say speaking of epistemic hygiene, that's actually a decent tie into part of tonight's episode.
Oh, yes, it is.
So I have a thought that I have now as a quick lead in into this episode whenever I see a cop that has pulled someone over on the side of the road.
It's this joke that I heard and honestly, you guys are going to have to tell me if maybe I should not include this in the episode like edited out or something.
Expensive cops do it.
Well, hey, it is, but I think it may be an even too poor taste for that.
So the joke is that the modern day trolley problem is you're driving along and you see that a cop has pulled someone over on the side of the road.
They're standing by their window and do you just keep driving and let something potentially horrible happen?
Or do you swerve and hit the cop with your car and potentially save dozens of lives?
That's fucked up.
Leave it in.
Okay.
Stephen, I don't I think it's too ridiculous to be considered a bad thing.
It's a dead babies joke.
It's like, obviously, I don't know.
I just use the word obviously and I'm like, I need to get rid of words from my vocabulary.
But like you said, it's a dead baby joke in the sense there's there's no way anyone would actually ever do that.
I mean, the dash cam on their on their cars on they would see you hitting them even if you were seriously considering the idea of murdering somebody, right?
Very well.
Even yeah.
No, I think that also like a lot of people are mad at cops right now.
The cops know like some of them know some of them are very in denial about the fact that like, yeah, we did kind of fuck up a bit here.
Now lots of people are mad at us.
And I feel like it's almost a sort of little justified poke.
Like a cop themselves might make that sort of joke kind of cringe at the joke like, yeah, like now I know that we have this issue.
I think that is the most cop sensitive way to say what you just said that they're like, oh, yeah, man, I guess we kind of fucked up.
I was like, wow, I've never seen anyone put it so gently.
So yeah, what we are talking about now is going to be the the cop and cop brutality and Black Lives Matter movement thing, which was somebody on our discord mentioned.
Sam Harris's podcast, which I had heard just I think the day before this was brought up in our podcast or in our discord.
But it's what kicked us off and the and it is I guess what we're going to be talking about today.
And by I guess I mean I pushed for it.
So yeah, this is my fault.
But I figured is something that should probably be addressed.
Sam Harris and his podcast brings up the fact that the crime rate in black neighborhoods and as he puts it like among the black populace is in fact quite a bit higher than in white neighborhoods, which are mostly full of white people.
And so even though cops kill roughly an equal amount of black and white people, slightly higher on the white people.
But as everyone keeps pointing out that is drastically disproportionate because there's six times as many white people than there are black people in the US.
But then as is pointed out by many sources now, including Sam Harris's podcast, there is roughly six times the amount of crime in black neighborhoods than there is in white neighborhoods.
So this is not necessarily an overrepresentation of police presence in black neighborhoods.
If one would assume that the thing you would want a good police commissioner to do is put more cops in high crime areas and not put as many ones in low crime areas because obviously that was a waste of resources if you do that.
Thus, the contention being that this may not be about racism at all. This is more about using your resources in the appropriate way based on what the crime rates in different areas are.
Before I continue, was there anything I wanted to either of you guys want to say anything about this?
Yeah, I thought that we were talking about something a bit adjacent to this because I mean Harris talks about that in his episode, which he did put up some links and sites and sources a few days after that episode aired.
So if anyone's curious, they can listen to that episode and then check out the website for that and follow the data that he failed to cite when he was doing the podcast.
I thought we were talking about the discussion on Discord that was mainly around the
Was it the efficacy of the Black Lives Matter movement?
Or slogan in particular?
Yes.
That the contention was from one of our Discord members that it seems like it's epistemically disingenuous for them to say, you know, for like the banner behind Black Lives Matter to be, you know, stop killing us or, you know, stop overwhelmingly killing us
or unfairly whatever it was. And I thought this was a really fun, like I think the conversation went on for about a day and then went off and then came back on for another day.
And I thought it ended really well and in a nice understanding and it was like the person who brought this up lives outside the US and while they're right, that shouldn't matter.
I think living in the area of, and I mean, not that I live in like in a high crime area or something, I live in a medium low, I'm guessing.
I live in West Wilkex.
Nice. So yeah, you see some stuff.
Oh, I do.
But the, like, it's what I was trying to ask him was like, you know, the sense on the ground. Well, all right, I'm getting ahead of myself.
My point is what we're talking about, like, does it make sense for a political movement to have a less than like 100% thorough epistemic status on their slogan?
Or is that misleading and therefore disingenuous slash wrong?
Yes, but I thought we couldn't get into that until we started off with this, right?
Yeah, I suppose so.
We could have left it as vague as possible.
Oh, well, okay.
There's no sense in trying to do that that had been really annoying.
I just wanted to make sure that I wasn't going to have to have a conversation about the stuff covered in Harris's podcast.
I wanted to talk more about, like, the sense or nonsense of having overly brief messages on your slogans for a political movement.
Yeah.
As a freelance graphics designer who cares about things like this, who has been forced to care about things like this because money, and now I actually find myself getting upset about fonts.
It makes a lot of sense for a political movement to have a brief, compelling name or slogan or statement from a marketing perspective.
Just you want people to have an emotional pull towards what you're trying to say.
So stop killing us is a pretty good emotional pull.
It's hard to, it's hard for really anyone to argue.
No, kill us more, you know, like, or that's not a legitimate complaint.
I don't think you also could have a long, complicated slogan.
It would be hard to fit on a banner.
Wouldn't make a good hashtag.
People won't remember it.
I'm not sure, like, if there were alternative proposed.
I think as, as people who care about having an accurate picture of the world and and truth being represented, it should be kind of important as to whether this is a thing that's actually true or not.
Like, for example, if the alt right, sometimes they there are some people in the far right who say that there's some kind of white genocide going on.
I don't know exactly what their arguments are and they sound pretty ridiculous from what I've heard.
So maybe they are just completely crazy.
The word genocide is weird, but you could argue that like Southern whites are doing pretty bad, like rural, rural Southern white people in certain areas in particular.
