It's just gone.
So like, I, I don't know.
My, my immediate thought on this was like, I don't know if that'll do anything because now that now the article just comes, you know,
links to the way back machine post rather than to slate star codex.com.
Wait, will it?
So like, I'm just saying it could.
I don't think the New York Times.
No, they wouldn't do that.
Why not?
Well, there's some rule.
I've never just seen that done before.
Yeah.
Nonetheless, they were to change the article about why it is they're linking to this and the blog is gone now.
Yeah.
They would also have to implicate themselves.
Oh yeah.
So by the way, we, we, we did this.
That's not going to look good for them.
That is one perk of doing this two weeks late is that they're so far as far as I know have yet to say a word on this.
I don't know.
I hear conspiracy theories, which I'm not going to say what my opinions on them are that like, they just wanted to shut Scott up.
Their, their internal slack has been leaked to a new source, the Daily Beast or Buzzfeed or one of those, which showed that a number of people on their staff are pretty upset about this as well.
Good.
Well, and that's the thing too, that I thought was kind of interesting, like this, this move on Scott's part.
And so like, this is the thing where like, I'm totally prepared to say Scott is smarter than I am and probably did this with foresight.
So he anticipated the, the likely consequences or it's entirely possible that this was a decision that was, so that's what I think is most likely.
What's also a possibility is that he just kind of did this out of a rush of like, fuck, I need to kind of get off the grid.
And as part of that move, blew, blew the website away.
I think he's been thinking about this for a long time.
I mean, he's even mentioned it.
Well, then that's weird because like what happened after this is everyone up to Steven Pinker and Sam Harris and people with aggregate millions of Twitter followers retweeted, hey, the New York Times just, you know, made Scott Alexander or, you know, basically threatened to dox Scott Alexander and you shut down the wonderful Slate Star Codex.
So now not only is literally everyone aware of the website, people may who may have not even noted it before.
But I think there are, and I got garnered this from Reddit threads and stuff on Slate on r slash Slate Star Codex.
A lot of people didn't even know that wasn't his real name.
Now granted, if you're a longtime breeder, he explicitly says it's a suit in them.
But, you know, if you if you read the occasional popular post, you'll just think that some guy named actually named Scott Alexander runs a blog called Slate Star Codex.
Yeah.
But he still doesn't have his real name linked to the blog, which was his goal.
So he's fine.
Right.
And I think that's gone through some effort to try to keep himself like a moderately paranoid.
I think that there's a word that I can't pronounce.
But that word pseudonymus pseudonymus.
But like, because HIPAA and his third psychiatrist, it's like very reasonable to have expected this is going to be the outcome of him ever becoming famous at some point.
He's written about it.
I think like the other may be foreseen maybe unforeseen circle fallout is that people are going to be like, oh, who is this guy?
It's not that hard to connect the dots.
If you try, I haven't checked.
I wonder if I Googled Scott Alexander's real name, if his real name would come up.
So I actually have found Scott Alexander's real name.
This was like a year and a half, two years ago.
I was just kind of curious.
It's not terribly hard to find if you are.
It used to be easier to find.
Okay.
Yeah.
If you're a religious reader of his blog and you've picked up a lot of like small details here and there about his life, at least, yeah, several years ago, it was pretty easy to find.
Much harder now.
But that doesn't really matter because first of all, I had to be a religious reader who had picked up a lot of small details over a long period of time.
And also, there's no way you can Google Slate Star Codex and get his real name.
Like you have to put effort into it.
And that's basically what he wants to just not make it so that you Google Slate Star Codex and he pops up.
Yeah.
And I think maybe that was the goal, but now I think people will be inclined to maybe look for his real name.
I mean, that's not what he wanted.
That's the exact opposite of what he wanted.
I intentionally did not look for it because he requested like, please don't Google my real name.
I just don't.
Well, that's because we're nice.
That's because we're nice and we're not going to.
Oh, no, definitely.
A person, this hit the front page of r slash out of the loop the day that it happened.
And I don't know how popular it is.
I could check, but I won't because I'm live on the air or at least on a hot mic and it's annoying to hear typing.
But it's a somewhat very popular subreddit.
I think with the hundreds of thousands of subscribers and anyone who's on there saw this post of, oh, what is going on?
What's, what's Slate Star Codex?
Who's this hidden psychiatrist?
So like, it's, it's interesting.
I came across his name happenstance like five years ago, maybe more, whenever we started doing the lesser on meetups.
And I actually was like, wait, who's this?
And they're like, oh, that's got Alexander.
And I was like, oh, why not just put that?
And so now we do have that actually on our whatever the local meetups Facebook group on the little primer doc.
It used to contain Scott Alexander's real name, but the published version on our website doesn't.
So I don't know, I don't have much to add other than like, I wonder what all the follow will be from this.
If this will lead to more people knowing who he is.
And I mean, obviously, it's worth mentioning the lamenting fact that like Slate Star Codex was a treasure and the universe is worse off without it.
Yeah, not only is it worse off for not having the things that used to be around easily accessible, because they are still accessible with some effort,
but having it to go through all the extra hoops really is a pain in the ass.
And I dislike that too.
But like, it was a community.
It was where a lot of less wrong eventually coalesced around after the original less wrong sort of dissipated and much more.
What really, really upsets me is that if Slate Star Codex stays gone, it's all the future work that will not be created now.
It's like if someone had murdered a brilliant scientist when he was in his mid 30s and all those other decades of things that he would have discovered and published on are gone.
Or if someone like killed Kurt Cobain when he was 27 and all the other decades of groundbreaking music he didn't create.
And you know, and someone did kill him, it was him and we lost all those decades of music and that sucks.
And this just to me feels like the same kind of thing.
Like all the years of amazing shit that Slate Star Codex will have been putting out in the future might never happen now.
And that is really what I find just awful about this whole situation.
I have really mixed feelings where on one hand I think it would be cool if this did actually lead to Slate Star Codex becoming more widely known.
And then there's also the negative.
I just honestly can't understand how the previous social justice community that I was in, like everyone had this incredibly negative view of Scott Alexander as another capital P problematic, capital B bad person with QT's where if you read one of his blog posts now you have the QT's.
Have you read any of his posts because he's just the most reasonable kind of person willing to bend so far backwards to like not offend anyone?
Yeah, well it's because sometimes the reasonable kind things he said were unwoke and that's enough to make you a literal Hitler.
Yeah, I've seen these conversations happen in just the last couple of weeks.
Well, I guess in the last month, I think it was all before Slate Star Codex exploded.
But I know some people who would no doubt be rejoicing over it.
Oh yeah, me too.
And that's just whatever.
I don't have the energy this late in the night.
I spent all my emotions for the month on our last conversation, so I don't have what it takes to engage with that sad nonsense.
But if there are people who, that's not to say I agree with literally everything he's put to the page, but I've loved all of it.
If that makes sense, if I don't agree with it, I find myself even more engaged with it and that's a rewarding experience.
And more often than not, I do agree with it.
In fact, more often than either of those things, I'm just learning something completely new.
Oh my god, the amount of stuff I've learned from Slate Star Codex is just probably more than I would have learned if I went to college and got a bachelor's degree in psychiatry.
Especially the stuff about the surfing uncertainty.
Now I'm blanking on words again, but that whole thing.
It was just earlier this year that we did his conflict versus mistake theory on this podcast, right?
Yeah, and there's just so many excellent ideas and concepts that he's brought up.
Or even like, but I wouldn't be surprised if in like a couple of weeks there's like a blog titled something that's a pun or an anagram of Slate Star Codex written by some other pseudonym person.
That sounds a lot like Scott.
Does anyone remember the last psychiatrist?
Alex Skopskerson.
Yeah, I was talking about that.
Actually, the friend who messaged me when he heard about this and he was like, this is, you know, saying all the same things like this is a fucking tragedy.
And it's, you know, the this is a resource now lost forever.
And it's that's, you know, I can't link my friends to them, you know, the meditations on the malloc or whatever.
And I was like, you know, I think that in the in the in the in the future outcome where the blog stays dead, you know, keep your eyes open for a burgeoning new rationalist blog with a different author's name.
I can't imagine.
I think it would be weird.
And I only say that because like, he seems like the person who doesn't just like really, really enjoy writing posts.
But I feel like he has like a drive to do it, which maybe is part of what makes you enjoy it.
I don't think that he'll stop writing.
I think he might take a break.
I think he like needs a he deserves a vacation.
It was one of my like first thoughts that like a jumble of thoughts jumped into my head when I saw that this had happened.
But one of them was like, I hope he like goes to Hawaii and like sip some margaritas on the beach for a bit.
Because like, we should like start a go fund me to just send Scott Alexander on a nice vacation as a community.
I hope he's well enough off being, you know, having been a doctor for this many years.
And I'm not sure what the ad revenue is from Slate Star Codex, but I hope he doesn't need to go fund me to take a vacation.
But he might need like the encouragement.
Well, we should start a what's that a change.org petition.
Say, Scott, take a vacation.
Please be kind to yourself.
Do some self care.
Yeah, I'm sure he's done up on the literature on all that stuff, too.
So I want to mention I have one more thing to add.
Yeah, yeah.
I believe it's Tumblr, Slate Star Scratchpad still exists.
He'll probably keep posting there.
I feel like it's fine to share that with the facing conspiracy community.
And I doubt that it's going to get back to the New York Times or that they're going to be able to do anything about it.
And also you'd have to go through two hours of a podcast to get to this.
Who wants to listen to us for that long?
Right.
Only all those people on Discord.
Sometimes I'm just like, why are you here?
These people who inexplicably like to listen to us ramble.
I like listening to us ramble, though.
I think we're pretty good at it.
All right.
Shall we wrap up then?
I think so.
Super do that.
It's late.
Cool.
I know we usually think of patron.
I was thinking maybe this time, can we just thank Scott Alexander for all the work he's done for the Ranchlist community?
Yeah, what?
100%.
He's done a lot.
I think that makes sense.
He's been a guiding light for a long time and he's like really helped a lot of communities grow up across the nation,
probably even across the world with Slate Star Codex meetups and having that focal point on his website where people can say,
hey, I'm in this city.
Is there a meetup near me?
Has really helped people get to know other rationalists in their area.
And that's awesome too.
So thank you for everything you've done, Scott.
I know you're probably not listening to this, but God, we appreciate it so much and I hope this ends quickly and in your favor
because I want more Slate Star Codex and the New York Times can die in a fire for all I care.
For real.
I think he said that on the mind killer.
Right, Inyosh?
That they would prefer a world where Slate Star Codex existed over a world where the New York Times existed if we had to pick one.
Honestly, I agree with you.
I agree so hard with that.
The amount of value that I get out of every Slate Star Codex press, they're funny.
They're educational.
They raise good questions and promote excellent discourse.
And then there's New York Times, which does some of those things, some of the time, maybe.
Yeah.
And then they randomly docks good people for no reason.
Or threaten to. I guess they haven't actually done it yet.
Yeah, and we didn't get into all the confluted nonsense of like, does this count as doxing or, you know, what is pseudonymity or whatever.
Like, all that's a sign.
Long episode that we married men after.
And I'm kind of just fine, totally ignoring that and just saying like, look, he asked you not to, you said you would do it anyway.
