Yeah, so it's nating.
You know, it's funny that the storytelling thing sounds so intrinsically critical to being
an agent like us.
And it's one of the things that in the AI community, so many people are, you know,
they see these language models confabulate, basically just come up with whatever they can.
There's, you know, little bearing on the actual causality of it.
And they say, oh, look at this, you know, this thing's making up stories.
And like, yeah, that part tracks a lot.
You know, that's the part that's working.
And I also think about, so we've got this case that you're talking about with the split brains,
but there also, I'd love to hear what you have to say about kind of a more extreme dissociative
identity disorder cases, right, where there's not two coherent inhabitants in there,
but there could be many more.
You know, and I've been reading about these various cases where they're aware of each other
and they sort of talk about each other as they show up and, you know, they have various dynamics.
And that one, you know, for example, I'd love to know like the two that we've been talking about
sort of segregate nicely anatomically, right?
You've got these two hemispheres, but if you've got 29, do they overlap?
Are they all resident on exactly the same hardware in there?
Or are they different regions?
Is there anything known about that?
You know, is there an anatomical correlate to those distinctions?
Don't know. Never looked at that in a serious way.
But how about this experiment?
When your wife picks up the phone to talk to somebody and you're observing this from afar,
the way she responds, I bet you with almost 100% accuracy, you know who's on the other end of the phone
because there's different greeting patterns for each.
Whether it's a friend, a deep friend, a person that kind of everybody's pissed off at or
or a child or you just go right down the laundry, I just know he I don't have to ask.
I know who's on the other end of the phone.
And so that's us.
The idea here is that's us falling into another story.
I mean, or knowing they are, I mean, we're observing the phenomenon.
So now what happens in these clinical cases is these become kind of encapsulated
and insular and available to be sustained states of the others.
I just don't know what the, I don't know what the underlying pathology is on it.
Yeah, the
there's the
I mean, could
could the story be
well,
I tried to play with the idea, could the story be the consciousness?
It's the story that we're constantly updating and feeding and modifying it.
That's what's driving the machine, the story.
But I don't know.
Gavin Gavin, Gavin Gavin, what's Gavin's last name?
I don't know.
Newsom to Gavin Dawson, because anyway, a philosopher was saying
that that doesn't get out of it.
He says, one of the things that we humans have from the get go is the moment you wake up,
you're ready to go and you have new agendas.
You have new, you have a set of goals.
You have things you want to do.
What's that?
That's not, that's just kind of like part of the hardware.
That's not a thing you built up from a story.
It's just, however, what else is going on?
You still have that thing, unless you're deeply depressed, I guess.
That's the reading up agency you're talking about, Mike.
Yeah, yeah.
So there's a connection between two of the topics here that might not be so obvious,
right?
Because you started, you mentioned getting people together to talk about scientific dogma,
which one could interpret as a collective story,
that each of the persons involved in that dogma is trapped by that story,
that they can't see things differently than that story.
And they are dedicated to the continuation of that story.
And that makes the dogma something that doesn't belong to any one of the persons involved.
The dogma belongs to the community, to the collective.
And analogously, the story that the different consciousnesses within potential consciousnesses
or sub-consciousnesses within the brain is committed to is what makes them one thing.
And what makes them part of something rather than separate things.
And they can't get out of it.
They're trapped by the story, like people are trapped by the dogma.
But when we're thinking about scientific dogma, we think that's a bad thing because
they're not seeing the truth.
But when we think about it in terms of ourselves, we think that's what makes it us,
right?
That's what makes it more than the sum of the parts.
That's what makes it something that belongs to the whole and not the parts.
That's what makes it not just each of the parts reacting to the evidence that they have.
Yeah, I mean, this ties exactly into the booting up of business because,
you know, when you look at an early embryo, and it's, you know, let's say on Amnio,
like a human or a bird or something, and you get this flat blasted disc of tens of thousands of cells.
And so you look at this thing and you say, ah, there's an embryo.
What are you counting as what is there one of, right?
When you say that's one embryo, what are you actually counting?
What you're actually counting is commitment to a story.
What you're counting the commitment of all those cells to a very particular journey in anatomical
morpho space.
They are all going to work together to build this thing that has so many fingers and so many eyes
and everything is in the right, you know, location.
And they're all committed to the story.
And this is what you're counting.
You're actually counting morphogenetic stories, right, to sort of shift, right?
So I've kind of twisted this 90 degrees to talk about a more morphological space instead
of behavioral space.
But it's the same thing, right?
They're committed to that story.
And what you can do is you can very easily generate a dissociative state by taking a little needle
and sort of scratching across the blasted room.
So to create one or two different islands.
And in that case, each island will form a new embryo.
They will self-organize and they will all commit to their own story.
And then eventually they heal up and you get conjoined twins or triplets.
I used to make these things in duck embryos, you know, as a grad student.
And then, yeah, and so the question is, you know, right there, you see how many individuals
are in this embryo?
Well, you don't know right away.
Any more than you know from looking at a brain, how many cells are in there from the outside,
right?
So there might be zero, there might be one, there might be two, probably up to half a dozen,
I'm going to guess, in a regular embryo.
So yeah, right?
It's commitment to a particular story.
And then you get interesting things like after they do heal up, you get cells that are sort of
on the border between two embryos.
And they're not quite sure.
So the cases we studied where if you've got two of them that are like this,
you got left-right problems because the cells right here, they're the right side of this guy,
but they're the left side of this guy.
So who are they?
So which genes do they turn on, right?
The left side markers or the right side markers?
And this is why conjoined human twins, one of the twins often has laterality defects.
They'll be mirror-imaged because the cells are very confused about whether they're part of this,
you know, this story or whether they're part of that story.
So I think we can tell some very parallel kinds of frames here about these things.
Yeah.
You know, and one of my favorite stories about this whole dissociative thing was a guy who,
he was a therapist and he practiced integration therapy to help patients get sort of back unified,
right?
And so he had this patient, he was working with the patient.
The patient was unhappy because this other personality would pop up during work and, you know,
this other one was a partier.
And so he would just disrupt the workday and all that.
And so, you know, they were working.
And one day the patient comes into the office and it's the other one.
And he says, hey, to the doctor, he says, hey, what's this I'm hearing about integration therapy?
He says, well, you know, well, we're going to integrate you.
He says, yeah, but when you integrate me, where am I going to be?
He says, well, to be honest, you know, with any luck, you'll be gone.
Excuse me?
He's like, what happened?
You know, and he said, he said, what happened to the Hippocratic Oath?
What do you mean I'm going to be gone?
And then he says, then he says, make the other guy gone.
He's boring.
All he does is want to work all day.
I'm having a much more exciting life.
Have him gone.
I don't want to be gone.
Yeah.
And so this was, this is like a real existential kind of issue, right?
Yeah, it's like you should get your own lawyer there.
You should get your own integration therapist, shouldn't you?
Yeah.
To represent you.
Yeah, that's a real problem.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
It's the other personality that hired me.
You will have to do this.
That's right.
That's right.
So Richard, in your really great talk where you very generously and kindly set up Richard Dawkins
as you admire him because he's so good at selling this story kind of thing.
And so having run a few of these dogma things now, there's a critical moment there to get
the people to listen, right?
And so I was wondering whether you lose the lead as it were.
So if you were to give, re-give that talk with a question,
I've, I've have some observations.
There's a body of work, however you want to put it,
that it looks like Darwinian theory just can't explain
what everybody would be listening, right?
Because what, come on, you know, what's that?
And then, and what a beautiful meaning it would be if Dawkins was there, right?
And he opened, I don't know him personally, but open to that kind of, that kind of fun
or intellectual challenge or whatever you want to call it.
But, but to, I mean, I think you're so far into this, this story, this, it's all happening.
I mean, after this, after this two days of intense hearing these guys,
they're going to do everything.
This thing's going to do everything.
You know, just sit back and relax, folks, because this, these neural networks and this
is just going to be fully capable of all kinds of stuff.
So it's not doing things in the old traditional Darwinian way.
It's got all kinds of new games and tricks up its sleeve.
And, and we better try to understand this.
And we're being blocked from understanding by hanging on to the simple idea.
That's, I had just heard your talk and I was listening to these guys as I was trying to think
of how to get in, you know, get a conversation going with them almost.
That's very kind of you, but they talk about natural induction.
Yeah, the natural induction.
Yeah.
So it's, it's tricky, right?
Because when you try to point out phenomena that aren't explained by Darwinian evolution,
people just say that they are, right?
Because, because they just, there just isn't any other explanation.
So it must be explained by Darwinian evolution.
It's like, well, that's not really explaining, is it?
