You wouldn't say a person with this huge spatial disorder.
You wouldn't say a case HM with massive immediate memory loss.
None of that would you say they're not conscious.
And so you say, well, but wait a minute,
the experimental guys are now building these big models of consciousness
where the information flows from here to there and this and that.
No, I mean, those things are tremendously damaged in a lot of these instances.
So then, you know, in my history, what came along when someone said,
well, let's just disconnect these two hemispheres.
Let's see if there's two conscious systems after that.
Boom, they're incident.
They wake up.
They have two systems separated.
One doesn't know what the other's doing and so forth.
Okay, well, there's two.
That was easy enough.
Now, what about if we start doing more disconnections?
And it turns out they're all over the place, right?
So you can't get rid of this thing.
And that means, well, would that mean,
you know, and for the next little metaphor,
I like to say something my dad said to me once,
he was a physician and aging and he had many strokes.
And so he was into that and I come home one day and I say,
so dad, you know what I do for a living?
I got to ask you this question, you know, what's it like?
What's it like in there?
You know, you've lost vision over here and this over there,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
What's it like?
And he just said, Mike, you work with what you got.
And that's it.
I mean, you don't work with things that you don't have anymore,
but you work with what you got and the story keeps coming,
the capacities keep coming out.
So this gave rise to me with a little idea and I'll shut up.
Now, what we're looking at is I like the bubbling up metaphor
that through time, all parts of the system are up as they were.
They're up at that moment in time.
And it's a constant dynamic system and it's not something
building for that moment.
It's just that the moments are changing through time
and what is more active in the brain at that moment
is what seems to be the content of consciousness.
So if you then take that step back and what do you mean by that?
And I said, well, my view, simple view is consciousness
is a feeling about a specialized capacity.
That's it.
That's what it is.
And there's a bunch of specialized, thousands of specialized systems
in the brain.
And as they come up to the fore, like bubbles in a jar,
at that moment they come out, that's their moment.
That's the instant that we're calling consciousness
and that content can vary through the dynamics,
the underlying dynamics.
But that's just a way of saying what we know to be true.
Things are, we're doing this through time.
They change and then we know the fact that this,
it looks like very local regions are generating this felt state.
So we should be looking at the local circuits.
If we're looking for the neurobiologic underpinnings of this thing.
They all have it.
They all have it.
All parts of the brain seem to have it
because whatever's remaining, they seem conscious of and so forth.
So it's quite a different view.
I had worked it out in my 2018 brain, 2018 book.
But that's kind of how I see the problem.
And it's not where, it's not, it's a minority view.
It's not where I think the field is trying to get to right at this moment.
So you, can I check that I understood you properly?
So you think that the field at this moment thinks that consciousness
is some sort of systemic, some sort of property, systemic property
that requires all of the pieces to be in place.
But it seems more likely the evidence suggests that consciousness is
in every part of the brain at not at all times,
but at the moment that they come to the surface as it were.
And that you could take very small parts of it
and they would still be little consciousnesses.
Rather than something which is a singular thing belonging to the brain as a whole
and requiring all of the parts to be in place.
Did I get you?
Yeah, well, that's kind of the idea.
Now, so, but I invite people just to think about the neurologic reality of this.
And you might come up with a different metaphor that's better for sure.
But it's very one of the most illuminating things
to do is to go on rounds in a neurology ward.
It's just every day it's illuminating.
Because you find something that's just, what?
What's that?
And this basic thing is that if you just have this question in your head,
well, yeah, but what I say this person is not conscious.
No, you wouldn't.
I mean, they may be working at a simpler level.
I mean, it's quite starting to see your first true Alzheimer's patient
who can be sitting there talking to you about life and stuff and past.
And meanwhile, can't put a red dot on a red dot, right?
Their cognitive mechanism has been corrupted.
You wouldn't not call them conscious.
It's crazy.
And so anyway.
If we did have a way of understanding consciousness that belonged in each of the parts,
which we don't.
But if we did, wouldn't that then still leave the problem of why it feels like
we have a singular consciousness?
Yeah, yeah, except that that could be an illusion.
And for sure.
I mean, there's a whole body of philosophers who think that just gets you to that point.
And it's a powerful argument.
I mean, if you if you go back to just look at spend an hour looking at Roger Shepard's illusions,
they're powerful things.
You're looking at it.
You see it and you're experiencing it.
You know, what is that?
And why can't that be the same for this?
So, yeah.
But, you know, that that's that's the puzzle.
Now, the thing that at another level, of course, the the unity comes from it in my mind from
at the level of story.
And we we are storytellers to ourselves all the time constantly telling ourselves the story.
And one of the things we we kind of unearthed in these split brain patients,
there's a part of the brain that will make up a story why they're doing something
that we know we had commanded the silent right hemisphere to do.
And and yet it's coming out of your body and you simply don't let things happen without you
interpreting them, etc.
So, so we're sitting there changing our stories, our feelings go up and down,
we're changing our story.
I mean, just we can appreciate this fact that I was just listening to
someone who's studying the role of bringing maybe decision making or
artificial decision making systems into the law to make judgments of sentencing,
very practical thing.
And there's all kinds of things that they can bias a decision that judge will made by tweaking
this and that.
And because it turns out judges are totally victims to things like
when had they just eaten lunch, is it after lunch, and they do studies on this and a huge
variation that's correlated with these with these physical physiologic states.
And and the idea of bias free decision systems will get rid of that.
And that's how we should make these these calls.
We already know.
And in sentencing hearings for sentencing hearings for payroll,
parole, excuse payroll, parole,
that the juries want to see the Dr. Jones up there in the witness sense,
that either a medic or a psychologist, they're terrible at this.
They're about 35% prediction of whether there's going to be a recidivism.
Right.
If you've got a social scientist up there with their
outcome studies and all their calculations, right now, currently, they make a 55%
prediction rate.
And the notion is if you really had some neuroscience in there, you could get it up to 80%.
Prediction rate.
But the juries don't want any of that, because they think that it's the old Doc Jones
there is the one that's got the wisdom.
And then and then to make that problem kind of just interesting sidelight,
the judges say, well, yeah, I mean, you could get that up to 90%.
But then we have to decide whether to give that defendant that 10% chance.
That's our whole system is built like that.
So anyway, all kinds of fascinating questions on that front.
Yeah.
So in the split brain patients where one hemisphere confabulates a reason to explain
their observations of the behavior of the other hemisphere, that's entirely mutual, right?
It's like, it's not like the other hemisphere says, no, it wasn't.
Why did he say that?
That wasn't what I was doing at all, right?
They're just that the other hemisphere confabulates as well to explain why that
hemisphere just gave that explanation.
That's a question, really.
Yeah, that gets complicated because there are examples where the other hemisphere will.
So some of the some of the patients, the right hemisphere over time evolves to be able to say
simple words so it can react.
And it has reacted to the correct answer.
So there's a whole, there, there is that story that there's a there's a disagreement.
And then there's explicit studies we've done where you ask a patient to value how much they like
a set of words, right?
And on a one to seven scale.
And there's there's two testing days.
Let's take this one one study I'm thinking of where the patient was very calm.
The interactions were very normal low key and everything.
And we put up these words randomly and they have to pull into seven and you distribute them to one
hemisphere or the other.
And their rankings were just in parallel.
I mean, whatever, if one somebody liked this, you got a six, the other hemisphere got a six,
one got five, the other got a five.
And that was kind of a yawn, you know, it's like we couldn't see any differential
liking to the cement.
Then another day, the patient came in and it was kind of agitated and feisty.
This was a 16, 17 year old boy we're talking about.
And he was just kind of, you know, jacked up a little bit and so forth.
And when we ran this test, the scores were completely desperate.
One hemisphere was giving one and one and the other one's giving the six and I would flip this and that.
And you just had, well, if these things were set differently, there's tremendous conflict
and agitation as a result.
So then you can just think that and all the split brain thing is, of course,
it's just a research tool to see how this thing could work.
That's what you're after, you know, and it's just a research tool.
So now you just think, well, what is conflict?
Well, conflict is two different messages being sent to the system to consider and so forth.
Yeah, makes you wonder whether the agitation belongs in, you know, one hemisphere agitated
and the other hemisphere not, or is the agitation caused by the disparity of the hemispheres?
So that's the conflict between the two is the agitation.
