Otherwise, Andre, you can maybe flip over to select a few of the submitted questions.
Cool. Could you zoom in with control plus a fair amount?
Thanks. So everyone, we really appreciate the submitted questions. We've been able to get
13 answered by Chris so far. And as with the transcripts of the discussions and lectures,
the questions and answers are going to be part of what is published by the active journal.
So we really encourage basic questions, advanced questions. Just there's no
question that doesn't make sense to submit. So under maybe just pick one question
that you think's interesting to begin with and summarize Chris's response. And then everyone
else is welcome to kind of add some other thoughts on this. Yeah. So I'm going to scroll up and down
just to sort of sample. Let me start with the first two. Can you hear me well? Yep. Since
perhaps I think you submitted this as a trial, right? Is that right? Yeah. So what is information?
What is time? And here's Chris's response. I guess everyone has a chance to look at it.
Now, the one if I am to summarize this, the one thing I've heard that, you know, personally,
the one I like the most answer at least as an adage to summarize it is that information
are differences that make a difference. This I might have heard from Chris. I might have heard
from someone else. I don't remember. But that's one thing. Now onto the question of what is time.
And I guess this also addresses Alex's question of what is entropy. I
so I'll make a bigger point now. What is time? This is partially addressed. And I guess the main
thing I'll be doing here is rather than look back, look forward into what's to come in the course.
And in particular, I'm thinking about
these two papers. And in particular,
particular. And I've had a chat with Chris about this. This picture over here. Okay.
Excuse me a little bit more. Yeah. I'll get back to it in a bit. But basically, this
is sort of like kills two birds with a stone, right? This picture and especially the text
around it and the title of this paper is the physical meaning of the holographic principle.
Okay, you guys can see here archive 2020, 2210. Anyways, this addresses the notion of, you know,
the time on entropy because the point that's the claim that's made in this paper is that these
are local observer relative definitions. And we can look into more detail around it. But basically,
the coordinate TA time is an entropic measure. So it is non decreasing. And it goes up with
the observer measuring entropy in the system. Because of the symmetry of the definition,
the second law applies to both. So both observer and environment see entropy increasing
in their environment and vice versa. Anyways,
from this picture, one gets that you have this internal circle time QRF. So this just
is a necessary artifact of recording information into a memory. That's the claim made in the paper.
And that essentially induces the passage of time, at least from the perspective of the observer.
It also, I think, Alexi was talking about, which I totally understand and agree that
this different notions of entropy. Now, I suppose as the, you know, I would be the one to
like definitions and so on. But I do think it's good to have a certain amount of flexibility.
So I see the same as energy, right? Like there are different kinds of energy, you know,
there's energy mass equivalences. And, you know, if you push it into supersymmetry,
you can think of it as equivalent to force also. But I do think there is some value in being
sloppy or intuitive about the notion. So the fact that, you know, entropy, yes,
there are different definitions. I don't see it quite as a problem. You know, one can explore
here around this page. There is a definition of, you know, local entropic time. And,
you know, one can think of it as, you know, space base or we can think of it as, you know,
coding theory, but it is at the end of the day, I do think it is true that both of them are hinting
at the same direction, just like, you know, you may have different kinds of energy, but, you know,
they're not unrelated concepts. And, yeah, I hope one day we get very precise definitions
out everything. But for now, I think it's good to speculate. Okay, there's a question. Yeah,
Corby, and then anyone else on this? Yeah, quick question. So I haven't read that specific paper,
but is there any work on the frequency or the rate at which one could read and write information
on the boundary? Yes. Well, I don't, I don't, I can't think of the paper exactly, but this
is lower bounded. I think Chris talked about it. If not in the last lecture, I think I've seen a
talk of him on YouTube, it's lower bounded by the uncertainty principle, right? So, so for instance,
plans, Planck's constant is in units of action, which is energy times time, right? So Landau's
principle says you need a certain amount of energy to erase information. And, and you have time,
right? And then you have an energy time uncertainty principle, putting those things together, right,
you have any minimum amount of action, which is, you know, literally the minimum,
the action is measuring what I said earlier, right? Like differences that make a difference,
the minimum difference that you can make. So the minimum difference to, you know, erase a bit
or rewrite it on the boundary, so to speak, right? So yeah, that would be given by the
uncertain relation, energy times time, I don't know exactly what the figure is, but it's obviously
very small compared to everyday life. Got it. And with, is there work on the upper bound,
like for example, would it be the number of degrees of freedom on boundary?
I don't think it's bounded from above, but, but obviously, you know, then we do want to
bond it from above for technological reasons, if you wish, but I think that is a, an engineering
problem, but not one of, you know, physics.
Andre, a few, few questions on this figure. What are Y and E? B, the blue oval, as Chris has
pointed out, is going to consistently be the screen, the blanket. And so we often associate
that with the, at least some blankets include these information gathering and utilizing systems.
So what is happening internal to the agent here? What kind of computation is happening?
And is this something that is actually proposed to be occurring?
Or is this a schematic or a map of how we could think about something occurring?
So I think this question is going to be better addressed by Chris himself, probably in the next
lecture. For now, what I can say is I can reiterate what I was trying to say earlier, which is that
what these addresses and, you know, this basic measurement picture, so to speak,
is the observer effect, right? Like this notion that you cannot observe something without,
without disturbing the environment. So if you then try to make sense of this by constraining,
you know, from first principles, land hours principle and so on, basic requirements on
information processing from the point of view of energy, then you get that this boundary
is constrained in some ways, right? This Y is what's called the memory sector, meaning that
you don't just act on the immediate information that you perceive. You may also act on,
you know, staff that's distorted, that you have perceived before.
And then sure, E, the red part is what you're perceiving right now, the environment.
But actually, I don't know if I have it in here.
But this is further broken up into other parts. So not schematically here. Let me try to find it.
Now, I don't know. Actually, bear with me for a second. I think you might be here.
That's the same picture.
Anyways, I'm not, I don't want to waste time by trying to find it. But back to the original picture.
Yeah, sure. E is what you're measuring. And again, Chris will talk about this in more detail.
But from first principle assumptions, they deduce that you're going to have to, you know,
deploy your finite resources for gathering information in clever ways on the boundary,
right? So you're going to have to deploy some resources for memory, some resources as a free
energy, as a heat sink, right? So you're going to be processing information. So you're going to be
dumping, you know, so-called low quality stuff into the environment, you're going to be dumping heat.
And then older than the memory, you're going to be focusing on what's going on right now.
And this environment, then what I wanted to say is that it can be further broken up into
what's called pointer and reference sectors. So you can imagine this
E sector here has to be broken into further sectors. Because then there's the other first
principle notion, okay, so what does it mean to observe something? The differences that make
a difference, right? So you can only, there's only information with context, right? There is no
information per se. It's all semantics, right? So you only observe things in context. So some
things are going to have to stay the same, namely, you know, reference states here, and some things
are going to be, right? So you can think of this as the gauge in your car, right? Obviously, the
circle stays the same, right? And that's your context. So to speak, that's with the, you know,
numbers in it, they never go away. They stay the same. But as you speed up around, the gauge is
going to change. And that's how you know only in that context, you can tell your own speed
when you're driving the car, right? So anyways, this is just a teaser for things to come.
Now you can go back to more questions. Then I'll, I'll pick maybe two or three more over here.
Yeah, pick another question or anyone raising their hand, or if anyone in the live chat wants
to write something, I'll read it. How about the wick rotation? Could you summarize what the wick
rotation is, and then state this question about it? So that's a great question. I knew the answer
better. I wish I knew the answer better. But, conformally speaking, the wick rotation is just,
so it's Chris said, you know, you take a quantity multiplied by i square root of negative one,
that amounts to a 90 degree rotation, a complex plane. Fine. Now that appears to be a trick.
And what it does effectively is take you from quantum mechanics to statistical mechanics,
roughly speaking. Now, why it works, that's probably, I mean, I have no clue. I don't know
the answer myself. But now when things appear to be a trick and they get you something, maybe
there's more to it than what's, you know, apparent at first. But I myself don't know the answer.
It's a very good question. But I do think you may have to do with the fact that
on the one hand quantum and statistical mechanics, both are talking about
constraints on information processing, maybe from different perspectives. But again, that's
just a speculation on my end. So it's maybe a way of relating the two.
Do we just review, just read Chris's full answer to this, read the question and then Chris's full
answer? So as the wick rotation, so as the matter of energy, somehow it's just 90 degrees per
perpendicular to three dimensional space. And then I'll just read Chris's answer. Then anyone,
please raise your hand if you want to like add something more on this. He wrote, in a sense,
yes, time is perpendicular to our three dimensions of space, matter and energy, we ourselves exist
in time. Wick is pointing to the intimate relationship between how we measure time and how
we determine or judge that something maintains its identity through time, i.e. stays the same
thing through time. To tell time by a clock, I have to be sure I'm looking at the same clock,
set the same way, etc. We'll get to this in July and August.
Could you connect this on to some of the semantic information flows
discussed in live stream 17 or any of the other cone, co-cone diagrams from the papers that you
showed earlier? Sure, again, I have to practice it by saying that I am working on understanding
it myself. But just from, you know, small email exchange that I had with Chris and
what's that in this paper, one can sort of see that it's related to the picture I was showing
earlier, namely this one, right? But let's scroll down a little bit to page
to page 23, 24, surely talk about the rotation again.
So I think it has to do with, at least from what I heard from Chris,
the email has to do with this notion of local time, the definition of local time
in this observation picture. And, you know, the fact that you rotate 90 degrees twice,
you get the opposite sign basically, right? So the local time, effectively that's going to
ensure that the picture is symmetric and that, you know, the flow is going to be opposite in
the direction towards the observer and towards the environment.
Okay, Alexei, then anyone else raising their hands?
I am struggling to understand and part of my difficulty bear with me for being so kind of,
but I remember Sean Carroll's lecture on time in different versions of physics and it took
a whole hour. So are we talking Newtonian time, which is universally the same? Are we talking
relative time? You know, philosophically, are we talking about people who believe that only
present here and now is real while future and past do not exist? You know, so when we say time is
perpendicular to, my sense is that just like Chris mentioned in the lecture, we're reinventing the
time. We're creating a new definition by calling it the same word we're all familiar with and that
creates some dissonance where I just think that maybe we need to kind of say that this is something new
and if it's not something new, then which version of the time are we talking about Einsteinian,
Newtonian or whatever, you know? It's a simple question if we, before we say it's perpendicular,
do people agree that future is real or not, you know?
I'll give a thought on this, Alexi. Again, speculation, neither here nor then.
If we take Chris seriously, that communication is an ontological primary and that rather than
putting communications protocols in some sort of time, Newtonian time, Einsteinian time, these
are these different time concepts, these different scaffolds that then communication gets inscribed
within or stretched within, but if we start with a topological understanding of communication
rather than a geometric understanding of spacetime, so that's apology of the blanket and the observer
in their sensorium, then different kinds of cognitive agents ranging from what we would
call non-living to what we could call living, they, depending on their cognitive sophistication,
are able to create or project different time concepts. Time concepts that are not useful
will lead to their own material disillusion, the failure to maintain that kind of cognitive
sophistication, which requires not just information gathering and utilization, but also energy
gathering and utilization. And so when you have multiple agents who are, whether you conceptualize
them as within a message passing relationship and having no surprise on the clock on the wall,
then they're like in a local time synchrony, but the primary case is one entity
engaging with its sensorium and its self-modeling time in terms of progression.
And so these previous time concepts and these different attempts to kind of survey the
structure of spacetime reflect different cognitive models that cognitive agents have proposed
for time, and that communication actually like takes ontological primacy over all of these ramified,
potentially overlapping, potentially non-overlapping time concepts,
but they're downstream of agents' cognitive models, not vice versa. I'm not sure, it's how I
interpreted what Chris said about communication being an ontological primary though.
So if we take one instance of a COVID-19 virus, a single kind of instance, it's got no memory
and no ability to plan. Is there a local time for that virus versus humanity observing how the
virus spreads across the globe? And we have agents with memory and planning. So
is there a time relative to a single photon? My hunch is that there's a possibility that we're
simply inventing something brand new and defining it brand new, and I just, the drawing parallel back
to all these other times, I understand the effort, but it's just, is that a brand new time? Is that
some other kind of time? I don't know. Daniel, can I say a few words? Yeah. So I understand Alex's
question, and I think it's sort of related to, at least morally speaking, to your concern about
different kinds of entropy, right? And what I can say is that also they have Glarey's group,
Marciano, and so on. They have this recent paper on quantum error correction.
So I have yet to read it and take a closer look, but surely talk about space time, right?
And my punch to address Alex's question is that if you could sort of recover the more familiar
notions of time in a correspondence principle sort of way, by taking some Newtonian limit,
or h bar goes to zero, or speed of light goes to infinity, and so on, that would be very
satisfactory. Sure, they may be doing a new thing, but regarding all stuff and the new thing
is a good sanity check. And so long as we can see that being worked out, I think I'd be very happy.
And just to the virus point, I would argue that viruses through their physical engagement, they
do have memory, but they don't necessarily have the awareness or a metacognition on that memory,
except as granted by intergenerational evolutionary type pressure. But they do have past events
modifying them within some set of possibilities. So they're just being them.
And their internal time is on, there isn't a cognitive observer necessarily,
in terms of like a narrative I, I am watching the clock, but they do change.
