But it's certainly very provocative if this is not or we could also look to Kronos and Kairos,
and about the relationship of time and timeliness and agentic time.
So I think there's, and then at this point, are we stretching just this one four-letter word too far,
just like we brought up with information entropy? I mean, can we think about these as kind of like
continents? And then just if someone said I visited this continent, you know that you need to specify
a lot more? Or what granularity are these topics? Corby and then anyone else raising their hands?
Yeah, on this topic, for a Markov blanket, you have a transition matrix. My question is, how do you,
how are you allowed to increment that transition matrix to calculate a future state? Like, what
does that mean in terms of time? Are you only allowed to increment it by like the lower bound time,
which is h over ln kbt? Does that question make sense?
I'll give a first pass on this. We have discrete time and continuous time models in active inference.
For a discrete time model where you have the B transition matrix, then the choice of delta t
is a modeller's decision. And we talked about this a lot in live stream 52 on accelerated
optimization. There's some delta t that's like going to get you the most accelerated optimization.
If you have too small of delta t, then you're either oversampling or you're maybe even physically
unrealistic, like you pointed to, or if you have some long delta t, you're also not making an
informative simulation in the discrete time case where you're explicitly making time steps.
Contrast with the continuous time generative model, where we're doing more of a Taylor series
expansion on the generalized coordinates at which point delta t is not required,
you're merely just taking an extended approximation from a given snapshot. And so delta t doesn't
even come into play. Got it. Okay, that makes sense. I don't know how it ties into time, but
it helps clarify a little bit. Okay, anyone else can raise their hand or under kind of
maybe one more question or one more topic from a paper, just what's one more puzzle piece that
you think gives us a first coat of paint from questions submitted or from one of these papers
that you have up? What's something that helps us connect the dots a little bit?
So I don't think I have a good answer. Let me look at the questions again.
So regarding time, I'll just reiterate what I said as I look over these questions, which is that I
believe Chris will address it in this bit. I don't know if you can see what I'm sharing on the
screen, but the paper who styled this communication protocols, blah, blah, blah, from March of this
year, does talk a lot of space time. It's a quantum error correction code. And to me personally,
it'd be nice to see that can be more familiar notions of time, such as special relativity
can be recovered as limits in correspondence principles. Yeah, do you want me to say anything else?
If anyone could even just summarize like what would these what are these codes referring to?
Or how are these codes one and the same as communication protocols?
Or are they related to the blanket and the the heat that was being output as waste?
What will what will these codes allow us to do better if we understood them more?
I don't know that I can answer that right now. I don't I don't think they understand the question.
Um, yeah, I just don't know. Sorry.
Terry, and then anyone else raising their hands?
Um, I'm not a physicist. I don't understand maths at all.
Um, but what attracted me to this, um, idea of physics is information processing is that,
um, it feels like at a base level, the whatever the X on noble external state is,
it could be perceived as made up of information. You know, we kind of think of ourselves living in
a particular universe, but, you know, at a base level, there are these and stop me if I'm just
talking 14 year old nonsense here, but, you know, this notion of quantum fields, they feel like
informational fields. And, um, that the concept of physics is purely information that we then
interpret as a physical universe, which we inhabit because what we can't see beyond our
Markov blanket. And I find this a really exciting idea that as a that whenever you start to think
of the, um, surprise all as the, um, variational free energy between, you know, sort of your,
your prior and your posterior, if you start to think of that variational free energy, not as
energy, but as an information gap. So that if you see the energy as actual, you know, because
energy, when you think of energy and physics terms, it's kind of this magical thing that does,
that allows work to happen or, you know, but, but, but what is it, you know, we've got a term for it,
and we've got, we've got, we've got a, you know, is it jewels, you know, or whatever, you know,
but, but, but what does it mean? It has this magical property. But if you think of it as an
information, um, then it starts to make sense. So variational free energy starts to be seen
as a difference in information between what you, uh, your, your prior and your posterior.
So whenever you start to think about time, time is this conceptual metric that we use
almost because we have memory. And, um, I wonder if we are getting, uh, trapped in this semantics.
And all I have is English because I don't understand the maths really. But, um, we're, we,
we, you know, you guys come in here and you do understand the maths and then you convert it
into English, which I think I understand. And then I can think of it like a kid in a
Swedish shop or a physics class at the 14 years of age. I don't really know what I'm saying. I
don't know what I'm saying, but at a fundamental level, everything that we're talking about is
in for, I, I, I can understand this as information and I'm excited to see how things develop. What
are your thoughts on this craziness?
So many, uh, great pieces in there. Physics as information processing. What is it that actually
allows the steam engine to run and the ball to move that kind of physics? And then as the timeline
laid out, also occurring during a period of, of immense technology and, and apparatus
development and, and digitization and all of this and unconventional computing as well,
it's almost like this, uh, materialist dualism that instead of with, with mind and body, that
there was some kind of dualism between the types of forces and energies and ways of thinking about
what made the steam engine work and then what makes a computer work. And so you'd understand
how the computer could fall off a cliff, but then you wouldn't necessarily be able to use that exact
kind of mechanics and physics and dynamics to study like how the computer operated. But you
could say it weighed 11 pounds. And so I think the, the provocation and then, which is as you
hinted towards, um, first off would be awesome to have a natural language, math and graphical
synthesis, the triple play, but also then to use a common approach to understanding this and what
wasn't working or is not proposed to work is trying to fit information into that non cognitive
universe. But rather if we take the cognitive primacy of communication, then all of these forces
as inferred by the sensorium, which is all we're ever going to have totally the most valid first
principles constraint to make, maybe then we'll be able to have a lot more synthesis about even
how steam engines work when we understand that we're bound in that inference by our sensorium
and all that comes along with that and the variational free energy bounding surprise on our
generative model. Dean? I'm going to, I'm going to come at this from the position of a 14 year
old lens because I don't think there's anything unique about that. I think on most basic level,
what I took away from Chris's lecture was that there are, that there's information processing
of at least two types. One is figuring it out as in figure five or any of these other figures
that are up on the screen right now or anything that stabilizes the world around us. I think
examples have come up in this conversation already of topology or geometry. There's a second type of
information processing, which is outing the figure type of information, which is searching.
And I think Alexi used the expression, which time are we talking about? So these two types
of processes are quite different. If you do a comparative analysis of the two, you have information
practicing and you have to have both of the processes to really get a sense conceptually of
what it is that the communication is really talking about. If you are information practicing
your wayfinding until you collapse to something we might describe in a verb tense as wayfound.
It's in the quantizing of that invariant state, that vast ocean, if you want to think of it
metaphorically, out to all horizons on the manifold into a variant or a nuanced or a discretized
or an orientation type of state where all of a sudden things like currents and temperature ships
and even things that we've applied labels to like entropy and a transition matrix suddenly appear
out of the seeming nothingness or the invariance. So that's not the math, but that's kind of stepping
back and saying what is the math trying to say? I think it boils down to the comparative analysis
and then I think I'm hoping that in the coming lectures Chris starts opening that up and doing
kind of the back and forth between the two types of figuring it out and outing the figures because
I think when both are part of the conversation, that's when we start to get a sense of what's
really going on. Thank you. In this sort of closing sessions, especially if anyone hasn't
added anything, please feel free to give any last reflections or questions arising.
So first, as many people as would like can reflect that way. And then after every hand has been
addressed, then, Andrew, if you could just give us a kind of look ahead. So Avel first, then anyone
else with just where does this discussion take us and what do you want to continue to learn more
about, Avel? So, two things. First, if I walk out of here without understanding what is a
corn cocoon, I will be disappointed. And I don't actually expect it to happen in like
12 hours. That seems like it's something. But more seriously, as a colleague, I can agree
without difficulty that there is a unity between my physical structure and communication protocols.
And that communication protocols or quantum reference frame kind of individuate physical
states, individuate meaningful measurement outcomes that are verified as physical possibilities.
But the question is then where do communication protocols slash quantum reference frame come
from? Like what are the physical determinants that bring about those things? And that seems
like a question that could be addressed at a conceptual level of this course. And I would like,
I saw the livestream 17, so that did not help. Anyway, I would like to have more grip into that
if we can translate it into the foreign courses. Thank you. Thank you.
Anyone else, especially if they haven't added anything yet?
I want to give kind of a closing thought.
Yeah, there's a lot to learn. And Chris brings up a lot in his lecture, even though we've only
had one, it's one of the denser hours of epistemic resourcing that I've seen. And there's also all
of these accessory and cutting edge works that that under showing. So I'm really looking forward to
how we can continue to carry and improve the questions that we have.
So that the uncertainties in our generative model that we have, how would this be useful?
What does this mean? Why is this variable this way? What is the implication for that?
Those are all the great questions. And let's just get them inscribed on our classical documents
so that we can have other quantum cognitive agents reduce their uncertainty
by looking at the responses. So with that, under if you could just look ahead to lecture two
and just like point towards where we're going to be going.
Yes. So so lecture two will I think from what I heard from Chris is going to start to address
these basic ontological aspects of the quantum measurement. So the two sources to look at would be
two papers, mainly this one physical main of the holographic principle. This one's by far the
most pedagogical one. So if I had to suggest that folks look at one, it would be this one.
It's very easy to read, I think. But maybe for a bit more detail, there's the slightly older one
and they talk at length about cone, coco and diagrams here.
Free energy principle for generic quantum systems. So I think that's what's going to come
in these two lectures, basically the main ideas behind these two papers.
Anya, that's all I have to say.
All right. Well, thank you for all who joined this first discussion. Hope that it was
fun for you and for the audience and check out the course site for the readings to get ahead
of the second lecture. We'll all watch the second lecture and come back
in about a month for the second discussion. Everyone's welcome to join and the website
has the registration information. And so now that we've seen a little bit of one way it can be,
we may do something similar or we may do something different for the second discussion.
So thanks again, everybody. See you later.
Thank you.
