We often, I guess in cognitive science
and the literature says that agency standard
requires some kind of embodiment, right?
And when you think of math,
math is a very abstract
and in a way it's limitless.
It does not have an embodiment
and it does not,
and one thing that embodiment does is
it specifies some kind of constraints.
And math in a sense is limitless
and yet it seems to have some property of scarcity,
some kind of constraint,
which is kind of confusing to me.
But in any case,
I think do you think that math
also has some sort of embodiment
which people often think is required for agency?
I think the embodiment consists
of the relational structure that forms
when you define some purpose.
So let me go back through,
like back to, to, you know, here or here.
So like, you know,
this kind of feels like embodiment to me.
Like we're defining A times B.
So this may not look like a definition.
This is a definition.
This defines A times B.
And what it is is it's just a set of relationships
to other things defining sort of information
that's coming in and ways of building things.
When we look at what A times B does
and how it relates to everything,
I'm not an expert on embodiment.
That's kind of my understanding
is that to make sense to the brain,
we have to think about how it connects
to the rest of the body
and what it does out in the environment.
We can't just consider it as some isolated,
you know, just intelligence floating around like a spirit.
We do end up doing something similar in math
where you end up defining objects
by these universal properties,
by these systems of relationships.
So I think you could think of this
as analogous to embodiment in math.
I mean, I think it's related,
Sandesh, I think it's related to the stuff
that Madeline and I are doing with the grim sentences
where it seems like there is at least something
that it's all doing in the absence of,
in the absence of specific embodiment in the,
like I think it's related to the platonic space stuff
that we talked about it to the, to Madeline's project.
Yeah.
I guess in a way, any definition of agency
would have to be specified in mathematical terms
at the end of the day because, right?
Because we do not have any other language
to express any concept other than mathematics and logic.
And I guess mathematics is like logic,
it is a foundation of mathematics itself.
But if you assume that mathematics is the only language
through which we can express agency,
perhaps it kind of follows that mathematics is agentic
because it's the only language we can express agency in.
Is that sort of a paradox or a contradiction?
I'm just thinking about here.
Yeah, no, it's a great question.
The way I think it's going to end up being resolved
is we're not going to actually come up
with like a specific definition of agency
where we can exactly say this is agentic and this isn't.
What agency is going to end up being is it's going to be
a human term for clumping things together
for pragmatic uses based on common underlying structure.
So the argument that math is agentic here,
I don't intend to find a precise definition of agency.
Instead, what I intend to do is show that it does the things
that we normally call agentic.
If we saw a physical object doing the stuff
that we see math doing, we would call it agentic.
So maybe we can just call it math agentic as well.
And the reason to do so is not to be necessarily
just super consistent for consistency's sake,
but because that will lead to useful ideas,
both useful things like finding these novel competencies
and useful things for scientists broadening their horizons,
bringing in new mathematical tools, asking new questions.
So that's going to be the ultimate benefit of this
is helping humans make smarter categorization choices
which will lead to more efficient scientific
and mathematical decisions.
Thank you.
I had a question about the...
Go ahead, Mike.
No, no, you go ahead. Go ahead.
OK.
So let's assume for a second that we agree with that idea
of math being time.
I can see what you mean, I think.
What I'm curious, though, is can you apply that to computations
as well, right?
So your example of the equation where you have 3 plus 5,
oh, what was it?
I've got numbers.
3 plus 3, I think, equals 5.
But not only in a computer setting,
if you have any kind of network where you update states
based on equations, essentially, right,
you have to make those computations.
And even though you don't specify exactly what time step that is,
tasks have a step and actually matters a lot
in these network computations and any networks I've seen,
how you update it.
Do you all do it synchronously?
Do you do it sequentially?
You can see that very intuitively changes the outcome of computations.
So that's kind of my question.
Do you think you can have, even if you can have,
even if you express math without time,
can you also get time out of the computations?
Yeah, I don't know a lot about the specific details,
but it's something I have been thinking about
because it makes sense as a question
and it is something that needs to be resolved.
I suspect that there probably are ways of defining time
in terms of abstract connections,
which is basically some kind of,
it's hard to articulate this,
but some kind of functorial quality that's varying
as other things are varying and sort of structure preserving maps
that are themselves, structure preserving
as they move along their own structure preserving track.
And there are things in,
so all this kind of comes from category theory,
there are things in category theory that look like that.
And so maybe that will lead to some interest,
I'm sure people are working on that.
So I'm sure you could lead to some theory of computation.
So I don't really have a specific answer,
but it's definitely an important question,
something that I'm interested in as well.
And I have no doubt that I will not solve it
and hopefully someone else will.
All right.
Just one super short follow up.
What about logic?
Same questions for logic.
Because if logic, if you have,
if 2 plus 3 equals 5, then, you know, X, Y, Z,
isn't it then, doesn't that also imply the same
as a computational aspect time?
Yeah, that's a super interesting comparison
because it is a temporal world.
And we're talking about then in the physical world,
that is time.
And when we talk about then in the mathematical world,
we're not referencing time.
The way I take that is to say that we can basically forget
about time in the physical world and think about our predictions
as being structure preserving,
even if we just drop out the time element.
But it may well be that you could do the other way
and say we're going to add time into math.
So I don't know how to do that,
but it's a perfectly logical thing to try.
Yeah.
No, that's super interesting.
I just want to, like, I'm super behind saying,
you know, we don't need to have a specific time.
Like, I mean, even though that will, of course,
make it more realistic and to these different explanations,
but the idea of, right, of a logical connotation itself,
even though it doesn't, like, it's not really time-dependent
in terms of quantitatively.
But I feel like the idea itself of connecting things
logically, even in a pure mathematical space,
basically have a time element to it.
But maybe you're right.
Maybe I'm just predicting language problems onto it.
Is there anything you think there was more?
Yeah, I mean, I think...
