This is a talk about agency at the very bottom
and introduction to universal properties
and adjoint functors.
So it's about mathematical agency.
First of all, just a little bit about me.
My background is in economics,
but I moved to abstract math
to try to solve some problems in economics
that economics was not able to help me solve.
We didn't have the tools
and ended up finding out about Mike's work
through a YouTube video like a lot of people.
I sent him an email and we ended up setting this up.
I should also mention that this talk is designed
for people who have little to no background
with category theory or abstract math in general.
I know a number of you do have experience with such things.
So the mathematical portion of this
may move relatively slowly for you,
but that should hopefully make it easy to focus
on the unusual perspective.
And if you don't have any background with such things,
it should be easy to follow along.
Also, we have a lot to get through,
so I'll appreciate it if people can hold questions
unless something I've said just doesn't make logical sense to you
in which case, please let me know,
but otherwise we'll try to get through
as much of this as we can.
So first of all, why talk about mathematical agency?
There's a few reasons.
One is that it could settle the question
of where the line is between agentic
and non-agentic things in our universe.
There is no line because it's all math.
Also, if you think math can be agentic,
it's suddenly pretty easy to think that cells can be agentic,
so that stuff is pretty easy to swallow.
In general, new perspectives means new questions
and new interpretations of old results,
so that could be useful.
And finally, and what's really gonna be the focus
of this talk is that math looks agentic,
so we should call it agentic.
So here's what we're gonna talk about.
We're gonna talk about four concepts here in this talk.
The first is scarcity.
This is a concept from economics
that I'm going to argue is the necessary conditions
for agency, and I'm going to show you
that mathematics has scarcity,
and so it meets the necessary conditions for agency,
so it's plausible that it is in fact agentic.
Then we're gonna talk about two agentic things in math,
which are universal properties and adjoint functors.
Universal properties relate to optimization,
which is obviously important for agents,
and adjoint functors relate to optimal reconstruction
and least action, which are also very agentic things.
And finally, time permitting, which it may or may not be,
we'll talk a little bit about timeless choice,
so math doesn't move, so people can do stuff through time,
but math can't, so how can math actually do anything
like an agent?
We'll talk about that if we can.
And so the hypothesis lurking in the background,
which I can't provide evidence for,
but it's just sort of the idea
that maybe can inspire some new questions,
is that life and physical structures in general
that have any agentic properties are able to do so
because they exploit the affordances given to them by math,
including basic agentic properties.
So just like if you're evolving a triangle
and you evolve the first two angles,
you get the third angle for free,
maybe something similar is happening with agency
where you get a lot of stuff for free.
So I wanna start with scarcity.
We're gonna talk about how scarcity
is the necessary conditions for agency,
and see what that looks like in mathematics.
So let's start with agency.
If you see something agentic in the world,
you see something you want to call agentic,
what's causing you to do that?
What must be present for that
to make sense as a modeling decision?
There's undoubtedly a number of perspectives on this.
The perspective I'm going to take
is that it's all about choice.
If you see something agentic or that you model as agentic,
what it's probably doing is making something
that you are calling a choice,
and so you think of it as an agent.
So where does choice come from?
Why do we call things choices?
The answer is it comes from trade-offs.
Trade-offs exist.
If you do one thing, you can't do another thing.
If you go left, you can't go right.
So you have to make choices,
and then to make those choices, you have to be an agent.
So choice is necessary for agency,
trade-offs is necessary for choice.
What's necessary for trade-offs?
I'm gonna argue this bottoms out at scarcity.
Scarcity, I'm going to define as
the necessary conditions under which trade-offs occur.
That's quite vague at the moment.
We're gonna be more specific,
but this is the sort of pyramid here.
Agency ultimately requires scarcity
to make sense as a modeling decision.
So what we're going to do here
is come up with a more specific definition of scarcity.
We're gonna look at some examples of trade-offs
first in economics and then in math.
We're gonna see how economists think about scarcity,
what the limitations of that are,
and then come up with a generalization
that fits mathematics.
So here is the standard economic picture of scarcity.
Forgive me, I'm not an artist,
so this is the best I can do.
On the left here, we have four sandwiches.
On the right, we have five hungry people,
and you can see the issue.
We can't feed everyone a full sandwich.
So we're forced to make trade-offs.
We could feed four people a full sandwich
and one person goes hungry,
or we could cut up the sandwiches in some way
and feed everybody,
but not everybody's gonna get to eat a full sandwich.
So we're forced to make trade-offs.
Well, I've argued that scarcity
is the necessary conditions for trade-offs.
So the existence of trade-offs means there is scarcity here.
So what is the scarcity?
What makes scarcity be happening here?
Well, economists define it as finite physical resources.
The core of the issue
is that we have a finite amount of sandwiches.
We have four of them instead of infinity.
If we had an infinite number of sandwiches,
we'd be able to feed everybody.
So this is how economists think about scarcity,
finite physical resources.
The problem with this definition
is that math does not have finite physical resources
so far as I know, but it still has trade-offs.
So there's a problem with defining scarcity
in terms of finite physical resources,
which is it can't define trade-offs
when we're dealing with infinite stuff.
So let's look at a trade-off in math.
So this should be very familiar.
We're just counting up the natural number line,
one, two, three, four, five, et cetera.
As we do so, we're constantly switching back and forth
between odd and even numbers.
So we're constantly making trade-offs odd number
or even number.
We never have both.
And this is not just a superficial distinction.
If you have an even number and you divide it by two,
you've got a whole number.
If you have an odd number and divide it by two,
you get a rational number.
So there's different properties.
So this trade-off is really meaningful,
which means there must be scarcity
because trade-offs imply scarcity
because scarcity is necessary for trade-offs.
But I don't see anything finite in this situation.
It looks like we have an infinite number
of natural numbers.
So where is the scarcity coming from
if not the finiteness of our system?
Here's just another example of trade-offs in mathematics.
I wanna show you that this is ubiquitous.
You're always making trade-offs in mathematics.
Real numbers versus complex numbers.
On the left here, we have real numbers.
Real numbers have a very useful property,
which is they can be totally ordered,
meaning for any two real numbers,
I can always tell you which one is bigger,
like we always know which one is bigger.
What they can't do is define the square root of negative one.
If we move to the complex numbers,
we can define the square root of negative one,
but we can't totally order our numbers anymore
because they're two-dimensional.
So one complex number could be bigger on the real dimension,
but smaller along the imaginary dimension or vice versa.
So we gain the ability to define
the square root of negative one.
We lose the ability to totally order our numbers.
