This is my short argument for math being agentic
because it makes predictions.
Things like two plus three equals five are like prediction,
but there's just no time to it.
Predictions are all about structure preserving a long time.
Let's just drop the temporal element.
We don't need it.
Math does structure preservation without time.
So let's talk about structure preservation without time.
If that seems weird,
well, we accept that memories are not about the past.
So why do predictions need to be about the future?
If we can say, I'm not remembering about the past,
why can't we say I'm not predicting about the future?
The usefulness of doing so,
if that seems like a weird decision,
is it lets us talk about math being agentic
because math is all about structure preservation.
So structure preservation is prediction,
then math is all about prediction,
agency is all about prediction
because of free energy stuff.
So there you are.
And this is in fact how things work in the physical world.
So here's a very important source of intuition.
Take this footprint in the mud here.
Now, obviously what this footprint does
is it preserves the structure of the foot.
We can see this footprint
and clearly it reflects the properties of the foot.
And we can use this footprint
to make predictions about the foot.
We know what the foot is going to look like
based on this footprint.
But you don't have to think about time here.
So we actually like freeze the universe here
and say just stop, you know, there's no time here.
Can I not in fact still make predictions
about what the foot looks like based on the footprint?
I don't have to make a prediction about tomorrow.
Just say, I can look at this footprint.
I know what the foot looks like now.
Do I care that there's not a temporal element to that?
I just don't see why that matters.
So something else that's also super relevant to this
in terms of biology.
So this is morphology.
So our transformation, the way the mud transforms
is what the footprint is made of.
It's the transformation that constitutes the prediction,
which is also how predictions work in math.
We take our free monoid, we transform it via a function
to reflect this looping relationship here.
So we've got morphology in the physical world
are constituting our set of predictions.
We have morphology in the mathematical world
is constituting our set of predictions.
The only thing missing is time.
It doesn't seem like time is actually relevant.
So we can equate prediction with morphology.
We can think of the footprint as being the prediction.
The footprint is the prediction.
We don't need an intelligent human entity
to come along and say,
I'm going to use this to make a prediction.
It is the prediction.
And the reason we know that
is because the mud is using it to make a prediction.
The mud has formed this shape
because it is anticipating being stepped on
in the same way again.
The mud is minimizing its free energy
and it's saying, how do I, I've been stepped on.
How do I transform to minimize the amount of change
I could experience being stepped on again
by the same foot in the same place
that forms this footprint
to minimize the amount of anticipated change
that we could experience
because it's minimizing free energy.
And of course, the mud is just very stupid.
So instead of understanding that
there's all kinds of things that could step on it,
it forms a very limited prediction
being like, this is the only foot in the world.
It can only step on me one way because it's kind of dumb.
But we have transformation through time.
We have transformation without time,
you know, the physical universe versus math,
but it seems like it's doing everything the same way.
And this is just like what we saw
with A times B remembering A and B.
We normally think of memory as being with time,
but we can remember things without time
just with structure preserving maps.
So math doesn't do anything in time,
but it does transform.
It transforms via functions,
which don't have a temporal quality,
but it still is transformation
and transformation or structure preserving transformation
is what agency is all about.
So that takes me to the end of this talk.
So thank you all very much for sitting through that.
I know I probably talked too fast.
I got to work on that.
So just to remind you all the basic idea here,
maybe what's going on with agency and the physical universe
is exploiting things that math gives us for free.
What I'm personally trying to do with that
is solve some problems in economics.
There's a famous problem called problem of externality,
which normal mathematical tools and economics
didn't help me solve.
So I ended up moving over here
to look at that kind of problem.
And in general, it seems like math has an agentic structure,
so or an economic structure.
So I'm kind of interested in producing a theory like that.
Just as an example,
groups are monoids with an extra axiom.
So price repaying, am I buying that in a mathematical market?
Just think that's an interesting idea.
It might lead somewhere.
If any of this interests me,
please feel free to email me at Benj...
Or interest you, please feel free to email me
at benjman.f.lians at gmail.com.
Thank you very much for sitting through that again.
I know I probably talked too fast,
but that brings me to the end.
So if anyone has any questions
or anything they'd like to say, please feel free.
Cool, thanks so much.
Questions?
So when you're talking about timeless agency,
I was thinking about,
does it relate to invariant quantity like a Hamiltonian's?
Because Hamiltonians don't have time in it,
but you can generate time sequence from it.
Yeah, I don't know anything about physics,
but I am vaguely aware that there are ways
of looking at some physical thing
where you're not necessarily thinking about time.
So I can't give you a specific answer,
but yeah, invariants in math and invariants in physics,
undoubtedly highly related concepts
and being able to talk about invariants
without talking about time,
which you can clearly do in math,
probably does help us explain that relationship
between agency and the physical universe
where we do have time
and agency and the mathematical universe where we don't.
Okay, thank you.
Because I saw recently there are some research domain
like an edge based model.
I think those models,
they don't have explicit time in the model,
but they just want to minimize the energy.
So it's similar to what you said.
Absolutely.
Yeah, there's a physicist named Julian Barber.
I haven't actually read their work,
but I know they produced like a book
about like doing physics without time altogether.
So I haven't read it,
but just like the awareness of that
as a conceptual possibility did inspire some of these ideas.
Okay, thank you.
Okay.
Oh, hi.
I have a question.
Thank you for the talk, by the way.
So it started out with the premise
that scarcity is a necessary condition for agency.
So agency implies scarcity,
but is scarcity, do you think scarcity
is also sufficient condition for agency?
Because I think for any condition,
any definition of agency should specify both
necessary and sufficient conditions.
Yeah, I agree.
That would be nice to have.
I'm just not entirely sure.
It seems to me that it's conceptually possible
that you could have like an empty mathematics
where you have logical consistency,
but no assumptions, no theorems, no nothing.
So maybe you don't have agency
because you're not doing anything
or maybe it's trivial agency.
So it might end up being sufficient,
but I just don't know for sure.
So I feel very confident it's necessary.
I'm not entirely sure that you can just say
that it is sufficient for sure.
So it might be, but I just didn't want to say that
because I'm not 100% on that.
Also kind of a related question.
