you want to go for it Chris and I'll follow.
Oh, I was just going to say this sounds like a delightful project and I'm glad you're doing it is in an as explicit a way as possible.
Yeah, we'll see how delightful people find it.
You know, right.
Because I just thinking from a free energy principle point of view.
We and also Carl and his group have argued very strongly that here's a principle that applies to everything.
So, certainly any, any organ in the body any collection of cells in the body, etc, etc.
So, if one wants to be brain specific, then one has to add very strong architectural assumptions.
And if you think about something like integrated information theory, then really having positive Phi comes down to having internal feedback loops.
Everything has internal feedback loops.
And so I think in a sense, you're, you're calling a lot of bluffs and that if you start with these general theoretical principles about information processing,
then it's very hard to construct something that's brain specific.
The big, you know, the funny thing is that when I've brought this up to various people, you know, because you want to do their theory justice right then if there's something you know they should give the best case they can for the distinction.
The biggest argument that I get from this, what people say is, well, that can't be right because I don't feel that my liver is conscious.
You don't feel that I'm conscious either. Of course you don't. How would you know?
And so that seems like a terrible, like a terrible argument, but I think that's primarily where people sort of say, okay, we're good.
I know I feel conscious. I don't feel any of the rest of this stuff being conscious good enough.
And I think that that seems like a fundamental, fundamental error to me.
Right. Well, no one says I feel like my brain is conscious. Yeah, yeah.
It's, I agree with Chris. That's a wonderful project, Mike. And I really look forward to, to, to reading. It's what the output is of your deliberations.
So I also have learned from you to, to not think.
I mean that prejudice I shared with all of my colleagues, you know that it just goes without saying that when you talk about consciousness you're talking about the nervous system in general and the brain in particular, and it never crossed my mind that that we would
have the question that you asked, it's just not a question that has any premise. And so are now because of you find that a very interesting question.
Chris's point, let's just take it at the biological level, the free energy principle.
I start with Chris's point at the biological level, although it doesn't apply only biologically that the whole of natural selection is a self organizing complex dynamical self organizing system.
And where there is, where there is an adjustment of the predictive model as to, you know, what needs to be done in order to remain viable for the whole of life for each species, and then ultimately for each of us as individuals.
That comes to the question of what I think a very important part of what the nervous system does and the brain in particular is that it remains plastic that it is massively plastic in terms of its massively amenable to updating of its predictive model.
I think compared to most organizations is there's a hell of a lot more learning from experience going on in the brain.
I don't mean it's exclusive and that's why I started with the statement that I did you know I mean you really have opened my mind to to problematizing this prejudice.
But, but, but I think that remember what I said earlier in our conversation today, when I said that consciousness is about palpating the uncertainties in attaching to the prediction over the error signal.
The error signal of course is what drives the learning process. And so, the learning process is is is pivotal to what consciousness is all about it's learning from experience.
So I think that an a system, I think it's fundamental to a conscious system that it's doing predictive work. In other words, it's updating its predictive model, and in particular, that it's updating its predictive model in a way that is not given by phenotypic innate predictions
In other words, it's feeling its way it's palpating the precision is this going well or is this going badly it's increasing or it's formulating policies on the basis of fluctuating
in those policies. So, so I think an organ that that that, or any mechanism that does that, that's learning by palpating the, the, the precisions in different in competing possible courses of action.
And that means that it's capable of choice. It means it's capable of voluntary action. And I think that's what consciousness is for it's to guide voluntary as opposed to stereotype automatic policies.
I'll just add one or two or two further details. One of them is that if consciousness has qualities, which it does. Then I think an important requirement is that they have to be there has to be categories of need, it's not a system that's just doing the same thing.
I make widgets, I make widgets, I make widgets. It's that well now I'm doing this now I'm doing that now I'm doing the other thing. So, a complex organisms have a multiplicity of needs, and they are categorical variables they have to be satisfied in their own rights they can't be reduced
You can't just say I'm minimizing my free energy. It has to be, I'm minimizing my free energy years but it's factorized across sleep, hydration, you know,
oxygen, etc, etc. Each of those needs has to be met. Therefore, you have to have categorical qualitatively differentiable preferences.
I think that that is a major factor in what gives rise to Qualia in the first place that they that they have to be qualitatively differentiated from each other.
And then the last thing I would say. So, so there, let me come back to your question I think the nervous system has more to do with dealing with the whole bang shoot, rather than dealing with, you know, one or another.
I don't mean that each organ system deals with only one need, but I think that the nervous system deals with the more.
You know, the meta system in that sense and I think that's an important reason why it's not uniquely but especially bound up with consciousness. And then the last point and I'll end here that the predictive hierarchy.
We all know those, you know, the three of us in this room that need to go through why the predictive model is hierarchically organized.
But that's another thing that the nervous system seems to particularly lend itself to it has it has a hierarchical mentality.
So those are my my responses to your to your fabulously interesting question.
So one of the things that so we have a number of other systems that we're testing for all this stuff. And, and one of the one of the things that geopasulo and I are going to be looking at is this this predictive model updating in gene regulatory
So something as simple as, you know, already we we and others you know Richard Watson and others have shown that something is as mechanistic and simple as a gene regulatory network and have it can learn from experience and we've shown it has different six different kinds of learning, just there with no
no other magic added just there. And so now the question is, is there a, is there an active inference version that can be sort of mapped onto it where we can show that as it guides the experience of the cell being the hit with different, you know, different stimuli and
is there a sense in which these these pathways and the molecular networks and pathways are updating their models.
And, and, and, you know, and as you said having these qualitative for differentiated preferences and so on.
So we're looking and then, you know, yeah, then we'll see we'll see what that looks like but but there are many other right so so there are more for genetic systems where we're looking at that there are physiological systems.
Yeah, it would be nice to it would be nice to develop like a panel of, you know, almost like a almost like a panel of tools computational tools that could be applied to a system to, you know, I mean in some sense it was.
Yeah, it was is that right in some in some sense is an attempt at that.
But I think I think, yeah.
Yeah, that's that's fantastic but on your last point I just want to underscore what Chris said about about feedback.
This is the, the, the, the, the, the, that's I don't, I don't find myself particularly persuaded by team maybe I should just say that.
Yeah.
Well, I think it's also interesting, given what Mark just said about qualitatively different categories of requirements.
If we look at any cell, I suppose, even, even a very simple prokaryotic cell.
There are requirements for things like osmolarity and energy transduction and waste removal.
I mean, when could temperature, etc. etc.
All of which have to be met separately.
And there's not one way to regulate all of these things.
And there are gene regulatory networks that are in a sense specialized around those functions.
They're not completely specialized to just one of them, but that are specialized around the idea of, for example,
executing the, or producing the right sets of sugar metabolism genes at the right time and in the right proportions.
And something like E. Coli.
One has this kind of compartmentalization needs and compartmentalization of needs satisfying mechanisms that then have to be wrapped in
by a set of feedback loops that effectively serve as a meta processor that allocate energy to dealing with different needs in real time.
Energy being the basic resource.
One could also think of it in terms of allocating memory resources or computational resources, whatever.
But that meta structure that coordinates the response to different needs and prioritizes which pathways get the energy is,
at least from an information processing perspective, a separate system that has its own requirements for energetic and memory resources.
So it has to keep itself running also.
So you get something that that architecturally looks not a million miles from a brain.
It's hierarchical it's got multiple channels.
It has to satisfy many needs simultaneously.
And bunny up until the last sentence, I followed everything you said but I thought you were going to say, I thought you were going to conclude with a different statement than you did.
I thought you were going to conclude with a statement that this meta control system within the cell, which has to allocate resources and prioritize energy resources that that that sub component of the cells.
Processing is equivalent to the nervous system of that single cell. That's what I thought you were going to say rather, because I, you know, I think that the single cell is like the body at our level.
And then within the body there's the nervous system I thought what you were describing there, because that prioritize when I spoke of the importance.
I want to give you the importance of, of the different needs of the system, having to be treated as categorical variables.
But the reason why that becomes so important in terms of not the reason but a major reason why it becomes so important for why quality exists is because there's a meta system that's having to say okay which one of these things
you know which, which flavor is that issue here. And if you didn't have, if there was a, if there was a fixed pattern of how they get prioritized then the issue wouldn't arise.
It's because there has to be some qualitative prioritization processes, I think that's, so that's why I think that aspect is the important one and then there's the additional thing which is not by any means missing from what you just said, which is the action bottleneck.
It's the energy allocation bottleneck as it were because there's only a finite amount of energy resources, but there's also, you know what am I, we in our allostatic life.
We can, you know, we can't do everything at once. There's so you have to say okay I'm now going to deal with this need then I'm going to do so the prioritization also has to do with the action bottleneck.
But what if, so we've discussed Mike's questions. I don't think that we by any means exhausted the potential answers, but we didn't get to yours at all Chris so we have to yet again we have to have another meeting guys.
And next time we'll start with Chris's questions.
Okay, sounds good. I'm in.
I'll send, I'll send out an email. We'll schedule. We'll schedule your little the next one.
Fabulous. I can't tell you how much I enjoy talking to the two of you so thank you so much yet to get so much thank you.
Yeah, very good discussion long gentlemen. Good to see you.
Bye bye.
Bye.
