demarcation between things which are and are not alive. For example, the orthopedic anactivists,
they think of biology as being instrumental. And what the, you know, free energy principle
does in my opinion, is it removes the need for this, it almost removes the need for biology
entirely. It just says it's just dynamics, it's just physics. But yeah, I mean, just on that
point, though, I think many of our ideas about the world are quite incoherent.
Yeah. And I think it's interesting that, you know, one of the things that you're saying,
and I would agree with you as one of the big advantages of active inference-based formalisms,
you'll probably find some people will say, that's a problem with it, that actually there is a clean
distinction in their mind between these different things. But then I think the challenge is to work
out what that distinction is, if it exists. And it may be a distinction in their mind that doesn't
exist in somebody else's mind. And so getting people to try and or trying to support people to
be able to express that in a very precise mathematical hypothesis, I think is quite a
useful way of trying to explore those problems. Because clearly, for some people, there is
something that's getting at it that is not quite explaining. And it's interesting to try
and explore that and to work out what that thing is. Indeed, indeed. And just final question,
what was your experience writing a book? And would you recommend it to other people?
I enjoyed writing it. I think it's time consuming and can feel like it's going on forever some of
the time compared to, you know, I think anyone who's had some experience of writing papers will
often find that at the point where you're ready to submit it, you're just sick of it and want to see
the back of it. And then it's rudely returned to you by the peer reviewers with lots of comments
writing a book, it obviously takes you much longer. So you end up being almost more sick of it at
various times. But it's quite fun as a collaborative project. It's quite interesting to get other
people's perspectives on it. And I was lucky to have great collaborators to write it with.
And I think it really is a good way of organizing your thoughts in a slightly more holistic way
than you would while focusing on a very specific topic in a research paper.
And I've also just enjoyed the response I've had from people who've read it,
some of whom have picked out a number of errors, not many. But generally,
everybody's been very supportive of that and people seem to have responded well to it,
which I think is always encouraging. And that's what we hope should happen.
Wonderful. Well, look, Thomas, it's been an absolute honor having you on the show. I really
appreciate you coming on. Thank you so much. Well, thank you. I've enjoyed it.
