One is that most Unix systems are not being used in environments where there are no computers
already.
So you have to think about what you have.
If you've got a shop that's been using Apple products, people are familiar with the Mac.
AUX is a natural.
On the same side, if you've got a company where it's coming in from the technical side,
they may be familiar with many technical drafting applications like you'd have on a Sun system.
Sun or HP or companies like that are also a natural.
If people have heavy involvement in PCs, they've been using PC software, things like Xenix
and VPIX are able to run the PC software in the way that AUX can run Mac software.
So I think for most users, you need to go with the alliances that you're already familiar
with, go with some of these vendors.
The other thing is to keep track of the numbers as best you can because in this war of OSF,
TNT, it's going to be determined by software vendors who gets the most applications on
their product.
And so if you look at the numbers six months from now, a year from now, you should be able
to tell which of these two products is who's really winning in the marketplace and that's
going to determine it.
Gentlemen, thank you very much.
That's our look at Unix.
We'll be back with this week's computer news in just a moment.
In the Random Access file this week, many new product announcements tied to the just
completed Spring Comdex show in Chicago.
Intel stole most of the headlines with its new 8486 chip containing more than a million
transistors.
The Intel 486 now goes head to head with the new Motorola 68040 chip for the next generation
of personal computers.
However, analysts say it will likely be several years before software is written to take advantage
of the new faster chips.
Several vendors including Tandy, Grid and Dell introduced new PCs based on the Intel
386SX chip, which is a 32-bit chip using a 16-bit data path.
And compact Olivetti and Acer showed off new 33MHz 386 machines.
Sharp became the first to actually demonstrate a color LCD laptop.
The PC8000 is a 386 machine with a 14-inch color screen supporting VGA.
Sharp said their technology was different from the active Matrix LCDs used in miniature
television sets.
Sharp said the color laptop would be available by the end of the year for under $10,000.
Toshiba showed off its new 4Mb D-RAM chips.
The new chips make it possible to put as much as 14 megs inside a Toshiba T5200 laptop.
And Traveling Software announced an upgrade of its Laplink program.
The new version is called Laplink 3, and it will clone itself onto another computer so
that if you have two different disk formats and only one copy of Laplink, you can still
transfer files by first cloning the Laplink software onto another machine.
In other news this week, Motorola announced a 50MHz version of its 6803O chip.
That's the fastest clock speed in the industry.
Commodore has released a new Angus graphics chip for the Amiga that solves the memory
limitation problems with the current graphics chip.
The new Angus chip lets you use up to a megabyte of memory just for graphics.
A company called MacMotion has used HyperCard to program a new 9-axis robot system.
The company says HyperCard has enabled programming costs to be cut so dramatically that the cost
of the robot system may be reduced by a factor of 10.
The new semiconductor says it's building chips for the national security agency that self-destruct.
Designed presumably for use by spies, the chips come apart if someone tries to open
up the machine.
Finally, Stanford University is conducting the first ever totally computerized election.
The election is only for student government, but state and county election officials are
watching the results.
The Stanford system is using 70 Macintosh computers as voting stations, with special software
written by a Stanford sophomore.
The designers say the benefits are not only instant results, but fewer wasted ballots
since the software is smart enough not to let the voter do something which would invalidate
the ballot.
There is a paper and pencil backup system for the total computer phobe who has never
touched a mouse.
That's it for this week's Random Access.
I'm Maria Gabriel for the Computer Chronicles.
The Computer Chronicles is made possible in part by McGraw Hill, publishers of Byte Magazine,
and VIX, the Byte Information Exchange.
In print and online, Byte and VIX serve computer professionals worldwide with detailed information
on new hardware, software, and technologies.
For a transcript of this week's Computer Chronicles, send $4 to PTV Publications, Post Office
Box 701, Kent, Ohio 4-4-2-4-0.
Please indicate program date.
