Sales are shared seamlessly between hardware platforms.
The power of the 80386 is tapped.
The Open Desktop environment is expected to be complete by September, and SCO's track
record of success has attracted some big players to participate in the project, among them
Deck and Tandy.
Santa Cruz operation has doubled its sales for each of the last 10 years, and has gone
from having just a few to now over 800 employees.
Perhaps the biggest measure of its success comes from Giant Microsoft Corporation, which
has just purchased nearly 20% of the company.
In Santa Cruz, California, for the Computer Chronicles, I'm Wendy Woods.
Joining us in the studio now is Janet Dobbs.
Janet's a product manager with Ulyt Packard.
Before we get into the motif, here's an interface from Ulyt Packard.
I know it's on the screen here, way in the background is a little bit of Unix there,
it's like a directory, and so we all know that the Unix is underlying this whole user
interface, which of course is different from Unix, which is a different piece of software.
Why does Unix provide a good base for your product?
Unix is a powerful operating system, and that it allows for large amounts of memory and
large programs, which are used in technical environments, factory floors, large databases.
It's powerful, it's fast, it's unfriendly, so it's been very successful in more technical
environments.
That's why the user interface is in front of it.
Now could you tell us, like we had in the last segment, what are we working with here
in terms of hardware?
There's obviously some equipment on the floor here.
This is an HP360.
It has a 68030 Motorola processor in it, it's running about 33 megahertz.
What's cost to this configuration?
Series 300 workstations range from about 5000 up to 60 to 70,000, and a configuration like
this goes from 10 to 15,000.
Tell us about Motif now and the interface, in particular, how is your approach different
from what we just saw before in OpenLook?
OSF Motif is a combination of technologies from both DEC and HP.
If you notice on the screen, the 3D borders around the windows, it's an enhanced look
of the graphical user interface common in the PC environment for Microsoft, both Microsoft
Windows and Presentation Manager.
It takes advantage of the large installed base in the PC market, and all the work that's
been done in graphical user interfaces there.
Is that the major difference, the graphic look?
The behavior is based on that found in the PC market.
So a user that has been familiar with working with PCs can walk up to a Unix workstation
and not be concerned that it's OS2 or Unix or whatever.
What they see on the screen is what they're used to seeing, and they know how to open applications,
move around in them.
Did you do that for us and show us how you actually use Motif?
For example, if I want to move a window and say I'm a PC user, I know that I put the mouse
pointer on the title bar, click on that with the left button, and I can move that window
around on the screen.
I know that I can go to the left upper corner, hold the left mouse button down, and I get
a system menu, which for each window contains things like restore, move, size.
If I want to iconify a window, I click in the, there's a minimize and maximize button
that are found in presentation manager, and on the left side it's minimize, and I can
click and iconify that window and it moves into an icon.
I can bring a window to the foreground by clicking in that window.
The light source moves into the border so I can tell which window or which application
is active at that point.
By clicking in the upper right corner, I can allow an application to maximize or take over
the display.
Can you access that sort of raw UNIX window there and actually work inside it and go behind
Motif?
Yes, I can.
I have a terminal window right here that I click in and make that window active, and
at that point I can type in any of the commands in the UNIX operating system.
What is the status of Motif for, I mean, where is this as a product?
Motif will be available from OSF this summer.
HP and Corvallis Oregon is under contract with OSF to merge the DEC and the HP toolkits,
and we'll be turning that over to OSF in July.
Now you talked about OSF and that's an acronym for Open Systems Foundation?
The Open Systems Foundation.
Open Software Foundation.
Open Software Foundation.
Open Software Foundation.
Okay, can you tell us a little bit about that group?
The group was formed just about a year ago to ensure that software development environments
were open, available for input from different workstation vendors, to ensure that there
were standards that would exist to help end users and software developers in creating
programs.
Especially around UNIX and AIX in particular.
And are there other applications you talked about primarily UNIX, of course, being in
that technical environment?
Is HP working on new, broader applications that will run under UNIX and take advantage
of these?
We're working on applications, and other third-party developers are working on applications.
A user interface like this, more users will have access to the power of UNIX workstation,
and therefore I think we'll find workstations in more environments, such as maybe office
environments.
Jenna, thank you very much.
In just a minute, we'll take a look at the new Macintosh 2CX and see the Macintosh implementation
of UNIX.
AUX, stay with us.
With us in the studio now is Bill Jacobs.
Bill is product line manager with Apple.
Next to Bill, Kerry Christian, author and research associate at the Rockefeller University
in New York.
Kerry, one of the problems with UNIX in the past has been all these different versions,
homegrown versions and so forth.
And then there becomes problems with things like the libraries and so forth.
Being able to pass one program to another UNIX system.
Now, is there any standardization that's been taking place now recently?
Well, there's quite a bit of standardization.
In fact, there's really too much of it because the system is broken into two separate camps.
And we have on one side an alliance between AT&T, which is the originator of UNIX with
SUN, which is one of the major technical innovators in this area.
Which was the open-look version we saw at the beginning of the show.
That's right.
And on the other side, there's a fairly large group of companies that have, are not pleased
with this.
They're afraid of the power going to these two companies to their detriment.
And they formed another alliance called the Open Software Foundation, OSF.
And in that group, you have IBM plus a number of the other very major players in this business.
And that was the motif we just saw on the HP machine.
What about next step on the next machine?
That's yet a third version, isn't it?
Well, it uses a product called Mock, which is a variant of UNIX.
It's different enough from UNIX that you would probably classify it as a somewhat different
category.
Now, Bill, you have a, this is the first machine we've actually seen on the table.
Well, it's a Mac 2X.
We really haven't seen that on the show yet.
So maybe you can just run us, take a look inside the box there before we get to the
next.
Okay.
The product we have here is the new Macintosh 2CX.
It is fundamentally.
Obviously, a lot smaller than the two.
Fundamentally, the same electrical product in terms of capabilities as the Macintosh
2X, except that, by reducing the number of slots, we've greatly reduced the cost and
thus the price of the machine, is a much more clean internal design, much more easy to install
things like hard disks, which simply snap in place and the cable connects.
Even the power supply, there's no screws holding it in.
It's held in by plastic snap bosses.
So what we've done is not only reduce the price of the system through fixing some of
the RAM problems that the whole industry suffered under, but also by building the machine, more
simply reduce its price.
Does that sacrifice anything in terms of performance for?
No.
This is, in terms of performance, is exactly the same as the Macintosh 2CX.
Two X, you mean?
This is the two CX.
This is the two CX.
Okay.
Same performance as the Macintosh 2X, which is 10 to 20 percent greater than the Macintosh
2 was.
Now, you're running, what is AUX, you call it?
Yes, Apple's Unix product is AUX.
So can you give us a demo?
Sure.
What we're going to demo here is something you've seen variants of already today, so
I'll not belabor the point.
This is a particular application called Magic.
It is a higher education product for designing integrated circuits and represents, fundamentally,
one of the key uses of Unix today, and that is for technical professionals to do the types
of work they're involved in.
This is based on an X11.3 implementation, as we mentioned, XWindows is the underlying
standard on which OpenLook and Motif both be based.
This is a currently available product, we just introduced it and started shipping it
a couple of weeks ago, full X11.3 and runs on multiple screens.
What's the relationship here now?
You're running Unix AUX, but how's the relationship between the Mac operating system and Unix
What's going on inside?
To show you that, what I'll just do here is exit the X11 implementation and go show
you the other side of the fence for us here by exiting, I guess you have to put the mouse
in the box before that works.
The X11 implementation runs on the machine and to exit that and then begin running Macintosh
applications as you see about 10 seconds.
We're now at a Unix terminal shell window, as most Unix users are fairly comfortable with.
I've loaded up a set of applications here.
The important point about what I'm going to show you is these applications are not Unix
applications.
The first one I should probably show is MacDraw 2.
This is a Claris product.
So you got to wear the screen there.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
In order to run Claris MacDraw 2 on an AUX system, you simply go down to Egghead Software
and you buy the version of MacDraw 2 that you buy for your Macintosh Plus, your Macintosh
ASC.
From that, you move the files for the product off the floppy onto the Unix hard disk and
then run them there.
So, here's an example.
While you're doing that, Bill, what's the advantage of doing that, running it under
Unix instead of just under the Macintosh?
The crucial advantage is that the end user gets to run both the applications that he
knows and loves from the Unix world and the personal productivity software of the Macintosh.
We studied very carefully the technical user's world and what he does day to day and he spends
about 70 to 80 percent of his time doing, writing, drawing, presenting.
So even though he's a Unix techie, he has all these other things to do.
We're now basically in a Macintosh application and have all the user interface of the Macintosh
at our fingertips.
Let's open just a file here.
This is under MacDraw.
These are MacDraw 2 files.
This is some art that was created by an artist for some purpose and illustrates what you
can do in MacDraw.
The key point is you can now do it on a Unix system from a $300 application instead of
a $2,000 application.
You only have about a half a minute left, Karen.
I want to ask you to kind of summarize from the user's point of view we've seen just in
this half hour, you know, four different approaches to using Unix.
What's a user to do here in terms of trying to get involved in the benefits of Unix?
Well there are a couple of things.
