explore all intermediate values. And somewhere in there, it's
going to be excitable. And so this interfacial phenomenon gives
you much more robust excitability than you would get from any
homogeneous mixture of these channels. Furthermore, at the
interface, we sometimes, at least according to the
simulations, will observe things which you would never even
see with this particular combination of ion channels in
a homogeneous mixture. The interfaces are predicted to
become spontaneously active in a pretty big region of this
parameter space, whereas the homogeneous mixture in that same
region of parameter space is excitable, but not autonomous,
not a pacemaker. Okay. And so that's sort of the simulations.
And then we made a very, very simple core screen model based
on the Fitzhuna-Gumo equations, which is a simple model of a
biorelectic oscillator, and that basically reproduced these
phenomena. And so I think this raises an interesting question,
which is the reductionist approach to studying bioelectricity
and tissues, or in life, is typically you chop up your sample
to try to find a homogeneous tissue, you know, you're looking
for particular kinds of cells or tissues, and you want to study
their excitability. It's entirely possible that at the
interfaces between tissues, if you have gap junctional
coupling, things can be very different. And you can imagine
of a rock. So here we picked two particular ion channels, but
you can imagine a variety of different things that might
happen. For example, here, the action potentials were limited
constrained just to the interface. There could be a
situation where you have a tissue, maybe which is excitable, but
not autonomous, but then you touch it to another tissue, and
the interface becomes a pacemaker, which then starts to launch
waves into the excitable tissue. Or you could have, you know,
or good launch waves in both directions. And this is a pure
speculation, but I sort of wonder whether where this might
happen in real life. One possibility, and this is just
speculation, is in atrial fibrillation, it's known that
many of the foci for these arrhythmias are at the
interface of the blood vessels and the cardiac atrium. And I
sort of wonder whether it's because that's an interface,
which is what makes it into a pacemaker, which can then launch
these waves into the cardiac tissue. And then, you know, who
knows where else these things might show up. But I think it's
an interesting thing to be aware of, and to keep an eye out for
and biorelectrical exploration. Okay, any questions about this?
I'm going to go on to a slightly different topic. No. Okay, so
the next topic will address something which I think should
be a very familiar topic to all of you here that this is a
chart borrowed from one of Michael's papers, various versions
of this have showed up in many different places. And so it's a
chart which shows the resting potential across a wide range of
cells in the body. And one of the questions which I really
became fascinated by, and this is something that Michael and I
have discussed over quite a few years now, is this question of
whether, or under what circumstances, if you have cells
with different resting potentials, and you have an interface
between them, you can get electrophoretic redistribution of
charged molecules between these two cell populations. You could
easily imagine that if you have something which is charged and
which can go through gap junctions, and you have two cells
with different resting potentials, that charged stuff should
electrophoresis between the cells and establish concentration
gradient. And you know, this makes physical sense. And so I
wanted to establish a simple system where we could test these
ideas, and really explore to what extent biorelectrical
gradients drive small molecule redistribution. And this is the
work of Rebecca Frank Hayward, who's a grad student in my
lab. And so we thought we would use, we could use
optogenetics to create voltage patterns. And so here's an
example, this is a field of hex cells expressing just cure 2.1
and a channel adoption. So they're not excitable. They just
sit at a negative resting potential because of this
potassium channel. And then we'll stain them with a far red
voltage sensitive dye, and we'll illuminate them with a little
square of light. And when we do that, you can see the cells
depolarize, and that biorelectrical signal diffuses out
through the gap junctions between the cells. And here's a and
we turn off the light, the voltage goes away, here's the
cross section through that profile. And so we can create
gradients in voltage with the light here, you can see the
voltage varies as a function of position. And so then we wanted
to explore if we did this at steady state, would things
redistribute across these along these grades. And so we had to
pick a molecule or an ion to study. And so we decided,
perhaps unwisely, well, it'll turn out to have been
unwisely, but we didn't have time to try to study protons. And
the reason we picked protons is that they're very mobile. And
so we figured that since they have such high mobility, that we
should see relatively rapid redistribution of protons
across these interfaces. And at pH seven, seven and a half, the
proton concentration is very low. And so we thought we should
be relatively sensitive to small changes in pH, in proton
concentration, because they would need to changes in pH,
which we could monitor with a fluorescent pH indicator, which
was spectrally orthogonal to our channel. So you can set up the
Poisson-Nernst equations to model the proton flux. And let me
just mention the terms here. So we want to know the rate of
change of protons in each cell as a function of time. There's a
diffusion term. So you look at this, this is one dimensional. So
you look at the second derivative of proton concentration, and
it can diffuse through the gap junctions. And then there's two
ways that you can also get an electrophoretic change in the
proton concentration. If you have a gradient in the proton
concentration and a gradient in voltage, then protons are going
to flow from regions of higher concentration to lower just by
electrophoresis, and that'll change your concentration. Or if
you have a second derivative in your voltage, then the protons
will flow towards the region of where their electrostatic
potential is most stable. Okay, and we didn't make up these
equations. These have been known for 150 years. And so we can
simulate this though. And so we first simulated the voltage
profile for a top hat illumination profile protocol. And
that's what's shown in orange here. So the voltage sort of
diffuses out and you get this Gaussian like profile. And then
in blue is the simulation of the steady state proton concentration
profile. And so let's walk through this. We expect the cells to
depolarize where we shine the blue light. And so that we would
expect so the voltage is more positive. So that should repel
the protons. So we get a lower proton concentration, which
means a higher pH. There's a couple of sign changes here. So
you have to keep track of that. Now as you squirt the protons
out of this depolarized region, they're going to accumulate in
the neighboring cells. And so you have a higher proton
concentration in the neighboring cells. Do you expect those to
become a little bit acidic and have a lower pH? Okay. So that's
our prediction. Now let's do the experiment. And so for the
experiment, we're going to alternate blue and yellow
illumination on a timescale fast compared to the proton
redistribution. And so we will have on average over time, a
voltage profile, which is sort of the diffusion that would come
from this square. And then I showed you what proton
concentration profile we want. So here's the voltage profile. So
you can see again, when we apply the square, you get this nice
voltage profile. And now here I'll show you the pH profile. And
here we're using a pH indicator, which gets dark under acidic
pH and bright under basic pH. And you can see what we observed
is the opposite of what we hoped to see. So the cells under the
tonic blue light stimulation become acidic, not basic. And the
protocol shows a relatively sharp profile, basically mapping
the illumination and seems to not have much to do with the
voltage. Okay, so this was confusing to us. What's going on?
Well, we realized after a sort of circuit, a set of experiments,
that the channel adoption is actually permeable to protons. And
so when you turn on the channel adoption, in the presence of the
Kear channel, the potassium channel creates a very strong
driving force for inward flux of protons through the channel
adoption. And so you get this rush of protons coming through
the channel adoption, which directly acidifies the illuminated
cells. And so when we incorporated that effect, and then
calculated the predicted pH changes, now in purple is the
predicted pH change involving diffusion plus electrophoresis
plus the channel adoption. And in blue is the predicted pH
change without the electrophoretic effect. And you
can see we're going to be very hard pressed to distinguish
these two profiles. Given the various noise in the experiment,
we're probably not going to be able to distinguish these two
things. So that was sort of a bump. Okay. And so then the
question became how do we explore other, okay, what do we do?
And we consider two ways to try to get around this. One is to
explore channel adoptions that don't pass a proton current. The
other is to pick some other analyte, something that's
charged, that's not pH, and that is not sensitive to pH, so that
we can see other things redistributed. And I'll tell you
about the second approach. So we did develop some channel
adoptions which are not permeable, or relatively
impermeable to protons. And I think those might actually be
quite useful, particularly for therapeutic applications of
optogenetics, because if you're going to do long term
stimulation of cells, you don't really want to acidify them. And
so these channel adoptions are a solution for that. But they
still pass a little bit of a proton current. And so we
decided to focus on approach number two. And so we picked
something non biological, calcium dye, which we know can pass
through gap junctions. And it has a nice strong charge of minus
four. It's not sensitive to pH, it's not buffered inside of
cells, which was another concern for us with the proton
currents. And we can just direct the image it. And it comes in an
AM ester form so you can load it into the cells, the AM ester
gets cleaved off by endogenous esterases, and then it hangs out
in the cells. And so the charge on the calcium is negative, so
expect the calcium to accumulate in depolarized regions of the
cells. And so here's a simulation just like the one I showed
you for protons showing the predicted calcium concentration
profile at steady state. So then again, we did these
experiments, we were worried about photo bleaching of the
calcium by the blue light as a possible artifact. So to address
that, we developed a what we call a zebra stripe, illumination
pattern for the channel. And so you can see here, these little
stripes. And the idea here is that we're going to illuminate
only some regions of the tissue, but the voltage can diffuse
quite far actually between the cells. And so from a voltage
perspective, it's almost as though this is a continuous
vertical strut. And so then we can look in the regions that
don't directly get the blue light transverse to the
illumination product profile. And we'll still have voltage
gradients there. And so then we can see if we can see calcium
redistribution in regions that have a voltage gradient, but
never saw blue light. That was the aspiration. Okay, so here's
our measures of calcium fluorescence. So you can see you
get some photo bleaching in the regions that are directly
illuminated. But then we can look in the regions between them.
And so then we took all of these little bricks of blue
