huge field of view with very high light collection efficiency.
We couple into it, basically a video projector with blue and
yellow light. And then we send those to where the light off of
a digital micro mirror device so that we can pattern the
illumination to tickle the cells in any pattern of space and
time that we want. We also use illumination with red light to
image the voltage responses. And then we collect the fluorescence
on a high speed camera. So with these spiking hex cells, one day
we were doing a patch clamp experiment, and we observed that
the cells were autonomously firing. And this was a
surprise to us because I explained how the sodium
channels could drive the voltage up and the potassium
channels could bring it back down. But we didn't understand
what would trigger them to start again. And so in order to
explore this, we then mapped the voltage in this culture. And
this is the video that I showed you on the first slide. This is a
big field of view about six millimeters on a side. So there's
about 100,000 cells in the culture here. And what we
observed is that there are these regenerative waves which
propagate through the culture. And if the culture is big enough,
you can get these spiral patterns, which can lead to
periodic dynamics at any point in space. When the hex cells get
dense enough, they couple to their neighbors through gap
functions. And that is what enables these cultures to
produce these collective waves. Now with these spiking hex
cells, we can pattern their growth in various ways. Here's an
example where we pattern them into some islands and a
serpentine pattern. And then we'll optogenetically stimulate
them just at the top here using flashes of blue light. And you
can see that we get these waves which propagate. It turns out
there are interesting dynamics about how these waves
propagate in the one dimensional system. As the pacing
frequency increases, the response of the this snake goes
from one spike per stimulus to a period doubling bifurcation
where every other stimulus evokes a spike to eventually
chaos, where the pattern of voltage out of the distal end is
an irregular chaotic pattern, even when the proximal end is
being stimulated periodically. Now, again, I'm going to digress
for a minute. When we did these experiments, I wasn't sure why
we were doing them. I just thought it was an amusing thing
to do. Subsequently, more recently, we've been exploring
electrical back propagation in the dendrites of neurons in the
brain, which are also long, approximately one dimensional
channels. And we observed exactly the same dynamics. So in the
dendrite, if the cell body spikes slowly, you get one to one
mapping of those action potentials down the dendrite. As the
cell body goes faster, you get a period doubling bifurcation
where every other spike triggers a back propagating event. And if
the soma goes too fast, then the back propagation becomes chaotic.
There's a very similar progression of dynamics in the
heart, where under regular pacing in the heart is periodic
one to one with your pacemaker. Under some pathological
conditions, or if the pacemaker goes too fast, you get
alternands, which is this period doubling bifurcation. And then
if it goes way too fast, the heart becomes chaotic, you get
an arrhythmia. And so I think this series of bifurcations is a
probably widespread, if not universal feature of these
excitable, bioelectrical chains.
Here's another example where we've, again, made a serpentine
pattern that these tracks connect outside the field of view. We
can also pattern the cells into annual light. And then we
developed a stimulus protocol to launch directional waves. We do
that by first putting on one bar of light, which triggers a
wave, but then if we leave that bar on the sodium channels
underneath that bar inactivate. So we leave a real
region, which is not excitable. Then we give another flash of
light offset a little bit to the side. And that launches a wave.
The wave can't propagate back towards the region we inactivated.
So it only goes in the other direction. And then by the time
it comes all the way around, the region we inactivated has
recovered. And so then you can get a circular stimulus. So here's
an example of that. So that's our first pulse. And then we get
the second pulse. And now you can see we have these waves
going around in the inner ring, the wave caught up with itself
and it ate its tail and died. But in the outer rings, these
waves go around and around, and they can go around 10,000
times or more. And you can have it clockwise or counterclockwise,
you can think of this like a single bit of a bioelectrical
memory. And I sort of half jokingly call these are cellular
cyclotrons, because they go around so long, you can measure
the frequency very precisely, and you can detect very subtle
bioelectrical effects on the propagation. Now, because we can
use the blue light to inactivate the sodium channels, we can print
patterns of excitable and non excitable tissue, just using
pattern blue light, even on a homogeneous sheet of cells. And
so here's an example of that, where this is a homogeneous
sheet of these cells, we're going to drop continuous spots of
blue light in the center and in the surround to make a synthetic
toroidal track for bioelectrical excitation. And then we'll use
the same directional excitation protocol to launch a ring around
this track. And then as that ring propagates, we can dynamically
reconfigure the shape of the track to control the path length,
which then controls the frequency of these oscillations. And
so here's an example. So that's turning on the track. And then
there's going to be the first initialization pulse there. And
then we're going to launch our wave. Just a moment, there it
goes. And now this wave is going around in the optically defined
track. And now we're going to gradually crunch down the top and
the bottom of the track. And you'll see the wave will start to
go faster and faster. And then at a certain point, we'll turn off
the confining boundaries, and the way we'll then just propagate
off to infinity.
Okay. And so you can really make whatever patterns of excitable
tissues you want with this technique. Okay. So so far, what
I've been telling you about is homogeneous tissues. And we've
seen how you can pattern them and you can get these waves to
propagate. More recently, we've started to wonder about the
between tissues. So in many areas of chemistry and physics, when
you have an interface between two media, the properties of the
interface can be dramatically different from the properties of
the bulk on either side. For example, with, you know, at a
water air interface, you have surface tension. And in condensed
matter physics, there's been a lot of interest in what are
called topological excitations. So there are materials, which
are insulators in the bulk, but electrical conductors at the
surface. Now, we were inspired by these phenomena to ask whether
there are bioelectrical phenomena that arise at
interfaces, which don't have bulk homologs or different from the
bulk. And so the question is, if you take two different
materials, and you stick them together and make an interface,
what happens at the interface? And the simplest hypothesis is
that you get some simple linear interpolation between material
A and material B. And that may be the boring answer. But one
could also imagine, because the underlying Hodgkin-Huxley
equations are so nonlinear, that you might end up with
excitability at the interface or spontaneous activity, or a
variety of other dynamics. And so we cooked up some situations
where the interfaces are interesting and different. And so
here's how we did it. In the examples I showed you before, we
had cells co-expressing cure 2.1 and nav 1.x, where x is 3, 4,
5, 7, or 9. And now we're going to separate the potassium
channel-expressing tissue from the sodium channel-expressing
tissue. And we're going to have a channel adoption in bulk. Neither
of these tissues is excitable on its own. The potassium channel
-expressing tissue just sits at the potassium reversal
potential. The sodium channel-expressing tissue is
depolarized, and so the sodium channels are all inactivated,
and so that tissue is not excitable. At the interface,
these tissues couple by gap junctions, and the cure-expressing
tissues pull down the voltage of the nav-expressing tissue until
the voltage looks sort of like this across the interface. That
creates a zone where the sodium channels have recovered, and
these cells, we hypothesized, might share voltage across this
interface, or share current across the interface, excuse me. And
together, become excitable just at the interface. And so,
Hillel Ori, who led this work in my lab, did some numerical
simulations of this situation. And at least in the computer, he
was able to generate action potentials which could propagate
just at the interface. And then he set up the experiment. And it's
a quite simple experiment. He took cells expressing now 1.5
and GFP, and so I was expressing cure 2.1 and TD tomato. He
took a little piece of plastic and stuck it in the dish to
subdivide the dish into two halves, and he plated each kind
of cell on its respective half. And so here's what the dish
looks like. And then he removed the plastic and waited a day or
two for the cells to fill the gap to form gap junctions across
the interface. And here's a picture of this interface. You
can see the line here, the nav cells are on the top, the cure
cells are on the bottom. And I'll show you a movie where he
delivered a flash of light that spanned the interface, and then
we map the voltage. Okay, and I hope you can see that there are
these topological action potentials which live only at
the interface between the two non excitable tissues and can
propagate along the interface. Okay. Just for fun, Hillel then
took a drinking straw and plated the nav cells on the inside of
the straw and the cure cells on the outside of the straw. So now
again, we have a torus as I showed you before. But this
torus is not a ring of cells that are excitable, but rather it's
just an interface between two non excitable populations.
Nonetheless, with this interface, he can use a similar
protocol to launch a directional wave, which will then go around
and around in these interfaces. And it does this sort of
indefinitely. Okay. And so you can make so this is sort of a
doubly topological action potential. It's topological in
the interface sense, and then it becomes spontaneous, indefinitely
stable because it's going around in a circle. Okay, so then we
started to explore the excitability properties of
these topological materials. And it turns out it's actually
pretty interesting. So if you have a homogeneous excitable
material, with just a nav channel and a cure channel, you
have to have the right balance of those two channels in order to
maintain excitability. If you have too much of either one, you
either get locked in the deep polarized state or locked in the
hyper polarized state. And so here's a phase diagram, where
we've looked at the conductance of the potassium channel and
the conductance of the sodium channel, both on log scales, and
in a homogeneous tissue, if you want excitability, according to
our simulations, that happens inside of this purple region.
Okay. If you make the interface between the potassium and the
sodium tissues, then you get a completely different shape for
your phase diagram. The region where it is excitable becomes
much larger. In fact, it extends across all possible values of
the potassium conductance. Why is this? What's the intuition
for this? The intuition is that when you create the
interface, as you move transverse to that interface, you
basically get all possible mixtures of the sodium current
and the potassium current. On one side, it's like 100% potassium
and 0% sodium if you go far enough in that direction. If you
go far enough in this direction, it's 100% sodium and 0%
potassium. And in between, just by continuity, you have to
