illumination, and we aligned them with each other and averaged
them all together in order to improve our signal to noise
ratio. And this is the average response to the calcium. And we
were hoping to see a fluorescent buildup in this region here and
a decrease in the regions at the edges. Here's the cross
section. And, oops, and basically we didn't see it. And so
that was a little bit, well, it was a frustration. I'm not
sure why we didn't see it. And so finally, to try to understand
what was going on, we asked how well does the calcium actually
move between the cells. And so to look at to explore that we
just looked at pairs of cells loaded with calcium. And then we
photo bleached one cell in the pair, and then looked at the
recovery as the calcium diffused across the gap junction
from that side, from the non bleached side to the other side.
And from this, we could extract an effective diffusion
coefficient of the calcium in these cells and try to have the
constant has a quite slow diffusion coefficient, so it
doesn't go through the gap junctions all that well. And
perhaps that was what was limiting the redistribution. So
basically, the our sort of take home from these efforts is that
these were the voltage diffuses very well through the tissue
because it goes through the gap junctions quite effectively. And
so the gradients in voltage that we get are not that steep. And
then because the calcium diffuses very slowly, it would take
an inordinately long time to redistribute along these
gradients, which are over relatively large numbers of
cells. And so this is perhaps a not very satisfying conclusion
to this, but I wanted to talk to you all about this, because
this is something that's been largely inspired and motivated
by work from your lab. We have not yet detected these predicted
electrophoretic transport gradients through through gap
junctions. And we're still trying to figure out what's going
on here. You know, it's sort of a mystery to me. There are a lot
of ions in cells, and many things what can distribute through
gap junctions, you know, not just sodium and potassium and
protons, but all of the amino acids, all of the nucleic
acids, cyclic AMP, ATP, you know, most of the small molecules
that live in cells can distribute through gap junctions. And if
you had steep voltage gradients, you can imagine sort of
catastrophic things happening, because you know, you would have
pH gradients of multiple pH steps between cells on one side of
the tissue and the other. And so I'm not really sure how to
reconcile, you know, that sort of basic my physical
understanding with the underlying stability of tissues and the
fact that we don't know these effects seem to be more subtle
than we had initially expected. And we haven't been able to
observe them yet. One possibility is, you know, this might be
related to the fact that gap junctions close if the voltage
gradient is too steep. And that could act sort of as a safety
valve to prevent analytes from just sloshing into the, you
know, into the thermodynamic equilibrium. And, you know, maybe
voltage gradients in vivo are to that steep. I really don't know.
And so this is something that we're still exploring. And I'd
really be curious to hear if any of you have thoughts about
both analytes or systems where one might try to detect
bioelectrical gradients and electrophoretic redistribution
of small molecules.
So so Adam. So yes, I've looked a lot into gap junction
permeability. And we have a variety of different gap
junctions with different, you know, permeability. But it's
absolutely true that depending on what the voltage is of either
coupled cell, that those gap junctions can completely close. So
if you do have those steep gradients, they can completely
close. So there's some papers out there that have done like just
beautiful electrophysiology work where they modify either side
of, you know, one cell or the other cell, they set a certain
resting membrane potential, and they look at whether or not
like Lucifer yellow can pass through those those gap junctions
and they've figured that all out. So that that work is already
out there. And so what you could do is you could pick the gap
junctions that still are open when you have those steep
gradients, and you can use those and you can just make
transgenic cells expressing those particular gap junctions to
see what's going on with what what you're trying to look at.
Yeah, thank you. That's an excellent point. So in the
cells that we were using, we were using the endogenous gap
junction, which in hex cells are connection 43 or connection 45.
But as you say, there are other gap junctions which have
different gating properties. And so the question, which I'm
sort of curious about is, if the gap junctions, if the voltage
gradient is too shallow, these effects are going to be small,
because internal homeostatic mechanisms in the cells will be
able to outcompete the electrophoretic redistribution. If
the gradients are too steep, then the gap junctions might close,
and then you won't see the transport. And so the question is,
is there some Goldilocks regime or a combination of gap
junctions and analytes in the middle where these effects do
occur? And I would expect the answer is yes. But at least in
experiments we've done, we have not found it yet. But as you say,
we haven't explored varying the gap junctions, which might be the
key to doing that.
Yeah, or you know, using some of the optogenetic channels that
don't have super strong currents so that you know, you create a
much more shallow gradient.
Yeah. Well, you know, it's not hard to make the gradient more
shallow, because we can always turn down our blue light or
excite just a small subset of the cells. And the issue is if the
gradient gets very shallow, then the electrophoretic forces
become weak. And so in some sense, we're competing the fact
that voltage spreads very easily and really has a sort of strong
tendency to spread out and homogenize. But yet we want
gradients in voltage in order to drive electrophoresis. So it's
interesting, you know, we've had lots of debates back and forth
in the lab, whether we should be trying to make these gradients
more shallow or more steep. And I'm not sure. I think our best
bet might be to try to make go back to tissue interfaces, where
you have different cells expressing different iron
channels, you have very steep gradients, and then to try to
find gap junctions, which remain open under relatively large
voltage gradients.
You know, there's also old data from I think the 90s and then
and then our data following that, looking at the behavior of
various fluorescent tracers in early embryos, let's say frog
embryos, and some of that, right. And some of that data showed
very interesting unidirectional effects, which which in our case,
I think was voltage mediated, because we could turn it off by
disabling the pumps and so on. But in the original, I think
Guthrie's paper, if I recall correctly, it, you know, they
were arguing that it's an intrinsic property of the
gap junction that tends to let things that you know, sort of a
trapdoor kind of thing that you know, and it was always people
would argue, right, whether that's the, you know, positive
because in the long term, that's a that's a perpetual motion,
right, like you can't, you know, hold on to that for a long
time. But in the short term, you could write in the kind of
non steady state. So yeah, I think I think, I think, you know,
kind of one it is right is that depending on I think you could
play a lot of games and by and also they've identified pairs of
junctions that are preferential unidirectional, right? I think
it's like 32 and 43 or something where you can do it, you
know, this way or this way. And we did some of that in the
Frog embryo too. So there may well be these kind of, you know,
these junctions may be more complex than we think as far as
what they let through in and what direction so so maybe playing
with those different pairs might might explain it.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, we've taken a lot of inspiration in this for
I mean, almost all the inspiration is from the work of your
lab and we had looked at some of this work on serotonin
redistribution in early embryos. And so one of the things
we were contemplating was whether we could try to detect that
what one of the factors which goes into picking an analyte is
we want something where we have a good fluorescent reporter of
it at a wavelength which is different from the general
adoption wavelength so we can do these all optical experiments.
You know, one of the things which I think is makes it
challenging is one would expect if you have voltage gradients
and open gap junctions that there might be pH
gradients as well. And then, you know, almost everything is
sensitive to pH. So you have to then worry about whether your
fluorescent reporters are also being confounded by pH changes.
And so that's why I thought calcium was a nice example
because it's something which is intrinsically fluorescent and
not very sensitive. But yeah, it's, you know, I think I would
love to continue this search because I think it's a really
interesting sort of mystery still try to try to understand the
biophysics of this.
You know, and one last thing which I think we never, we never
ended up publishing this but we had data from a long time ago
that on the ventral side of the early frog embryo, looking at
it, you know, left, left to right, if you do, if you inject
43 and 32 versus 43 and 32, right, you get you get different
effects. So yeah, so the one randomized, and of course, now
I don't remember which one is which but but one of them
randomized the left right axis meaning it would the way I
interpreted is that it screws up the transport and the other
one did not. So so you know, we did have evidence of these
like, you know, asymmetric effects with pairs of junctions.
So just something to think about too.
Well, Adam, I just put a link on the chat. And that's a paper
that we have been looking at a lot. We've done some of the
experiments. It's basically a trilaminar microfluidic device
that you can go ahead and you can put a dye in the middle
stream. And then you can see how far that dye diffuses out. And
it's dependent on, you know, whether or not your gap junction
coupled. So they tested, I think three different dyes. And so
you can take a look at the different dyes that they used
and what their diffusion rates are through the cells. So that
might help you for like determining what dye to use to
trace the gap junction coupling.
Oh, great. Thank you, Juanita. This is not a paper I knew
about. So I'll take a look at this.
Great. Thank you.
Hi, Adam. Yes.
Separate question. Have you have you looked at the equations or
the models for the Belisav Zabotinsky reaction? Which is
yeah, okay, so is there is there a mapping between the
equations that you showed for these kinds of terrain Hodgkin
Huxley model and the Belisav Zabotinsky reaction?
Sure, good question. So let me go back to the equations. Forgive
me. So the BZ reaction is a specific instance of a set of
equations of this form. And so in principle, there could be
similar dynamics in voltage. I just want to say there is one
way in which these two equations are or can be a little bit
different, which is to get things like waves or BZ
dynamics, or even the spontaneous step sort of
metastable pattern formation, you need a system with at least
two dimensions here, meaning two different variables. Usually
people talk about like an activator and an inhibitor. And in
the BZ reaction, of course, there's many reagents. Voltage is a
scalar quantity. And so with voltage alone, you actually
