coming virtually. Let me share my screen.
Is that visible? Good. Okay. So today, I'm going to tell you
about some of our efforts to explore spatial aspects of
bioelectrical signaling. And I think this is a topic that is
going to be very familiar to many of you. And so please feel
free to interrupt with questions or if anything is
unclear. So the traditional way of recording electrical
activity in cells is to take a patch by pet and poke it into a
cell and to record the voltage as a function of time. And here
I put a graphical representation of this. And I hope this comes
through on zoom. So here in the middle is a little pixel, which
shows the voltage at a point in a sample as a function of time.
And I hope you can see that there's some oscillation there,
some dynamics. And if you have a single pipette, this might be
all you see. If you can map the voltage, then you can see that
this is actually the underlying dynamics, and that there are
quite complex spatial temporal patterns of electrical
signaling, which would be invisible from single point
measurements. And so most of what I'll tell you about today is
first I'll tell you a little bit about some tools on the
voltage imaging front. And then I'll tell you about our efforts
to try to learn something about the rules which govern
bioelectrical pattern coordination. So about a decade
ago, a little bit more, my lab became interested in imaging
bioelectrical signals. And our adventure in this area starts
here. This is the Dead Sea. And in the Dead Sea, there are some
microorganisms, which have transmembrane proteins called
microbial adoptions, which absorb sunlight and generate a
proton mode of force, which these creatures use to power their
metabolism. Sort of by dumb luck, my lab discovered that these
proteins are a little bit fluorescent. And the fluorescence
is sensitive to membrane voltage. So you can run these
proteins either as bioelectrical actuators, or as
reporters. And you can introduce mutations which block the
pumping capability, so that but still preserve the reporting
capability. These proteins are excited by red light, and they
emit in the near infrared part of the spectrum. And the
fluorescence is very sensitive to the protonation of a functional
group in the core of the protein. And since protons are
charged, you can, if you change the voltage that changes the
fluorescence of the protein. Here's an example of a heck cell
where we're using a patch pipette to ramp the voltage up and
down. And you can see as the voltage goes up, the fluorescence
gets brighter, and then it goes down, the fluorescence gets
dimmer. And the response is roughly linear over the
physiological range. Now, one of the limitations of these
proteins is that they're very dim. And so we introduced a way
to make the signals brighter by adding a threat fluorescence
donor to these proteins. The absorption spectrum of the
option changes depending upon the memory voltage. And that
affects the efficiency of non radiative energy transfer from
this attached fluorophore to the opposite. And so as the
voltage goes up and down, the fluorescence of this fluorescent
protein also goes up and down, oppositely to the fluorescence
of the opposite itself. Here's a simultaneous dual view image
where you can see these two fluorescent signals going in
opposite directions. On the right is quantification. And you
can see that the indirect measure of the threat donor is a
little bit less sensitive than the direct fluorescence of the
option, because it's an indirect measure. But these fluorescent
donors are orders of magnitude brighter. And so the hit and
sensitivity is more than compensated by an increase in
brightness. And after our initial work in this area, other
people have developed vastly improved versions of these
fret based voltage indicators using a halo tag dyes as the
threat donor. And some of what I'll show you today is from
those fluorescent voltage indicators. So over the last
decade or so, we've been on a little bit of a romp through
biology, exploring bioelectrical signaling in different
contexts, different levels of biological organization, ranging
from single bacteria and studies of individual ion channels
through experiments in live behaving mice. Right now, we're
mostly focused on whole animal or live animal imaging
experiments, looking at different parts of the nervous
system. And also we have an effort now looking at bioelectrical
signaling in the uterus, which I'll be happy to tell you about
some other time. Okay, so most people who study bioelectricity
are focused on the nervous system. But as I think you know,
probably better than anybody else in the world, bioelectrical
signaling can be found throughout the body and not just in
people, but throughout basically every life form that has a
memory. And so we're interested in the question of what's the
relation between the ion channel parts list, and the various
complex bioelectrical patterns that emerge. And this turns out
to be a not simple relation. There's an interesting analogy
you can make to chemistry. I sit here in the chemistry
department. And in the lobby of our building, we have a periodic
table. And the properties of these elements are all
reasonably well understood. But nonetheless, you can combine them
in relatively simple mixtures, and come up with new materials,
whose properties are entirely different from the properties of
the constituent atoms. And these emergent properties can be
things like superconductivity or fluorescence. And in these
collective ensembles of atoms, the properties also depend often
on the geometry, because there's long range coupling between the
atoms. For instance, in semiconductor nanocrystals, the
geometry affects the fluorescence. And there's a similar
situation which pertains in electrophysiology. So our
periodic table are the ion channels. Here's a few of them. And
you can put these into cells, and you can put those cells into
tissues. And the emergent properties of the tissue can be
very different from the ingredients that came in. And
so we've been taking a sort of synthetic chemistry approach,
if you like, of cooking up different combinations of ion
channels, and exploring what happens to the collective
ensembles. The conceptual framework for how we think about
this is governed by an interesting analogy between chemical
reaction diffusion systems and bioelectrical systems. So in a
very famous paper from 1952, Alan Turing showed that if you
have an unsteered chemical reaction, where you have some set
of reactants, Q, and they can react with each other, and they
can diffuse, under some conditions, that reaction can
break spontaneous, spontaneously break symmetry from a
homogeneous state to states where you have peaks and valleys in
the concentration of different reactants. And if you simulate
these models, you get patterns which look like leopard spots
and tiger stripes. And this kind of reaction diffusion model has
been a paradigm for how people think about morphological
patterning in development for many decades now. Now, in a
remarkable historical coincidence, in the same week in 1952,
Hodgkin and Huxley, who are also working in England at the time,
but I think independently of Turing, proposed a biophysical
model of bioelectrical signaling. And these Hodgkin-Huxley
equations, it's basically a distributed version of Ohm's
law, where you have the voltage on the membrane can change by
charging the memory capacitor and through current through ion
channels. And if you have gap junctions between the cells, then
the voltage can also diffuse from one cell to the other. Now, if
you sort of squint at these two equations, you'll see that they
actually have exactly the same mathematical structure. So there's
one derivative with effective time on the left hand side, there's
a nonlinear reaction like term, and then there's a diffusion
term. And so, at least mathematically, any kind of
dynamics that you can get out of reaction diffusion systems, you
can, in principle, get out of bioelectrical systems. And so
then this raises the question of what aspects of patterning that
we see in life can be accounted for by bioelectricity. And this
isn't, I presented this as an either or, but of course, it's
not a clean dichotomy because biochemistry affects ion channels
and affects bioelectricity. And of course, bioelectrical
signaling also affects biochemistry. And so it's probably
more complex mix of these two kinds of dynamics in any real
system. One can classify the types of solutions to either of
these sets of equations by whether they vary in time and
whether they vary in space. And so the more boring solutions are
things that are just stable, they just sit there. You can have
things that oscillate like pacemakers, you can have things
that propagate like action potentials. And one of the
questions we've really been interested in is, can you get
systems where you get spontaneous pattern formation where
the patterns are at least metastable in time? So they're
not oscillating, they're just static patterns of voltage
analogous to the leopard spots and tiger stripes. And as you
might imagine, this kind of pattern historically would be
very difficult to detect with a patchpad pet because if you go
and you poke cells one at a time, okay, you'll see that the
voltage is different in different places, but you might
just assume that it's noisy, and you really need imaging to
map these spatial structures. And so we've been on a hunt to try
to find situations where we can clearly get spontaneous
bioelectrical pattern formation. Jumping to the end, I'll
tell you, we have not solved this problem, we have not done
this yet, but I'll tell you about some of the things that we've
learned along the way. Okay, so as a warm up exercise, we're
going to take some tech cells. So these are bioelectrically
pretty inert on their own, you can take them in just a memory
in a bag. And we can introduce different ion channels into these
cells, and imbue them with different bioelectrical
properties. So if we express a voltage gated sodium channel,
and an inward rectifier potassium channel, the potassium
channel will hyperpolarize the resting potential. And then the
sodium channel will make these cells excitable. We'll then
express a channel adoption, so that we can trigger the cells
with light to have an optical access to them, and a voltage
indicator so that we can image their bioelectrical responses.
And with these four ingredients, we can then deliver flashes of
blue light to the cell of successfully greater intensity.
The small flashes evoke proportional electrical responses. But
once the light intensity crosses a threshold, it triggers
it crosses the sodium channel activation threshold, and this
triggers a regenerative action potential. The sodium channels
then inactivate and the potassium channels take over and the
voltage recovers. And so you can get the very stereotyped action
potential, you can think of this sort of like, you know, the
world's simplest minimal excitable cell. And just as a
side note, these turn out to be useful for exploring the
electrophysiology of ion channels. So for example, we've
made cells which express NAV 1.7, which is one of the sodium
channels involved in pain sensation, as well as NAV 1.8
and 1.9, which are also involved in somatosensation. And then by
flashing them with light, and then looking at the effects of
different drugs, we can explore drugs which might have use in as
pain therapeutics. And at a company that I started, they've
screened more than 200,000 compounds against NAV 1.7 and
found a bunch of interesting hits, which are going forward
into preclinical development. But here we're going to focus
more on the sort of biophysics of these cells. To map the
bioelectrical responses, we've developed a relatively simple
instrument, which has a gigantic objective lens. It's about
the size of a soda can. It's a 2x NA.5 lens. So it can image a
