cannot get patterns like this using using these equations. In
order to rescue it, you either need to introduce electrophoresis,
which is what our friend Michael who we talked to a couple of
years ago, whose name I've now forgotten. He was out in LA, had
done. Gosh, I'm forgetting his name now. So you either need to
introduce electrophoresis, or you need to introduce another
variable like calcium. So you're mapping it through ion
concentrations rather than voltage? Yeah, so you have ion
concentration, that's another variable which can undergo
dynamics like this or like this. And so that can give you sort of
a high enough dimensional space to get solutions like this.
Thank you. Yeah.
Can I ask a quick question again, changing stories a little bit?
No, specifically in reference to the issue tissue interaction
story, which I think is super stunning. Do you think that
narrates would be sufficient to drive that? You know, in the
stories that you have, you have two kind of big fields of
tissues juxtaposed to each other. But I'm wondering, basically,
if you have something that's penetrating, that's invading
into another tissue, either a neurite or some kind of
migratory cell, do you think that that could be sufficient to
trigger waves so that sort of as the neurites are crawling
around, they're sending out waves into the surrounding
tissue as they go?
It's entirely possible. You know, it depends on the ion
channel expression levels and the gap junction coupling
strength. But yeah, in general, interfaces between two cell
types are not the same as the other cell type on itself.
Well, one example is sort of along those lines is in the
context of doing these experiments, one other
experiment we did is we took nav expressing cells and here
expressing cells and we just mixed them together. And of
course, that interface becomes or that's not an interface
anyway, but that mixture becomes excitable because you
share the currents through gap junctions.
Thanks, that's great.
Well, Adam had a question about your line oscillation
experiments, the interface experiments. So where does the
directionality come from? So why do the waves go clockwise or
anti clockwise and both ways? Maybe it's not explained.
Yeah, yeah, that's a good question. And I blew through
that a little bit fast. It's in the excitation protocol. So if
you look here, we first come with one, we first come with
first come with one boat and then you see we move the stripe
a little bit to the right here. And that's what launches the
wave going in this case clockwise. If we give a pulse
here and then move to the left, you can launch it going counter
clockwise. So it depends on the initial conditions.
Don't take it.
Hey, Adam, I threw you out two other papers there about gap
junction permeability to die.
Thank you. Yes, I clicked on those.
Thanks, Juanita.
Adam, are you familiar with Zvonimir Dojic's work at
UCSB?
I know, but I'm not sure which work you're referring to.
Oh, his nonlinear coherent flows kind of. So I'm just
wondering about the time scales for these voltage
circulations, if they're sort of on the same time scale as
these kinds of coherent flows that he sees in these cytoskeletal
emulsions that, you know, if he puts them in a, you know, a
dish that's large enough, right, like a, like a racetrack,
very similar to kind of the racetracks you show. But I
don't know the time scale for these fluid flows that he's
seeing. And if they track with your voltage flows as well.
I don't, I don't know. I don't know that specific work. I
would expect that, I mean, the underlying physics might be
similar, but the time scales are probably different because
they're set by different physical parameters.
Right, right. Yeah.
Yeah.
So finally, I just want to thank the people who did the
work. So this work was started by Harry McNamara, who's now at
Princeton, and then Rebecca Frank, who, who's a grad student in
my lab, and Halel Ori, who was a postdoc in my lab and just
finished up. And thank you.
