do that. So we're going to talk about electric circuits this week and next week. So we'll start
out with batteries, circuits and current. We'll talk about resistance and then a good example of that
is an electric heater. We'll talk about the electric power, how to calculate power. Then we'll talk about
switches and how they play into circuits as well. We'll talk about series and parallel circuits
and there's some math there. So we'll do a little bit of math and calculations in this.
Then practically we'll talk about fuses and circuit breakers. That's where it starts to give a little
bit practical. And then finally talk about current and power. And then we'll try to do a few more
complicated circuits just to push it a little bit. Actually there's a really cool one, but
I don't think we'll have the, there's some really cool test problems, but I don't think we'll have
the, this chapter, this book doesn't go into it in enough detail to actually solve those problems.
Okay, so electrical circuits, electric circuits. So previously we've been talking about
individual charges, the forces between charges, and then we climb this ladder talking about
electric fields. Then we talked about electric potentials and we found out that you can go from
knowing a formula, a math formula for the electric potential to get back to the electric field.
And then we talked about,
let's see, electric potential. And then we talked about the energy balance, the kinetic versus the
potential energy in an electrical charge system. And we could figure out,
for example, if a charge is moving in a direction, but it's under the influence of another charge,
whether it continues moving in that direction or whether it stops in terms of around and comes back.
And so we did quite a bit of, and all that was tied to, so the acceleration and stopping and all
that was kind of tied to what we had done previously with mechanical things like springs and so
So remembering all those equations of motion and stuff was kind of important.
But now we're going to talk about, we're going to not let these charges just be around on our
desktop or anything. We're going to take these charges and restrict them from moving just anywhere
in space. We're going to confine these charges, these moving charges to a conductor, so a little
piece of wire. So we're not going to think about charges just sitting there in space or
nailed to the tabletop. We'll be talking about wires, conductors. And these wires, they act as
pipes. It's certainly legitimate to think about it as the wires being like a conduit or a hose,
water hose. Do y'all call them hose pipes? I always call them water hoses when I was a kid,
but those Louisiana folks, they call them hose pipes. Really? That's weird. Yeah, I know. I've
never heard of those. I was dating my wife. I don't know if we were engaged at that point,
but we were dating. And I started, I visited her family and her uncle, he was a hoot. He was down
in Louisiana. He's from South Mississippi, but he's a Louisiana boy. And he sure talked to,
he was so fun to be around. He just, he was fun to listen to, but he was safe and stuff. And
I think the first time I met him, it was summertime and it was hot. We were sitting around doing
nothing. And oh, he told my son, he said, Micah, go get that hose pipe. And I looked at him and I
thought, you want my son to go pick up like a piece of lead pipe or steel pipe or copper pipe?
What are you talking about? And he said hose pipe again. So we figured out he was talking about the
water hose. That's weird. It's funny. Oh, you're really? Okay. So say I'd never heard of it either,
and I was an old man almost by that time. So anyway, hose pipes. So, but these wires and
these circuits that we're going to talk about, it's certainly legitimate to think about. And you can
think about the current that we're going to talk about as the water flowing inside of a hose.
In fact, I actually use that mental image a lot when I'm looking at circuits and trying to figure
out where electricity goes and things. So and then the analogy is that these pipes, they have some
pressure forcing the water through the pipe. So that's the potential. So last week, when we were
talking about electric potential, that's why we were talking about it, because that's the force that
causes the force that makes charge move through a wire. And we'll change our language on that a
little bit. So and the reason this is important is because these charges move and under this
potential, so they can convert the potential energy of the potential to kinetic energy,
and that kinetic energy then can do work. So you can generate heat, you can turn a motor,
or you know, all kinds of things that you can do, you can send information from one spot to another.
And so that's why it's so important to us to start to understand these circuits.
So what we're going to do is instead of using fixed charges,
like on a piece of paper, we're going to provide a potential. We're going to use a battery.
Now you guys haven't had chemistry, I know, but and we don't actually go into it too much
in chemistry, because it is actually really a complicated issue. But a battery contains
chemicals, and that the chemicals that you choose to put into the battery are ones where one chemical
wants to give away electrons, and the other one wants to receive electrons. And when I say wants to,
I don't mean it thinks about it, it's just the nature of it is, is that this part of the reaction
is going to free up some electrons, and they can, and we range it so that the only way they can
share electrons between these two chemicals is through a wire that leaves the battery and goes
out and comes back. So that wire is the external path where these electrons can travel. And so
the battery is a chemical reaction, and there's more than one chemical reaction. So for example,
probably the battery in your car is a lead acid battery. So if you took it open, which I wouldn't
suggest that you do, there's a plate of metal in there, and that metal is lead, and it's sitting
in a bath of sulfuric acid. And that's how that chemical reaction occurs to provide electricity
for your car. Other batteries like little flashlight batteries like double A's, triple A's, C's, D's,
even those big kind of square lantern batteries, those have different chemical reactions going on
in them. And some of them are like, so your computer, your phone, and stuff, they probably
have a lithium, what they call a lithium ion battery in there. So that's a different type
of chemistry that goes on. And so there's a huge science behind how to make a good battery.
And we're not going to cover that because that's really more in the realm of chemistry. But
in these days of electronics, I mean, if you buy a new computer, you want that battery to
let your computer, your laptop run for 10 or 12 hours, you don't want to have to charge it up
every two or three hours. Like my laptop, which you can see, where is it? It's on the bed behind me.
That laptop is, how old is that? That's 11 years old. So it's battery, when it's fully charged,
it'll only run that computer for about two or three hours. Whereas if I went and bought a new
laptop today, it would have a lithium ion battery in there that I would expect to run 10 to 12 hours.
And so it's a lot of difference in the technology. And so companies and researchers are always
looking for better ways to store energy and batteries and to get it out. So you rate a battery,
you talk about a battery by talking about its voltage. Primarily it's voltage. That's what
we're going to be interested in. But you also rate it by how much charge and it'll hold. So
the newer batteries have a much higher charge density. So that's why they can run your computer
for five or 10 hours. Whereas an old computer like mine, it's a whole different story.
And you remember last week, we talked about a capacitor and how it can store charge.
And we can actually calculate how much charge is in that capacitor. Well, that's kind of like
a battery as well. So you could charge up a capacitor, you could put charge on positive
charge on one plate and negative charge on the other and carry that around for a while
and use that as a battery. Typically, they don't hold charge for very long. Oh, did y'all do that
experiment yet? We haven't done 14.1. Okay, I think that's
yeah, I was going to get you to turn that one in. Oh, let me go back to your schedule too. If you
look at, I made a mistake in here. I think I only wanted you to turn in experiment 14.1. If you
look on May 7th date, it says turn in 14.1 and 15.2. But let's just drop the 15.2. I made all those
experiments in chapter 15 and 16 optional. Yes. That's why we're doing the Khan Academy
is filling a little bit there. So yeah, 14.1 will be due May 7th. But
scratch out the 15.2 being due. Sorry about that. All right. So your capacitors that you're
building, one of the ideas, one of the part, the second part of that is how long will it hold charge?
So you put charge on that capacitor and then come back an hour later and see if there's still
charge there. So basically the battery works. Charge leaves one terminal of the battery
and then it returns somehow to a separate terminal on the battery. So batteries always have a plus and
a minus terminal and y'all are pretty familiar with that. If you get your battery backwards in your
device, sometimes the device, sometimes the device will be destroyed if you get the battery
backwards. So it's a big deal. You want to make sure that you get your look for the plus sign on the
battery and make sure that touches the plus terminal in your device. Most devices protect you in case
you accidentally put the battery in backwards. But I've had some stuff that I've ruined and I
forget what it is. I had something that I really like, I don't know what it was, but I put the
battery in backwards and that was it and I had to go buy a new one. So anyway, so there's two
terminals on the battery and we usually just call them plus and minus. So the path that these charges
follow is called a circuit and you could think about, you know, they call the racetrack for cars
a circuit as well because it's a continual loop and you can think about our circuit as that kind
of a loop as well. For the charge to flow, the circuit must form a closed path from one terminal
to the other. So sometimes like if something stops working, the first thing you think of is did the
circuit get broken? So, you know, you've got all these, like here's a table for me to charge my
phone at my computer desk here. And if that stops working, my first thought is, oh, I must have
broken the path and so that wire is broken and the circuit won't work anymore. And so when the
circuit's broken, charge can't move and so the charge moves through the circuit and the way we
talk about this is we could look at one point on that wire. So here's a wire and if that's part of
a circuit, I could put, well, what I said on the screen was I can monitor the charge at a point and
see. Well, I can't see the electrons moving so I'd have to put like a meter or something in there,
okay? And so that's what I mean when I say we can pick a spot and we can monitor the charge as it
flows past. And that's important because the amount that flows past a certain point is called
the current. And if you, and this actually, I believe, comes from module eight where we talked
about current as well. And that's the amount of charge. So delta Q is the amount of charge
that flows past this point in an amount of time delta T. So current is charged per unit time.
Or coulombs per second is one way to say it, charge per second. And that's such a common
unit and such an important unit that it's got a special name and the full name is ampere. That's
the name of the man who was playing around back in the 1800s, I guess, and started defining,
sorry, started defining how strong of a current was. So today, we usually don't say amper,
we'll just say amp. So, you know, that battery needs to put out 10 amps or something like that is
what I would say. But when I say amp, what I mean is ampere, which means this much one coulomb
in one second is one ampere. All right, so that's a new unit. Okay, so the simplest circuit we could
make would include a battery and a wire. And look, it's just not a good idea. If you look at
experiment 15.1, you can do it, but you might burn yourself because it's just a bad idea. I don't know
why. You know, maybe the guy, maybe these Mr. Wiley is just mad at me and he wants you to burn
yourself. But it's never a good idea to take a wire and put it across a battery. Now a little
bitty battery like a AA battery, you're not going to probably you're not going to set the house on
fire by doing that. If you do it with a car battery, you're asking for big trouble. So don't, and that's
why if you're having someone jump start their car, which is a very nice thing to do. And maybe
you'll have to have somebody help you jump start your car because your batteries did. It's a very
good way to help somebody. But so my son, my youngest, no, I guess it was my oldest son, he was,
we used to go to school, but he was taking some courses at the community college when he was
in school. So we had this beater car. Actually, all three of my sons drove this car because it was
it was a piece of work. Anyway, he was driving. So he got to school one day and I think it was
cloudy and he left his lights on. So his battery ran down. Well, so he goes out to get in this car
because he's got to get to his work. He has a job and car won't start. So he stands there and this
guy comes along and says, Oh, I'll help you jump your car. Great. Thank you. Appreciate that. I don't
have to call the tow company. So the guy goes and he pulls his car around and they get him where the
batteries are close enough. And my son, who I had told him this, I said, I told him, don't ever let
somebody else who you don't know, who might be well intentioned, but they may not be the brightest
lamp on the lampstand. Okay, don't let them connect jumper cables to your car. I'm teaching you to do it
so that you'll know how to do it and you'll save their car engine and you'll save your car.
So don't ever, you know, say thank you, you know, borrow the jumper cables. And if you watch people
who are older like me, who've had this experience, and we're jumping like I'm helping him jump his
car, or he's helping me jump my car, I'm watching him like a hawk. And because the guy who was
helping him put the jumper cables on backwards. So now the guy's car was running. And so now
sometimes when you do it, it'll just kill the running car. And he's got big troubles at that
point. But what happens is it'll blow a fuse in your car. So if the fuse blows quick enough,
nothing super serious happens. But it turns out that that big fuse that main fuse for your car
is always very difficult to swap out. Because it's one they never expect you to have to swap out.
Anyway, so he blew the fuse. And he calls me. I'm at work. I'm gonna be late to work. I'm gonna get
fired. And so I had to go up there and we got his car running and he got to work somehow. But
then we had to replace that fuse. And oh my goodness, that was horrible on that particular car. And
it's happened to two of my sons. It's happened to two of them on different cars. I can tell you. So
if y'all don't know right now how to jump start a car, I want y'all to learn before. Do you know
John? Yes, sir, I do. Okay, tell me. I'm gonna test you man. All right, here's one though. You have
to connect the right color. Like the is it red and green, I think. It can be green.
You got to connect the right colors to the color.
Okay, you're not telling me specifically. What color do I connect?
Which color? Okay, which color what? Which so you've got say you're you've got a you have two car
batteries there and each battery has a red terminal and a black terminal or plus and a minus.
Right. What do you connect to what?
Don't you connect the red cable to the plus and then you connect the
black cable to the negative or black box. Okay, so you're almost telling me what I want to hear.
Caroline, do you know how to jump start a car?
I don't. Okay, that's fine. Well, see this is going to be the whole price of admission here.
All right, Caroline, you might be stranded someday and hopefully somebody nice will
come up and try to help you start your car. But again, there's nice and there's people who will
in a nice way make your car where it won't start at all. Okay, you want to connect.
You got two batteries. Each one has a plus terminal and each one has a minus terminal.
Now, sometimes that's hard to tell. So you've got to look hard and identify the plus terminal
on both batteries. So your jumper cable, this big heavy cable that you've got in your hand,
and you connect plus to plus. All right, now, and you connect minus to minus.
So that's the fundamental thing is you want the plus to plus minus to minus. It's never
anything else. Okay, so if you can always, if you just remember plus to plus minus to minus,
then you'll be good. And one way to remember that is that say your jumper table set,
they'll have a red wire usually, and it's red from end to end. All right, because the plus,
if you use the red for plus, then you're going to connect the red to red. You're going to have
the same wire connecting the same terminal on both batteries. All right, now there's also a problem
or a thing if you say that you need to jump your car because you've been cranking your car,
trying to get it started, and you cranked it down. Well, one of the products of most batteries is
hydrogen gas, and that's very explosive. So typically, if you read the instructions,
they'll tell you to try to avoid sparks. And so one way to do that is to
well, first of all, you don't want to let like a one end of the jumper cables, you'll have two,
two clamps. All right, these are the clamps. You don't want to let them spark together. All right,
making. So one time, and I really learned it this time, it got Seaman at home to me, a guy was
helping me jump my car. And so he put the cables on my battery, he put the red one on the plus and
the black one on the minus. And I thought he was just going to walk over and connect it to his
battery. So I was watching to make sure that he got the plus on the plus and the minus on the minus.
But right before he connected the battery, here's what he did, he went spark spark. All right,
so he short circuited my battery. And that's a really bad thing that can make a battery explode.
