is equal to the V squared over R. Okay, so again, this might be, and I did it with,
so we had 240 volts squared divided by 20 ohms. And you do that math and you also get 2880 watts.
So these two, so there's, so we have three forms of the power equation. P is equal to I V, or it's
equal to P is equal to I squared R, or P is equal to V squared over R. So usually if someone asks you
how much power does that resistor consume or dissipate, usually one of these two equations,
you're either going to know the current through that resistor or you're going to know the voltage
across it. These are the two that you'd probably come up with if someone asks you a question like
that because you know the resistance already. So anyway, just keep these three in mind. So
actually, these are important enough that if you're going to do any electrical work,
you just need to know these and have these memorized. So all right, so let's, so our basic
circuit contains it is a closed path that lets current flow from the battery. So current flows
out of the battery and around through some stuff, a resistor or two or three or five,
and then back to the battery. So that's a circuit, that loop.
And so one of the things we want to do is to stop that flow of current. So we use a switch and
here's the way we would dump that. So here's our basic circuit. We got a voltage, a battery,
and a resistor. And now the book doesn't use these dots for the switch, but it's kind of helpful.
And so I probably would prefer to draw a circuit with these dots. So what this says is that
there's two plates. So this dot could have another wire going off of it. And it doesn't. So
it really, I could probably lose this dot, but the example, the next example in the book
shows the switch when it's closed. So this is an open switch or an open circuit. And so current
can't flow. Electrons have to have a path. And you see this gap here keeps the path from being
complete. Now there are some circuits where, and usually it has to do with like those big
transformers that you see the electric company has at these power stations and stuff. And those
switches are really mechanically very special because what will happen is there's a rule that
says that the current that's flowing. So let's say, let me get my close. So here's the closed
circuit. And actually the advantage having a dot here is you can draw this line up a little bit.
And so you can, even if you don't have this dot, you can still tell there's a switch there. And
if you look at the equivalent picture in the book, it's just a straight line across there. You can't
even tell there's a switch there. So that's why I like at least two dots. But so in a high voltage
situation, if your boss says go open that switch, well, there's current flowing and a lot of current.
There's a lot of reasons why you may start to open the switch, but all of a sudden you've got an arc
going there. And so in high voltage situations, the switches are designed to keep that arc from
killing you, first of all, and second of all, to make it get interrupted as quickly as possible.
So sometimes, so most of the switches that you have on your computer and stuff, this doesn't
happen. But there are some high power circuits that require you to have. Well, so you've seen
the movie Jurassic Park, right? So the lady goes in there and she has to pump up.
Throw the switch. Okay, that's an example of a high power switch where the whole purpose that
is it's not just to make it easy to throw, but it's where this arcing is under control.
And so like if they're going to have that would turn on motors and so forth. So there's
motors and lights and everything. If you don't close that quickly, in that case, they would
close it quickly so that as that piece of metal comes down, it doesn't start arcing.
It needs to just close and then the current flow. So anyway,
so when you're describing a switch, this part of the switch is called the pole. And then these
things are called the throws. So this switch is actually a single pole, single throw switch. So
if you start reading about if you want to build a project or something, maybe they'll tell you
you need a SPST switch, single pole, single throw switch. If on this circuit, if this other
point up here went to another circuit, maybe it turns on a light bulb or something,
when it's switched, when the switch is thrown in that direction, then that would be a single pole
double throw switch. And then sometimes you need multiple things to switch on at once.
So you might have multiple poles. You may have a double pole, single throw, double pole, double
throw. Anyway, that's not in the book. It's just a little practical thing. In case you ever play
around with electronics, electrical things, or if you're repairing something and you go to the
hardware store and they don't have exactly your switch that you need and you're going to have to
jerry rig it or something, then you'll need to know whether that switch that you're replacing,
whether it's got a single pole, a double pole, triple pole. There's no limit to the number of
poles that a switch can have. Anyway, just a little something there. So let's talk about how
you can arrange. So, so far we've had one battery and one resistor. If we have a battery and multiple
resistors, there's a couple of way things can be arranged. So this is one arrangement.
And here what you can see is that you have two resistors and they're connected so that
so this this end of this resistor goes to the positive terminal on the battery eventually.
And this this end of this resistor goes to the negative pole and then the two resistors are
connected in the end here. So this is called a series circuit and the way you can tell it
is a series circuit is that if there's current flowing in this circuit, then the the current
that flows through this resistor has to flow through this resistor. And one way to think about this is
if you all have ever had to like string water hoses together, you know, to get out far away from the
house or something. So you get one water hose and then you attach another water hose to it. Well the
current the water the current flowing in the first water hose is going to also flow in the second
water hose. So those two water hoses are kind of in series as well. All right, so another way to
arrange these though is like this. And this is where you have two resistors. And so the way you
read this circuit is that these two resistors are tied together at this end and they're tied together
at the other end. And so this is called parallel. This is a parallel circuit.
And what that means is that this current that flows from the battery actually gets split into
two different paths here. And we can, using conservation of charge, which we have talked about,
you can prove that this current is equal to this current plus this current. So again it's like
water hoses. Say you've got three water hoses, you've got one coming from the house, and then you
have one of those splitters. All right, so and then you put two other water hoses on there. So you
go from one water hose to two water hoses. Well, what you expect is is that the amount of water
flowing in the one water hose is split between the other two water hoses. That may not be split
evenly. You know, one may be putting out most of the water and the other one may just have a
trickle. Okay, and the same thing can go here. Depending on the value of these resistors,
this current could be most of this one. And this will not be a tiny fraction of this one.
All right, so those are the two main arrangements of two components, and we'll be able to use that.
And besides the another way to think about these is to think about the voltages. So here
I could talk about the voltage across resistor one. So if I had a little volt meter and I saw
resistor one, I could put say the red lead here and the black lead here and measure that voltage.
And that's not going to be the same voltage as this voltage. So that's why I had to put
V1. And also I could do the same thing for V2. And what I would find out is that
I have a similar rule that I had just a minute ago. I had i is equal to i1 plus i2. Here I would
find that V is equal to V1 plus V2. And so we call this kind of circuit also besides a series
circuit. These are still in series. We call it a voltage divider. So if for some reason
say I had a 12 volt battery and I wanted one volt, I could pick values of resistance so that
this represents one volt and then this one would have two 11 volts across it. So one plus 11 would
be 12 for my 12 volt battery. And so that way I can divide voltages up. So it's called a voltage
divider. And I can, and so yeah, so this voltage is the voltage of the battery and it's divided
into two pieces here. And for the, I can also do voltage for the parallel circuit.
And so I could measure the voltage across resistor one. I can measure the voltage across
resistor two. And what I would find out is that because these points are the same as these points
electrically, that the voltage V1 is equal to the voltage of V2 and that's equal to the voltage of
the battery. And that's called a current divider because remember on the previous slide that current
got split between these two resistances. So you can have a voltage divider circuit and a current
divider circuit. And you use this to try to get different things done. So we have series and
parallel circuits. And now we have to face the fact that we might have even more
circuit elements, more resistors in there than just two. So what if we really don't care about
R1 and R2? And we want to replace these two resistors with one resistor.
All right. So how would we do that? So we're going to do a little bit of math here which
is different than what's in the book. We'll derive the formula here actually. So we
know that for a voltage divider circuit that the voltage across both resistors is equal to V1 plus
V2. And we can also remember the formula that for a resistor that the voltage is equal to the
current times the resistance. So V1 is equal to I1 times R1. So I've just replaced V1 there.
And then for V2, I have the same relationship. The current through resistor 2 times resistor 2
is equal to V2. So I've just made a substitution using Ohm's law. But now we can remember that for
this circuit that the current that flows through this resistor is the same as the current that
flows through this resistor. So I1 is equal to I2 is equal to I. And so now I'm going to instead
I1 I'm going to use I and instead of I2 I'm going to use I. So now I have this expression and then I
see that I can simplify that. So I have I parentheses R1 plus R2. And so what I have then
is that now I can rewrite this and say that my voltage across those resistors is equal to the
current times R effective. So my new value of resistor is going to be R1 plus R2.
So for a series circuit, for resistors in series, I can find an effective resistance by just adding
them together R1 plus R2. Let's see if we can do something for the parallel one. So we'd like to
replace these two resistors with one resistor that causes the same amount of current to flow.
So remember we had that this current is split between these two resistors and I1 may not be
equal to I2. So I1 is equal to I1 plus I2. But for a resistor current is equal to V over R. So
current one is equal to the voltage across resistor one times divided by R1.
And same for I2. I2 is equal to V2 over R2. So that's just Ohm's law that we put in there.
But we also remember that V1 equals V2 is equal to V, the voltage of the battery. So now I'm going
to just replace V1 and V2 with V. And then I see that V is common to both of these terms.
So I can do some algebra and pull it out. So I've got the voltage times one over R1 plus one over
R2. And so what I can say is that I can replace those two resistors with the resistance of R
effective if one over R effective is equal to one over R1 plus one over R2. So this is a little
more complicated than just adding the resistances. But it's a pretty simple formula. And so in a
parallel circuit we find that the effective resistance one over the effective resistance is
equal to one over each of the resistances in parallel. And we can we could do this if we had
three resistors in parallel and so forth. So we'll write down our big formulas are that for a series
connection the effective resistance you just add them up. You could have three resistors in series.
You just add them up to get the effective resistance. In parallel we find that the formula is that the
one over the effective resistance is equal to one over each of the terms added together. And that
can keep going. The dot dot dot means that pattern can go on forever. So and then we have that the
voltage is equal to the current times the effective resistance. So we could take say four resistors
that are in parallel and reduce them to one resistor. And then this this law also holds. So
all right. So we're going to come back to that in just a minute when we do some more complicated
problems. Let's talk about fuses and circuit breakers. Sometimes you want to protect your
electrical equipment. You want to keep it from having from getting damaged from having too high
of a voltage or having too high of a current. Because if you put in if you make it too much
current flow things will get hot and maybe melt or start to burn. Or if the voltage gets too high
you may cause them to be ruined as well. So we want to have some way to limit the damage
as current flows from our battery. All right. So what we really want to do is limit the power.
And since power is equal to the current times the voltage we can design something that will
either interrupt the circuit when the current gets too large. That's actually usually the easiest
thing to do. If we're worried about too high of a voltage we can do that as well. In fact you could
buy these little devices. They're they're pretty easy to install as well. So if you buy like a power
strip and it says surge protection what they've done is they put in a component to keep the voltage
from getting too high like due to a lightning strike or something like that. So we're not going
to talk about that. We're going to talk about a fuse. A fuse is a circuit element which once it's
opened once it so it's got like a little piece of metal in there when and when current gets
higher than a certain level it'll melt that wire. And so that wire permanently breaks and so you
would have to replace that fuse to repair the circuit. A circuit breaker is a little different.
Instead of using a fuse this is a switch and if the current gets too high it'll kind of open on
its own. And probably this is what you would find in the breaker box. They call it a breaker box at
your house. It used to be that the house has used fuses but that gets to be a real pain like in the
middle of the night if there's a storm and you want the lights to come back on it's a whole
lot easier to just go reset a circuit breaker. And so most homes these days use circuit breakers.
The power company still uses fuses. If you get a power surge and we used to get these in Charleston
all the time our power would go out about once a week and sometimes it would really go out and the
electric company would have to come and you can see these if you look at the tops of
electrical poles you can see these fuses up there. They're usually about a foot long about
two inches in an inch or two in diameter and they're usually just sitting there on the pole. So
next time you drive if you get bored and you're driving around or if you're just sitting waiting
on somebody look at the usually it's a power pole with a transformer on it because they'll put a
fuse before the transformer because it's a whole lot easier to replace a fuse versus one of those
big old transformers and see if you can spot the fuse that the power company uses. Occasionally
they'll have circuit breakers so what will happen those circuit breakers are kind of special.
Usually these are designed for like if a tree limb touches the power line it'll cause a problem
and so what will happen they'll have these circuit breakers and they'll try to reset three times.
So if you see your lights go bam, bam, bam and then they go off that means that they've got a
self-resetting circuit breaker but it'll only try it two or three times. Maybe there's more than
that but the ones around are I got you get so familiar with this in a place like Charleston
where the power is so unreliable it's like living in the third world country it's unbelievable.
But you'd see the lights go off, off and off again and then they go off totally. Because the
tree limb what they hope for is if a tree limb causes a short circuit that the tree limb will
burn or the squirrel sometimes the squirrels do it you know the squirrel reaches across and all
of a sudden he's got 1400 volts going from one paw to the other paw he becomes the idea is he
becomes a puff of smoke and dies and then falls off the thing. Like in the movies. What's that?
I said like in the movies yeah yeah I mean in Charleston this happened so often you'd
go and you'd be walking and you'd find a dead squirrel and it wasn't just dead it was cooked
you know so high voltage and squirrels don't mix. We actually at our lab we had
these this bird it was an eagle we were getting eagles back in the Charleston area
and eagles build nests on high spots and what's the highest spot a high voltage wire.
So someday one day somebody at our lab noticed an eagle was building a nest on
telephone pole or power pole and that was the main feed to our building so it was like
14,000 volt
wires and so and it was three feet so there's a lot of wires and the bird was building this
nest they were grabbing limbs you know and building a beautiful nest and so we called the power
company and tried to get on and they said well it's an eagle we can't we can't touch it's a
protected species we can't just go and shoe the eagle away. So we had to let the eagle sit there
and but the guy told us he said you know hopefully the nest will be okay and the chicks will survive
and go away but what could happen is if they build the nest and then those twigs go across some wires
it'll start a fire and then the nest will burn and it'll fry the eggs or cook the chicks and that's
they said they see that all the time so so it was really interesting what they did so they let
that season go by and before the next nesting season came they went and they put another pole
a dummy pole and they made it taller than the one that they were building a nest on and then they
