Especially if it's like you like I say, you've been trying to crank your engine, and the battery's
been working hard, but it doesn't have enough oomph to really make the engine start. It may have
generated a little cloud of hydrogen. And when you go spark spark, that can cause an explosion.
So don't ever. So when you're handling these cables and you've got one battery connected,
usually you want to be very careful and not let the other things
spark together. If we see each other before the end of the year, if they let us make I'm going to
bring my jumper cables, I'm going to show you guys how to do this. But anyway, you know,
let the wires let touch it off. I got to keep them on separate. No, people do it, but it's
it's like Russian roulette. Okay, because a 12 volt car battery, even if it's not strong enough
to start your engine, it still has a whole lot of energy in there. All right. So when you're,
if you've got it connected on one end, and then you take the other end and you just go spark spark
or touch them, number one, they'll weld together. There's so much current flowing. So those two
things might as soon as you touch them, they might stick together. And then the whole thing is going
to get red hot and you're going to burn your hands. And plus your battery may explode. So just
man, you don't want sparks in that situation. Plus you're over, you know, if you're over your engine
and there's some gas fumes or something and you're making sparks, you know, you don't want any
explosions there either. So, so here's what I typically do. So I'll connect, say on the car
that's running that has a good battery and is running, I connect both terminals. So red wire
I'll put on plus and the black wire I'll put on minus. And I walk over to the car that needs to be
jumped and I'll connect the red wire to plus. Okay, right. And somehow I'm standing there with one
wire. I still got to make one more connection. What I do is I don't put it on the battery because
it'll start a little bit when you put it on the negative terminal probably make a little spark.
Okay. But what you do is you look for another place on the engine. There's usually a
like a engine lift. There's a little metal part that comes up where if they ever had to take your
engine out, they would hook there and lift it out. That's usually a good place to get a ground
connection. And I make my final connection there. And that's usually a couple of feet away from your
battery. So any hydrogen gas that happened to be there is is further away from where the spark
will occur. Right. So anyway, just one of those life things. My two of my sons have learned that
lesson. And because I yelled so much, my third son was smart enough to get it right.
And he's a smart one. So he hated for me to yell at any of them. I was, I'm not a good dad. I wasn't
a good dad. But you know, so I'd raise my, I would say I'm just raising my voice, but I was human
man when I had that, you know, because I had told my son, I said, never, I've trained you,
you know how to jumpstart a car. Don't ever let someone else do that for you, especially if they're
your age and they've never done it before. They're trying to help. But you know, what he ended up
doing instead of getting a jumpstart is he was stranded and he missed work and he didn't get
fired. But mighty God, it was a life lesson. Well, I'd be pretty upset too, if I was you.
I'm sorry. I said, I said, I had that. I've been once where my battery ran out of my car.
And then the adult that I knew helped me start it back up. Okay.
Yeah. Because of that again. Yeah. So your car works once it gets going, it doesn't need the
battery. And so, you know, like, if you're bad, if you think your battery is dead,
and you get it started, usually I would go to AutoZone or some parts store and you're just
going to buy a battery, you know. So anyway, it's not a life and death thing usually, although
and I've never seen a battery blow up. But I've read the warnings and I've seen the warnings
and I know that I don't want something that's full of acid blowing up next to me in my car that I
love and want to drive and, you know, maybe setting things on fire or burning, getting acid on my face,
my pretty little face. So anyway, it's a good young adult thing to know how to do. And especially
you Caroline, you know, you're going to have a dead battery one day and some guy's going to be,
you know, he's going to be so nervous watching, you know, trying to impress you. I'm sorry.
He has the best of intentions because he wants your attention, right?
But if he's dumb and he doesn't know how to do this, he might blow up your car or his car,
you know. So you're the mature woman in the situation, you're going to have to say,
let me do that or something, you know, or just watching. You can say, no, don't do that, you
know, when you see him. You're not doing that, right? Yeah, you know, and he'll turn red and test
and, you know, be embarrassed and all that. But anyway, see, I love this stuff. And here I go
off on this thing. Okay, so don't, you don't really want to ever do what they say to do an
experiment 15 one, which is put a, what I would say, that's a dead short. You don't want a dead
short, meaning a wire going from the positive terminal to the negative terminal. That's,
that's almost all the ways to be avoided. All right, so here's how we draw a picture of a battery.
The book had a photograph of a battery, but in a circuit, you never see that. You see this little
symbol. All right, so there's a, let me get my pointer. Okay, so there's a wire coming out this
end and a wire coming out this end. And this represents, actually, it kind of does represent
like what's going on in the battery. So there would be a one type of metal, it's a plate,
then some kind of electrolyte in between, and then another plate. And we don't really show the
electrolyte. But so there's two plates of metal here. Now, one of them is purposefully drawn
longer than the other one. And the convention is that we call this longer plate, the positive
terminal, and the shorter plate, the negative. And that's easy for, this is one that's visually
easy for me. So the little dash here, the short dash goes with the shorter plate. Okay. So whenever
you need to draw a battery in your circuit, and you want to get the polarity right,
just, now sometimes, and in fact, he says that the one figure where he has this, he says that's
the only place I'm ever going to show this is give you a plus and a minus on here. All right,
so that's a battery. And it's got some voltage. Sometimes you would say, you'd write out here
on the side D equals 1.5 volts or something like that. All right. And then here is a completed
circuit. So we've drawn this black path here that represents wires. That's the conductors.
And he's connected the positive terminal all the way around to the negative terminal. So that's a
circuit. This is a bad circuit because all the electricity, all the energy in this battery is
going to start flowing around this circuit. And if nothing else, the battery will discharge.
What happens in a battery is there's this chemical imbalance. And once the current has flown enough,
they're going to, the chemicals will stop letting electrons flow. So the battery's dead.
Some of them you can charge and others you can't. So that's a circuit.
And then there's this thing talking about the current. So
there's a nice little story in there about before they knew much about what electricity was.
Ben Franklin drew a battery and he thought, or drew a circuit and he thought that the current
should flow from the positive terminal to the negative terminal. And so that's what this purple
line represents. That's what I'm seeing in my mind is electricity's flowing out of this positive
terminal and flowing back into the negative. And it's just going around and around. Okay. So that's
called the conventional circuit. And outside of a physics book, anytime someone shows a current,
that's what they're talking about. That's really what they're talking about. Now really what's going
on is electrons are coming out of the negative terminal and they actually travel
the opposite direction. And so that's the electron flow is opposite the conventional current. So
except for a physics test or a physics type problem, you don't have to worry about this.
Just always when you draw a circuit and you want to think about the current,
just draw the current leaving the positive terminal of a battery and flowing through the
circuit in that way. All right. So we'll draw some more complicated circuits soon with some
other circuit elements. We're going to talk about resistors in particular. And those circuits,
usually what we mean is the wires have no resistance. So they don't resist the flow of
electricity. They're perfect conductors. And we ignore the, except for knowing that this path is
important, we ignore any resistance or resistance to flow in those wires. And that's an approximation.
And so for example, if you connect your car jumper cables up wrong, okay, those wires become a very
important part of the circuit and they'll start getting hot and they'll melt and then you'll have
a real mess on your hand. And so there are times when the wires actually do become important.
But for the most part, we're going to just assume that they are perfect wires. So a real conductor
impedes the flow of electricity and that's called its resistance. And really what's happening
is these electrons are flowing through that wire. They're actually hitting other atoms in the wire.
So here's a copper atom. Where am I? Copper atom. Here comes an electron. And the electron just
wants to go past it, but it actually hits the electron. It kind of scatters and it has to get
going again in the other direction. So that's what causes resistance. And we're not going to really
talk too much about that. So resistance is the ability of a substance to impede the flow of charge
when there's a potential difference that would make the charge move.
So the amount of current that flows through a resistance, and this is one of the primary equations
we'll be using, is given by this. The amount of current flowing through a resistance
is given by the voltage divided by the resistance.
So let's think about this real quick. So one way to get more current flowing through
a device, through a wire, is to increase the voltage. So the higher the voltage, the more
current. That makes some sense. Another way to get more current flowing through a wire would be to
decrease the resistance. Now that's hard because we don't normally have things where we can turn
the resistance down. But that's one way to think about it. The other way to think about
resistance, and this equation we can rearrange it. This is one of our, it's a ratio equation. So we
can use shortcut algebra. So what I can do when I see an equation like this is I can swap these two
things here. So I did that. So now I see that the resistance of something is equal to the voltage
across it divided by the current that flows. And then rearranging it again, I can see, and this is
the equation that the book uses, it says that the voltage across a resistor is equal to the current
through the resistor times the resistance itself. And we'll do some examples. So the unit of resistance,
you can see the unit here in this equation. It's volts per amp, volts per ampere. And that's a
special unit that now has the name ohms. So someone will say, I need a 1000 ohm resistor. And that's
what they're talking about. And it's usually the symbol capital omega is the symbol we use for that.
All right, so let's talk about an electric heater as an example of a circuit with a resistance in it.
Usually the heating element is like a coil of wire wound tightly. Sometimes it's special wire that has
a lot of resistance. So it'll glow red hot when you apply the voltage. And here's the circuit
diagram for that. So here's a battery. And then I have wires connecting to one this wire from the
positive terminal of the battery connects to one side of my resistor. And this little squiggly line
is a resistor. And then I have another wire going from that resistor back to the other terminal of
the battery. And so here's my voltage. And here's my resistance in this circuit diagram.
Okay, so this is actually a very simple circuit. And this is the one that I wish he had drawn
first, because now people, kids will be connecting wires from the positive to the negative terminal
of the battery. That would be good. And that's just not good. We don't like those sparks. We don't
like that burning smell. And we don't like burn fingers or houses burn down. So sometimes that's
what happens. It's such a big deal that like, we're Christmas lights, usually Christmas lights,
if it's Christmas time, if people have Christmas lights up, what will happen is a bulb will get
broken. All right. And instead of having a heating, instead of having this resistance there,
which is the light, they just because the bulb broke, now there's a connection straight across
here. And so that wire then will get glowing red hot. And of course, it's laying on the carpet
underneath the tree and the gifts and boom, everything's on fire. So so this voltage source
will cause a current to flow. And I didn't draw it on here, but I'm drawing a path with my mouse.
So the current, we would think of it flowing in this direction. All right. And then the resistor
flows, the current flows through the resistor causing that resistor to heat up. And if it heats
up enough, then we have heat keeping our house warm. So let's do an example. So here's a an
electric heater. This battery is a 240 volt battery. Now we're not talking about, so at this
point, this batteries, batteries produce what's called direct current. The current does not
alternate in time. When you get voltage out of your wall, it's alternating current. And we'll
talk a little bit about that later on. But let's say we've got a 240 volt battery. And those do exist,
by the way, they're kind of rare. You'd have them in your submarine or something like that
or are in a big uninterruptible power supply. And then here's a resistor over here. The heating
element is has a resistance of 20 ohms. So what is the current that flows in this circuit?
All right, so we're going to go back to our equation. This is the basic equation that V
is equal to IR. So we're going to use this formula in various forms. So there's really only one formula
to remember. V is equal to IR. But we want to know the current, so we're going to solve this for
I. And so I is equal to voltage divided by the resistance. All right, so here in this circuit,
the voltage across this resistor or out of the battery, oops, is 240 volts. And the resistance
is 20 ohms. And so I've got the right units in there. So volts per ohm is going to be the current.
And 240 divided by 20 is just a number. So that's equal to 12 volts per ohm or 12 amps. So in this
circuit, this battery is going to supply 12 amps to this heating element. So the reason this thing
is useful is it takes the energy that's in the battery, and it delivers it at a certain rate.
So we'd be talking about power to the environment, and that heat will warm us up. So we're interested
in how much power gets delivered by the electrical circuit components. And the electrical power in
a resistor is this. The power is equal to the current times the voltage. So if you want to know
how much power a resistor is putting out, you find the current that's flowing through it in amps,
and the voltage in volts, and multiply those together, and the answer will be in watts.
Okay. So in the heater circuit we just designed, we would have that the power is equal to i times b.
So that's, we saw that the current was 12 amps, and it's 240 volts. And we do this 12 times 240.
And we find that the power is 2880 volt amps, or 2880 watts. So 2880 watts. So that's a fair bit
of power, but that, like if you have a, oh shoot, it's 11 o'clock. So if you have a
hairdryer, they usually are a thousand or 2,000 watts. This is almost a 3,000 watt
hairdryer, so you might catch your hair on fire. So it's probably would be an okay room heater,
but it wouldn't be a good hairdryer. So okay, so what we'll do, I guess we'll stop,
isn't it time to stop? Yeah, it's time to stop. So we'll pick up there. There's other forms of
this power equation that we'll talk about, and we'll talk about that next time. Here's where we are
today. And then we're going to look at other forms of the power equation, which might be easier to use
in other circumstances. So there's our basic equation. Power, the power dissipated by a resistor
is equal to the current flowing through that resistor times our voltage across the resistor.
You can also use it to calculate the power put out by a battery. So if you, like say you've got a
one and a half volt lantern battery, or D cell or something like that, so you know the voltage
there. And then if you make a circuit with that battery and put a current meter in there, you
can measure the current. And so you can see how much power that battery would be putting out
just by multiplying the current. So current in amps times voltage in volts is equal to watts.
All right, okay. Now, another equation that we have is that for a resistor, the voltage drop
across the resistor is equal to the current times the resistance. So current in amps
times resistance in ohms. When you multiply amps times ohms, you get volts. And we could go back
to basic units, meters, kilometers per second, and all that. But you very seldom do that at
this point when you're doing circuit analysis. So what we can do then is put this expression
for V into this equation. So P is equal to I times I times R. And so an alternative equation for the
power through any device that has a resistance is power is equal to the current squared times the
resistance. All right, so for our problem, we figured out for that heater, we found out that 12
amps were flowing through the heater through that resistor. The resistor was 20 ohms. So 12
squared is 144 times 20 ohms. And so it's amps squared ohms. And so you multiply these two and
you get 2,880 watts. So you get the same answer. All right, so that's just so in other problems
where we say, what is the power? This might be the equation that's easier and more direct to use. We
may already know the current and we may already know the resistance. But we may not know the voltage
across the resistor. Okay, or here's another one. So here's our basic equation. Power is equal to
current times voltage. But for a resistor, we can also calculate I is equal to V over R.
So I'm going to put this equate representation for I into here. And so then I find that the power
