Let's see, I think there's a key that I can hold down.
I'm going to go up here and rotate it.
Oops, don't need to do that.
Come on, rotate, rotate.
All right, well, I'm going to make it go like this.
I'm going to put this resistor here.
I'm going to make this connection go over there.
Then I need another wire.
I'm going to make it connect here.
All right, so now I've made a much more complicated circuit.
Let me make that a 20 ohm resistor.
Okay, so now I've changed the topology of this.
Actually, what I've got now is a...
Let me do that.
So now my next...
Shoot.
My next step would be to...
So I can still do the parallel things there, but now I've got this connected here.
And I have to...
Okay, so this wire is connected like this.
All right, so now I'd have to do a different iteration.
I would figure out the equivalent resistance of these two, you see,
and then that's going to be in parallel with this guy.
So this is actually...
So 12 and a half plus seven.
That's almost 20.
Then I said this one was a 20 ohm resistor.
And so now...
So do you see now that I've got...
For this new problem, these two are in series.
So I can add these two together and get an effective resistance.
Replace these with one resistor.
And then I have a 20 ohm in parallel with that one.
So I have to do another parallel combination.
And then that'll give me one resistor.
And then that'll be in series with this guy.
And I can add those two together.
So now it turns out that you guys...
There are some problems that you can't really solve with the tools that you have.
Let's say that if I added another resistor going from here to here,
then that's a whole different ball game.
And we need to be able to solve some circuit equations.
It would be...
What you end up with is multiple equations with simultaneous equations that you have to solve,
which is...
It's not hard.
You'll probably know how to do simultaneous equations,
but it's just another level of difficulty,
which isn't fair to throw at you in two little lectures.
So that's why the book didn't go there.
So anyway...
But that might be a good test for you.
