Welcome back to part three of our three-part series with Daniel Schmockdenberger on the
generator function of existential risks.
In this episode, Daniel shares his vision for a path towards a post-existential risk
future and the three key features of this new civilization design.
He also talks about why there is no place for incentives in such a world.
To get all the links and show notes from this episode, go to futurethinkers.org slash 57.
You can also find the first and second part of this interview there.
This episode is brought to you by Qualia, a premium-neutropic supplement that helps
support mental performance and brain health.
It's specifically designed to promote focus, support energy, mental clarity, mood, memory,
and creativity.
UVA and I have both used it in the past.
We really like it, and we actually met the founders and interviewed them on FutureThinkers.
You can check out those interviews.
They're one of our favorites at futurethinkers.org slash Daniel and futurethinkers.org slash
Jordan.
They've got a new formula up called Qualia Mind.
It's got more natural ingredients, and you can get it at futurethinkers.org slash Brain
Hack, and you can get 10% off if you use the code FUTURE.
All right, let's get into the show.
Welcome to FutureThinkers.org, a podcast about the evolution of technology, society, and
consciousness.
I'm Mike Gilliland, and I'm UVA Ivanova.
If you're new to the show and you'd like a list of our top episodes and resources, go
to futurethinkers.org slash start.
And if you like our podcast, leave us a rating and a review on iTunes and elsewhere.
It really helps others find the show, and we really appreciate it.
I'm reading Carl Jung right now, and he's talking about his experience of going to live
with the Pueblo Indians and how it completely just blew apart his conception of what was
natural and how the Western worldview is different from other worldviews.
And he noticed that they were so happy and serene, and they felt themselves as one with
their environment, and they had this very special relationship with the sun, and it
was just, it was very beautiful, but at the same time, he realized how they were very
vulnerable to the invasion of the Western civilization.
So if we create a new civilization operating system that is not oriented towards winning
wars, then how do we ensure that it doesn't get destroyed by those who are?
Imagine there's a group of people that get a stronger theory of causation.
So they learn Newton's physics, and so now they can use calculus to plot a ballistic
curve and make the cannonball hit the right spot every time, rather than the pendulum
dowsing, which is kind of a hit or miss.
That belief is going to catch on.
And that's why science really caught on, took us out of the dark ages, was because it led
to better weapons and better agriculture tech and better like real shit.
So it proliferated because it was proliferative.
If we increase our theory of causation, that ends up catching on.
But if we could increase our theory of causation and our theory of choice and the relationship
between them, that would actually be the most adaptive, especially in the presence of where
our particular game theoretic model of choice with the extension of causation we have is
definitely self-terminating, definitely anti-adaptive.
And so, I know we've been on for a long time, so there's really only one more thing that
I want to share that kind of closes this set of concepts.
So remember we said that any source of asymmetric advantage, competitive advantage in a win-lose
game will end up, once it's deployed, being figured out and utilized by everybody.
You just up the level of fencing in the playing field.
So, but we also said that Indians you were just mentioning, and many of the tribes we've
mentioned, lost win-lose games.
We don't want to try and build something that's just going to lose at a win-lose game.
But we know that if it tries to win at win-lose games, it's just still part of the same existential
curve that we're on.
So it has to not lose at a win-lose game, while also not seeking to win.
So it's basically not playing the game, but it is oriented about how not to lose.
This is a very important thing.
And so, we can think about power, the way we have traditionally thought of power as a
power over or power against type dynamic, a game theoretic win-lose dynamic.
And that that any agent that deploys a particular kind of power leads to other agents figuring
how to deploy the same and other kinds of power.
Power keeps anting up till we get to problems, but we can think about another term we might
call strength, which is not the power to beat someone else, but it's the ability to not
be beat by someone else.
It's the ability to maintain our own sovereignty and our own coherence and the presence of
outside forces.
And so, we can talk about my power, like can I go beat somebody up?
But my strength is can my body fend off viruses?
And can I fend off cancers?
And can I actually protect myself if I need to protect myself, which is different than
can I go beat other people up?
And now, the power game is the game we actually have to cure.
Power over dynamics mean rivalrous dynamics mean win-lose dynamics is the source of evil.
It's not that money is the source of evil, it's that power over where I think my well-being
is anti-coupled to yours, ends up being the source of evil, and money is just very deep
in the stack of power dynamics, but statuses and certain ways of relating to sex and a
number of things are.
So, we have to get rid of the power over dynamics, but it doesn't mean that I can't develop strength
that makes me anti-fragile in the presence of rivalry.
And then I say, well, what kind of capacity can I develop that doesn't get weaponized
by somebody else and used against me, given that any asymmetric capacity I get can be
weaponized.
There's really only one and this is a really interesting thing.
If I make the adaptive capacity of, say we're trying to make a new civilization as a model
and a new full stack civilization, new economics, new governance, new infrastructure, new culture
that has comprehensive loop closure, doesn't create accumulation or depletion, doesn't
have rivalrous games within it, et cetera, if I try to have some unique adaptive capacity
via a certain type of information tech, the other world will see that information tech
and use it for all kinds of purposes, including against me where there's an incentive to do
so.
And the same is true if I use military tech or if I use environmental extraction tech,
now I'm still in the same problems.
But if my advantage, the advantage of the way the civilization is structured has to
do with increased coherence in the sense making and choice making between all the agents in
the system, all the people in the system, increased interpersonal coherence, this cannot
be weaponized and anyone else employing it is now just the system itself propagating.
So for instance, when we start playing rivalrous games, we start realizing that it's not just
us against somebody else, it's teams against larger teams, right?
And so then the idea of the team is we're supposed to cooperate with each other to compete
against somebody else, but compete against someone else idea ends up going fractal and
I end up even competing against my teammates sometimes.
And that's part of that.
Why the collective intelligence doesn't scale thing is because I'll cooperate with my other
buddies on the basketball team unless there's also a thing called the most valuable player
and I'm in the running for it and I have a chance to make the three point shot rather
than pass even though it decreases the chance of the team winning.
Now I have a incentive misalignment.
So I might go for that.
And then it gets bigger where there's a couple of us that both want the same promotion.
To the same position at the company.
And we're actually going to try and sabotage the other one, even though that harms the
company because my own incentive is not coupled with their incentive and with the company.
And then I can look at, say a couple different government agencies that are competing for
the same chunk of budget, they will actually seek to undermine each other so they get more
of the budget when they're supposed to be on the same team called that country.
And so what we realize is we get this thing called like fractal disinformation, fractal
decoherence and defection happening everywhere and that creates the most broken information
ecology and the least effective coordination and cooperation possible.
And that's everywhere.
That's ubiquitous and it's the result of that underlying rivalry.
So as we mentioned before, now if I have some information, I want to make it to where nobody
else can use it.
I want to trademark it, patent it, protect my intellectual property.
And before I've released it, I actually want to disinform everybody else about it, right?
Tell them the goal to somewhere else so that they go dig in somewhere else and don't pay
attention to what I'm doing.
So if I am both hoarding information, disinforming others and keeping my information from being
able to be synthesized with others, that means I'm going to not let my knowledge about cancer
research and whatever it is be out there because I got to make the pharma on your back.
So the best computer that the world could build doesn't exist because Apple has some
of the IP, but Google has some of the IP and 10 other companies have some of the IP.
And so the best computer that science knows how to build can legally not be built in this
world.
And the best phone and the best car and the best medicine and the best every fucking thing
there is because we keep the actual adaptive knowledge from synthesizing, let alone that
everybody is having to reproduce the same fucking work because we don't want to share
our best practices.
And then almost all the budget is going into marketing against the other ones rather than
actual development and the marketing is just lying in manipulation, you know, at least
about why ours is comprehensively better when they then have to say the same thing about
what their IP does that's good and our IP does some other thing.
Now imagine if we had a world where all the IP got to be synthesized, nobody was disinforming
anybody else.
Everybody was sabotaging anyone else.
Everyone was an incentive to share all of the info and to synthesize all the info to
synthesize all of the intellectual property ideas, etc. work towards the best things possible.
Imagine how much more innovation would actually be possible, how much more collective intelligence
and capacity would actually be possible.
Now if our source of adaptive advantage is that, right, is we make a world where and
now we have to come back to, we were talking about if you possess a good and I no longer
have access to it, we're an arrival risk relationship, right?
You possess a piece of information and that I don't then get to have access to it, we're
an arrival risk information knowledge, etc.
But if you have access to something and we've structured the nature of access where we have
engineered the scarcity out of the system such that you're having access doesn't make
me not have access and you having access leads to you being a human who has a full life and
some of your full life is creativity and generativity.
And so now not only do you have the full access to those transportation resources, but also
maker studios and art studios and education and healthcare and all the kinds of things
would make you a healthy, well-adaptive, creative person and every well-adaptive person is
creative because nobody wants to just chill out watching TV all the time unless they were
already broken, broken by a system that tried to and sent them to do shit that nobody wants
to do or if they can get away out, they will be their broken person.
But if someone was supported in an education system to pay attention to what they were
innately fascinated in and facilitate that, they'll all become masterful at some things
with innate intrinsic motivation to do those things.
And so now in a world where we support everybody to have access to the things that they are
intrinsically incented to want to create, which if right now I get status by having
stuff, but if we are engineering scarcity out of the system, everyone has access, nobody
possesses any of it, everybody has access to all of it, there's no status of having
things and it's totally boring.
There's no differential advantage, the only way you get status, the only way you get to
express the uniqueness of who you are is by what you create.
And so now the whole system's oriented towards that, but you don't create something to get
money because money for what?
To have access to shit you already have access to.
But because you get to be someone who created that thing in both your own intrinsic experience
of it and extrinsically getting to offer to the world and recognize that.
So now we have a situation where we all have access to commonwealth resources that create
an anti-rivalrous relationship to each other.
And obviously I'm just speaking about this at a 100,000 foot level and we could drill
down on what the actual architecture looks like, but there's actual architecture here
that is viable that meets the design criteria.
And we have sense making processes where we look at what a good design would be before
making a proposition for a design that don't lead to polarization and radicalization, but
that lead to progressively better synergistic satisfies that get us out of theory of trade-offs
and into, right, synergistic satisfies also as a way of having people be more unifiable
and on the same team.
Now if I've got this world where it's source of competitive advantage, if you want to call
it that, is that it is obsolete in competition within itself so it has real coherence, then
not only is the quality of life there radically higher because the people don't feel lonely
and they actually have creative shit to do and they aren't being used as instrumental
pawns to some other purpose and et cetera, and the quality of life is better because
they're actually making better medicine and better technology and better et cetera because
of the ability for the IP to synthesize and everything else.
