But this world can also out innovate in really key ways, other places in the world.
And so then rather than the rest of the world wanting to attack it, the world, it can actually
say here, will export solutions you want?
And so the rest of the world starts to create a positive dependence relationship.
And the rest of the world says, shit, we want to be able to innovate.
Why were they able to solve that problem?
We weren't able to solve it because our guys were like sabotaging each other and their
guys weren't sabotaging each other.
And we say, great, here's the social technology we use.
Now as soon as they implement that, it's not being weaponized.
That's just the world actually shifting.
That's where this model actually becomes a new basin of attraction the world starts flowing
to.
And so you have to do that.
You create a prototype of a full stat civilization that is anti-rivalrous.
It is anti-fragile against rivalry, strength, non-power, and that is auto propagating that
by the nature of the solutions that it is exporting and by its own adaptive capacity,
its own design starts to get implemented other places.
And that's ultimately the desire.
That is a path to a post existential risk world, which is building it in prototype in
a way where it auto propagates.
That's so exciting.
Are there places where these prototypes are being built?
Kind of, but not really.
There are intentional communities where people are trying to practice some things that they
feel will be relevant, a closed loop agriculture system, where they at least have regenerative
agriculture and maybe some kinds of social coherence technologies where they have a better
system of conflict resolution than our current judicial system, better parenting, better
education.
Like we have those things and those are cool and they're valuable, but they still have
to buy their computers from Apple and fly on a Boeing to get somewhere that depends upon
environmental destruction and war.
And so they can't actually provide a high tech civilization, so they're not yet civilization
models.
And the civilization models are all part of this one dominant civilization model.
So this is a next endeavor.
And before a full stack civilization occurs, obviously partial ones, but that are directed
towards the full stack civilization have to occur because in the world we're talking
about, there is no place for the things currently called judges or lawyers or politicians or
bankers because those systems don't exist.
Now that doesn't mean that there isn't a equivalent of a judicial system, but it's totally fucking
different from the level of the theory of ethics to the jurisprudence.
And somebody has to be getting trained in the civics of that system.
And there's nothing like banking, but there are things like paying attention to how the
accounting of this new economy works, but people have to be trained in that.
I'll give you one for instance, if we think about the physical economy, so we'll take
attention out and just look at physics, we see that there's at least three different
kinds of physics involved in the materials economy that are fundamentally different in
their math.
So there is a physics of atoms, physical atoms, there is a physics of energy, and there's
a physics of bits.
And right now those are all fungible, I can use the same dollar to buy software or to
buy energy or to buy metals or physical stuff, food.
But there's a fixed number of atoms of a certain type on the planet that are reasonably accessible.
And right now we're just taking them from the environment in a way that causes depletion
and then putting them back into the environment as waste in a way that causes accumulation,
toxicity on both sides, we can't keep doing that.
We have to close loop it where we have then a give or take finite amount of metals and
not just metals, but hydrocarbons, everything, a finite amount of atoms that are in a closed
loop relationship, but they can be upcycled because we have the energy to upcycle them,
which means putting the same atoms into higher pattern where the pattern is involved in the
pattern stored in bits.
So if I take the atoms out of one battery, put it in a new battery, what's evolved is
battery technology, that new battery is in bits, a blueprint.
And I'm going to use energy to take the atoms in the current form, disassemble them and
reassemble them into this new battery.
And so there's a fixed amount of atoms, we have to close loop those.
There's not a fixed amount of energy, we get new energy from the sun every day.
But we have kind of a finite bandwidth of how much we get.
So we have to operate within, that's not closed loop, right?
We can use that up and it has a entropy, but within that bandwidth, we have to work.
And then bits are fundamentally unlimited, limited only by the compute of the energy
and matter.
So that can keep expanding basically indefinitely.
Once I've made a bit, I can reproduce it exponentially without any unit cost.
Because I can reproduce it exponentially without unit cost once I've developed it once, I can
get exponential returns on software in a way that I could never get on atomic stuff, which
is why Elon has a hard time raising money for physical stuff and what's absolute for
$19 billion.
It's why all the unicorns are software and mostly social tech or fintech or something
that is actually doing not good things for the world, but can create exponential returns.
And it's why Silicon Valley has basically mostly just invested in software stuff.
If you make those fungible, you'll actually be moving the energy away from the atom and
away from the energy into the virtual, away from the physical into the virtual.
Even though the virtual depends on the physical, so you're actually debasing the substrate
upon which it depends.
And so you notice that since the bit, we can keep having more of forever.
They don't go through an entropic degradation when we use them.
The energy we can use, it entropically degrades, but we get more of it every day and the atoms
don't entropically degrade, but we have to keep cycling them and there's a fixed number.
The physics, the accounting of those are totally different.
That's not one economy that's fungible to itself with one accounting system.
That's three, completely separate, but interacting physical economies.
And now again, we already said we're not owning goods.
We're having access to shared commonwealth services, but this is just first to really
go into it.
It's a lot of things.
But these are examples of some of the considerations that have to happen to actually be able to
think about things like economics at a level of depth that is appropriate to the nature
of the issues.
If we don't answer the question of what makes a good civilization and we simply say would
allow civilization to endure.
And so we start with, let's just say we don't want existential catastrophic risk and there's
a whole bunch of different types of existential catastrophic risks that all have the same
generator function.
So we have to create categorical solutions to the generator functions.
It turns out that those are the generator functions that have made all the things that
we intuitively have experienced as sucking like violence and environmental devastation
and that solving those generator functions doesn't just allow us to survive in maybe
some dystopian dynamic, anti-rival risk dynamics with each other and closed loop dynamics and
the proper relationship between the complicated and the complex scalable collective intelligence
systems and a right understanding and theory of choice and relationship, the theory of causation
end up being a way of mapping to a world that is definitely pro-topic on any meaningful
definition of pro-topian, any meaningful kind of consideration of what good could mean.
And so when we come back to this mythopoetic, we can't keep going the way that we're going.
There's a purgatory coming and it's going to go one way or the other and one way is
really shitty and one way is really lovely.
That's a true story and Bucky Fuller said utopia or oblivion and it's going to be hit
or miss till we're actually there and I can't know which way it goes.
That's the thing I would just kind of end on is what it takes, if we try to solve the
various risks in isolation, it's impossible we fail.
If what it takes to solve them categorically ends up also mapping to how we engage everyone
in creating the true, the good and the beautiful that is theirs to create progressively better,
both up regulating their sense making of what that is with themselves and with each other
and being able to make that, scaling the collective intelligence that is progressively answering
those questions better.
Can you leave us with some book recommendations for anyone who wants to read up on this a little
more and expand their understanding?
Books or other resources?
Yes, I wish I could share more things than I can but a lot of what we're thinking in
terms of new civilization design like this is new.
It doesn't mean it's not drawing on lots of elements.
So a couple things.
We mentioned Jeffrey West's work scale on collective intelligence, that's very valuable.
We talked about some of the dynamics of game theory that have to shift and so finite and
infinite games is just my favorite starting point and it's one of the types of books that
is very simple but has multiple levels of depth of meaning that if you read it multiple
times you'll gain new insights.
Yeah, that one blew my mind.
Yeah, me too.
James Kars, very beautiful.
And I have a blog, civilizationemerging.com that has some articles and these types of
topics and there's also a book list there with a heap of books.
Great.
Great.
Awesome.
This as always is enlightening and so fun.
There are books that are valuable and there's obviously like all of your podcasts are valuable.
If you had the experience of anything that I said making sense and actually seeming obvious
but then you also realized you never thought it in that particular way then there's a question,
why did I never think it in that way even though it seems obvious after the fact?
And that's one of the principles that clarity, one of the properties that clarity has is
it can add novel insight but that seems obvious and kind of prima facie relates to everything
that we know.
When you say, okay, I wasn't thinking about rival risk dynamics and upping the ante clearly
enough.
I wasn't thinking about the exponential economy and software and atoms all being fungible
like there's a problem there.
I wasn't thinking about open loops, closed loops in this particular way but you can if
you start just asking for yourself, what do I think is actually wrong?
And then of all the things that seem wrong, what do they have in common?
And why are those things that are wrong wrong?
What is going on?
And then go deeper, keep going deeper with that and don't look for one answer or there
are a number of different things that come together that are partial answers to this
and what would solving that look like?
And there are resources of other people's thinking on these things but they won't replace,
they will inspire, they won't replace your own deep thinking on these things for your
own sense making and so the resource that I would offer the most is when you are bothered
by something or you wish some beautiful thing existed more than it does, really think hard
about why things are the way they are and know that the first thoughts you will come
up with are not that good but if you stop you won't get beyond there but if you really
keep working on it and thinking about it and then going and researching in light of that
question and then thinking about it more, you actually start to get novel and meaningful
and deeper sense making that is aligned with what is yours to pay attention to and work
on.
To get to what you said earlier, I think it really helps to use different modes of inquiry.
People can get stuck in just intellectual inquiry or just spiritual inquiry but you
know all are valuable and when we can see the same thing from several different perspectives
it becomes a 3D object rather than just being flat.
You just actually mentioned one of my favorite practices is really endeavoring to see and
experience the world through the perspective of someone else and actually see and experience
it and if I am still thinking no if I was in their position I wouldn't do that I haven't
got it yet so if I was in their position I would do it if I am really putting myself
in their position.
I would get enraged by the things they are enraged by, I would get excited by the things
they are excited by and so this both as a practice of empathy and connection, as a practice
of understanding, as a practice of intelligence and learning because I see different things.
If I look at the world through the lens of a mechanical engineer I see shit everywhere
that mechanical engineers see that you never saw which is different than if you look through
the lens of a fashion designer where you look through the lens of a game theory person they
are looking at different things or an evolutionary biologist and you are like there is a whole
universe I wasn't paying attention to.
Like when you buy the car and you see it everywhere you put it on the lens and you start seeing
all kinds of stuff, in fact it sends me.
But also as a kind of spiritual technology of getting out of the default mode of what
you think you are and when I am trying to be someone else it is not my personality that
can do that.
If I am trying to take their personality on it is not my perspective that can do it.
It is the same consciousness that is witnessing my perspective that can then witness somebody
