world. Let's hear it. Okay. And I find it really ironic that an atheist had to come up with the
only good rebuttal to this, but it takes place in the in the form of a conversation between Job
and God because that's kind of guy Scott Alexander is. And if you're familiar with the Bible story,
Job basically asks God, why is there suffering in the world? Why do good people suffer? And God
says, Hey, did you make the world cause the sun to rise? No, shut the fuck up. And it was basically
in the Bible, it was basically a bet with Satan, too. Yes, yes. And it was like, I'll bet this guy
also love me if I fuck with him, bet bets on bro. And then he keeps fucking with him more and more.
And Joe stills devoted. So but the core of the story is why do bad things happen to good people?
And the answer is because I'm, you know, fuck you because we have the capacity to feel bad.
Yeah. But the in the in the rewritten conversation between Job and God that Scott Alexander wrote,
Job asks God, why can't you just make a world where everyone is happy and there is no pain?
And God says, I did that. Job's like, No, there's a lot of pain. And God's like, No, no, no, not
this world. There's a different world where there's all happiness, no pain, everything's great. It's
like, Oh, well, why did you make another world? It's like, Well, I thought, you know, there's
this is a lot of people, but I could make an entire world where there's tons of happiness.
And just like someone stubs their toe once in all of human history and think of how much more
happiness that is for just a tiny bit of pain. Totally worth it. So I did that. I made so much
more happiness. I was like, Well, could I make a world where just two people stubbed their toes?
And so on and so forth. And basically, it takes the quantum multi world hypothesis
that every world that can exist does exist, except it takes it that every world where there is more
net positive utility than net negative utility exists. And God's like, you know, I'm sorry,
you happen to be in one of the worlds where it's kind of right on the edge. And there's only a
little bit more happiness and sadness. But, you know, take it to heart, feel happy inside,
because in the human race, the species across all time, there will be more happiness than
sadness overall. And so therefore it's better for this world to have existed than not.
That does ring a bell. And I remember when you mentioned the many, many universes,
I thought that was funny. Yeah. So, but then I guess to bring that analogy home,
which is where I was trying to bring it. So say if we could make everyone on earth as happy as
Eniosh. Yeah, yeah. That may not be happy enough. Well, but is that happy enough? You admit yourself
fairly happy most of the time. Really happy most of the time. Yes. So if we could ever
give everybody put everybody at the top of the hedonic treadmill? Well, I mean, they can't,
they can't all fit at the top. But like, I mean, just to raise raise how. Oh, yeah, right.
Depending on politics, of course they can. Like Stephen Colbert, I won't rest till everyone's
in the upper 1%. So, but now I guess just just raise so that the, the, to make Eniosh the saddest
person on earth, right? So would that be happy enough? Would what? Would you still push the
button in that situation? So like, with someone with a fairly, with a fairly high level of profess
happiness, if that's the saddest person on earth, and the animal equivalency jumps up as well,
would that earth, would you still condemn it to be pushed into the sun, if you could?
That'd be pretty good. I'd be, I'd be pretty happy with that earth. So that sounds like a more
attainable bar, I think, than I mean, am I, am I guaranteed that it's going to remain like that
forever? No, but I mean, let's, let's, let's say the odds are nine and 10 that will remain like
that till the end of the universe. Yeah. Okay. So, sorry. So, so this is where you get at,
right? So you have, you've got a decision theory where you multiply the, you take your, you take
your, your utility and you multiply it times the percentage that it'll happen, right? I mean, this
is kind of in standard game theory. And so I think the way I think what my, what I think what I'm
doing when I'm saying I'm pushing the button is I'm taking that unhappiness, that pain and suffering,
and I'm taking the small percentage that it'll continue or that it exists at all anyway, and
I'm multiplying that times the negative utility and that negative utility, like pain and suffering,
like, imagine just the worst thing you can, like just take a person, just, yeah, just an entirety
of torture in a dark room, something like that, like it gets close, it approaches negative infinity.
And so no matter what you multiply times, I mean, that's going to be like for me, that, that, that,
I can't not push the button because I have, I have the possibility that's going to happen.
Now, well, yeah, right, because you have, I mean, like if I could prevent 50 years of torture,
like, I don't know, I don't, I just can't fathom not pushing the button in that situation, no
matter what else it entailed. This isn't, and I'm just really quick, this isn't an endorsement of,
of any suicidal propositions, but there's a nonzero chance that someone is going to pick
up on your drive home today and torture you for the rest of your life. What's to make you decide
to not take your own pill before you leave the room, right? I'm not trying to talk you into it,
for the love of God. So how do I, cognitive, cognitive dissonance is how I do that.
But you would, you would condemn humanity to non-existence on the small, I don't condemn them,
I bet that, well, you would reward them with non-existence at the small chance that everything
could get really bad and say that way versus not extrapolating that to like a case-by-case basis.
Yeah, okay. So just, just cognitive dissonance? Yeah, like if I, if I want to continue, I have to
pretend that doesn't exist for you, I mean, fair enough. I don't, I also don't have any free will,
so like I, that's just how I continue living. Right, and I, I, I maybe shouldn't have said that,
because I, I guess I was just, this is a dark episode. It kind of is. It's a dark episode.
Maybe it won't make it out, it probably will. Trigger warnings on it. Right, definitely. Yeah.
I wasn't trying to be a dick. I, I'm just, I'm trying to better understand it. So like,
you're not trying to be a dick, you're just trying to say, why don't you, why don't you kill yourself,
Steven? I, that's not where I was going. So one, one of the reasons I don't kill myself is because
I assign a very, very low probability to the, to the chance that I'll live the rest of my life
in abject horror. But if you're saying that on the chance that, that humanity as a whole or life
on earth as a whole could, there's a small chance that they can live abject horror forever,
that, that would justify ceasing its existence. Well, this is a closed system too, right? So like,
I'm just confining it to me. If I were to kill myself, I would create a lot of pain and suffering
in the world. Oh, oh yeah. So then, so it's predicated on, you wouldn't press a button that
would kill half of everybody. Right. Yeah. It would, I have to get every, every form of life
and everything that could possibly, like I have to even get, I have to get like amino acids.
Right. I have to destroy the ocean. You got to, you got to supplement the,
you would have to break out the whole universe then too, huh?
Or I can, or I can hope that everyone else will push the button too.
Is the amount of suffering that you would cause by killing yourself today
greater than the amount of suffering multiplied by the probability of it happening,
of you being tortured for the rest of your life another 50 years?
Well, let's see if we take the, I mean, you can't multiply infinities, right?
I kind of worried how far we want to push this.
We push it all the way, Steven. We do not stop until we hit the wall.
So like, like, what?
Push it all the way so Jason doesn't leave this room, right?
Like, like, what if, what if, what if my killing myself made five other people just
extremely depressed for the rest of their life? Or what if I, you know, what if I killed myself
in such a traumatic manner or something that would give people PTSD or, you know, anytime they
I'm not saying that people love me so that, that much that they, that every time they heard my name,
they would just, you know, break down, but they're, they're, it's a closed system.
So that's why we have to, in the button, the button is the entire system.
You know, we're not, we're not taking other life forms into consideration,
anything that might exist on another planet or whatever.
But the button in is the, because it's, because it's everything, right?
It's all everything that can feel, can no longer feel, I can guarantee zero.
I'll, I'll take that. Yeah.
Fair enough. And yeah, so that, that sounds like a good counter-argument to anyone who,
I'm trying to.
I don't, I don't think your argument holds though that suffering is worth that much more than,
than happiness. Because even though you say everyone can agree suffering and pain are bad,
I mean, yes, sure. But pretty much everyone can also agree that happiness is good.
So just because everyone can agree that suffering is bad, doesn't mean that you
shouldn't count happiness. Pain feels worse. Does it?
I think pain feels worse than happiness. I would rather.
I think pain actually has the same hedonic treadmill problem that happiness does.
Because I've, I've been in, I mean, just, just in terms of physical pain,
God, I've gone through some surgeries before and the recovery was fucking horrendous.
I felt like Han Solo when he was being tortured in Star Wars, you know,
it just, it was, it was awful. I took some painkillers and it went away.
But before they kicked in several times a day for about a week, it was insane amounts of pain.
And now I don't like remember it at all. I mean, I vaguely remember that it happened,
but it doesn't register. It fades into the background and you quickly,
you quickly get over it. I hear that's the same reason because women have more than one child.
Because despite the intense agony of childbirth, eventually the pain just kind of recedes into
the background. You're like, okay, whatever. It's the same head treadmill.
Women have more than one children because, I mean, they've evolved to
forget the pain that they went through. Yeah, we've all evolved to forget the pain we've
gone through. Which means that, I mean, if it's, if it's such a, I mean, if happiness doesn't count
because we forget it, doesn't pain also not count because we forget it? But the fact that it has
to be forgotten for anyone to exist doesn't that kind of speak something to the magnitude of pain?
No, I think you should count the pain as it's happening, but it shouldn't
count forever there afterwards. But you don't remember it. I mean, and we're also
continued self here. Like the person who went through that pain, certainly,
I mean, they experienced that. It's a, I wouldn't consider the person who went through the pain,
the same person who is now happy and doesn't remember the pain. It's a very kind of selfish
thing. Then when you have a child, you're going to say, I want a child at the moment,
but you know, I'm not really, you're not getting consent from that future person.
Right. I don't see how that is an argument for saying that pain is so much more of a consideration
though, just because. Oh, no, that was a tangent. Oh, that was a tangent. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I don't
really have a, I don't have a solid argument for it. I mean, these are very, and these are kind of
very loose. You know, when we get to the extreme hypotheticals, they're very loose ideas, because
we're never actually going to experience such hypotheticals unless anybody out there has the
button. Don't. If anyone out there has a button and presents to Jason, we are ethically obligated.
Stephen, it's not me to kill one or the other of you because I am not down with total genocide
of the human race. I think both just to be safe. But yeah, it's true. Yeah. Even like I would still
say that the percentage, the probability of there being, I think that there's more happiness.
Like it's tough to, like we can take surveys and stuff to involve any kind of animals, but I think
that there's more happiness. That's just a hunch and based on a couple of like world happiness
surveys. But even like, I think if there's a very small percentage, a very small chance that things
will get worse. And I'm fairly optimistic that at some point, pain and suffering will cease to exist.
But, you know, if I had it now, does that happen quick enough? Does that happen soon enough to get
to the point where we're all as happy as Indra Yash? Do we all get to do it?
I'm really uncomfortable being our baseline for a happy person.
I think you're the happiest person in the room.
Am I? Well, I'm sure I'm happier than Jason.
Apparently, because I am a conversation. But I am uncomfortable being called the happiest person
because despite the fact that I am happy often, I am not happy all the time by any means.
Let's backtrack a little bit and say that we were at the point where talking about as happy as you
can get, maybe like not theoretical maximum, but like happiest non-diagnosably or non-happiest
neurotypical person, right? So there's probably somebody out there with the opposite of depression
where their happiness is just, it wavers between nine and 10. They're just doing great. But that
stuff doesn't get diagnosed because you don't go to a shrink's office to complain about it.
So there's a manic pixie dream girl out there, you're saying?
What?
There's a manic pixie dream girl out there in the real world.
Probably? Okay.
What's that?
Oh, you aren't enough familiar with the manic pixie dream girl trope?
No.
Oh, okay. I'll have to link it to you then. It's basically every movie made by a middle-aged
white guy where a depressed, mopey kind of college-age white guy runs into, and you know,
like very straight-laced business, serious kind of type, but she's not happy with his life,
runs into this girl who's just free and one with nature and does whatever she wants. And she's
like, oh, let's go have crepes because I see crepes over there and just always manic happy,
pixie dream girl.
Gotcha. Okay. Now I can picture some examples from stuff I've seen. So yeah.
Yes, those people.
Okay.
So they're probably, I don't know, this is getting way too probably non-existent.
Probably.
We don't, well, they're not in the DSM, it's not a disorder because it doesn't affect your
life in any adverse way.
Right.
Exactly. So this whole giant tangent came about because you know, I didn't want to be
an happiest person in the room.
The happiest person in the room.
But so that's fine. Now I can't remember where I was going with that. It's been five minutes
that I derailed us. I'm sorry. How about this? How about we can work, can we work backwards?
We can say, how about let's do it if you are starting from the, the people who would push
the, push the button, right? In this extreme hypothetical, I would like, I would like to
point it like my, I know that there is a movement out there. I think this just came up in conversation,
right? Like that was, it was at my opening line was, hey, would you kill all of, all of life on
earth? If you, if you could, but like, these are, I don't even give them a lot of thought
because they're just so like that, that's not going to happen. I'd give it zero.
We can work backwards and say, well, what can we do to reduce pain and suffering even if you
don't, from the point of view of, of people who are going to value pain and suffering over
happiness as far as like a negative utility goes. How do they live their life? Right.
So I think something I would have in common with the, with the vehement movement would be
stop having as many babies, right? As many are a period. Well, vehement would say period,
but as many is a step up in their opinion. Okay. Well, we can get to, it's better than
having 20 babies, get to the point where resources balance out or at least resource
distribution balances out. So, but you see the Citadans kind of, you see this in places that
are, that are happy anyway, right? The higher the, the higher the income gets, the fewer
children people tend to have. So, I mean, don't, don't contribute to unwanted children in the world.
I take the, the stance of effective altruism, right? So we can do things that reduce the
amount of pain and suffering. And that's in the case of effective altruism, giving to effective
