As a content warning, this episode contains talk of suicide and the destruction of the human race.
Use your best judgment as to whether you should listen to this episode or not. Thank you.
All right, Steve, bring us in.
Hi, welcome to the base of conspiracy. I am Steven Zuber.
I'm Inyash Brotsky.
And I'm Jason, her writer.
And Jason is sitting in for Katrina today because Katrina is out on vacation.
Traveling abroad.
In Australia, no less.
As far from us as you could possibly get.
Ball still on her.
Right.
It's like 36 hours away by plane.
Damn.
Really?
Yeah.
Wow.
So we have Jason on today to talk about voluntary human extinction or not necessarily
voluntarily human extinction, but just whether humans should be around in general.
Are humans the worst thing ever or just almost the worst thing ever?
I guess would be the question we have to pose to Jason.
The first time we met Jason, he mentioned a thought experiment that I thought couldn't
go undiscussed. So it's been a long time coming, but I wanted to have it on the show.
Actually, I'll let you go ahead and take it from here.
I don't remember what thought experiment you were talking about.
Killing everybody?
Under what?
I mean, there's a lot of ways that you can get to killing everybody.
Pressing a button to end all human life?
Oh, yeah. So are there other ones that you might be that you could get behind her?
I mean, I don't know that I could necessarily get her mine.
You have a lot of utilitarian arguments end in or can end in either something awful like a
utility monster or killing everybody. Or as I prefer, I think my ultimate goal would be Brave New World.
Um, which when I read Brave New World, I didn't get all the way to the end because I just kind
of got disgusted with it. I was like, how is this not a wonderful ideal society?
Everybody's happy. There's like, there's drugs. There's free drugs for everybody.
Everyone is born knowing what their purpose in life is and that they are the best person to do
this thing. There's no like stumbling around trying to figure out what you're supposed to do
or how you can contribute to society. It's just all they're laid out for you.
Except, uh, well, except the one guy.
Yeah, he, there was an accident when he was born.
There was, there was one liberal arts major who, who decided that the world was not,
world was not as good as it could have been. You needed more pain and suffering.
It's obviously shitty for him because, you know, he was, you're,
you're optimized for one specific role and then you're the rust and something else.
No, but it would be like if the David Bowie person got stuck in a job for like, uh,
engineer types, accounting or programming or something. And that was what he was forced to do
for his whole life. Yeah, he'd be miserable. And it really sucks for him, but I didn't see how
this book was supposed to be an argument for the society is shitty. Like one guy got fucked due
to a genetic accident. It's society itself is still pretty good.
Everybody, everybody was happy. Everybody happy. And I think that's kind of,
that's, that's where a lot of these arguments end up with, right? You have most utilitarian
arguments kind of take a summation, right? And obviously we're generalizing. Most utilitarian
arguments take a, take a summation of total happiness and well-being of humanity. And then
they, they, they want to overall increase that, you know, that, that total sum. My take on it
is a little bit different. First off, I, I include animals. A lot of utilitarians include animals too.
Yeah. And because we're trying to do a lot of, of explaining like I'm five, I think we've covered
exactly what utilitarianism is. It's an ethical system that says the right thing to do is that
which increases the happiness for the greatest number of possible participants, depending on
what kind of utilitarian you are. I think going all the way back basically included animals.
I don't know if it did it. Jeremy Bedtham's utilitarianism. I don't know. I know at least
it's in John Stuart Mill. Because that would be on the way back. So the idea is that, okay, well,
should I donate to this charity or this charity? Or should I, I mean, it could be even more
broad than that, right? Do I stay at home all day and watch TV or do I go to work so I can pay bills
and give some to charity or something? I think at its most basic, it boils down to
what you could put it is, is it better to give one person $5 or to give 10 people 75 cents?
And, you know, you add up 10 people times 75 cents is more than $5. So even though they are not
going to be as happy as the one guy who got $5, total happiness is increased more if you go with
the 75 cent round. And that's basically what utilitarianism is. It's, you know, it deals in
terms of utils, which are these imaginary measurement units for measuring how happy someone is points.
Yeah, points basically. And there's no way to actually measure them. But in theory, it's, you
know, if something would make one person unhappy, but the other and someone else more happy than
that unhappiness, then the net net utility is positive. And it takes basic axioms that most
people agree with like happiness is good, unhappiness is bad, people want to be happy,
they don't want to be sad. Yeah. And the the sound bite from Jeremy Bentham is the greatest
happiness or the greatest number. And then you describe the difference between total aggregate
and average. So that I think was in the last century where people broke down. Do you take
the total number of utils or happiness of everybody on earth and add them together and say,
okay, cool, it's at seven billion, or I guess that assume everyone had one. So whatever it's at
seven trillion, the higher the better, or the average utils are at like three billion.
So depending on how you approach it depends on how you might answer some various questions on
what you should do. All right, we should we should actually cover that as the the pouring
conclusion problem. But before we want to before we get to there, I did want to point out that
conversely, you know, it sounds like it makes perfect sense when I put in terms of cents and
dollars per person. But conversely, there's the the now famous fat pushing a fat man in front of
a trolley problem, where a trolley is on a track to hit five people. And do you push a fat man in
front of the trolley, which would kill him, but would stop the trolley before hits the five people.
And generally, the utilitarian answer, at least the classical originally utilitarian answer was
yes, because one person is dying, and that is less bad than five people dying. And most people
have some severe issues with that particular conclusion. And there is lots of discussion
about why that may not be, in fact, the optimal thing to do. This this is the typically the
second question asked in the chain of questions that when they put people to the experiment,
either under fmri or however, the first question is much less controversial, you're standing by
the switch on a railroad. And for some reason, down one way, the way that the train is currently
going, you see five people change to the train, change to the train tracks. And then if you pull
the switch, the train will diverge and go down another track where there's one person tried
tied to the train tracks. Most people will say, yeah, I'll pull the switch, five is better than one.
When it comes to pushing someone in front of the train, or trolley because one person couldn't
stop a train, but trolley is is more believable. People have a gut instinct and reaction against
taking active hand and murdering somebody as opposed to a passive one. So I think it's something
like 95. It's some overwhelming majority of people will pull the switch and move the train from one
to the other. But it's radically less, less than a quarter, I think, if people will will push the
person. And mainly, I just bring that up to to demonstrate that it isn't always naturally intuitive
that utilitarianism is the best way to do things. But I think 90% of the time, most people lean
utilitarian. I don't think they do. I think people who think about it may, but deontology also has
some strong arguments to it. And there's there's a lot of different ethical systems out there.
We should we should point out that in the in the lesser on community, right, you've got,
I think on the on the show notes for your last show, you you gave kind of a breakdown of different
different ethical different schools of ethics at the lesser on community believes in and it's
it's mostly consequentialist, which it's I think it's fair to say that most utilitarians are
consequentialists. And then it's got a very small percentage of deontologists. The thing with
deontology that always bugged me was that constant pick his rules arbitrarily, and then say, go to
you know, you have to do those things, he chose consequentialist arguments, and then say, you
have to do this all the time. So it starts the consequentialist reasoning and then just has no
rule breaking. But yeah, we can do our own long episode on ethics, if you want. Right. We are not
here about ethics. We're here about killing all the humans, which has nothing to do with ethical
theory or doesn't we do we just we just we just push somebody into a train. So just say you five
more though. Yeah, would you push everyone in front of a train to save nobody? Seems like a true
question, Brian. Well, what if those even what if those Christ, why did I just call you Brian?
Did I do that before? What if what if those five people were were in severe pain?
And it would actually make their lives better because they would no longer have negative
utility. Right. So the reason a lot of people choose to, you know, commit suicide if they're
ready, terminally ill, and, and in a lot of pain, they're like, the rest of my life is just going
to be pain. I should probably stop it now. The important caveat, I think, between the word suicide
and euthanasia is that if you're just suicidal, my life's pain. And that's how you're you're feeling
at the time. And the things can get better. But that's just kind of how your mental state is.
But that's not necessarily the case. You could be, you know, treated and felt better,
whether or not you're sick or have a or whether or not I guess you're have a deteriorating illness
or a mental illness. If you if you have a prospect of getting better, I become less and less in favor
of euthanasia slash suicide. That's a difficult call to make, though. I mean, I am with you because
I am a very optimistic, hopeful person. And I think yeah, there's always hope. But it is a difficult
call to make because you can't a lot of you know, a lot of mental disorders don't map well, you can't
you can't see, you know, what they're going with the prognosis is. And so for someone to say,
you're definitely going to get better is not necessarily true. This could be a case where
someone is just going to be in pain forever. And and maybe it would be better for them to kill
themselves. It's why I'm we got to put trigger notes for suicide on this episode, because I hate
saying that. And I, I don't think it's true in general. But I have to admit that in theory,
it is possible that there are people who will have negative net utility throughout that, you
know, from now to the rest of their lives. But at that point, it's like a guessing game, right?
Yes, exactly. So you're saying no, there is a chance if you're if you have a say a major
but depressive disorder, that no therapy will have any improvement for you. Right. Anything from,
you know, the smallest dose of Simbalta to straight up to lobotomy, nothing's going to
make you any better. So that there might be a human on earth that that's true for. But that's
different than saying like, you're dying of cancer, you've got six weeks to live,
we've exhausted all the options, it's just going to get worse, and you're going to die.
Well, at that point, it's kind of like, well, can I check myself out now? I say yes.
Oh, I totally agree. But I, the precautionary principle generally says that if you aren't sure,
you err on the side of not killing yourself. Agreed. But you know, I don't think it's
necessarily a good idea to make that a law and deny the people that option. Because then you're
just saying, I know you better than you do, which maybe is the case, but isn't always like, I know
you're going to get better. And my judgment overrules your judgment, even though you are the person
who generally has the best insight into your own brain. And in that case, I kind of think the
precautionary principle almost says, don't interfere with other people's decisions.
I was, I wouldn't say that I know better than someone does. But I would say that I think there's
a good chance. And until you've tried everything, it's probably worth it, because you just don't
know what you're missing. You know, once you get through a depressive disorder, things become much
more enjoyable. And then when you're in the midst of it, the idea of like, why would I want to
keep doing this just seems like a natural thought. But then you don't realize that that's part of
what being depressed is. And I want to say, I'm not encouraging suicide in any way, because when
I was in my late teens and early 20s, I was extremely suicidal. And I, you know, I almost,
I came very close to death a couple of times. And so I'm about to agree with a lot of things
you're going to say, because I felt all those things too. So, but now I'm much happier with life.
And on the whole, I'm extremely glad that I stuck it out, because things have gotten
amazing. And I'm extremely happy. And what exactly is your socioeconomic status?
I currently make above the median income for our country. I make slightly above the median income
for the country, America. And in your white, what people would identify as male, at least?
Yes, I am a white male. I am extremely privileged. I'm basically straight. I am cis. I look like a
normal person. I don't have any major disabilities. So if I had to take a guess as to whether or not
you were going to be happy and know nothing else about you, other than that, I'd probably say
that you're, you're going to be happy. You're at least going to give yourself a seven, which is
kind of the number that the like world happiness values like the that the UN does in, you know,
Protestant countries and higher income countries. Are you basing that number off of
statistics you read? I'm pretty sure that that depressive disorder is less common
among developing countries and among a lot of poor populations that it's a lot.
Once you have like the affluence of luxury to be depressed, then that's when you get depressed.
Yeah, you might have more depression, but as far as people just rating their happiness,
as in on a zero to 10, which is obviously, you know, not fallible, you generally range between
four and like up to up to eight in some like Sweden and Finland, whereas places like Jordan and
Greece, Greece isn't pretty good right now either. Even considering that those places have a lot of
of high rates of depression. That's kind of interesting. I wonder, I guess I'll have to
look into it more if I can find a link. Yeah, we can put on the it's a UN, the UN puts out a
report every couple of years. Okay, I would like to see other questions. We're gonna totally apply
you for links after this, because that's what we like to do with our show. Sure. As long as we're,
you know, still starting out a little bit, do you want to talk about it yourself at all or
or how you came to be in the recording studio? So I get how I how I came to push the button.
Oh, that's a good title right there. That is a good title.
I uh, or how I came to the room or a little just about you if you want to talk about it.
I entered, I entered, I entered a code into the front to the front door and then I followed
the elevator up to the to the east hallway and then. I believe technically Steve entered the code.
Yeah, no, start from birth. Yeah, there I was in my mom's uterus. Just kind of chilling.
My rationalist history is I was baptized Catholic. When I was 14 I read the Bible and
didn't make sense. And I, you know, that seems to be a common common enough jumping off point
for a lot of rationalists. So I jumped into existentialism and nihilism and throughout
like high school. And then through enough willpower, I eventually settled on some some objective
realities. In this case, you know, the existentialist and the nihilist took hold. And that's where I
get my utilitarianism is that it's the problem that that most mainstream utilitarianism has is
that it values positivity too much. So you have these utility monsters, which the concept there is,
you know, you said, you know, let's say we give everybody or let's break it down into money,
right? Let's say we want we want to raise the the happiness of everybody. So we split the money
equally, right? The problem is that that doesn't make everybody happy because some people like
