I don't know if it will be everyone's cup of tea, but I think Daniel has many interesting
perspectives and it is a pleasure to introduce him to our portal community.
So please sit back and relax as we bring you an uninterrupted discussion with Daniel Schmockenberger.
Hello, you've found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and today we'll be sitting down
with a name that will not be familiar to many of you.
My friend, Daniel Schmockenberger. Daniel, welcome to the portal.
Thanks for having me, Eric.
So, Daniel, I have to admit that the way in which I came to know you was a little bit odd.
I would start to talk about various ideas and people would simply say to me,
that's really interesting. Have you ever talked to Daniel Schmockenberger?
So far as I knew, you weren't affiliated with any famous institution. You did not have a large
outreach into the public, and yet somehow my network was very attuned to your thinking.
Do you have any sense of what it was that caused your name among all names to come up
frequently in context that we share?
Well, I think we do happen to have some good friends in common and people who have similar
interests in terms of how to do better thinking, how to make civilization better, make society better,
concerns about civilization risk, and probably mostly have friends that appreciate
heterodox thinking, but clear heterodox thinking. And yeah, my goal was never a lot of broadcasts.
My goal was to communicate with people that I also thought were earnestly endeavoring to think
well and see if we could think better about things and maybe make progress on things together.
Well, I suppose that the way I view it is that there are very few people at the moment
who are really trying to integrate any kind of rigorous thinking across many different
disciplines to solve what I would think would be society-wide problems and opportunities
for everybody. And I find that very surprising because we keep being told what a prosperous
society we are, and you would think that in a prosperous society there would be lots of people
experimenting with radically new ideas about societal organization at any given time,
given that so much is on the line whenever we talk about climate or multipolar geopolitical
conflict. It seems very strange that there are so few people who are interested in what I would
think are really existential questions for humans. Do you find, first of all, that
you think that our world and our society is thinking properly about where it is at this
point in human history? No, I obviously don't think that we're thinking very well about it.
Most any of the schools, not the kind of environmental reactionary, not the left,
not the right, not the techno-capitalist, singularitarian optimists, I think there is
some signal and a good bit of noise and also not just epistemic bias but epistemic and adequacy
coming from whatever domain specialty looking at something that's so much more complex than any
domain specialty by itself is going to do a good job of. I think you speak well to why there are
not more different ideas trying to figure things out is you end up getting some kind of dominant
system that is this auto-poetic, self-perpetuating. You want to say what you mean by auto-poetic?
Self-perpetuating, self-authoring. When we say system, it's like what system are we talking
about the academic system? Are we talking about the monetary system? Are we talking about our
government system? Are we talking about culture? Are we talking about media and information
communication? Yes, it's the intersection of all those into a kind of civilizational system
and that I think can be best thought of if we want to think of it in simple terms as
the system that confers power to things. Of course, everything that supports that system
gets more power within the system and everything that would possibly threaten the core
relevancy or validity of the system threatens people who are doing well in the system and so it
gets kind of spit out by the system and so I think that's a very strong normative force.
All right, so let me give a little bit of my frame. We can try to pass things back and forth
and feel free to take over if you like but here's what I see that I think of as being really
interesting and rather mysterious. I see a decision tree in which I think at a society-wide
level I can't accept any of the major branches. One branch would be that we have a self-extinguishing
human event, let's say an all-out nuclear war where people miscalculate and the planet is
unrecognizable. Then there's a different branch that says that there's some sort of an environmental
collapse, maybe with a nuclear exchange or some sort of synthetic biology. Who knows what
where there are survivors but it's not the world that we see out our window here.
Then there's another one which says maybe we managed to trundle on for another
thousand years somehow limping along without any major new ideas. We're still using markets,
things are getting incrementally better, maybe there are some big breakthroughs here and there
but there's no big breakthrough in human wisdom so that we have the same dangerous objects but
we continue to be lucky that nobody weaponizes these things and that there's no broad collapse.
Then there's an escape branch where we end up on Mars or maybe we escape even farther out
in the universe or maybe we get uploaded into silicon. There's no part of this tree that looks
sensible to me. Every single branch is somewhere in sci-fi. Are you seeing something that looks
like that or do you have some branches that you think are more probable and more hopeful?
More hopeful yes, probable no but I can't do a probability calculation because they're unprecedented
so I don't have priors. You have to impute. The first two that you said existential risk
and catastrophic risk. There's certainly lots of different ways for both of those to occur that
are getting increasingly likely as time goes on as I model it and I think we should get into that.
The idea that it continues relatively similar to how it is for a thousand years, I don't see
possible at all and I can say why I think this civilization system is actually self-terminating
in a much shorter time than that inexorably like there is no way that it could continue for very long.
The escape models I'm fairly dubious of not because we couldn't with near-term tech get some people
into space but we certainly couldn't get something that doesn't depend on earth that if we fucked
things up here it's doing well within the time frames that I think will fuck things up on earth.
At least the trajectory as I see it. Then the question you ask is there some other thing like
progress to a totally different type of social system here or totally different type of civilization
system that can continue for a long time that isn't self-terminating and that isn't generating
catastrophic and existential risks as the byproduct of the architecture of the system itself is
really the only path. What I spend most of my time working on is what the architectures of a
system like that must be and what the transition would look like.
So I'm quite happy with that description and that also sort of sets up what
at least our initial superficial division is that is that of the branches of the decision tree that
I can't accept the most hopeful branch to me is that we learn our source code and use it to do
something that has never been done that something that has never been done before which is potentially
travel outside the solar system or potentially through some as yet unknown physical possibility.
You have an idea about hacking social systems with so far our biology the way it is in our
structure the way it is in our governance but somehow delivering us to a new structure.
I don't know whether that's going to be through human enhancement through a cultural change
through re-incentivizing the world. So am I right that those those those I think that your
branch of the decision tree is very interesting. I just I'm very pessimistic about it and I think
you should be pessimistic about mine. Well when you say hacking the source code you mean the source
code of physics so we can get something like a warp drive and I'm down right like I'll totally
work with you on a galactic cruiser if we can do that. Well I'm not saying warp drive but okay
is a placeholder. As a placeholder. I think the thing that I'm talking about also requires
something like understanding source code at a different level. Sure. Not source code of physics
but source code of things related to psychology and evolution and the nature of tool making and
the nature of collective sense making and choice making type dynamics. Okay. And but to start to
go into what it would look like we have to do I would have to to have it make any sense describe
what I think the problems are why the current system is self-terminating and why all the systems
that we have ever had have been self-terminating because God actually defined the problem properly
to be able to say because that gives me necessary insufficient criteria for what an adequate solution
would have to address. Well you're teeing up my next question which is
um take us through your reasoning as to why we can't luck out
over several hundred years and simply kind of bumble on as before. Okay a couple different ways
of looking at this that all converge. If we look at the kind of club of Rome limits of growth
type model I think that this is more fundamental than we're used to thinking about. So you and Peter
were talking the other day about the need for ongoing. Let's just say Peter Thiel for those
who haven't seen the inaugural episode of the show. Talking about the need for ongoing economic
growth so that we can stay in positive some dynamics because if we don't have economic growth
and people keep wanting more stuff then it goes zero sum and that creates conflict.
So just to to make sure that we're I'm understanding your terminology positive
some dynamics means that whatever the mythical pie of it keeps getting bigger. Yes okay.
And I think that obviously we can go positive some and still have it all be captured by a few
right like not actually have anything like appropriate to distribution and we know that wealth
has a power law distribution and there's some very fundamental things about why it's always
going to have a power law distribution if it has social architectures like we currently have.
I'm comfortable with this but by power law distribution we mean that the winners are so
much bigger as winners than let's say a normal probability normal bell shaped curve would tell
us. The curve looks like this you have a few people who have almost everything and most people
have quite little and that as you know if we look at like the increase in wealth that has happened
since the internet it has not been pretty evenly distributed over most of the people.
It's been you know increasing wealth and so is there a name for the pie that's growing but
we're almost every bit in slice except for a few people's shrinking. Well I mean we could call it
global GDP is one very simplified metric and we could say okay so we want global GDP to increase
because that represents total goods and services that represent some way of thinking about value.
It's a really bad way of thinking about value and I think we should discuss that. Okay.
If obviously up until the industrial revolution there were about a half a billion people on the
planet at most. Okay. And then we go as soon as the industrial revolution and our ability to
extract resources at faster than their reproduction amounts from the biosphere we go from
half a billion people over whatever 300,000 years of homo sapien history to eight billion people
in almost no time at all. And so that's like there's a real issue there that is we are subsidizing
our growth with savings accounts that are finite and there's a bunch of different ways of thinking
about that but if we look at biodiversity loss or species extinction or growing dead zones in the
ocean or any of these issues not just climate change we can see that we have a linear materials
economy that takes resources from the earth unrenowably and produces a bunch of pollution,
waste, heat whatever in the process of manufacturing transportation and then turns them into trash on
the side and so we get both accumulation dynamics and depletion dynamics and you can't keep running
accumulation and depletion dynamics on a finite biosphere indefinitely.
Okay. Now of course you see the immediate next argument which is make a closed loop economy.
Well that you needed to burn fossil fuels for a period of time in order to become wealthy enough
to figure out how to do something clean, green and sustainable. Right and so the idea is that
these are really just intermediate phases and it looks pretty dirty and grubby now but in fact
good news human ingenuity is boundless and so we'll just think our way out of whatever
new problems we've created. So we can all easily say we can't keep running a linear materials
economy with exponential growth on the planet that's pretty straightforward and that we're
actually very near limits of our capacity to keep doing that on a bunch of different atomic cycles.
So then we say okay well we have to go closed loop where the new stuff that we make comes
from the old stuff, the old stuff turns into new stuff and that we're able to do that closed
loop cycling of matter using renewable energy and so this is one necessary dynamic but this
already doesn't look like the model that you're mentioning of society hobbling along mostly
the same because that's actually really really different. That would already be a significant
change not maybe a significant as a warp drive but it would be a fundamentally different type
of civilization and so I would say that that movement to a closed loop materials economy
is necessary but nowhere close to sufficient. One thing that's going to come is if I want to
run anything like capitalism just from a materials economy basis where I'm going to
have to keep growing the capital supply year over year just to keep up with interest right?
There's an exponential expansion of the monetary basis that is required for capitalism to exist
so then to not debase the currency we have to keep growing the goods and services and I can't
actually in a closed loop materials economy that is near the carrying capacity I can't keep
growing the goods and services indefinitely so then of course the argument is well we can do
it almost all digitally and there's a bit of a complex argument but I would say there are some
coupling coefficients between how much virtual value we have that keeps being value that doesn't go
into diminishing returns relative to how much physical value that there's some coupling coefficients
between atoms energy and bits that make up the materials economy and then also time human attention
so I don't think that we can keep running a exponential capital expansion but I'll make a
a simpler argument capitalism and nationalism but feudalism is also an example our rival risk
game theoretic structures some in group competing against some out group and we can play coordination
games where we'll coordinate with each other if it's more advantageous but we reserve the right
to defect and go zero sum on each other if that's more advantageous and we have been employing
more and more powerful technology to play rival risk games that means more and more potent warfare
more and more potent extraction environmental extraction and more and more potent information
tech that can do narrative and information warfare narrative control something I would say is that
rival risk game dynamics necessarily are causing some harm in the system either I'm harming you
directly you're harming me or we're externalizing harm to a commons and information or an ecological
commons you can't keep externalizing harm exponentially and so rival risk game dynamics
multiplied by exponential tech end up self terminating we can't do exponential warfare
exponential extraction or exponential disinformation we've already gotten so far with exponential
disinformation that we almost can't make sense of anything because you have a system that incents
disinformation okay well this is the first place that I start to hear an argument that has a hope
of dealing with the congenital institutional optimism sure there are naysayers but I say
that America's greatest days are in front of her have we not always found solutions to our problems
and you know you cue the the brass band and everybody feels enlivened and I always found
these arguments kind of bizarre not that things haven't worked out I think things have worked out
to be honest quite a bit better than I would have ever predicted if you'd put me down in 1945 and
said what's gonna happen over the next 50 years let's be honest we've been pretty lucky and it's
been pretty pretty terrific on balance that said I also can't figure out a way in which we just
become more powerful in our ability to extract our ability to confuse our ability to meet out harm
from the strong to the weak so my guess is that even if I guessed wrong again and we could get
another 50 years out of it sooner or later either something like what you're talking about a change
in the basic structure of rival risk interaction maybe we should talk a little bit about what
what that means but I think people probably intuit it or you know just requires an increasing
amount of luck as we get farther away from the events that may have caused the last 50 years I
think that people who had direct experience of the depression in world war two and maybe world
war one they weren't fooled into thinking that this was an easy game and that life was simple
they had had enough primary experience with really catastrophic events that they knew that
they were playing with the full stack okay there's a there's a bunch of directions that I'm
interested in going so one is world war two was the first time that we actually had existential
level technology as a species in our recorded history that's a big deal because we couldn't
have actually blown ourselves up before then and in evolutionary time or even civilization time
that's just like a few minutes right like this is not very long that we've had that I agree and
