Hello, this is Eric with a few thoughts for our housekeeping section this week.
As this is our second episode to be released during a bizarre and near-global patchwork
of local quarantines, I wanted to update you on my evolving thinking and understanding
surrounding our shared pandemic.
But perhaps more importantly, I want to begin putting this response to the virus in the
context of what we've already talked about on the portal.
In particular, the disc, or distributed idea suppression complex introduced in episode
18, appears to be in full swing.
So how do we know that this is happening?
Well, Twitter, and this is just as an example, has now refined their terms of service to
broaden their definition of harm itself to address in their words, and I quote,
"...content that goes directly against guidance from authoritative sources of global and local
public health information.
Rather than reports, we will enforce this in close coordination with trusted partners,
including public health authorities and governments, and continue to use and consult
with information from those sources when reviewing content.
Under this new guidance, we will require people to remove tweets."
Now, of course, in a pandemic, that sounds sensible, at least to my ears.
In such a situation, who wants marginal GAD flies like Mike Cernovich or the infamous
Menchus Mulbug, aka Curtis Jarvan, contradicting the mayor of New York City, Bill de Blasio,
or the Washington Post, in a time crying out for coordinated and authoritative response?
Well, here's the awkward part.
Many of the people who called this epidemic early and correctly were the very marginal
internet personalities that the legacy media folks loved to deride as trolls, grifters,
and GAD flies.
As for the mayor of New York City, well, after Cernovich and Mulbug had correctly called
for drastic action, Bill de Blasio wrote, "...I'm encouraging New Yorkers to go on with
your lives and get out on the town despite coronavirus," and that was in early March,
a sentiment that was echoed by the Washington Post that viewed concern over the virus as
a kind of neurosis that had to be addressed psychologically.
In short, the gated institutional narrative, or GIN, was not close to being the first to
see COVID as the giant threat requiring a planetary response.
It was those outside the GIN that not only saw this early, but proved that it was seeable
early by many different individuals who generally seemed to sit outside the institutional and
respectable worlds.
So just why was this?
Well, first of all, the portal has argued many times before that we have had an almost
universally unworkable leadership class now in place for just under 50 years and that
it arose to disguise the end of the post-war economic growth regime.
This is a collection of people who have refactored the institutions that they've led within
our system specifically to evade the embedded growth obligations or egos that were set in
the previous era and who rewarded each other generally for doing exactly the wrong things
in terms of the public good.
With an end to mandatory retirements, the same people have been promoted for borrowing
against the future and playing games of Russian roulette with financial markets and healthcare,
while self-dealing within the system that they were handed as stewards for the generations
to come.
Using a false god of fake economic efficiency that reliably and deliberately fails to adequately
incorporate actual economics like negative externalities, von Neumann-Morgenster and
sub-utility functions, principal-agent problems, moral hazard, etc., etc., our ubiquitous economists
have hidden behind the mask of technocrats working for the public good while merely pretending
to practice their own profession.
Healthcare mandarins too regularly ignore the warnings coming out of their own literature.
I mean, heading over to Google Scholar, which readiness czar or hospital head could forget
titles like Mechanical Ventilation in an Airborne Epidemic by Fua in 2008, or Preparing Intensive
Care for the Next Pandemic Influenza by Taylor Kane and Robert Fowler in 2019, or those back-to-back
hits of Meltzer at all, stockpiling ventilators for influenza pandemics, and estimates of
the demand for mechanical ventilation in the United States during an influenza pandemic
in 2017 and 2015 respectively.
In short, we got here not because we couldn't foresee this future.
In fact, we extensively studied it.
We got here because we decided to ignore the future that we knew was coming.
The specific class of people that we had at the helm of our institutions were constitutionally
incapable of putting their foot down and asserting that we needed deeper reserves in
order to handle what they called surge capacity.
So do I know what's going on?
What I said during this section of our last episode still holds true this week.
My continuing discussions with a number of people I respect deeply seem surprisingly
inconclusive to me even at this late date.
So my mind wanders to the second-order question of why it would be so difficult to sketch
a straightforward narrative to guide us.
In fact, Dr. Peter Attia's most recent video evidences some of this confusion, where he
shares that as a physician, he feels so spun around by what he is hearing that even he
is forced to think in political rather than medical or scientific terms to explain the
situation.
To oversimplify slightly, there are three great risks with the COVID virus.
One of underreaction, one of overreaction, and one of inappropriate reaction.
The first threatens an enormous body count from the virus with severe respiratory and
other damage to many of the recovered.
The second threatens a worldwide depression which could well lead to armed clashes and
even wars of various sizes.
The last leads to many of our efforts being wasted or even captured by profiteers at a
time when we are demanded not to deeply question the coordinating authorities.
And oddly, we are being prepared to participate in both under and overreactions simultaneously
just as many of us are worrying about allocations of financial assistance that are now valued
in the trillions.
I mean, this is crazy at some level, no?
We are somehow discussing ill-conceived multi-trillion dollar assistance packages at the same time
as we are being ready to go back to work while also hearing that New York is now apocalyptic.
I mean, that's pretty confusing.
We are going to transfer vast amounts of wealth, so please note that everything will
be fine when you get back to work shortly.
But in the meantime, the borough of Queens is experiencing Armageddon.
Even by high school dating standards, that's a lot of mixed and conflicting messages.
Now what could explain this odd state of affairs?
I found myself compelled by a very simple idea from whose grip I cannot easily escape.
The idea is straightforward.
What if our leadership is treating this as much as an accountability crisis as a medical
one when it comes to their actions?
I mean, what if the issue over which we are being quarantined isn't actually the number
of deaths they are trying to prevent, but the type of deaths?
Perhaps there is one special category of death then that our leaders are more afraid of than
all others for reasons of accountability rather than simple loss of life.
In order to explore this idea, it might help to make it somewhat concrete.
Therefore, imagine that you had drafted a blank tweet on Twitter called New York Blue
Check Death List for at least minorly well-known accounts that you follow from New York State
that are eventually brought low by the COVID virus and that it initially has no other content.
Of course, it would start out blank, but now imagine that every time one of these account
owners dies of COVID, you plan to add them to your soon-to-be-growing list.
That's pretty morbid, but hey, it's now a pandemic after all.
Oddly, these aren't even really the deaths that I'm talking about quite yet.
Perhaps the first few are old people who have lived long and full lives, but as your list
begins to fill up, there may come a first gruesome death that happened to a vital younger person
who desperately needed a ventilator or an ICU bed or a trained MD or nurse to have a
fighting chance.
Let us call these triage deaths if they result from a missing resource that could have and
should have been stocked for just such emergencies.
These losses are beginning to outline the class of deaths that I believe may now be
driving this difficult-to-understand response from our political and medical leadership.
While deaths from the virus may be tragic, these specific triage deaths may be considered
career-ending deaths of accountability for medical, scientific, business, and political
leaders who specifically failed to heed warnings from the group studying our preparedness.
As such, they may have mattered most in determining the shape of our current response as they
are all deaths that come from failing to implement copious previous work in identifying our vulnerabilities
meant to shape our disaster preparedness.
These would be quite bad because they would involve people that we feel we know, but it
could actually get much worse for our leaders than that.
If you were now to swap out the blue check requirement and exchange it instead for the
most sympathetic person you could imagine, what happens when death swoops down on a young
girl of eight named Aruna who needs a ventilator desperately but can't get one?
Or perhaps the entire Gomez family is turned away from a queen's ER or made to wait for
ICU beds that never materialize while there is still time to save three out of their four
members?
What if it is these triage deaths which are actually closer to negligent homicide than
mere viral losses that are actually terrifying our leaders into draconian action rather
than the total number of dead as they say?
This hypothesis has the advantage of at least being consistent with the otherwise confusing
and seemingly conflicting themes developed before.
Burdens from our leaders who were caught having utterly failed in their mission to keep us
prepared would have to be shifted onto our entire society as a whole.
The public would be asked for broad participation in something like flatten the curve.
And why?
To cover for the lack of the same ICU beds, masks, PPE, and ventilators that were called
for in numerous academic papers over the last 20 years studying just such viral pandemic
scenarios.
As the authorities now scramble at top speed to finally get the missing resources in place
that should have been banked all along, they would also simultaneously be preparing us
to go back to work to risk regular viral rather than triage deaths just as soon as the shortfalls
could be made up as there doesn't seem to be a highly credible plan to defeat the virus.
To see the implications of this triage death avoidance hypothesis, conduct a thought experiment.
Imagine that all of the rate limiting resources for efficient ICU treatment were suddenly
parachuted out on pallets from helicopters all over the world.
The question is, would we continue to shelter in place given that we have no cure or vaccine?
Or would we be told to toughen up and go back to work?
Now I don't know the answer, but I believe the question is not devoid of interest.
Think about it.
I will as well.
This episode introduces a relatively unknown guest to our portal audience.
Many of you are familiar with the concept of true fame versus other kinds of fame.
For example, there's Big in Europe or Internet Famous.
Well, in a certain West Coast subculture, there is a concept of California Famous and
such names would include Laura Deming, Michael Vassar, Aliezer Yudkowski, Alex Green currently
in federal prison, Jordan Greenhall, Julia Galef, Tristan Harris, Daniel Barquet, Tom
Chee, Grant Sanderson, Rick Doblin, Brett Victor, and many others.
My guest on this episode is my friend Daniel Schmockdenberger, an important node in the
system.
Now, the odd thing about Daniel is that wherever he or I found ourselves riffing with others
on topics existential, someone would often tell us about the other and that we needed
to become friends as well, and I think that was probably a pretty good call on their part.
I have sat on this episode for months, however, because I was hoping that I would have a second
chance to record with Daniel, given that he was on very little sleep from the night before
this discussion was recorded.
However, we now find ourselves in a viral outbreak, and Daniel is one of the few people
I deal with trying to make progress on how humans can have a permanent future on the
small and dangerous planet, particularly amidst the fatal temptations of nuclear and biological
warfare, which I have termed the twin nuclei problem elsewhere.
Now, the coronavirus may or may not turn out to be related to laboratory strains, but the
problems it poses and foreshadows are directly within or adjacent to Daniel's area of focus.
Daniel, in particular, favors the wisdom and design branch of the human fate decision
tree, a branch that I think probably deserves the second most attention after my personal
favorite, which is the need for new physics with the possibility of escape to the distant
cosmos.
That is, Daniel is searching for something like the wisdom needed to re-engineer a non-rival
risk or anti-rival risk society to live in harmony with its newfound godlike powers.
Sometimes the search for a so-called escape through wisdom goes under the name of Game
B.
Now, the idea behind Game B is something like the following.
Natural and sexual selection must be assumed to have engineered us for a cycle of competition
and misery, which we might term Game A, played red of tooth and claw under the law of the
jungle.
Game B is, by contrast, a mythical second state where the agents originally built within Game
A teach themselves to do something far less brutal, rivalrous, unsustainable and wasteful,
but without themselves getting outcompeted by those who wish to remain in Game A.
As such, Game B falls clearly within the confines of the so-called human potential movement.
While I have taken an interest in this counterculture, I am not myself a part of it, as I fear that
it does not fully make sense to me that Game B is really a possibility.
Nevertheless, the quest for a less rivalrous world is probably a noble one and one of which
I am at least partially personally supportive.
In any event, I thought that this is the episode that is probably most in keeping with the
semi-apocalyptic mood that many of us find ourselves within during these days of quarantine.
