I guess that's the ideal version.
Yeah, that was in prepo pores rules of like civil discourse or something.
One of the four rules was you should be able to repeat back your opponent's argument in
such terms that they say, wow, I wish I thought to put it that way.
And I feel like if you get to that, that that is the the apex of having a good conversation
with somebody to disagree with.
It shows at the very least that you understand them well enough to simulate what they're
trying to say.
And that means you're prepared to engage them.
I think it's great.
Yeah, it's also although I've tried to have these kinds of conversations and it's it takes
a lot of practice and it's very unnatural.
First of all, it makes any conversation take like a million times as long.
So it's the reason why people don't just speak like that all the time.
Right.
I think I don't know any other reason.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
The other thing that I tried to do, which I've talked about before is the radical honesty
thing of especially with people close to me that, you know, there's less central distance.
Haha.
It's like a segue.
I was going to do the segue too.
Yeah, but I wasn't going to use that one.
I was I was going to say that I think that would work to resolve confusions like Mark
and Jane were having about the restaurant, right?
Because you could trust that Mark would accurately represent how he felt about the restaurant
rather than like, is he joking?
Yeah, like, is Mark a guy who's sarcastic all the time or does he never make jokes?
But most people are kind of in the middle of that.
I don't know.
I think to like, use radical honesty, say things clearly and bluntly as much as possible.
Totally.
And some of the times that the reason that we can suspect that short conversational supplies
for a long conversation is necessary because we expect short inferential distances.
Yeah, we should probably.
You can believe I didn't even write that down first.
That was a good joke.
Haha.
I can hear the audience laughing.
Give me a minyash.
All right, there.
Finally cracked a grin.
All right.
There must be a long delay between what I'm doing things to do when you're seeing them.
No, I give you guys a hard time.
That wasn't an a glorious laughter joke.
Anyway, expecting short inferential distances is one of the ones I didn't have to reread,
but I did just because it stuck with me really well when I first read it.
The short version is that basically, when you're explaining something to somebody, you
have a well grounded intuition that a short explanation will suffice because in our ancestral
environment, short explanations were all that was necessary because we all basically have
all the same prior knowledge.
Whereas now if you're trying to make a nuanced point and a difficult subject and you give
a short answer like a tweet, it's extremely reasonable to understand that somebody or
to expect now that someone will completely misunderstand what you're trying to say.
Yeah, like he gives the example that since you grew up in bands of no more than like
200 people, maybe all knowledge was passed down by speech or memory.
And so like no one was that far removed from you in knowledge.
If you discovered a new Oasis, you didn't have to explain what an Oasis is or why it's
a good idea to drink water or anything like almost everyone knew.
Everyone knew almost everything that everyone else knew.
There was not a lot of distance between you and other people that you had to bridge.
And now we have what he calls abstract disciplines with vast bodies of carefully gathered evidence
generalized into elegant theories transmitted by written books.
Their conclusions are 100 inferential steps removed from universally shared background premises.
Yeah, we have really intense specialization and everything.
Yeah, so sorry to interrupt that, but I wanted to get that out real quick before you went
to the why it's why something that's more than one inferential step away seems to be
crazy or lies or something.
No, no, you're good. And I brought up Twitter because it's always, I'm not on Twitter, but
I see tweets once in a while on Reddit or I'll hear about the fallout sometimes.
I don't know if Dawkins uses Twitter less or if he's just slightly less insane on there,
but for a while he was just totally tanking his reputation.
I think by trying to have nuanced arguments and 140 characters.
And now they've now they've up to I think the 280 to is able to get out the whole sentence like
there's every reason to expect that eugenics would work from a scientific perspective,
but that doesn't mean that we should do it or something.
And the thing is like with Dawkins and with a lot of people, they just assume everyone
knows basically the same thing that he knows.
That's my point. Yeah, that's exactly the point.
I'm speaking to an audience of my fellow scientists here, right?
And it turns out no, with Twitter you're speaking to literally everyone.
And most of them don't have that knowledge.
Yeah, so I mean, there's nothing scientifically controversial about the fact that it would be
super easy to breed in traits into people if you really want it to, right?
If aliens visited Earth tomorrow and said if humanity on average is to foot taller
in two centuries will blow up your planet, that wouldn't that would be not.
I mean, it would be an inconvenience.
It would be hard, but it wouldn't be difficult.
It wouldn't be really impossible.
I'm not going to say that it would be like super easy.
Family and inconvenience.
Yeah, right.
So it might not be.
It would be definitely an inconvenience, but it's not like that.
It's not like we would have no idea how to address this challenge, right?
It would be totally doable.
I'm not, I'm not hung up on the genetics thing.
Also, it's a very loaded word.
Yeah.
It was just, it was the idea that I think of is it always seems like Twitter people have,
you know, they try to make a nuanced point.
That's what I was on Twitter for like one summer.
And I got to talking with somebody about like female and male genital mutilation.
And I realized that we're just talking past each other and that it was impossible to have a conversation.
This is the worst platform ever for talking to people.
Why am I here?
And then you're like shit on there for like Twitter.
Yeah.
Movie reviews, jokes, I think is the absolute platform for it.
There, you know, you can get great one-liners and zingers on Twitter.
I think that's a great place for it.
But as for the rest of it, man.
Twitter was a fun social experiment that we did with the world.
And I guess the term I would use.
Yeah.
No, I don't, I don't think so either.
I worked as a social media manager for a bit and that was just like the worst two years
of my life.
Yeah.
I mean, that's an exaggeration.
I've had worse things happen than having to be on Twitter, but it was up there.
Yeah.
Just like the inanity.
I just like.
Yeah.
The, so to go back to the post, it says that in the ancestral environment there.
Anyone who said something with no obvious support was either a liar or an idiot.
Because there was no knowledge that everyone else in the band didn't already have.
Or couldn't easily get.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And conversely, if you say something that you think is blatantly obvious and the other
person doesn't see it, then that other person is an idiot.
Or they're being deliberately obstinate just to annoy you.
And, and on top of all that, if someone says something with no obvious support and expects
you to believe it and gets all indignant when you don't, then they must be totally crazy.
So this, the issue of not having this common ground between each other is, you know, a
recipe for horribleness because listeners still assume that everything should be visible
with one step, maybe two.
So they take two steps back to explain maybe three on the outside and not realizing just
how much distance there is in from universal knowledge to new knowledge.
So this is so many professors or just probably teachers in general, but I remember in college
there would be like the sign of a good professor, somebody who understands inferential distance.
I think a lot of teachers like good teachers who care about the teaching process are really
skilled at this too.
That's probably the field where you need to know it the most.
Any field, maybe where you're, the main thing you're trying to do is communicate something
to an audience that's unfamiliar with it.
But I remember just having really bad professors who are, they start their PowerPoint, you're
like, okay, you're taking notes on the first slide.
All right, I'm following.
Wait, what?
The next slide is just completely like, and then there's this vector thing.
I remember I started out majoring in environmental science.
I had this professor who did that sort of thing.
I have a page of notes, like before I dropped that major and switched it for like a bunch
of reasons, but like there was a page of notes that was just like slowly devolved into a
bunch of doodles.
And I remember Vector Kitty was flying over the environment and just like, yeah, I don't
have no idea what's even going on anyway.
Something something.
Yeah, I think, I think it was the worst teachers were the ones that didn't remember what it
was like to not know the subject of teaching.
Yeah.
And so they start talking and to them it's they've been doing over 30 years and like,
yeah, this old hat, I get this.
You guys will get it too, because it's really easy.
But I remember 30 years ago when they opened their first textbook, right?
Dude, you, it's surprising how quickly that sets in.
So taking just a stupid video game as an example, in World of Warcraft, you have to learn boss
all these little mechanics you got to do things got to watch out for it takes some practice,
right?
And before you have it down, it's freaking hard as hell.
You're learning all these new patterns and tricks and things to watch out for.
But once you have it down, it is super easy.
It is barely an inconvenience, as they say.
So once people have beaten bosses and moved on to other bosses, all the time you see people
saying, how is anybody stuck on this earlier boss?
They're super easy.
You just kind of blow through it.
Like literally maybe two weeks ago, they were in the position of, oh my God, this is impossible.
How will we ever do this?
Because it's, you know, everything is impossible until you know how to do it.
And then it's just trivially easy.
Yeah.
And it's amazing how quickly you can flip from one to the other.
That's really hard to, it's hard to get in that mindset when you're a new learner as
well.
That's something that I've kind of been reading about and struggling with.
Like when you're an adult and you're trying to learn a new skill, it's really hard to
be in the position of, I'm an idiot who knows nothing about this.
Like, I don't know, programming or art.
I'm trying to teach art to people.
And I think the sequence actually gets into this too.
But you, the teacher also can get really frustrated with people who don't understand what seem
like basic concepts to you.
There are things that seem like basic concepts to me because I learned them when I was a
kid.
