Yeah, so we had some good ones this time, Illusion of Transparency, which like, yeah and then expecting short inferential distances and I feel like they actually would have been really good ones.
Hold up just one second, aren't we?
How are we doing?
What was it? Is Molecular Technology scientific and scientific evidence, legal evidence, rational evidence?
Am I completely off to the left side?
Uh, son of a bitch.
Uh, should we, should we like, maybe?
Well, we'll chop that, but no worries.
No, I mean, should we maybe like reconvene at a different day?
I can't, if this is going on on Wednesday, I can record, we want more tomorrow night, that takes from like, usually six to nine, so.
Crap, you know what, no, no, no, I've read both of these a number of times, I know them all, let's keep going.
Alright, you got it.
Yeah, so I was saying that we have some good ones this time, Illusion of Transparency and expecting short inferential distances, both of which would have been really good to go along with talking to strangers,
especially Illusion of Transparency, it's very much in line with the major themes of that book.
Uh, someone want to summarize it or shall I go?
I think you're doing a good job so far, go for it.
Okay, so Illusion of Transparency in hindsight bias, which was the previous one, people who know the outcome of a situation believe that the outcome should have been easy to predict in advance.
So, uh, related to this one is the Illusion of Transparency, which is, we always know what we mean by our words, and we expect that others know too.
I think I've also heard this called Mind Reading, I forget if that's from, I think that's a thought distortion on the list of like the CBT skills.
It also just sounds like a popular nomenclature for like this thing, right?
Yeah.
How am I supposed to read your mind?
Oh, well, I meant this one, isn't that?
And standard rejoinder is how am I supposed to read your mind?
You know, when I look at here is what you said.
Yeah.
Well, I kind of want to dig into it more, but I'll keep summarizing.
There was an example in here.
So, June recommends a restaurant to Mark.
Mark dines there and discovers A, unimpressive food and mediocre service, or B, delicious food and impeccable service.
Then Mark leaves the following message on June's answering machine.
June, I just finished dinner at the restaurant you recommended, and I must say it was marvelous, just marvelous.
And so this was a scenario that was presented to a group of subjects.
I'm trying not to laugh.
Sorry.
It's just a funny situation.
I know.
Marvelous, just marvelous is a phrase that I should use more in my life.
So.
I think that'd be marvelous.
Just marvelous.
When this was presented to a group of subjects, 59% thought Mark's message was sarcastic and
that Jane would perceive the sarcasm, importantly.
And among the other subjects told scenario B, which by the way, they're saying the ones
who were told that he had unimpressive food thought that it was sarcastic and that Jane
would perceive this sarcasm.
And Jane, huh, there's a typo.
Maybe we should report it.
Apparently Jane and June are used interchangeably in this.
Oh.
But anyway.
I just noticed.
Yeah, the subjects that were told scenario B that he received great service and food, only
1% thought that Jane would perceive Mark's messages sarcastic.
The study seemed to indicate that an actual voice message was played back to the subjects,
which I guess is not clear.
It seemed to indicate.
And that's even the most surprising though, that people could get such different impressions
from a voice recording.
Yeah.
So I think it'd be very important that it is a voice recording because if it was just
written down, you could imagine the tone of voice to be whatever you wanted.
But if there was an actual voice recording, everyone hears the same thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I like this and it's illustrating a point that we don't necessarily have to
generalize too much from this specific example, just because it's one study and all that.
But this general phenomenon stands with or without the study.
This goes to large parts of whether or not I'd assume it's being sarcastic would be
my priors on Mark's usual behavior, if he's a sarcastic person, if he's the kind of person
who's ever used the word marvelous before, little things like that.
But yeah, I think the gist is that if the group was told, hey, look, he's being sarcastic,
or rather that the food is bad, they assume that he's being sarcastic.
And of course, they would assume that they know that he believes the food is bad, but
that they also believe Jane would perceive the sarcasm.
And so what I like about this too is this was said in 1994.
If you run that into text messages today, you get to just go completely hog wild with this.
Yeah.
What emoji did they put?
It's really important to use emoji.
Is that a sarcastic wake or a serious wink?
There was another study he cited from 2002, which I thought was even more interesting
because they told a person to say an ambiguous sentence to an audience.
I think one of the examples given was the man is chasing a woman on a bicycle, and the
speaker is given a picture to show that it's a man running after a woman, that the woman
is on the bicycle, as opposed to like the woman is running and the man is on the bicycle.
But when you first hear it, it could be interpreted either way.
Anyways, they were told to say the sentence to an audience and estimate how much of the
audience understood what they were saying.
And they always overestimated how many people understood them and underestimated how many
people misunderstood them.
And I thought that was extra interesting because then the speaker had full control over how
they would utter the sentence, right?
And they're looking at the audience, so maybe they're getting some kind of feedback from
them, but they still just were wrong just on how many people actually understood them.
And as we know from talking to strangers, you can't even trust what feedback you're
getting from the audience.
Yeah.
So if you want to test this at home with your friends, I forget if I even heard this from
the last wrong community or somewhere else, but if you tap your finger on the table to
like the tune of Happy Birthday or the Star Spangled Banner or some tune that you would
expect people to know and then ask them, what song was that?
Nobody will know.
It'll sound exactly like out of Jingle Bells to you or whatever, but it's...
Yeah, it's just random tapping.
A good example.
I remember Julie Gayle mentioning that one just like five years ago and rationally speaking.
And I never forgot that.
It's another good example of like, no, no, this couldn't be more clear.
I'm clearly doing Happy Birthday.
They're like, I don't know, man, you're tapping your fucking fingers.
Is that ACDC?
So I mean, okay, this is going to be a spoiler for Harry Potter Methods of Rationality.
So if you haven't read it, skip forward two minutes.
But Eliezer intended it to be incredibly obvious whether or not Coral was Voldemort, like he
was in canon.
And I'm not going to say if he is or not for people who didn't skip forward, but it is
not at all incredibly obvious to the point where the community was...
The readership at the time he was writing was very much split as to whether or not Coral
was Voldemort until the reveal was made later on near the end of the book.
And like to Eliezer, it was just like, how are people not getting it?
This is the most obvious thing in the world.
It shouldn't even be a discussion.
In all of our defense, even if it was obvious, which I maintain that it was less obvious than
he thought it was.
But part of the reason for that is because if anything, it was too obvious, and if there's
no way it would be laid out that clearly if that's really what was going on here.
I agree, but it's a thing that happens a lot with writing, where you think the audience
is going to get something, and they don't.
And then you overcorrect and really over-explain things, and people are like, don't spill it
out like I'm an idiot.
I can read into the text a little bit.
It's a very difficult line to walk.
Yeah, that's why beta readers are really important.
Yep, yep.
That's what I'm appreciating a lot about wrapping up a ward right now, is that the
author has to tie all these loose ends together.
And I think do it to the satisfaction of the raging mob.
And the mob, at least the only mob that I see and listen to, which is like the subreddit
and the discord, they are, it's hard to summarize, but they are much more like you picture mobby
than like Reddit, where Reddit will just like, you know, is happy just to fling shit across
the fence.
I don't know if this sucked or whatever.
These ones will jump down your throat, but like, I can't believe you would say that,
you know, you would put heroic sacrifice on this pedestal.
Really, it's just like suicide.
That's terrible.
And this is awful.
This shouldn't be, you know, lauded or whatever.
It's, I can't, and Brian brought this up in the last couple of episodes if we want more,
like having to write in front of an audience that is dissecting your work while it's in
progress.
It's a whole new dimension to it.
I can't even do it when I'm just trying to like have an imaginary audience.
I end up second guessing myself.
I'm like, is this too dark?
Is this, am I talking down to my audience right now?
Is this going to be, I don't know.
The post ends on a real world example with huge consequences where two days before Germany
kicking off World War II, Chamberlain sent a letter that was intended to make it clear
Britain would fight any invasion that occurred, but it was phrased politely and in diplomatic
speak, and Hitler thought it was conciliatory.
So the tanks rolled right in.
Those polite Brits.
So yeah, the main lesson from this post seems to be when you have something in your head,
they think things are very obvious, but they are not necessarily in any way obvious.
They very much are not.
The best thing about that is that you could never really be sure someone actually understood
you.
Like the premise at the top of this is like nobody knows, like, you know what you meant
to say by your words and expect others to know it too.
Sometimes if you're not 100% sure what you meant, then like that's obvious that that
person, you know, probably won't know what you meant if you didn't.
But even if you do, and they tell you back in words that make sense to you, you might
have this kind of like double illusion of transparency, but that is like way less obvious than a like
literal double illusion of transparency where, you know, I just didn't communicate exactly
as clear as I thought.
And then you repeated my miscommunication to me.
Yeah, I don't know.
This this this can kind of go on to this weird recursive level that to me is just kind of
fun and wild to chase down.
But well, there's two.
It is.
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
There's two different frameworks that I'm thinking of just off the top of my head where people
try to mitigate this effect.
One is the CFARS double crux communication style where and then there's also the Gottman
wrap up or intervention, which is a relationship counseling thing.
And they both have the same kind of structure where one person speaks, the other listens,
the other person has to repeat back with the other person said, but in their own words,
or like what I'm hearing is that you feel like this and that's making you feel that
way.
And I can see that you're upset about this by like your expression.
Is that right?
And you're not allowed to move forward until you feel convinced that the other person understands
you.
Like you feel like their ability to rephrase it back to you is.
Yeah, that's what I meant to say.
Or I think the double crux example, it's supposed to be like even kind of a steel man where
it's like, yeah, that's even better than what I was trying to say.
