Like I've been drawing forever.
Yeah.
And I remember trying to teach like some older folks at the library.
Like, okay, like here's how you draw a face.
And not under, like, that's another thing that's really funny.
Describing the anatomy of a face was like, okay, you have to like, you do the oval, you
divide the oval in half.
That's where the eyes go.
Your eyes are halfway down your head.
And like the seams, I'm trying to explain like the cognitive things going on.
I'm like, this seems unintuitive because most people look at faces and they don't look at
the rest of the head.
So you think the upper third of the face has the eyes, but actually it's the middle of
the head.
You have to draw the whole head that this part's covered with hair.
No one looks at that.
But like, even as I'm describing all this stuff and I'm trying to like go step by step
as slow as I possibly can, I'm walking around the room and people are still drawing the
eyes on the top of the forehead and like, no, bad.
Look at me.
Where are my eyes?
Are you going to put them up here?
How weird would that look?
Right?
Yeah, just bring it down.
Yeah, it's, I think, I imagine, I mean, part of it, that sounds, to me, that just sounds
like a hard subject.
I can't, since I can't draw, maybe that, maybe I'd be a good art student because I know
I suck at it, but I wouldn't be confident in my ability to do it right.
Whereas other people, the part where it could be maddening, he uses the example a lot of
like scientists trying to explain things to non-scientists and how like, simplest explanation
is a magic word of power among scientists because they've been inculcated with the
legendary history of science from Newton to Einstein.
And it's like, so you hear a biologist say, oh, it's the simplest explanation, then a
physicist who doesn't know biology can be like, oh, okay, I will add a lot of credence
to that because we are also scientists.
They know how important that is.
Yeah.
And so that's like, the annoying part is when you give like a long explanation of something
to somebody who's not in the field that you're, you're profounding from, you know, evolution
to a layperson might be a good example.
Like they, you can explain everything and they look, okay, yeah, I think I'm following you.
I think you're an idiot.
I think you're wrong.
Well, then you weren't listening and you didn't follow because this couldn't be simpler and
you're the idiot.
So that's right.
Yeah.
That's not how I feel.
I'm saying that, that, that inclination to feel that way makes perfect sense.
Yeah.
It's like very much, I think you get in this headspace easily of this person's an idiot
and they're not listening to me and the other person is thinking like, this person thinks
I'm an idiot and that I don't know like basic stuff.
Cause like the thing about drawing is that people think they know how to draw a face
and like, you know, even kids with crayons are usually drawing faces and it's like, I
know how to do like eyes, nose and mouth, you know, like come on, but like you don't.
It's so hard to get in the headspace.
It's like, actually we don't know this stuff.
Yeah.
You have to be really humble.
Yeah.
In the post that, that to a lay audience, it's the simplest explanation may be interesting,
but that's hardly a knockdown argument.
But from the biologist perspectives, they can see how, you know, it might sound a little
unintuitive, but when they reject evolution, even after they've had it explained to them
that it's the simplest explanation, they're just idiots and there's no point talking to them.
And it's clear to you that this isn't what Eliezer means here either.
He's saying that that's the feeling that one gets because they're expecting short and
differential distances.
Yeah.
When you correct for that, then you no longer view the, the unable to follow you along lay
person as an idiot.
You're like, okay, I clearly didn't actually explain myself.
Yeah.
That's why Richard Dawkins book explaining evolution is, I don't know, 350 pages long
and not five to somebody who has the, and even that it could be twice as long if you
wanted to explain, he probably does a bit.
It's been years since I've read it, but like, if you wanted to explain little things like
here's why we value short explanations, here's why we value replication, all of the, the
foundations of science.
If you wanted to dig into all that, then the book could be much longer, but I think he,
he probably does a bit.
This is meant to be a, you know, top to bottom book.
But that's my point.
It's like, you can explain evolution in three minutes, if not less depending on who you're
talking to.
But if you're starting to scratch for somebody who has no idea what you're talking about,
then sometimes you need 300 pages, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I have a, go ahead.
Okay.
The joys of Skype.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, then I guess I was going to say that he also says that if people see you visibly
attaching greater weight to an argument that is justified in the eyes of the audience
at that time, then they also think you're crazy because, you know, you shouldn't put that
amount of weight on that evidence.
So you have to go back and first explain why the evidence that you're about to explain
is as weighty and important as you're about to, you know, lay out with, and that takes
explanation in itself.
And so he's saying there's, there's a very long chain, but you can't, you can't drop
any hints that maybe you're working a dozen inferential steps away from the audience or
that you have special knowledge they don't because then they think that you're condescending
and arrogant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like, you know, trying to explain to somebody why astrology isn't a thing.
And if you, if somehow, you know, she believes in astrology, but we shared everything else
in common, I could just be like, you realize every physicist on earth thinks that it's
bullshit or knows that, you know, had, would bet their lives on it being bullshit.
You would immediately change your mind.
You're like, you're like, oh, I, okay, if all the physicists who actually know everything
there's no about stars or everything that humanity can know yet so far about stars
thinks that it doesn't, you know, the, the constellations don't impact my life, then
I guess I'm wrong.
I think if I were to actually believe in astrology, I would first have to not know enough of physics
to not care.
I don't know.
People are really good at compartmentalizing.
I know.
Well, once you know that stars are giant gas balls and that they're so fricking far away,
what else is there to know?
I, people are very good at compartmentalizing.
I have religious co-workers who, you know, spend their days like bioengineering cells.
Oh God, don't these bioengineered cells like intelligent lizards are designed?
It's like, yes, because we made them here in the lab.
That's not the same and you know it.
I think what this all comes down to is the punchline at the bottom he says, and if you
think you can explain the concept of systematically underestimated inferential differences between
the two, briefly, in just a few words, I've got some sad news for you, which first of
all is a reference to the fact that this entire post is pretty long, but also to the fact
that it links to three other posts that he's made beforehand.
And while he doesn't give it away in this, I think at this point, it should probably
be clear to most people that the purpose of the sequences and their, you know, several
Bibles length worth of word count is to bridge an inferential gap that he saw at the very
beginning when he was like, here's the mass audience of everybody in 2006.
And here is this conclusion I have reached and I have to convince people of this, but
oh my God, it's going to take a while.
And this is a fricking impressive project that one person set about to bridge this massive
inferential gap.
Like just, just the fact that he thought he could do it is kind of amazing to me.
And then the fact that he actually did it is just crazy.
I'm very impressed by people who try to do hard things.
I get pretty frustrated when people, I don't know, generally I dislike haters, like in
any field, but especially when people, you see themselves as critics or bad-mouthing
like some artwork or project that someone has done or like, I'm like, okay, what have
you made?
It's generally.
Yeah.
All right, I guess that is the sequences.
I do want to point out that somehow we accidentally skipped over several dozen sequence posts to
get to these.
I'm not sure how that happened, maybe an accidental pagedown or something.
So we're going to be backtracking quite a bit.
And next episode we will talk about the posts scientific evidence, legal evidence, rational
evidence, and is molecular technology, quote, scientific.
So we have skipped a few inferential steps to get here, but hopefully we can backfill
them without too much trouble.
