Like I'm not sure if they ever tried like making us go to bed at some point. I think they probably
may have, but I can't be sure. But I just explicitly remember just like, we don't care
what you're doing as long as you don't keep us awake. And that seems like a like,
what I liked about that is that rule made a lot of sense, right? Like you have to go to bed at
eight. It's like, well, I'm not tired. So I'm going to just be pissy. That doesn't seem like that
would land that well. Now that's your approach. I don't want to shit on it. Um, but it worked great
for me, but maybe it also just worked with my parents parenting style and my kind of upbringing.
It can also be your like, how old were you at that time too? God, I don't know. Um, oh wait,
hold on. I can give some rough estimates. I remember the room I was in and I moved downstairs
when I was, uh, I'm actually not sure somewhere between 13 and or 11 and 15. So you were in
early teenage? Well, no, that's when I moved downstairs. The, I remember specifically not
having a bedtime when I was on the top bunk of, I would have been 10 ish, give or take
two years. Okay. Maybe three somewhere in like a child age.
Yeah. The thing is, is like kids, young kids especially, they just need more sleep for their
brain to grow properly. Um, I'm always telling parent, that's my son's name. I'm always telling
parent that when, you know, he's wants to stay up all like, sweetie, you need to go to sleep.
You need more sleep than I do. That's why I'm staying up. When you get older, you will be
able to do the same thing. That is why this is not unfair because you will have the same
opportunity that I have now. Does he just not get tired when he is supposed to be tired?
Cause like you think if he needs sleep, he'd be tired. Um, kids are weird, especially kids with
ADHD. He, when he's tired, he becomes a lot more active. Like he wants to get up and jump and play
and make noise and he's emotionally volatile and, and he just doesn't want to sleep.
That's like me when I'm tired. I can see that you're about to pass out. You're sitting there,
you're sucking your thumb, your, your eyes are rolling back your head. And yet you are fighting
and saying, I'm not tired. Yes, you are going down. Yeah. None of my kids have ever been like,
Oh, I'm tired. I think I'm going to hit the hay. They just want to keep playing forever.
They don't have like the self knowledge to be able to do.
I think that's accurate. Yeah. I mean, they lack introspective awareness almost completely
on, on everything. So that would be one of the things. Yeah.
So okay, this is going to sound a little bit strange because I know you love your kids
completely and like would not advocate for any sort of calling them lesser humans or anything,
but how, how far along they are they on the like personhood scale sort of thing
if they don't have an introspective experience? Well, so, so my, they, they have an inner life.
Like, so this is one thing about me that probably made me want to have kids more than
some other things. It's like, I remember being a kid very much, like more than most people.
Like I have a lot of memories from being like two and three, which a lot of people don't have any.
And I remember having an inner life. So, so it, like it helps me relate to my, to my kids a lot,
I think. So like introspective awareness might be the wrong term. Like, like one thing I thought
about saying earlier when we were talking about behaviors, like, like behavior control is I kind
of try to introduce mindfulness concepts, especially to my oldest as a way of, you know,
both just because I think they're valuable, but also as a way of like understanding herself.
And so one thing that'll happen now is like, she'll do something that she knows she's not supposed
to do. And I'll be like, okay, why did you do that? And she'll say, I tried to tell my brain
not to do that. My brain didn't listen. And, and it's like, she's not just parroting. She's not
just parroting what I say, because she'll use interesting linguistic constructs like that one,
that I never quite said that or anything like that exactly. So she's trying to explain like,
look, I know that I'm not supposed to do that, but I just felt compelled to do it. And then I
didn't have the executive control to not do it. And what's funny is whenever she says that, I'm
like, oh, okay, yeah, I get it. What's amazing is that's a thought most adults wouldn't have,
right? Like I tried to do it, my brain just did it anyway. Like that's a level of mindfulness
that I think most people go many decades without coming across. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know
how much of it might be saying what she knows I want to hear, but she at least has to understand
the concepts well enough to say them in a way that I find intelligible. So yeah, that's my story
there. I tend to think that like, there's certain things that just aren't there yet in my son,
like certain levels of abstract thinking aren't there yet. But he's got ideas and opinions and
he uses logic. And he's also introspective. Like the other night, he was saying, I'm feeling so
angry. I'm like, why are you feeling? Are you angry at me? No, I'm not angry at anyone. I'm just
feeling angry. I'm like, okay, well, thank you for not directing that at me. And you know, we
talked from there. And it was probably just that like he needed to get something to eat. But
he was aware enough to know that like, I'm having this feeling it may or may not be attached to
something that's happening externally. I don't think I hit that level of introspection till I was
an early teenager. I remember having thoughts like that, where I could pinpoint like, man,
I'm having feelings right now that don't make any sense. I'm going to just kind of go sit and
take care of that really quick. I wanted to mention, I'm not sure if either of you guys are aware of
this. Annika Harris wrote a book on mindfulness for children that might, I'm not sure if you
were aware, because you mentioned specifically your kid mindfulness. What is it called?
It's called I wonder. That's cool. Yeah, I might check that out. Yeah. I recently read an article
and I just wanted to take get both your opinion on this as quick background. Like for some reason,
kids have generally always liked me, like not all kids, but for like, they would always end
up making friends with me. And I didn't necessarily always want to have kids as friends, because I'm
like, you don't have very much interesting to say. But I had no idea why. And recently I read this
article about how most people or I don't know, most a lot of people treat children as like
non-persons. They will ignore their wishes and treat them as objects and do whatever and talk
about them as if they aren't there. And I realized that maybe it's just that I don't do that. I
give them the consideration of a person and like talk to them rather than at them.
And I was wondering, do you see that happening a lot? Absolutely. It's one thing that I work very
hard as a parent to avoid. Because I remember when I was a kid, all of the adults that just
ignored me and just didn't care about what I said or what I thought, even when I felt like I was
contributing to conversation. And so I really try to take those lessons of how I felt when I was a
child and apply that to how I interact with not only my son, but children in general. Because
they are people. They're just smaller and they don't really understand the world as well. But
they're still people. And to treat them any other way doesn't grave to service.
They're usually more perceptive than people realize at almost any given age, like a three-year-old
even a three-year-old or maybe even a two-year-old is... I would say infant. Yeah. They're perceiving
things. They can't articulate that they're perceiving it, but they'll respond to it in an
intelligent way. I already had a lot of respect for the subconscious, the elephant process versus
the conscious writer process before I had kids. But if anything, they just really kind of proved
it because you know that they're not like... My kids will run interference for each other so
that one of them can escape. And I know they're not... First of all, they're not talking to each
other. And they're also... I strongly suspect they're not plotting it out in careful...
A causal trade, motherfuckers. Exactly. They're literally... They're doing it instinctively or
intuitively rather. They're doing a very complicated two-man con in an intuitive way that does not
involve verbal rationalizations for things. So this is one of those cases where intelligence
is definitely a separate thing from reason, I guess you could say. You said the elephant approach
versus something. Oh, yeah. Sorry. I shouldn't use extremely fringe things, but the metaphor is
like the elephant is being ridden by a man. And I put my own twist on it that I don't think is in
the original literature, but the elephant is the subconscious mind and it's bigger and in some sense
is more powerful. But the writer who's up on top essentially thinks he's in control, but actually
the elephant is the one who's really in control. And on the other hand though, the writer can kind
of see farther and call shots in like long-range sense, like long-term plans that the elephant
can't really comprehend because your subconscious is, well, it has a lot of power. It's fairly
reactive to the present context. So I don't know. I use that metaphor a lot. Like a good writer can
lead his elephant and generally almost always get it to do more or less what he wants. But if the
elephant really wants to do something, ain't a goddamn thing in the world, the writer can do to
stop it. Right. Yeah. And there's so many human... Like you classify all the human drives, I would
say, are subconscious drives and you're just like the drive for a mate or whatever. You're like,
that wasn't something that you decided through rational discourse with yourself. That's
coming up from deep in your brain. And you're like, well, okay, if I'm going to go about this,
I'm going to go about it smart. And then the writer gets involved. But it's the elephant's
decision. And oftentimes the writer can manipulate events to such a matter that
like the elephant never even realizes that there's a snake in the grass over there or
that it can be free from the stakeholder. It's like, if it's really wants to, because
with enough intelligence, you can make sure the elephant sees what it needs to see to go where
you want to go. Yeah, totally. You can totally use it as a metaphor for training your subconscious
to behave better. Cool. Thank you for elaborating. So anything else that you parents do that's
informed by the rationality knowledge that you have? Oh, we didn't actually dive into
corporal punishment. Oh, yeah. No, we didn't. How do you guys feel about that? I'm against it.
The closest I've come is when my son was very, very little to just kind of like swat him away
from something that would injure him. But no, I don't think violence should be used as a
punishment. It's just anti-human, I think. Yeah, I mean, I think the evidence is that
it probably does more psychological harm than the value that you're ever going to get out of it
anyway. I guess you'd both say that, but I don't want to make you feel bad if either of you guys
were fans. But yeah, you guys, I think you're right. Well, that is what the consensus is,
is that turns out hitting your kids isn't great for their psyches. I mean, I feel like Jason's
position on swatting it away from a danger, even if you could have gently guided their
hand away from it or something, a swat will bring that lesson home without them also getting
stung by a scorpion or something. So it's like, if I deliver a bit of a painful message, it's not
because I'm teaching you a lesson. Well, it's explicitly because you're teaching them not to
touch the thing, but not because after they did it and you're punishing them for it, right?
Lots of times, the medium is the message. And so if something is literally harmful and dangerous
to them, it can be okay to do the swat because it really gets it through, especially because it's
right there and immediate. But if you take someone away from something and then intentionally hit them
like for no reason aside to cause pain, that's, I feel like that is a more sadistic thing and a
less, it's not a good lesson anymore. It's not a good lesson. And I do think that there's something
kind of fucked up about like grabbing somebody that's a third your body weight and hitting them,
right? I mean, maybe it's my thing on free will or even just free will as it approach, as it applies
to children, but like they don't have enough agency for like even that sort of lesson to
really do anything, they're just going to learn to, you know, lie and hide it or,
you know, I don't know, like a dog that pees in the carpet, you know, you find it half an hour
later, they're facing that they don't really quite get it. But all they know is that like,
oh, he's pissed and I'm going to be scared now. I don't know. I'm sure there's more articulate
ways to put that. It feels like it's more for the parent than it is the kid. Because like that is
emotionally satisfying, I guess, for some people. And if you've been raised to really frustrated
and angry and you want to do something and that's immediate, you know, and you were doing your part
to keep society safe from predator children or whatever. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I feel like
swatting the kid's hand away from a danger is falls under the umbrella of like a natural consequence.
I don't know if the non parents here are familiar with that term, but
like the term in vogue, which I think I do like it actually is natural consequence
would be like, you know, rather than telling your kid like they're on the playground,
you're like, be careful, don't go over there, watch out, don't go on those. You just let them
play. And as long as it's within the scope of like reasonable safety, you just let them fall a few
times doing the thing. And they learn their capabilities. Or, you know, that's that's only
one example. There's there's an infinitive of examples of natural consequences of like, you
know, you, you even things were like, Oh, well, you, you, you lied to me about this thing. So now
I'm not extending you the trust that you're going to behave properly. So you're going to lose a lot
of freedom over the next while. There's there's a lot of ways of applying the concept. Basically,
the concept is just like the punishment is just the thing that would happen if you were an adult,
and now we're just letting you get the consequence of what you did, which is a negative consequence.
And that's why you shouldn't have done that. Yeah, because then it becomes they can learn on
their own, essentially. And those are the lessons that I've always learned the best with. When I
can try something out, see what works, see what doesn't. And, and so that that's definitely
something I've tried to do with my son is is to rely on those natural consequences.
So going on, I assume the focus isn't just on rationally raising kids, but on specifically
raising rationalist kids to someday grow up and carry on, you know, the the torch, the mission,
I don't even know. Spread the good word. Yeah, exactly. Knocked on doors, hand out, watch towers
or whatever. What? How do you go about doing that? And is that a goal as well? It's kind of a minor
goal, mostly because I want him to live the best life possible and to be successful in life.
If, if ultimately he finds another philosophy that that speaks to him
more than than rationality, then I'll support that. But to me, it's the one that makes sense.
And so those those are the ideals that I try to instill in him or not instill in him to teach him
and to to appreciate those those sorts of things and to always try to be better.
So you're reading him Harry Potter at night, you're not reading him Judgment Under Uncertainty.
Yeah, yeah. Matter of fact, I even started reading Harry Potter and Methodist Rationality to him.
I think he's a little bit younger than that. I'm gonna wait till we're done with the the
Canon series. Smart. I worry about getting kids like pre 10. I'm not sure at what age. There's
what is it chapter 11 where Draco threatens to rape Luna Lovegood?
Seven. Yeah, so that's I mean, how do you explain that to an eight year old? I mean,
maybe maybe you're reading it to them, they're not reading it primarily you could say
beat up and you could basically get the same point across. But still,
I don't know. I tend to I tend to just be open and honest with my son. And and whenever he has
questions about something, I answer it. That's one of the things I really enjoyed about reading
the Harry Potter series to him. It's given me such an opportunity to talk about things like
death and slavery and and racism in a way that's like relevant to the particular situation that
we're talking about at that moment. And so I'm really looking forward to getting to methods
of rationality because he's such a huge Harry Potter fan that we'll be able to have those
kinds of conversations as well. And there's rape in the Canon series as well. It's just not as
explicit. Right. It's like Umbridge is hauled off by the centaurs. And Voldemort drugging his dad
or Voldemort's mom drugging his dad. But like that's different than flat like they don't use
the word rape, right? Right. But I understand. Yeah, it's it's a whole thing. I had a long
conversation with with my son about that scene, the Umbridge centaur scene. No, about Voldemort's
mother drugging his his father, okay, with a love potion and and keeping him prisoner for years.
Yeah. Because he asked, why did why did he go away? And I was like, okay, well, this is because
he didn't actually want to be there. His his will was being subverted. He was she was taking control
of his mind and making him do things that he wouldn't want to do. And, you know, we kind of went
into some examples of that. And it was it was it was an interesting experience. You can see like the
comprehension done in his eyes. And he's just like, man, that's fucked up. Yeah. Sometimes other times
he's just kind of, okay, or whatever the other whatever the eight year old version is of that's
fucked up. Yeah. Yeah. This is one of those occasions where it pays to remember that, like,
like it actually takes time to develop that moral sense and that prefrontal cortex stuff that makes
you actually have those feelings about things. Because like, me and my brother always laugh
