India and elsewhere in the world.
Yeah. And that's, that's where this is now completely out of my depth, honestly.
And I may even be misspeaking and like there's, there's the concept of, of shared environment,
which is basically everything about the, the environment that the kids, like for example,
if you take, if you take siblings and you try to examine their outcomes,
I believe everything, everything about their lives that is not due to genetics is considered
due to shared environment. I may be wrong about this. I mean, I'm sure, I'm sure the commenters
will correct me. So parenting is obviously a big part of shared environment because if they're
siblings, they have the same parents and then they live in the same house and they're exposed to
the same toxins and they probably go to, you know, if not the same school, then they go to
similar socioeconomic, socioeconomically, you know, calibrated schools.
It just, yeah, it's just one of those things where it seems to me like I don't think there's,
I think there's a level of, of, of not, not deceptive. And I don't think anyone's trying to
be deceptive with the way they're saying it. I think it's just like a term of art that has
gotten out of hand when people say only 50% of the outcome is due to, is due to shared environment.
Because it's like, well, like you just said, if, if you drop someone in a vastly inferior,
like talk about, you know, 1500 years ago in, in some place that's not doing very well,
I don't think they're going to end up being a quantum physicist. Like, and so how do you,
yeah, so that is everything I got. Cool. Yeah, me too. Okay, excellent. We're going to wrap this
up then. I will say that with the length of the prior episode, plus this edition, we are not
going to have any time for listener feedback. So expect more listener feedback in the next episode.
And now for our regular segment, where we thank one of our supporters.
This week, our thanks go out to Roman, who is supporting us and at patreon.com
and helps make the show possible. Thank you, Roman.
Thanks, Roman. That's awesome. We really appreciate it. Yay.
And also thanks to our sound engineer, Kyle Moore, who helps make a sound amazing.
Thanks, Kyle. Or at least, you know, oddly amazing, even if our content is
content isn't, isn't his fault. Exactly. Yes.
All right. Thanks, everyone, and we'll see you in two weeks. Sounds good. Bye.
