Are either of you guys familiar with the comedy of Louis CK?
Oh yeah. Yes. How does that map on to actual parenting compared to his portrayal of it?
I've gotten mixed reviews from parents, so I'm curious what you guys found.
Episodically, yes. I mean, he's, he's obviously going to be exaggerating and whatnot.
But no, that there's, there's definitely a lot to that. There are times where I am
exasperated and frustrated and, you know, just going out of my mind, trying to,
to not kill my child. But, you know, that also comes with any kind of relationship
because there's a lot of good stuff too.
He has this great, no, that's totally the case.
Yeah. That's, that's good to hear. I mean, that, you know, that is worth it.
He has this great line that I like. He has a lot of stuff on parenting.
I'll find a good clip and put it in the comments for the episode. But
one of them was like, you know, I can hold my daughter and just be moved to tears by how
much I love her and it's amazing. And at the same time, I kind of wish he'd never been born.
I get the impression that you guys have that regret because I don't know,
you know, I'm not close with, you know, he doesn't, I divulge it that much, but I don't
know if you plan on having kids or not. But he has that line and someone told me,
he was like, oh my God, I feel bad just, you know, verbalizing that thought, but it's so true.
Yeah. I mean, I think, I think there's definitely a lot of truth to the,
to the anecdotes and everything. I mean, but like you can tell that Lucy K. loves his kids.
He's, he's just expressing how absurd life with kids can be. And that's completely true.
Right on. I just get that out there.
I, yeah, I actually, while things, there are certain aspects of my life that would be easier,
it's definitely not something that I have regretted. My life is way better for it.
Also, I have really awesome parents that will watch my kid. They ask to watch my kid pretty
much whenever I want.
Solid. Yeah. That's a resource if you need, you know, an afternoon to go to the movies or something.
Or a weekend to not strangle your kids.
He has this joke about like those little vacations from your kids and he, he paints it up like,
you know, taking a weekend to yourself, but then he's like, yeah, those little vacations,
like where you close them in the backseat of the car and then you close the door
and the short walk around the car to the driver's side, just those minutes, like, oh God,
catch your breath for a second.
Not, I don't think this is too much of a tangent, but I mean,
it is one thing that I'm constantly aware of is like,
especially when I'm feeling overwhelmed by, by parenting. I'm like, this is not natural.
What's natural is that I'm surrounded by, by blood relatives, including my parents,
who are also hardwired to love and want to take care of these creatures.
And when I'm overwhelmed, I should be able to go lie down and my, and my parents or whatever
would just come in and, and everyone and the load would be more, more evenly distributed.
More aunts or uncles or cousins.
Exactly. So that's one thing I like.
I mean, and my parents are very supportive, but they don't live near here.
And so it's like, yeah, the, the, just one of these ways in which modern society is,
is making things a little bit harder for us.
But you do it anyway?
Yeah. I mean, it's not, it's not like soul breakingly hard. It's just, it's just,
you feel frustrated in the moment that it shouldn't be as hard as it is.
So it makes the kids lives less rich?
Sure. Yeah.
I mean, what specifically?
Do not have like a large extended family that are all like living together in a same
very small area, maybe even same house.
I mean, I don't have any experience with the, with the counterfactual where you would have that.
But I kind of do.
I mean, once again, I'm Polly. So like, I have a pretty big family.
My wife and I are separated, but she's, she's dating like my best friend since middle school.
He has a daughter that is just a few years older and he, and my son considers her as his step-sister.
And my partner and her daughter love my son as well.
And, you know, previous partners that I've had have been the same.
I also live with my wife's cousin and he's always helping out and doing things with my son as well.
And so yeah, I've, my son kind of got a bit of a village looking after him.
Okay. Anything else before we move on?
I want to volunteer quickly that my, I know someone's very close to me was a single kid,
you know, just her and her two parents. And it worked out great for her. I think she had
like the best parents for that relationship dynamic. And so she did miss out and having siblings.
I have a twin brother, so I had a close sibling and I have an older sister,
but I feel like she turned out remarkably well adjusted. So I just didn't want any,
any single kids hearing this to, you know, think that your life is forever impoverished
for having missed that relationship. They're probably missing out and having that relationship.
But I mean, everyone's missing out on something, right? So anyway,
Always opportunity cost.
Yeah. I just, I didn't want to make it. I didn't want to, I was trying to anticipate
someone writing and be like, Hey, you guys shout on single kids or whatever. I don't know what you
call that. Yeah. Yeah. Only kids. Only kids. Yeah. And I didn't mean to say that either.
It's more like I have no idea. I wouldn't have any idea what I was doing if I had,
if I had an only child, because I model myself on kind of the way my parents did things so,
so much, even on, even on an unconscious level. The first two years you had an only kid.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, what's funny about that is like, so, so me and my wife put,
you know, infinite energy into the one kid for that period of time. And now, you know,
when the third kid rolls around, there's just so much going on that you can't put that level of
energy into the third kid. And what you realize is not, is not, oh, I'm really letting the third kid
down. I wish that I, I wish that I could devote that level of energy to the third kid. What you
realize is that you didn't need to put that much energy into a baby. Yeah. And if anything, she's
actually just enjoying having these two other crazy little creatures running around to watch and
interact with. In some ways, I think having more than one kid is easier at times,
because the guy that only has one. Well, I mean, like, what it does in my, in my,
in my experience, which is admittedly sort of short term, is it forces you to be
disciplined and organized and to slow down. So, like, when, like, you know, whenever,
whenever, every time you want to go into the grocery store, you have to get
three kids out of three car seats and get the appropriate number of shopping carts or strollers
or whatever to make that happen. You, there, you know, you just know that that's going to be a,
that's going to be a process. Whereas if you have one kid, you, you tend to get, you actually tend
to get ironically or, or whatever the word is. You get complacent and you also get like impatient
with small delays. And, and it's like, when you know that there's going to be a delay, you just,
you just work the delay in, you're just like, whatever, I'm getting, this is the part where
I get all the kids out of the car. I'm not going to pretend that this is fast. And then it's fine.
It's like stoicism. It's like you, you expose yourself to the thing that you're, that's going
to be hard and you accept it and then it's not hard. I feel like that transitions neatly until,
you know, a quasi-rationalist approach, or at least somewhat relating to rationalist approach
to parenting. Cause I imagine other parents just get three times as upset, right? As opposed to
like just, you know, having it spread out and just realizing that this is just a fact of how
my grocery shopping process now works. They're just three times as pissed.
Yeah. How's, how's your background in rationality affected how you do parenting?
So yeah, I guess I'll have a couple of notes here. Like one, one, there's a few different
things, but like one of them would be like how I talk to the kids in a number of ways. So like,
I try to do the, I try to use a gross mindset thing for one thing where I compliment effort
or, or like I'll, I'll say something specific that I like about some specific thing that they've
done rather than just saying that they're good, you know, good boy or whatever. And that actually
feels better. Like once, like as soon as you start doing it, you just like,
I feel like I'm actually helping them rather than just patting them on the head with,
with no real value. Yeah. Do you, do you have anything to add there, Jason?
Yeah. It's, it's providing that, that valuable feedback and, and I agree. Another thing for me is
I, I try to use proven techniques. I tried to actually use, you know, real science on it and
avoid the, a lot of woo that's around parenting. I also,
What would you, what would you qualify as the real science?
Um, so like what he was saying about, um, about not just saying you are good or you, you, you,
you are bad. You're saying, or you so much the, the, um, you're so smart. No, I don't say that.
I said, you worked really hard on this and look what you did. You actually accomplished it or
it's okay to be wrong. There's nothing wrong with being wrong. It's better that we admit it,
learn from it so that we can, we can be less wrong in the future.
And, and those, those, I guess that's not so much a scientific approach as, uh, from,
from a rational approach, but, um, I, I do try to keep up with, uh, like behavioral science.
Yeah. Like the, the behavioral, like behavioral modification is one thing where I've tried to
be more like evidence based and using, um, using techniques that were actually like taught to
me by a professional where, um, you know, you, you, you get, there's like an algorithm. Basically,
it's fairly, it's fairly complex algorithm, but, um, complex in the sense that there are a lot of
kind of like forking paths that you can go down. Uh, but once you put it into practice, it's just
kind of becomes instinctive, but it's like, and I don't know, you can feel free if you, if you
think this is, uh, if this is like strongly different from what you do, tell me. Um, but,
but like it would be, um, if, if you give the kid a, a command, first of all, you want to,
you want to kind of minimize commands because otherwise the kid just, just gets overwhelmed
and they're just like, no, I'm going to do what I want to do. Uh, you give them a command
and if they don't, I don't know, I'm going to mess it up. I'm going to mess up saying it,
but like the point is it's, it's a very fixed thing where the kid learns that if they don't
comply with the command, then they're going to get like the consequence of going to time out.
And if they go, if they don't go to time out promptly, then they start losing privileges in
a very systematized way very quickly. So it's just basically creating a very clear incentive
gradient that causes them to obey the commands. And like, like I said, if you give too many
commands, then basically their life is better if they just don't listen to you than if they do
listen to you. So, um, that doesn't work either. I mean, it's, it's, it's a, it's a balancing act,
but like that was really helpful to me because like if you have a kid who just doesn't listen,
then it's really helpful to have, um, some kind of like method for dealing with it that
is kind of almost like a, an algorithm that's outside of your hands. You don't have to think about it.
Yeah, I, I actually, I tend to avoid, um, uh, punishments. Um, I tend, I focus on consequences.
Um, so one of the things that, uh, is that I do with, with my son is, uh, every night I read to him,
I'm reading the Harry Potter series to him. And, um, he, it's just, it's one of those things that
we love doing together. But every once in a while, like if he's just acting like a little asshole,
you know, before bed and I'm just like getting frustrated and he's, it's not working. I'm like,
all right, look, I'm just not going to do this tonight because this does not, I'm not in the
right kind of place to this. So I love you very much. Good night. I will see you in the morning.
And he understands that like if, if he acts like an asshole to me, he's not going to get what he
wants. And, and without it having to be a direct punishment, luckily that works for my son. It
doesn't always work that way for every kid. They're all different. Um, but I've, I've been very lucky
in not having to rely too much on, on punishments and, and use more positive, uh, and negative
reinforcement. Do you, do you, um, I guess, did you grow up with corporal punishment? I actually
have a question. Well, first of all, I wanted to mention on your approach to, uh, like praise for
children. I think, you know, having not being a parent and only given this a cursory look,
that, that what your approach seems to line up perfectly with what stuff I've read about,
you praise the effort and the actual achievements rather than like saying they have good character
traits for having achieved what they did. And cause like, uh, are you familiar with this,
Enyosh? Like the point is, yeah. So for anybody who's not, it's basically like, if they get a,
you know, whatever an A on a paper or if they're younger, whatever they,
I don't know what kids earn. Um, they turn in something at school and they get good marks
or something. They get a gold star. I don't know how this works. You say, hey, you did a really good
job, um, on this particular thing. And this looks great rather than saying, you're great. You did
it. Cause then when they, you know, get a B or a silver star or something, then they're like,
Oh, I must not be great. Cause I didn't get an A, right? So they, they, you can still say, Hey,
good job. You did this. Looks great. And that leaves room for growth, but that also doesn't
tie their character in with their achievements. And I feel like that's got to do great for their
psychology. Um, I honestly don't remember what I grew up with as far as that approach. Um,
does mean the, the punishment thing? No, I meant as far as the, uh, the,
my kind of praise I received. I'm sure I did get praise. I just can't remember, uh,
I was told all the time that are like, I'm gifted and I'm smart and stuff like that.
I could have imagined that going the opposite way with your upbringing too. Cause I'm not
sure how Joe was witnesses view like innate humanity. If you were told you're a center
from birth or something too. Yeah. I don't, I don't think it really impacts the child raising
part of it at all. The, which part? The, the, the being a born a center that's like divorced from
how good you are as a kid. Wow. That's really nice that they didn't drill it into you. Cause I'm,
I think I've definitely heard of, uh, I was going to say user reports of people's first hand
experiences of having that ingrained and be like, yeah, I was told as worthless from as old as,
as I could understand sentence sentences. That's probably much more of a, uh, individual parent
kind of thing. Like I, I don't, I can't see either of my parents being cool with that.
Fuck yeah. That's awesome. Yeah. Like I said, I, I, I had a fantastic childhood growing up. I never,
I think my parents hit me twice growing up. Okay. Not like, you know, like spanking kind
of thing. Yeah. And it was when I'd done something really, really bad and they, I'm, I'm sure they
even regretted it as after it happened anyway. I was going to say my parents were never big on
punishment. Uh, for what it's worth, my autobiographical memory is terrible. And I was just
talking to my brother about this and apparently there was some small level of corporal punishment
involved, but not that I remember. Um, but I don't think we were like ever spanked. I think
they might have tried it once and it just like, Oh, okay. Well, that wasn't our thing. Um, I also
only remember being like grounded once and I was not a very, really kid. I mean, we, you know,
played with fire and snuck out of the house and all the stuff you don't want your kids doing.
I mean, other than like getting hurt and going to the police station and going to the hospital
and using drugs, like all the other stuff kids could do we were into. Um, but they were just more
about like kind of letting us do our own thing within, you know, as long as you color inside
the lines, you can use whatever colors you want basically, right? I remember like one example
might be they didn't really care. Like we didn't have a bedtime. We had a be quiet enough for us
to go to bedtime and so whatever time that was, um, we had a, at some point when I was a kid,
we got a TV in our room and it was just like, turn the volume down, but I'm just turning it off.
