I've thought about a bit. And I think I made a joke before about how like every time a kid's
crying, especially a young kid, it's because whatever's freaking them out is literally the
worst thing that's ever happened to them in their entire life. Probably. So there's...
At least to talk about whether or not not engaging those concerns that kids have
as much as like they would want you to or something is damaging to them or not.
I feel like it can't be that damaging because that's never happened before really and people
are more or less kind of okay right now. But like not validating their concerns.
Like I am freaking out about... I don't know what kids freak out about that they don't know
which piece of toast to eat first. So like, you know, I guess A, you have to be some just
god to have the energy to engage that on every level. But I guess do you have any
thing to weigh in there? Like whether or not it's fine to like, you know, I'm gonna let you
just work this out for a minute or, you know, I guess not engage them on the way that you engage
as I can say a person in the way you'd engage an adult on them having an emotional thing happening.
Yeah, I think one of the biggest things is to really discuss with them about why they're upset
because I've found at least with my son often when he's like getting really upset about something
that doesn't make any sense. It's not because he just has this weird quirk. It's because he's
misunderstanding the situation and it's a problem of communication. And he's just not reading by
not reading a situation right. He's thinking that I'm mad at him or that I was trying to hurt him
whereas instead what I was just trying to get him to do is to just not bump his head or something,
you know. And often when I can get him to take a deep breath, that's usually what I do, I say
take a deep breath. Okay, now talk to me. How are you feeling and why are you feeling that way?
And by doing that, I can get him to kind of go through the process of does what you're feeling
match the situation and if not, then maybe we can find a solution for you.
You know, I think that's a good skill to have even for adults and I think it's really cool
that he's learning this, you know, before he reaches adulthood and has that in his toolbox
already. Yeah, I also try to model nonviolent communication with him too.
What is nonviolent communication?
So when you are arguing with somebody, you will instead of saying,
you're being a dick, you say, I feel like you're
exactly, you say, I feel hurt because or when you when you insult me because it makes me feel
like I'm not valuable to you. I'm not important to you. And instead of it being an accusation,
it's a collaborative sharing of this is my experience. This is how I'm interpreting
situation. And this is why it's it matters to me. And it tends to make
conflicts easier to resolve, because these won't get quite as defensive a way.
Can you hold on for just a few minutes? We have to take care of a few things right here.
Matt heroically worked the whole episode with not like a intensely nauseating,
inducing migraine that apparently like was supposed to get better and never did and
that just got worse. So he's taking off. But thanks for hanging in as long as you did. So
we'll we'll push through the rest of this, which is the three of us.
At this point, I think, or is there in more that we want to talk about?
I don't know. Did we miss anything, Jason?
I can't think of anything in particular. I was kind of curious where
you were exposed to nonviolent communication, but that I guess is kind of off topic.
I mean, that's that's fine. It was related. I honestly don't remember sometime in the last
eight years. Those were techniques that like, I think I'd heard bits and pieces of in passing,
but I hadn't heard it articulated until several years ago. Just that it's, it's a,
I also majored in psych and college. Maybe that's where I heard about it, or in psych and high school
is where I heard the term. But yeah, just the idea of like not having the
it also not having the context of the conversation be about what the other person did,
but about your feelings about it. Because A, that makes it like to where they can't just
deny it and say, I wasn't being a dick. They can't just deny it. I didn't make you feel like a dick.
It's like, because you don't know that or they rather they don't know that.
Is there, do you think that that nonviolent communication specifically helps lead to
having a more rationalist out view outlook on the world as you're growing up?
I don't know if it leads to having more rationalist outlook, what it leads to is more
rational discussions. Instead of getting caught up in those defensive emotions of,
well, no, I didn't, you did this instead. Instead of going down those, those rabbit holes, you,
you, you're able to kind of come to, well, I didn't mean to hurt you. And I, I, you know,
I didn't realize that I was having that effect on you. So let's, let's find a way to, to, to not do
that. And it works really well on kids, at least my kid. Yeah, I don't think it's necessarily a
path to rationality, or it might be a necessary ingredient to it, in some extent, but not necessary,
but it might be an ingredient to a rationalist lifestyle, just in that you're having a productive
conversation rather than a useless one, where you're just bickering, because then it's like,
at least talking about the part that matters. It doesn't matter that like the sinks full of dishes.
That's not like, what matters is your reaction to it. And that's what you want to talk about.
So it's just kind of keeping your eye more on the ball. But no, I think I know people have been
doing this for ages and aren't the least bit interested in rationality. So it's just, it's
a separate thing. It's one of those methods we have to have difficult conversations, the, the
kind of things that, that can get runaway emotions where people just don't, they're not part of the
conversation anymore. One thing that I think was in one of the emails was the fact that
Inyash and I expressed interpretation about having our priorities shoveled. We touched on that a
bit in the beginning of the episode, but I was wondering if we, if we missed anything there,
because that was, I think, one thing that I mean, I guess we touched on, but I'm not, I'm still not
convinced. Like right now, I find my time not, in fact, another Louis D.K. bit, he has this thing
where, you know, he's listening to his daughter read Clifford the Big Red Dog at a rate of 50
minutes a page, and he has to sit there and be incredibly proud and incredibly bored at the
same time. But like, yeah, so like that's a super boring sounding activity. And yet at the same time,
I'm sure that he and other parents find things like that super fulfilling. You know, like right
now the idea of like pushing a kid on a swing for 10 minutes sounds kind of boring, but that's
got to be like the highlight of your week for many parents, right? Maybe not the swing example
in particular, but things that mundane. No, you're actually right. Like I said before, when,
when, you know, singing to my son when he was a baby, and, you know, finally got him to calm down,
that was, that was a very rewarding moment to me. Yeah, it does shift your priority some
quite a bit, I guess, but it's not like it subverts all your other ones. It's just you have
this new high priority thing as well. So I don't know about like it supplanting other priorities
as much as you just have another one too. Yeah, I think I can kind of imagine what that would be like.
I'm kind of curious if, if your kid grew up and decided to completely reject all tenants of,
you know, rationality and, and that sort of thinking and instead like embrace post-modern
nihilism or something, how, how, how would you take that? And strict monogamy. Like a lot of
things that you care about that they just went the other way with. I would, I think I would be proud
of him even still because he is rejecting what he is taught and thinking for himself and choosing
the path that he wants to follow. I would probably be a bit sad, at least with the rationality part,
just because that's probably some conversations that we're not going to be able to have as well,
but maybe we'll have some really good arguments instead and that'll be kind of cool.
As for monogamy, I don't really care whatever relationship style he has a preference for.
I just want him to be happy and loved. What would be your, I guess, one biggest piece of advice to
raise a kid rationally or to raise a rationalist kid or both?
Honesty. Don't, don't lie to your kids for any reason, even if it seems convenient or that
they will be happier in the moment. Be gentle, but always be honest because otherwise you're,
you're, you're destroying their map of reality and that's inherently violent.
Yeah. I think Julia Gale have had an anecdote from her childhood that she shared on one of
the rationally speaking episodes where apparently her parents were like amenable to reasons
from her being at an early age. And I can't remember any examples that she gave, but it was like,
you know, they would say, we should do this or, you know, something, whether it's like bedtime or
whatever. And then like she and her brother could present counterarguments and they would say,
that's actually a good point. Let's do what you said. Like that, that level of interaction,
I think is just a lot of like humanizing children. Like we're talking about earlier,
right? Just like actually listening to them. And then, you know, like you would an adult person
and just consider what they're, what they're saying, like it actually matters. And, you know,
lo and behold, it's great for him, right? So I thought that was a fun anecdote too.
I agree. That's something I do with, with my son all the time.
Now, there's certain times where I'll say, I, we don't have time to talk about this right now.
I will be happy to, to listen to your, your argument when we have the time,
but I will always have those, those discussions with him. And I will always listen to his opinion.
And, and if, if he's right, I will admit it and I'll go with what he says.
I think that's just like an adult person. You don't necessarily have time for the argument,
but that doesn't mean that you won't, you know, give them the respects to have it at some point.
So I think that's awesome. All right. I, with swell, it's appears to be 10 o'clock.
And I think we hit the things we wanted to hit on, unless you have anything else.
Not that I can think of other than just thanks for having me on. This has been a really fun.
Oh yeah. Fantastic. Well, thank you for coming on.
Yeah. Well, thank you for talking to us. And hopefully we can talk to you again at some point.
I look forward to it. Yeah, I really appreciate you, you volunteered to come on and do this with us.
Was a very valuable perspective and a good conversation.
And thank you for inviting me.
Yeah, man. And I know Gainesville, Gainesville is two hours ahead.
So thanks for also staying up till midnight with us and hanging out. So anyway, we won't keep you up.
We appreciate it.
Thanks again. Take care.
Hello, we are back or by we, I mean me and Matt are back.
Matt had to leave about halfway through the previous episode, as you could probably tell
by him dropping out due to illness. And he wanted to come back and touch on a few things
before we put the episode live. So he is here now and I am going to continue a bit with him.
Welcome back, Matt. Thank you. Yeah. Thanks for having me back. I appreciate the opportunity
to finish up because I was really excited to talk about all this stuff.
Are you feeling better today? Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Glad to hear that.
Okay, so one thing that I really wanted to get your input on and both your guys input on and I,
you know, wasn't able to ask you was what you have the two kids and the oldest one is five.
Yeah. I have three. I have five, a three-year-old and a and a one-year-old.
Okay. The, I'm not sure how much they get out and socialize with other children right now,
but what do you tell them about interacting with the rest of the world? Like,
do you give them any direction on socialization that's rationalist informed?
You know, where it seems appropriate, I try to. It's, it's especially with the five-year-old
because she understands many things, but usually you have to couch it in a way that is designed
to be interpreted by, by her, her view of things. I don't know how specific to get into it, but like,
in terms of playing with other children, she'll, she'll report kind of like interpersonal problems
with other children at school and you kind of have to think through like, okay, what, first of
all, what is actually happening versus how she's reporting it because it's like, like very often
she'll, she'll say someone was being mean and it's like, well, were they being mean or did they
just want to play with their own toy that you were trying to take from them, for example?
Yeah. And, and so just try to, to give, I wouldn't, I wouldn't say that it's all, that it's
necessarily rationalist so much as just like trying to apply a lens of like, one thing I try to
encourage in her is, is perspective taking, which is really, I'm not sure if it's something that
she's neurologically capable of yet, in terms of, you know, not, not having that, that brain
module online yet, but like, say like, well, what do you think this feels like to this person?
A lot of what that comes up in is just her interaction with her, her brother who's three
and they get along really well, like 70% of the time. And then if certain combinations of blood
sugar and sleep deficit are not met, then they don't get along very well and, and it can be,
it can be unpleasant, but like you try to try to intercede in that in a way that isn't just like,
stop yelling at each other because that doesn't solve any problem that doesn't address anything.
It's more like, okay, why, why is this person, you know, vexing you in this particular way and,
and try to think through it rather than just react to it and maybe have some, some self-awareness.
Again, all of this is like aimed at maybe an older kid, but I just, I kind of, I don't know,
I feel like when you expect more of kids, they rise to the challenge. Yeah, they rise to the
challenge. Like, like one thing is like, this may be kind of condescending toward my brother,
but like my brother was five years younger than me. And I feel like the fact that he was always
essentially acted like a peer to me and I treated him like a peer to me, kind of accelerated his
social development in certain ways, perhaps. And I try to apply that kind of perspective toward,
toward the kids. Like, do you view this whole having kids thing as this really cool, in-depth
sociology project or because I mean, that's, that's kind of how I think of it, but I don't have any
children, you know? And so I'm like, it would be fun to experiment with little brains and see what I
can do. But then I'm assuming once actual emotions and being responsible for a life get involved,
it would be quite a bit different. I mean, there's definitely an element of, of that.
Like, one thing that I'm continually made aware of is that the, the details of the kids individual
personality usually trump any like intent of doing experiments that you intended. So like,
they're just, they're all just really impatient whenever I, like, for example, I don't, I mean,
this is probably no surprise to anyone who knows me or is a rationalist. But like, if you,
there was the recent Slate Star codec post about the Polgar sisters. And I was, and I was like,
well, you know what? I'm going to get out of chessboard and I'm going to try to, I mean,
I'm at least going to see how far we can go. And of course, the answer is we went about five minutes
because first of all, it just comes down to temperament and just being like, okay, this is the,
this is the, this is this piece. And then one of the kids grabs it off the board and you're like,
well, let me hold on, let me, it goes like this. And then the other one like just starts like moving
them around like they're, you know, army men or whatever. And you're like, okay, I understand
how this is not going to work the way I was imagining. And that's fine. I mean, I guess
I kind of like I alluded to earlier, the only way in which I quote unquote experiment is like,
when I see them having a conflict, I very much try not to just be like, stop yelling at each other,
you go over there, you go over there. I try to be more like, everyone, let's sit down and understand
why we're having this screaming argument that makes no sense. And, and resolve it and go back
to being pleasant with each other because it usually works too. I find unless they're just
like really chronic, like like overtired. And then it's just like, okay, well, you just need to nap.
And this is one thing I noticed even when I was a kid is like, I would see other kids having tantrums
and just be like, the parents in the situation are not letting them nap. Like that's all that's
happening. Like they're just, you're not, it's as if someone were dragging you around in the middle
of the night and you're just like, leave me alone. I'm, I'm exhausted. You haven't fed me
properly. You haven't let me sleep properly. Why do you, why are you surprised that I'm,
that I'm having a breakdown right now? So I just try to be like, I tried to, first of all, never
do that to them because it's, I see it as somewhat cruel. And then if I, if I feel like, okay, we
have, we have, we have to be out today longer than usual for some, for some reason, and we're not
going to get the naps and we may be late getting a meal. Then I try not to be like, what is wrong
