with you that you're having a normal human reaction to malnutrition and whatever. Um,
yeah. So did you have anything you wanted to jump in with? So yeah, I had some, I had some,
some general parenting notes that, and none of which are, are like rationalists per se. But,
but they're all sort of like the things that come up when you have, when you try to be like
thoughtful about certain things, like, um, be careful with, you know, there's, at a certain
point they get old enough that you kind of have to issue threats to get them to do things. And
if you have, you know, smart kids, which I mean, most kids are pretty smart actually, like they
will quickly learn like to take advantage of when you're bluffing. So like, um, uh, I mean,
one time it's kind of funny, my dad was visiting and, uh, and, and he was, and he actually said,
like, you, you know, you know, we were out at a restaurant and he was like, uh, he was like,
calm down or we're going to have to go out to the car. And my son immediately goes like,
okay, let's go to the car. And, and, and, and my dad thought that was hilarious because that would
always work on me when I was a kid. Um, but, but like just he, he was just like, oh, uh,
basically he knows on some level, you don't want to take me to the car. You want to stay here. So
I'm going to, you know, I'm going to make this costly for you. Um, yeah. So I mean, it's sort,
sort of, sort of game theory, I guess, if you want to twist it and make it rationalist is,
is your, you're playing an iterated game, uh, with, with the kids. So first of all, you, you,
even if you were bluffing, now you have to actually go through with your threat.
Otherwise they see that like you're, you're giving in. Um, so did your dad take them out to the car?
He did. Yeah. Nice. Yeah. It was funny. Um, so yeah, like I try to awful, you know, in terms of
game theory, I try to offer like compromises that will be acceptable to them rather than just being
completely hardline all the time, because then they just bulk at everything. Um, yeah, I'm not
sure how much of this is interesting. I always, I'm never sure like what, which of my strategies
are, are things that I've had to adopt because I have three of them and they, they, um, play off
each other and, and sort of run interference for each other and, and distract for each other on
kind of an unconscious way. Um, and it, but, uh, yeah, these are, these are the strategies that
I use. And, and I, I don't know if I said this last, last recording session, but none of this is
really like, uh, um, I, I'm not putting myself forth as a, as a primo rationalist parent who,
who has read all of the literature and, um, and applies all of the strategies consistently. It's
more like, these are the things that I end up doing with the, the smattering of rationality
exposure and, and, uh, attempt to be thoughtful. Um, yeah, this is a little weird and it's been
bothering me a little bit, but, um, so rationalism is sort of kind of an ideology and I, I remember
in my atheist days, uh, like I'm still atheist, obviously, but like in the more, uh, hardcore
strident days, there'd be, uh, pictures shared of three kids and, uh, like that said, this is a
Muslim kid. This is a Christian kid. This is a Jewish kid. And, uh, the comment underneath it being,
you wouldn't say that, you know, oh, this is a democratic kid. This is a Republican kid and
kid. This is a libertarian kid. It's wrong to put kids into these categories before they even have
any idea what they are. Um, I mean, I, I slightly disagree with that now because there's a lot to
be said about being raised in a culture, uh, in influencing who you are, but how do you,
like, are you trying to raise kids as explicitly rationalist and how do you feel about that? Like,
is it at all weird to try to impose an ideology on someone who is too young to consent to that
sort of thing? Yeah, that, that's interesting. Um, that, uh, honestly, I don't know if I've
thought it through in those exact terms, but, um, I definitely, um, like if they were to
decide that they didn't want to be like ideologically rationalists, then I wouldn't mind too much,
because I don't, um, I don't feel like rationalism is a, is a concrete enough thing to even be, um,
something that I would feel comfortable imposing on them. There are certain like tools and ways
of thinking more like it is how I see it that I try to, I try to convey to them and, and, and,
and in a way where I'm never sure if it's even working, like, I'll offhandedly just be like,
well, it's good to find out that you're wrong because then you can fix your mistake, which is,
you know, not something that I remember being told ever, but it's super, you know, core to the
rationalist ideology that the whole, you know, it's called less wrong. Um, yeah. And I do,
you know, there's certain, there's certain ideologies, I guess, like, uh, last weekend,
so, so my daughter wanted some toy that was like really expensive. And I decided like,
well, this is an opportunity because she really wants it. She keeps talking about it.
So we're going to make a lemonade stand and she's going to earn this money. So we, we, I, I elided
all of the facts that setting up a lemonade stand costs way more than the toy that she wanted.
So I just, I just sprung for that. Um, and, and we, we, we set it up and put it in the front yard
and, and I was like, I don't know how this is going to work exactly because, and, and I can
probably spin this a variety of ways. Um, but she, uh, we ended up having a number of people drive
by and stop and, and by lemonade. And, uh, and so in terms of an ideology, that was just,
that's sort of like how I, I'm not going to give her any lectures about capitalism, for example,
but I'm just going to be like, if you want something and you're living in this world,
um, then this is how you, this is one approach for going about that is you, you make, you, you
provide something for other people that they want, you get money and then you buy the thing that you
want. Um, so because a five year old even is not going to understand any attempt, uh, like
lecturing them about, about ideology. So I use the lemonade stand as an example of just saying,
like, there's probably all kinds of instances where I'm imposing or, or communicating my ideology
to them through through actions like that, but not thinking of it as being an ideological
indoctrination procedure. Did she make enough for her toy? Uh, no. Um, but, uh, I'm, yeah,
and that was probably like a misstep on my part because I was like, there was actually no way
she was going to make enough for her toy in one, in one day. So I was like, you know what, I can,
I can trick them into basically learning more and more about how to like run a
tiny baby business, um, in the course of earning enough money for this toy. Um, and then, and then,
uh, I will have, I will have raised this set of entrepreneurs who can go on and be successful
at whatever. That's one thing I think about a lot is like, I don't know if the institutions of like
universities are going to be anything like what they look like right now when they're, when they're
that age. So I'm kind of thinking like trying to prepare them with some more, uh, immediately
actionable skills, uh, like, like, like, I didn't understand how to, I don't understand how businesses
worked until I was in graduate school. Oh, wow. And I mean, like, I didn't bother to think about it,
you know what I mean? Um, yeah. So, so I'm like, you know, this is one thing where I think it's
kind of important. So I'm just going to employ this in their lives. Is that common, do you think?
Like my, my dad had his own business. So I was raised from that from the very beginning and I
don't, I don't know, do you think most people don't know how, how the business economy works
until late? Well, I mean, I guess it depends on what resolution you're talking about. Like,
like I clearly, you know, as a, as a teenager understood that you, you know, you make money
and you bring it to the person and they give you a thing. But like in terms of, um, you know,
the fact that you, you, you have a lot of overhead and just details of, I mean, I basically, what
happened was I ended up taking like a introductory business course, like late in my undergraduate
and that got me, you know, that kind of injects a lot of ideas into your head that weren't there
before. And then you're like, oh, wow, this is actually more complicated than I realized. Um,
and, uh, you know, so, so just having exposure to like grocery stores and stuff, I don't, I don't
think that gives you, you know, an understanding of, of a lot of the economics concepts or the,
the micro economics concepts that are, that are central to, you know, running a business for,
for a certainty or even just understanding, um, you know, basic, basic ideas like,
like how is Amazon growing? If Amazon doesn't make any, any profit and it's like, well, they,
you know, they do that on purpose and it's a, it's a trick and, you know,
once you understand it, it makes perfect sense. But, uh,
I wonder if maybe we should have more sort of business and econ classes earlier in schooling.
Yeah, that's, that's, that's a, that's a great idea. I mean, I, uh, I think you should at least,
that they should at least teach how to like start, um, you know, start an LLC or whatever,
just, just enough to like be legally okay to be running a business. That's one thing I was
thinking about with the lemonade stand is I'm like, I had to make a few calls actually to be like,
can I even do this? Am I going to get, you know, somebody drinks my lemonade and has
food poisoning? Am I going to get sued and ruin my life? Like, this is the world we live in now,
right? So, um, it turned out that, uh, that, that, that doesn't seem to be the case. Although I can
imagine all kinds of terrible failure modes. Um, at least it's not gonna have some trust in your
neighbors. Yeah, exactly. Do you have like really good frontage on your road, or was it just a
few people in your neighborhood? It's on a corner and, um, and I guess we just happened to be doing
it at a time of day when people were coming home from, from errands or whatever. Um, did you make
or keep working like the next several days to, to make an F? No, so I mean, there wasn't really
any, like I don't have the ability to do that based on scheduling, but, um, I, I, uh, I intend on
basically kind of we'll do it whenever, like on weekends, whenever there's nothing else to be doing.
And, um, like I ended up doing almost all the work, obviously. So I'm going to gradually make
them do more of the work. So that's, uh, just kind of a training wheels idea, basically. I, uh, when
I was, God, when did the NES came out, come out? I think I was around nine or 10 years old and it
was $99 and my dad paid me a dollar an hour to work for him and I had to work a hundred hours to
afford that thing. It was, it was an intense lesson. The biggest lesson was I got up to the
counter with my hundred dollars and then there was tax and I was like, Oh God, no. My parents were
like, we'll cover it. Yeah. Yeah. I still remember the drop in the, the heart feeling. Yeah. Right.
And that was the day you became a capitalist. That was the day I became a true communist.
I was like, everyone should have these Nintendo's for free. Yeah. Right. No, I, yeah, it was, it
was an interesting upbringing. Yeah. That's sorry. Go ahead. Oh, go ahead. I was just going to say,
like, um, you know, the idea of allowance is something that, that, that is that a lot of
people try to use to, um, convey a sense of, of money, right? And I found like for myself
that, that didn't connect to like the reality of, of, of making money at all. Cause it's almost
like you just get passive income for doing kind of what you were expected to do anyway. And it's,
it's not connected to effort. You don't, like if you, at least the way it was set up for me,
when I was a kid, like it wasn't like, oh, you do twice as many chores, you get twice as much
money. It was just like, this is the amount of money that you get. Um, and so like that's,
that's yet another reason why I kind of wanted to try out the lemonade stand idea is just like,
I want them to see some connection between like what you actually are doing and, and what, uh,
what money you can make through that. Um, and I, I'm not, I'm not saying like everyone should
do the lemonade stand thing. It's just like this was, this, this was what occurred to me as being
a little bit more organic maybe than, than an allowance. Oh yeah. So how old were your kids
when you came into this rationalism thing? Not born yet. Okay. So you've been doing it from
the very beginning. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I was, I was, I think I, when, when the, when the first
baby was born, I, I like wanted to, I didn't actually do this, um, because of laziness mainly,
but I wanted to paint like an elaborate, um, rendition of, of, um, um, if there's a diamond
in the box, I want to believe this. I'm in the box. If, if there's not, I don't, uh, let me
not become attached to beliefs. I may not want, um, and various, you know, just those, those
various things I wanted to, I wanted to have those around the house similar to how like
God never closes the door without opening a window or, or in normal houses because I think
some of them are very beautiful sentiments. Uh, some of the rationalist, uh, um, litanese
or whatever are very beautiful sentiment, sentiments and also useful. Like they come up
a lot. Some of them come up a lot for me, like just as something that I can fall back on. And
it's pithy and compelling and makes me feel like I'm doing the right thing.
This, I think I feel I know the answer to this, but we've sort of got a little proto-rationalist
community in Denver. And I think, you know, hopefully we're going to try to, I don't know,
I don't know what we're going to do with it, but I was going to ask if having the
rationalist community makes any difference, but I'm kind of assuming it doesn't since,
I mean, I've never seen your kids or anything at any of the meetups.
Yeah. Well, I would definitely like want to okay it with people first, if I was going to
bring kids and I don't know, I don't know what a, I mean, honestly, what that would probably
look like. First of all, uh, that's probably too late for them right now. Well, like in terms of,
like their bedtime is, is essentially when our, when our meetings start. Um, and if I were to bring
them, it would probably be when they're old enough to have a conversation.
Oh, we don't really have any kid-friendly activities.
Yeah. Yeah. They wouldn't, I don't, I honestly don't think they would get a whole lot out of it,
other than maybe just more exposure to a wider variety of human beings. Um, but I don't think,
honestly, I don't think that's why people come to the rationalist meetings. I don't think they want
to have to like help raise your children through. Right. Um, I mean, it's a cool idea. And when
they're older, I certainly would, would consider doing that. I think that's basically all I had.
Okay. For follow-up. Did you have anything else you wanted to add?
I think, uh, I think I hit all of the points in my, in my notes and, and I, I'm, I'm sure I talked
about a lot of these things last time. Uh, I guess the, the only thing I don't think I've, um,
talked about at all is there was this biodeterminist guide to parenting that was in the rational sphere.
Um,
Oh, was that done by Guern?
Well, so, so I know Guern has said things about this. Uh, Scott Alexander said things about
this. Uh, Ozzy Mandius has said things about this. Um, and, and one particular point I want to
do address is that somehow, uh, it comes up a lot that, that it's the statements, statements of the
variety of, uh, parenting has 50% of the influence and genetics has 50% of the influence on, on
outcomes. And like that, that never sat right with me. And, and I did some reading about it
prior to this podcast. And, um, what, what kind of came out was that the like influence of parenting
term is usually, um, calculated in a, in a misleading way. Um, I, I unfortunately did not write down
the notes of what exactly that means. Um, but, but basically it's like, uh, it's, it's normalizing over,
over groups that are already similar, I believe. So like, you know, it's one thing to say,
like obviously you can, you can grievously harm a child's outcomes by treating them terribly,
and you can be responsible for 100% of their outcome if you do it that way, right?
So it's like within the narrow band of parents who are already doing a great job,
there's 50% variation in terms of the outcomes. That's, that's like a better way of saying it.
And, and that to me is a lot more common sense, like that, that parses a lot better than, than like,
um, really 50% of the outcome is, is, is genetic. Like I don't know if that's,
I don't know if that makes sense. Um, and I really don't think I'm just being biased as like a parent
who wants to feel important because obviously every kid is different in, in ways that very much seem
innate and nothing, nothing you did cause it or even they're manifesting personality traits at an
age that's way too young for them to have like picked it up.
Oh, the kids were kind of grabbing pieces off the chess board despite the parenting
you were trying to do on that board.
Yeah. Yeah, right. It's, it's, it's, it's a lot, it's a lot them, right? But like
you can clearly, you can clearly influence their environment a tremendous amount.
Like you can look at the Polgar sister's example of somebody. Like if I were really,
like if, if I were dedicated, I probably could teach them to play chess, right?
It wouldn't necessarily be pleasant for them or, or, or for me, but it could probably,
could probably happen. I don't know if I can make them grandmasters like that's that,
that does come in more like, okay, well, do they have the innate, you know, capability for that?
So when you say 50% parenting and 50% genetics, that seems to leave out the entirety of their
peer group and the rest of the community, wouldn't, isn't that also a very big influence?
Like I think even having you and your genes being raised here in Colorado would be
vastly different from being raised in someplace like China or, you know,
