about how we watched all these horribly violent movies when you're really, really young. And
they never bothered us. And then like, like, I mean, maybe sometimes or some particular
horrific thing would bother us. But like, it wasn't the psychological themes that would bother us.
It was the idea of a monster being in our room, you know, like, like the level on which a scary
movie works on a kid is is the level of like fear of of small, you know, creatures being in your
proximity that are going to harm you. Because that's what a kid is concerned with. It's not until
you're older that you can even emotionally connect with something as as abstract as those things,
I guess. So so like, you can explain fairly dire things to a kid. And like my five year old, I
can explain, you know, fairly detailed things that that might even be uncomfortable with an older
kid. But she's just like, okay, yeah, I get it. I think I saw a pet cemetery when I was six or seven.
And it was more scary because like, Oh, no, the, you know, the dogs now attacking the people or
whatever. But then you see it as a teenager or somebody can reflect on what's actually happening
and like, Oh, my God, it's like a monster demon baby. Or like now the wife is this, you know,
murder. Do you don't see pet cemetery? Oh, so the premise is that there's this like graveyard
or if you bury stuff, they come back to life, but it's not them. So people will occasionally
bury their pets there because it's like, Oh, well, I'd rather have it still in the house. But like
then it's just like this kind of asshole monster thing. Well, it's still like, it's not like a
monster that has like extra powers. It just is this evil version of that. So I guess horror alert,
the guy's kid gets hit by a car and he buries him there. And then it's this little psychopath kid.
And then I think the wife, maybe there was two movies, there was pet cemetery too. And one of
them they bury an adult there and it comes back as a murderer, unless I'm completely misremembering.
But most part of that is true. Anyway, the level of horror that I got as a kid, it was like, you
know, the scary darkness and the live music and whatever. But like the full on horror level of
it isn't like, isn't something you can get until you're much older. So yeah. And I mean, another
thing that I think about in this context is like kids used to grow up on farms and twist the heads
off chickens and be involved in, you know, butchery of animals. And it never, it didn't bother them.
Didn't bother them the first time they saw it and they just grew up used to it. So there's nothing,
humans can adapt to anything. We have to learn that those things are scary, you know.
So are you also trying to raise children that are rationalist?
Yeah, I guess there's like the mindfulness angle. There's also the not telling them lies
about the world. So like that works in a lot of ways. Like any questions they ask,
I'm game to answer as far down the rabbit holes they want to go. I'll try my very best to never be
like, okay, that's enough questions for now because I want them to finish building out that
knowledge web. Me and my wife both agreed that we weren't gonna, well, she was more wanting to
do the Santa Claus thing than me. And what it ended up being was just like the Santa Claus story
was there. We tell the story. And then at some point, my daughter finally asked like,
is this pretend? And I was like, yes, this is pretend, but it's still fun. It's still a fun
thing to pretend, right? And she wasn't crushed by it. So what do you mean? How did you tell her
the story that she asked if it was pretend? I mean, like did you, did you set up presents and say
Santa Claus brought these or? I think what we do with presents is we've just set out the presents.
So did you just tell her about Santa like as a bedtime story or something?
Yeah, yeah. Like you read the Nightmare Before Christmas, which is funny because they like
that movie quite a bit, which speaking of kids being immune to things that are supposed to be
scary, they love that movie and don't find anything at all scary about it. That movie
fucked with me more as a kid than Pet Cemetery and Chucky and all those things. Just putting that
out there, but I didn't mean to interrupt. Yeah, that one terrified me when I saw that I was much
older, whereas they were small and thus it's just like, oh, okay. It's kind of like a cartoon if
your head comes off. Yeah. How old were you when you saw it? I have no idea. It would have been
around the same age, maybe a little older. I remember it was like that was one of the things
I remember having a nightmare about when I was a kid, which I guess is appropriate for the title.
You're kind of always inundating the kids' stories of various kinds through media. One thing
that we could talk about is TV and how hard it is to avoid TV. I don't know if you experienced that,
Jason, but definitely when I had the first kid, I was like, well, I'm not going to ruin this kid
with television. It's just not really practical to avoid that. No. Well, television is not really
the biggest problem. I don't have cable. I'm one of the cord cutters. He's always on YouTube, though,
and I'm starting to have some issues with that with him, because on YouTube, everything's extra
boisterous and more aggressive because he's watching game playthroughs and whatnot.
I'm having to correct him and say, no, I understand this is what you're seeing on there. This is for
entertainment, but that is not a behavior that you need to model. You should not be doing what
they're doing. Is there a way to configure YouTube accounts so that the user can't read the comments?
YouTube comments are the cesspit of the internet, right? Yeah, he doesn't care about the comments
yet. We'll see. One of these days, he's going to ask you to clarify something you read in the
comments of a YouTube video, and you're going to have some tough questions to answer. I haven't
read any YouTube comments in two or three years now. I think they're pretty tame on YouTube. I
happen to share your son's interest in YouTube videos. I watch a lot of video game playthroughs
and stuff. I think the comments there are pretty tame. I usually don't read comment section of
anything ever. Smart. There's just very little that's ever good in the comments, aside from one
or two sites that I know the commentary at is pretty good. I was going to say, occasionally,
I'll skin through the SlateStarCodex comments, but you're not getting YouTube comments on that medium.
Reddit can be good. Depending on the subreddit. What is your take on the Christmas thing?
Pretty similar. I was always pretty against Santa Claus, mostly because I think it teaches
entitlement to children. You're just getting presents because you deserve presents because
you're a kid. That's what Santa Claus does, because he's this magical god thing. He's also
the punishment of if you're naughty and he's always watching you. That is extremely creepy to
me. I never really liked Santa Claus. I've been fairly tolerant with it because my wife was more
into it when he was younger. I didn't really push too much against it, but as he started getting
older and we had more conversations, it became less of an emphasis when it came to Christmas time,
and now it's just a story. I don't know if he believes in Santa Claus, but my guess is he
probably doesn't. I always thought of it as the first big, rationalist test. How long until they
can figure this out on their own. On the other hand, I don't want to then set the precedent
that for the rest of their life, the kid is always asking, so is this another test?
Well, that's not the worst way to think about it, unless you're wondering about how my parents
lying to me. I always thought it'd be fun. I've never had the opportunity to go to a 12-year-old
and be like, remember how you figured that stuff out about Santa Claus? Yeah, now Jesus. Just
like, see if I can make an atheist out of a kid, but I've never decided to jump into another family's
life like that. The Santa Claus thing, that was the first time that I really realized that my
parents can lie. Before that point, I had absolute faith in my parents, and I believed in Santa Claus
much longer than the rest of the kids because I had that faith in my parents. Once I finally
confronted them about it, when I was basically defending them, when one of my friends was saying,
this is nonsense, and they're like, yeah, it's not really. I was devastated because I had such
utter faith in my folks, and that's what made me an atheist. Did it hurt you? First of all,
that's fucking awesome, but also, did that hurt your relationship with your parents?
No, I mean, I was angry with them for a bit because you do that as a kid, but then I kind of
realized that like, oh yeah, they're people and everybody else lies now and then, and they weren't
trying to hurt me, so I, you know, I forgave them. What do you do in relation to like other kids?
Like, did you tell your kid not to tell other kids that Santa was fake, or did you just not even
bring that up? Well, the biggest thing I always try to do is, is not to, it's spoilers, I guess.
It's spoilers, like, you know, they'll, they'll, they'll figure it out. There's no point in,
in hurting them, and you know, it's, it's kind of like religion too. It's, it's the same way. It's
like, they have their beliefs, and that's, that's fine, whatever they want to believe,
there's nothing wrong with that. This is what I believe.
So your kids are familiar with the concept of spoilers then, or your kid?
Oh yeah. Oh, very much so. He's not allowed to watch the, the last two Harry Potter movies yet,
because we're still on the Half-Blood Prince.
Did you have the concept of spoilers when you were growing up, Stephen?
I don't remember. They're really a spoiler. I remember I was, must have been 15-ish,
whenever the second Inhergent Cycle book came out, someone ruined it for me.
I mean, it was, I mean, it did suck, because at the beginning you get the impression that
this character died, and then she, then she was like, oh yeah, this and this,
I don't want to spoil everything. Oh wait, well whatever. It's, it's been 10 years.
But I remember that I finished, it was either the, it was whatever the next Harry Potter book
that came out after that, but before she did, and I texted her, it was like, I finished the book,
and that was, or I texted her, told her at school, however old, whatever age this was,
and I told her that, and then she was like, please don't, I was like, I'm not going to,
but I could, and that's enough. I could tell you how it ended, but I'm not going to do what you did.
I had the, I knew that Darth Vader was Luke's father long, long before I ever saw the first
Star Wars movie, and I don't know, it just, it didn't occur to me that nowadays kids like,
growing up already know the concept of spoilers as they're growing up, since basically media
comes out all at once, and you can watch it at will. Whereas before it was like,
it was only on when it was on, and either you saw it at the same time as everyone else,
or you missed out, and they just talked about it around you, because it's not like there was
another time to see it, another chance to see it. Yeah, that reminds me, you mentioned that your
kid, you know, has trouble like managing his sleep, and that's probably true of most kids.
I remember when I was a kid, I think I was just less tired than I am now, and maybe than other
kids. I did this game where like, I tried to stay awake, and since I was in the top bunk,
I would like hold the remote control or like something small off the edge, so that if I
fell asleep, I would drop it, and then that would wake me up, and then I'd still get up at like 530
to watch cartoons with my dad before he went to work. So I don't know, yeah, God, if I had that
energy now, I could take over the world. But I, that was just came to mind when you're mentioning
how your kid has difficulty, you know, coordinating their level of tired, or his level of tiredness.
I do that sort of now, like now I am self-aware enough to like, all right, time for bed,
but I still get like this weird sense of ansceness. So I could totally imagine like,
if as a kid, I was less reflective, and just push through that initial wave of tiredness,
then you're just like energetic, but also really want to go to sleep. That's, that's me
three or four nights a week now, but at least like now I'm aware of it, and it's fine. So
as a kid, it was probably taxing and probably extra taxing for my parents.
I said, how many times have you been tired and like, grabbed your phone, and now all of a sudden,
the next thing you know, it's falling on your face because you're passing out while playing on it.
I'm better about that now, but that was, that definitely has happened.
Yeah, once I'm that tired, I have no trouble just letting myself go to bed. It's more just like,
if I happen to get tired at like nine, but I still have to shower and do stuff, then I'm just
like at that level where, you know, all right, I'm going to just do stuff, then I'll get in bed,
and just like, I don't know, flop around and let all my energy out.
So I guess, going back to the topic itself, what things do you do to try to get your kids to
grow up as rationalists?
Once again, I don't know if I'm specifically looking for him to find rationalism. I hope he does.
It's mostly just the
living the principles of it and being honest with him, and valuing growth, valuing learning from
your mistakes, and finding where you're wrong, and correcting for that. Some of the things that I do,
it's kind of everything. It's just the whole way that I approach it.
It's so hard to think of an example. I'm sorry.
No, it's okay. Do you have a rationalist community where you live?
No, and that's part of the problem, probably. I'm living in Gainesville, Florida. It's kind of a
small college town, but for some reason, there's not one here.
You said that you live in a poly-relationship sort of thing. Are your metamores and other
partners in the rational scene at all?
No, I have two friends that don't live around me that are, but no, pretty much none of my
none of my friends, family, or poly-cool are rationalists.
Okay, that must make it a bit harder, too.
It makes it a lot harder. I'm very envious of you guys.
Oh, well, I mean, we don't really have kids yet.
I was going to say, really quick, the way to get that going is just to
put out a meetup and get things going. I can send you this little pamphlet that is a good primer,
if anyone's interested. If they read this and they're like, oh, that's cool,
I want to talk about it, then they're the kind of person who wants to come up to a meetup or
something. It's still really damn hard to start things from meetups, though.
It's not that bad. I've done it before. I started the local poly community.
So I've done that. Unfortunately, I also kind of burned myself out of it after about two years.
And I've thought about starting a rationalist community here, and then I thought, oh, God,
not again. That's fair. But I totally agree. Because if no one's going to do it, I need to be
the one to do it. How old was your kid when you came into this rationalist thing? Or was it
pre-aged kid? I think it was before him, but not too terribly long before him. I think I was still
kind of going through the sequences at that time. I know I was definitely... I mean, he's eight, so
methods of rationality was still being written at that time, I think.
I think it was almost pre-written methods. When did that start?
God, if you say it was more than eight years ago, I'm going to feel so old.
It may have started more than eight years ago, I don't remember.
It sucks. It took like five years to put out, and it's been two and a half years now since it
ended. Oh, lame. So it was probably about seven to eight years ago that it began.
Womp. Yeah. You two are growing old, Stephen. Join us on the other side of the hill.
Just as old as I feel. I was going to say something else about...
Oh, I didn't weigh in on this earlier, but you mentioned talking to your kid like it's
a person rather than like it's a pet. I can't remember much of how that works with me as a kid,
but I do know that that's how I approach kids too. And I feel like that's just got to be...
I maybe I'm typical minding to something that you can't typical minds to because kids are a
little different, but I feel like that's got to be awesome for them because they're not treated
like people a lot. They're treated like talking plants, right? So...
You know, I never really noticed, and I think maybe it's because I'm just inept and bad at
seeing what... That's what I do, but I think it works out great. Yeah. I'm like, I just treat
like a normal person, and I was kind of surprised when I read that article. I'm like, really?
People do that? That stuff you saw in like shitty old movies. I read an article about
somebody who got a chance to meet Stephen Hawking at like a party, and she was introduced to him
as like, oh, and this is Stephen. He's right here. Not... Like the same way you would talk about
like a cool thing had on your bookshelf and because he couldn't talk back in real time.
And she... The whole thing was basically her reflecting on like how they... The people around,
you know, obviously modeled him as a person, but didn't treat him like one because he couldn't
respond in time, right? Yeah. So I think that might be something like how people treat kids.
Uh, let's see, there was that and... I'm sorry, go ahead. I think it's also just our society
doesn't value the opinions of children very much. They can just be dismissed as unimportant.
I did read something just recently within the last week or two, and this is something that
