Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy. I'm Inyash Brotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we
have two guests, Matt Freeman and Jason Kleinberg. Hello, Matt and Jason. Thank you for joining
us. Our pleasure. The reason that we have invited the two of you on is because you both
have children, and you're both rationalists and trying to do some kind of rationalist
children-raising thing, which Stephen and me have no idea anything about it because we
are child-free, as the term I prefer, rather than child-less.
I'm not on the high horse there. I just happen to not have kids. I also thought it'd be nice
to get your guys' perspective because we did a whole episode on child, or I guess on the
decision to have kids, maybe on a touching on child rearing, and none of us had kids,
so it's kind of like just one of those pointless abstract conversations where none of us have
first-hand experience, so I thought you guys could weigh in on all the stuff we got wrong
because I'm sure we missed something. Yeah, I listened to that one, so I'd be happy to
weigh in there. Yeah, I listened to it, and I was definitely yelling at my audio device
at the time. Cool. I want to talk about that. Well, then let's start in on that. You said
that you were having to yell at the audio device, and I want to know if there's anything
you remember specifically that you want to address. Well, let's see. I think it was you were talking
about how being a rationalist kind of made it more difficult for you to be a parent,
and it was specifically regarding the autonomy and a respect for the individual,
and so being able to, or being a, I'm totally butchering what you said,
and so it would make it difficult for you to be a parent, and I think that I'm a good parent
for those exact same reasons. I wish I could remember some of the specific things that we might
have said. It's been so long since we recorded that, too, that I having a hard time recalling.
I kind of wish I'd gone back and re-listened to it today. So one thing I remember being talked about
was the idea that the felt the desire to have children was somehow icky, and I was thinking
as soon as I heard that, I was like, well, I mean, it's among the most basic human
feelings. How is the desire for food or sex or human connection any more noble than the
felt desire to have children or to snuggle with children? I think that was particularly what it
was, is someone in the podcast said it seems weird to want to snuggle with a child, and I'm like,
first of all, that's the same instinct where you want to snuggle with a puppy,
and that's not viewed as icky. So I don't know, it just that struck me in particular.
Yeah, or another person in general. We all like having that contact.
I think, I believe Shelly said that even wanting to snuggle with a puppy was kind of gross to her,
because again, she had the whole the helpless thing that is dependent on you aversion.
Yeah. Did you have this desire to have kids before you had kids?
I didn't have the, so maybe borderline sex or sexist remark, but I feel like women have it
more strongly than men. So I didn't have the like urgent burning need to have kids, but I always
wanted them in the abstract. So that's, yeah, I mean.
Then once you had the kid, you felt that desire much more.
Can I ask Jason if you had the same or a similar thing, or did you want kids even before?
I pretty much always wanted to have kids. I had a pretty awesome childhood. I had fantastic parents
that were a really great example and resource for me. So I always kind of like that idea of
continuing that. Did you like notice a greater emotional desire to like have
a child to care for after you had the kid?
I don't know. Here's one thing that I've always kind of
thought annoying about parenting. It's not parenting in itself. It's parents. How
often hear people say things like, oh, well, until you have a child, you'll just never know.
And that's just wrong. I've got a really good imagination. And like all those things that
they said that you won't know until you're a parent, I kind of figured it out beforehand.
And it's pretty much what I expected. It's challenging, but awesome.
Yeah, I think that makes sense. Like one thing that I talk about sometimes and this,
I don't know if this is in contradiction to what you just said, but maybe it's,
I think everyone has their own lens and way of talking about it. Like,
I do feel like having kids rewired me. And I think I've said that before in some of their
contexts. But it took me and made me a slightly different person who was now concerned with
the kids in a way that I had never been concerned with any person. You like to think that you would
step in front of a train to save your best friend or whatever, but you know when you have kids on
an instinctive level that you would do that. Like, I don't know if that makes sense to you.
It makes sense to me in terms of like the felt difference between the two sensations of those
two hypotheticals. I don't know, does that make sense to you?
Yeah, it changed my priorities. So instead of just being, you know, mostly concerned about
my own needs and, you know, needs of my partners, I have this thing that this person,
nothing, this person that is very much dependent on me and my survival.
So it's been very motivating to want to make sure that he has as good of a life as possible
and that he survives. And yeah, I agree. If I am going to be able to save his life in a way
that's going to, in mine, I will probably do that. I can't say yes for sure because, you know,
never actually been in that, but very likely. Yeah, I don't know why exactly I chose that
particular hypothetical other than like, it's a question where it returns a very clear answer for
me. Whereas like, if it's for anyone other than my children, I'm just like, well, I like to think
that in the right circumstances, I would behave that way, but I'm not 100% sure.
Does that detract from the other goals you're pursuing in your life now that you have this
new overriding goal? I don't know if it would be an overriding goal.
It's something that I always have to take in consideration, but it doesn't feel all that
different than like when you have a partner that you live with or, well, that's not true because
my son is not, he's still a young child, so he can't quite make all of the decisions on his own
just yet, so he's not fully responsible for his actions. But I don't think it's changed me
or changed my other goals as much as it's just reprioritized things.
Yeah, I don't feel like I've become any less productive, but like I still work a job and
I was able to finish my PhD after I had had my first kid. You could argue maybe it took longer
because I had a kid at that time, but I still did it. If anything, I think it's made me more
disciplined and clearly prioritized things because like for example, before I had a kid,
I would work at work and then I would come home and the laptop would be on
in my lap or whatever and I would be half-assed working essentially all the time.
And not only is that not healthy, but it's probably not effective either.
And now when I'm at work, I focus on work and I know I don't have any other opportunity to
focus on work, so I have to do the work at work. And when I'm at home, I'm fully present with the
kids to the extent possible. The net productivity either didn't change or for a while I was even
convinced that I was more productive with a kid because it gave me something to protect as it were,
but I can't prove that. So this is going to sound kind of weird, but I have this fear of loving
things because then they can be used against you in like the mafia boss kind of like,
I'd be ashamed if something happened to your kid. And do you not have a terror of that kind
hanging over your head? So I kind of do and I actually have some notes on this topic.
Jason, what do you feel about that first though? I actually don't.
No, you do.
Well, I have had that fear. I'm polyamorous and so you know that's kind of like a thing
in some communities where that can be a problem. But in general, no, I don't. One of the things
that I've always, that's kind of an essential part of my parenting philosophy is I have like
a risk threshold. And if it's not, if something doesn't have a greater than like say a one in a
thousand chance of happening, I'm just simply not going to worry about it. And so yes, if that
happened, it would be catastrophic for me. But the rarity of that event happening is so high
that it just doesn't really register for me. And step one, don't make enemies of the mob.
Yeah, but I mean, yeah, right. But I mean, the mob was kind of an extreme example. There's lots
of people, if you even draw attention online, there's people that will like track down where
your kids go to school and send you pictures and be like, Hey, shut your mouth. And then
I don't I don't even know what the fuck I would do. Like if they're threatening me, then
at least I feel like well, I'm willing to die for, you know, saying the wrong thing or whatever.
I don't want to die. But at least it's just myself. I'm risking. But if they were coming
after my kids, I don't even like know what I would do at that point.
Yeah. So like, I guess, I guess I don't have, I don't have any anxiety about risk to the kids
in a generalized way. Like I don't entertain hypotheticals like that. And it kind of like
Jason said, like if it's a low probability thing, I'm just able to dismiss it largely.
But however, like one thing that I had in mind coming into this was like, I don't actually just
want this to be like an hour long or whatever sales pitch for having kids because I'd rather
give everyone a circumspect view of like what it entails. And like I wrote, I wrote down this
list of things and it's kind of a mix of things that have happened to me and things that have happened
to parents that I know. And then just like a few things thrown in there just to,
just of things that happen to people. And that would just be like really high
fevers in your baby and you don't know how to handle it. And you end up having to hospitalize
them and you don't know what's going to happen. A premature baby, like a severely premature baby
who has to stay in the NICU for a month or two. Hey, that was me. Oh, really? I don't think it was
a month. Those are a couple of weeks or so. I don't really remember. I might as well say,
immediately post birth. I don't remember. But as far as the timeframe I was given,
it was something like that. Yeah. I mean, that was my first daughter actually. So
like that's kind of an unwelcome surprise for your first experience with kids to be
something that's actually much worse than you expected. But then of course, there's like
SIDS. And then there's like a million small things after you've had the kid where it's not really
deadly dangerous, but it's just something you didn't anticipate. Like a kid who really doesn't
sleep for the first three years of their life. You didn't bargain for that, right? And now it's
something that's really affecting you. And so my list had more things on it. But I think I made
my point of there's, you do expose yourself to the possibility of negative experiences
with kids. But like even with all the stuff that I've experienced, it's still
like by far a choice that I'm happy with personally. Yeah. I had a similar kind of thing with
my kid when he was born. He was born with, his digestive system wasn't really fully developed.
And so he was always crying for like the first month or two. And it was just nerve wracking.
And yet in those times where I could get him to calm down, just like sitting there swaying
with them and singing to him are some of the happiest memories of my life.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I kind of agree that like getting through that stuff is its own reward on
some level. And I think we must be wired for that in some way because I'm sure this has always
been the case for all mammals practically. Like raising the kid in and of itself is
not rewarding in an objective sense. So your brain kind of finds ways to make it rewarding for you.
And those feelings are just as authentic as any feelings. Why would you choose to
get your happy feelings through that route as opposed to something else?
Well, I don't think it's an either or thing, first of all. It's a qualitatively different
flavor of qualia in general. I mean, it's just like I can't get the warm fuzzies that I get
from children by engaging in a really deep philosophical conversation and vice versa.
Although when my children grow up, maybe I will be able to have a deep philosophical conversations.
But I guess this is like the main sales pitch that I had kind of
walking in was like, it's this whole avenue of human experience that I didn't even realize
existed. And I mean, it's the closest I'm going to get to saying like, you'll just never understand
unless you had kids. But it's the kind of thing where it's like if you've never had food and
someone's like, yeah, you should really try food. It's pretty cool. Like you get all these
experiences in your mouth and you're just like, I don't see the point. I have a tube that goes in
my stomach. Why would I? It's like, well, I mean that... I hear the same thing about hallucinogens
that like you just, you can't really explain it. You have to try it. That's actually what I was
going to bring up as an analogy, but I don't know if either of you guys could relate. That's the
kind of experience that you can't articulate to somebody in a way. It's like, you know, trust me,
it's just cool. And then if you try it and it was cool, then you're like, yeah, it was great.
I can't really explain to you why it was great, but it's different kind of thing.
If you have a bad trip, you come down after eight hours. If you have a bad kid, you've got 18 years
and really basically your entire life. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I want to dismiss that as a joke,
but like that's a reality for some people. I mean, it's not a reality for me, but like
some people have like a psychopathic kid, right? So before we go on to the next topic, I was kind
of wondering on more utilitarian terms, I assume both of you get the feeling that, well, or maybe
you, maybe this has nothing to do with it, but do you have the impression that the world is better
off with your kids in it? Absolutely. Yeah, but yeah. Well, the thing is, is so
I'm biased, I know this, but my kid's pretty awesome. Like he's, he's extremely caring,
extremely good at communicating for a kid his age and identifying his emotions and being able to
help people kind of calm down. And he always makes friends very easily. And these are traits
in people that I admire. And it's, it's rewarding to see that in someone that I have helped
become that kind of person. Yeah, I mean, for my part, I kind of view my life as having been good
and worth living, etc. And, and like I have the wherewithal, I think, to provide any kids that I
have with the same level of, of like, attention and love and material comfort that I had, if not
more in some cases, you know, so like, like one thing, one thing for me is that my brother was,
was like, is still like a huge part of my life. And he's kind of one of my like top, top tier,
you know, Maslow, what is it, the monkey sphere people. And, and so I was always like, well,
if I'm going to have one kid, I'm going to have more than one kid because, because like I couldn't,
and I fully recognize this is a, this is a bias of my own. But I was like, I, I can't actually
guarantee that life would be worth living without a sibling. So I'm going to go ahead and make sure
I have three kids, just, just to, you know, cover all the bases. But like, because I got so much
value out of, out of my relationship with my brother, I'm like, well, I'm going to
give my kids the gift of having those, those type of relationships with each other. And I'm,
and I'm glad I did that too, because they're, well, one of them is a baby, but the two who are
old enough to communicate or like best friends and they play all the time. And it's, it's,
it's everything I could have hoped actually. So, so that's like, I look at my kids playing
and I'm like, I have no doubt that in this moment I've created something of, of value
to the universe or for its own sake, whatever.
Damn, that's so sweet. I almost got a cavity and almost cried.
I think we forgot to ask, how old are your guys's kids?
I just have one and he is just turned seven.
My oldest is going to turn five shortly. My middle one is about three and a half
and the youngest turned one recently. So fairly tight spread and they're all really small still.
So keep in mind, neither of us have the experience of having a teenager yet.
Right. That's, that's one thing I was, I was thinking coming in, I was like, you know,
this could all just turn south really badly and I could be giving people terrible advice.
I think you guys are kind on the forefront though. I don't know of any rationalist
people that have teenagers yet, at least not in the, in the
rational circles I'm familiar with. Yeah, I don't either.
It's still kind of a young community for that, I guess.
Yeah. All right. We, since we, this isn't entirely just about whether
have kids or not, we wanted to go on to actual rational or optimal parenting.
Oh, I had a quick, quick thing to throw at you guys really quick.
