I don't know, look at what happens at puberty, right?
Like few hormones and BAMO, everything changes.
All your priorities are upside down,
and things that seemed great are now stupid,
and things that seemed disgusting are now great.
And right, it kind of turns everything out,
so it's not that hard actually.
Well, it's interesting, this collective approach,
this is giving me a different perspective on thinking,
I kind of start from one of my philosophy professors made,
which is that sort of part of the essence of life
is a boundary between inside and outside,
and that every living thing maintains a boundary,
and of course, stuff moves across the boundary,
as we eat, for example, but it's still,
we know the difference between the hamburger we ate
and the one we didn't, it remains outside.
And that's long before the self,
but there is that boundary,
and then the brain presumably evolved within organisms
to take care of the whole self within that boundary.
Not only in space, but in time as well.
Space and time, yeah, well, most animals live pretty much
in the here and now, the integrating across time,
where there are brief expectancies for a few seconds
into the future and so on, but only humans really have
a full narrative sense of self.
Psychologists say that a lot,
that only humans really think about the future.
Does that check from your perspective, Mike,
that other animals are only really focused on the here and now?
No, I don't agree with that.
I mean, I think that, well, it is true
that we are the only ones that have a kind of
a metacognitive, like we know when we are thinking
about the future and so on, but even bacteria and yeast
can anticipate future life,
so memory and anticipation does not require a brain.
Most critters do it.
We've shown a kind of...
They anticipate events how far in the future though,
next year?
No, no, not next year.
So that's right.
So humans have a much bigger cognitive light home.
So that's part of it, is that we have a huge,
and in fact ours is special in another way
because ours is bigger than our lifespan.
So you've been probably a little bit more aware
so you've been probably uniquely, as far as I know,
we are capable of pursuing goals that are for sure longer
than our lifespan, in other words,
not personally attainable goals, right?
Most of these other creatures have much shorter term.
You know, for bacteria and yeast, it might be 20 minutes
or something like that.
That's good, that's good, yeah.
But it's there.
And I also think, you know, your point about the boundary
is really critical.
Yeah, establishing the boundary between self
and outside world is absolutely critical.
I think it happens long before we have a brain,
both evolutionarily and developmentally, right?
Absolutely, yes, yeah, plants clearly.
I mean, you can dig up a plant and wash off the dirt
and move just the plant and nothing else.
So there's the unity there,
but the brain improves your ability to operate that way.
So if we look at the collection of cells as a collective,
they are somehow learning to act or evolving to act
as if they are a unity long before there's a brain.
Yeah, and even in, you know, at the very beginning
of human life, you can actually see,
and this is, yeah, I've done these experiments
in duck and so on, when you have this blastoderm
and you look and you say, ah, there's an embryo
that's going to develop into a human individual.
Well, what you can do is you can take a little needle
and make some scratches in that blastoderm
and for about four or five hours before they heal up again,
every island is going to basically decide
that it's on its own and is going to start making an embryo.
When they do heal, you have conjoined twins, triplets,
whatever, you know, from, so the number of individuals
in a blastoderm is not fixed.
It's not one.
It's anywhere from zero to probably half a dozen, right?
And then you get this interest.
So this like excitable medium just to sort of
generates individuals, right?
And then you get this interesting question
because when you got two embryos sitting next to each other,
the cells, every cell has some other cells neighbor.
And so now the question is, am I part of this embryo
or am I part of that embryo, right?
And sometimes they get confused
and this is why conjoined twins often have laterality defects
because left and right, they can't quite tell what side they're on.
But this issue of deciding, right?
Where do I end and the outside world begins
is like very fundamental.
Yes, it is.
Yeah.
I'm reminded that a baby girl who didn't cry very much,
but one day my wife heard her crying and she worked in
and she was lying there.
Her finger was poking herself in the eye.
Right.
She didn't know it was her own arm yet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's funny too because the plasticity of the body,
you know, if you've ever seen the rubber hand illusion,
you know, you see these videos on YouTube, right?
Where they put a rubber hand next to you
and you watch them pad it with a little brush and stuff
and then somebody takes a hammer and goes to hit it
and the people freak out
because now you think that it only takes 10 minutes to override.
I don't know how many millions of years as a tetrapod,
like your brain knows exactly how many limbs you've had,
but you can override that in just 10 minutes
of watching somebody, you know, pat this rubber hand
and suddenly it's your hand.
Yeah.
It doesn't take very long at all and that's great.
That plasticity, it's why people can have,
people do sensory and motor augmentation.
So crazy prosthetics, right?
You know, this monkey with the third arm that uses it
to eat marshmallows, you know, and humans,
they get prosthetic arms where the wrist goes,
you know, all the way around like your normal wrist doesn't.
They'll do that when they pick up a coffee cup.
They'll go the way that a normal hand would never go.
And so like that plasticity, you know, I think we have to,
embryos have to figure it out from scratch.
What do I have?
What do I, you know, what sensors do I have?
What effectors do I have?
Where's the, where, what do I have control over?
Where is the boundary?
So they all learn that or figure that out.
Yeah. And we can do stuff like in the lab,
we can do stuff like we can make,
we can make a tadpole where the eyes are on his tail
and no problem, they can see.
We can, we can do visual learning tasks at all,
you know, it all gets, it all gets sorted out.
I think it's, we have, we have many examples like this of just
really, oh, we make, we make these Xenobots,
which are frog skin that's given a new life
and it makes this little motile proto organism
that runs around on its own and does all kinds of things.
It's just skin.
Yeah, I think, I think it's because all of these questions
of what am I, what is my structure?
What space do I live in?
All of this gets solved from scratch when every time
it's not hardwired mostly.
There's some type of built in error correction, right?
Like if you put the eyes on the tail,
they slowly begin to migrate towards the head,
even if they don't make it to where they're supposed to.
Now the eyes on the tail don't move.
What, what happens is the eyes stay,
there are things that definitely correct.
So, so if you make, we make these so-called Picasso frogs,
which are all the, all the craniofacial organs are scrambled.
They do correct by the time they get to a frog,
they do correct, but you can also teach them new patterns.
So for example, when you cut a Xenobot,
it heals back to the, to its new Xenobot shape.
And if you have a salamander and you keep chopping off
the one limb after about five or six trials,
it gives up and it's not going to do it anymore.
It's done.
It learns that it's just not going to work.
And they're thinking about that type of self-correction
plus this computational Markov blanket idea of identity
and something like whatever the confidence intervals
or error bounds are.
So on one hand, when we're talking about identity,
you have this kind of almost post-modern,
it could be anything, right?
The boundaries are kind of arbitrary,
only to the extent they're functionally useful across time.
Are they going to be stable?
So the simplest version of this would be,
think about what's a Markov blanket
that can define the scope of the sun.
It can just be a sphere of arbitrary size.
And for the most part, we agree on the boundaries,
but you could keep extending it
and you're going to capture some residual solar flares.
Like you could extend it and define a sphere
that goes all the way out to Mars
and you're going to collect even more of that solar mass,
but it's kind of like a diminishing returns type thing.
