All right.
Can you guys see this thing?
This is, this is the work of postdoc,
a Narosha Murugan in my lab and what this is,
this yellow thing here is a piece of slime mold.
The slime mold, you're going to see it grow,
but the whole thing is one cell.
It really just has one, one, it's one big cell.
This is, is a glass, a very thin glass disc.
It's about five milligrams.
There's no food.
There's no, it's just glass, inner glass.
This is three glass discs.
Okay.
So here's the time lapse.
And so what happens is for the first few hours,
what the slime mold is, is, is grow,
it's growing in all directions, right?
But what it's also doing this during this time,
which you can't see is it's gently tugging on the medium
and reading back the vibrations that it gets from pulling.
It's sitting on a, on a soft agar and it's pulling on the soft agar.
And by this, by a right around by this time,
it's made up its mind about where the bigger mass is.
And how do we know?
Because boom.
Yeah.
And this is reliable.
What it will always do is, but not, not quite always,
but most of the time what it'll do is it'll go to the bigger mass.
We don't know why it likes a bigger mass.
Who knows.
But what it's able to do and the coolest part to me,
the coolest part is, is right here because at this point,
it's already integrated the information about its environment.
It already knows where the bigger masses,
but hasn't done anything yet.
Right.
Up until now, this is all from here.
This is the first, you know, 600 minutes or so. This is all,
this is all pondering time right here.
This is where it's collecting that information.
And, and the whole thing is one cell and it's collecting this
biophysical sort of feedback from its environment.
And then bang at this point, it's, you know, right, right.
Like here, 795, it's still sort of,
it could go in any direction, but boom,
that's it at this point, it's made.
Right.
Very nice.
Yeah.
The whole thing is, the whole thing is one, you know, one cell.
We have tons of, we have tons of experiments looking,
just, you can test it. Oh, and, and other people like Audrey
Disautour has done training. You can train them.
It has memory. You can train it.
You can take a trained one and a naive one and fuse them.
They'll fuse together and then the memory sort of propagates and
the naive one will now remember, you know,
have the memory that, that the other one had.
No nerves. No, no brain.
Single cell.
Yeah.
Mike, we've talked a lot about zooming in down and back on the
evolutionary ladder. Like there's no obvious point at which
intelligence emerges and there's a nice elegance to pan psychism.
Like it's all always there and it's just on a continuum and maybe
there's some bare minimum unit of consciousness.
But if you scale it upwards again, past humans,
even past social networks, at the,
at the most extreme level, you would have, okay,
treat the entire universe as a single system.
You get this kind of pantheist,
cosmosyche mind of God in Spinoza's terms.
What do you think of that?
Yeah, I mean, I, well, first of all, I think though,
I think all of this is an empirical question.
In other words, I don't think we can assume in either direction.
I think you have to do experiments.
So when you, when you, when you have some sort of weird collective
and you want to know if it, in fact, you want to know what kind of
cognitive system it is, you can do experiments like we do with
everything else in behavioral science, you can give it stimuli,
you can see if it has memory, you can see what,
what the kind of attention keeping properties it has.
I don't know how you do experiments on the whole universe,
but for, but you could, for example, you know, I've had,
I've had, I've talked to physicists to try to like,
design a planetary scale synapse.
So you could do it, you could have a system where, you know,
there, there's a gravitational, gravitational system and you can
send objects through a stimuli and it will sort of permanently
change the way that would react to new objects in the future.
So, you know, basically synapses, you could imagine building a,
you know, a gigantic nervous system out of something like this.
I have no idea if we live in one or not.
But, but I think, you know, I think, I think it's not impossible.
And I think that we probably are not going to be able to,
I don't know, I'm sure there's some kind of girdle thing here about
not knowing for sure if that's what we live in.
I had a, I had a, I worked with this, with this amazing graphic
artist, Jeremy Gay, and I've asked them to make a little cartoon.
And it's, and it's a little, it's a, it's a cartoon of two neurons
in a brain and they're talking to each other and one neuron says,
we live in a, in a, in a cold mindless universe.
Nobody cares what we do.
We, you know, there's nothing out there.
And the other one, and the other neurons is, I don't know, you know,
every once in a while I get this idea that there's something,
there's, there's more here.
The universe is sort of, you know, it wants something from us that, you know,
there's got some kind of order to it.
And the first neurons like, ah, you're crazy.
There's nothing, there's no mind out there.
And, you know, they're both part of this big, big brain, right?
And so in that case, the second one is, is, is right, of course,
because they are in fact part of, you know, a larger scale individual.
So are we part of it?
I don't know. I think maybe it's possible. And again, this is maybe very,
maybe Roy can say something about this is,
is it possible for us to gain evidence that we are part of a collective that
has collective dynamics, like learning, like preferences, like attention.
I don't know. I was contacted by some guys who work on the,
the market, what did they call it, the market mind hypothesis or something.
But it's, yeah, it's some kind of, it's some kind of attempt to understand
economics using some tools of behavioral science.
I mean, I don't know, maybe, maybe, maybe some of these concepts like,
like training, like attention, like perceptual illusions, you know,
maybe, maybe they'll, they would work on these larger structures.
You know that ant colonies fall for the same visual illusions that
mammalian nervous systems do, not, not, not the individual ants, the colony.
So, so you can, you can do experiments.
They make the same perceptual mistakes as, as we do.
You can use like say many of the same illusions.
I don't know, maybe, maybe in economics, that thing holds too.
I'm still intrigued by the question.
I think it was Adam brought it up.
Is there something that it's like to be a country.
Yeah, let me find it.
Yeah.
Mike, is the paper you're referring to there?
Does it have the line in it?
What if we all held hands?
I, you know, I don't recall, but, but I will.
There's something, I think it was Ned block and it, it, it might have been in
what it's like to be a batter, a paper in that same space, but, you know, it was,
it was addressing arguments against the possibility of something like that.
And one argument is just like, it has to be physically connected.
So, so that was just like a, a joke.
What if we all held hands, but the, I think the more serious take on that is
something like there needs to be some physical medium for information exchange.
And, you know, back to this like cosmic neuron idea.
I think it's dangerous getting psychologists to comment on quantum physics,
but I'll take that leap there.
I mean, when you hear about things like entanglement where you have what seems
to be like genuine information exchange across large physical distances where
there's, there's no actual contact.
I don't know what to make of that, but then if I start thinking about it in more
of these like treat the universe or just some high level system as some computer
essentially that can transmit information almost like there's again this, this
planetary synapse going on.
I wonder if there's anything there.
Yeah, maybe my, I mean my understanding and I'm no physicist, but my understanding is
that you actually can't use entanglement to pass information faster than light.
It's that that's my understanding that you're not actually passing a signal back
and forth, you're not violating relativity.
But now, nevertheless, there is an interesting notion of synchronicity here.
So, so Pauli and young, right, you might have seen that wrote this book on on the
together on on synchronicity.
And it's this idea that patterns that look like anomalous information transfer at
lower scales are in fact perfectly reasonable cognitive kinds of things at a larger
scale that you're not aware of.
And that's something that I'm working through right now Richard Watson that I
working through some of this stuff right now so I don't know, but check out.
So I put a link on the on the chat.
So this is this is a paper I Eric Schwitz gable.
And it's called if materialism is true, the United States is probably conscious.
And it addresses exactly the the issue that you're talking about.
It's sort of basic basic philosophy.
I like Schwitz gable.
He's sympathetic to panpsychism as well.
I don't know him at all, but I thought I thought this was a pretty good is a pretty
good paper.
But I don't I don't know anything here really, but but the one thing I really
really feel strongly is that our intuitions for what kind of systems are
going to have an inner perspective are not calibrated.
Well, we have an end of one example.
I mean ourselves like we really just have no clue and and I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know about you.
But if somebody if I didn't know what was between my ears and somebody showed
me a brains that look this is this this this this thing is going to have an
inner perspective.
Why would you ever think that right.
I don't know. I don't think I mean the people have tried right so there's you
know it and some other things that try to put down some some constraints
around the kind of architectures that are going to have that metric.
But yeah, I think I think we're very brain focused and and I think that
blinds us to to a lot of things that.
Yeah, I don't know.
Blind brain focus, but it's hard to imagine the United States being
