conscious as a.
As a.
As a thing.
Hard to imagine, but but to look you know, are we good at imagining a lot of
things that are true?
I don't know.
And I also think right without without getting you know to to out there,
but I find it very difficult to imagine that in the whole universe, the only
way to be conscious is to have this kind of thing here, right?
Like that strikes me as a priori very improbable.
I would I sort of have this background.
Maybe it's too much Star Trek when I was a kid, but I have this background
expectation that though universe is a very weird place and that there are
going to be minds out there that don't look anything like us.
And if we're expecting to see a frontal cortex with this and that.
We're going to be, you know, badly disappointed.
I just.
I just can't imagine that this is the only way to do, you know, so you can
imagine, right?
I mean, this is a sci-fi has had this for for over a hundred years.
Like, you know, you're you're you're sitting there at home and this thing
lands on your front lawn and some kind of some kind of thing on wheels
trundles out and hands you this poem of like, you know, how happy it is to,
you know, to meet you.
So what are you going to do?
Are you going to assume that who knows what's in it?
And you're going to assume that that it's that it's somehow faking because
you can't find a single neuron in there.
That can't be right.
Yeah, that I don't know.
The idea that the corporation is like a person.
That was a deliberate invention, a cultural invention as a fiction.
Which facilitated trade.
It was a big advance.
And it's one of the reasons that the era of Islamic world fell behind,
even though it was historically ahead for a number of centuries.
But it but it's understood as a fiction.
You don't think the the partnership itself is conscious as a unity.
But it's the key was to protect the individuals involved from liability.
So if three Arabs want to get together to, you know, make an investment and
send out a ship for profit by trade, if it goes bad, their whole fortunes,
their house and everything is forfeit.
And so it made trade very risky.
But the Europeans invented the corporation.
And so if it fails, then assets belong to the corporation can be
accessed by the creditors.
But the homes and the personal savings of the individuals are not at risk.
But it's a it's a legal fiction.
And it's understood as such to say that the the corporation becomes
conscious as a as a unity seems a stretch to me.
But do you know that I mean, that's very interesting what you just said that
that this kind of the that the adoption of a of an agential perspective
makes makes certain relationships easier.
I think that's very interesting.
But you know, there are a lot of philosophers of mind who think that
human consciousness is fiction too.
Right. And basically, I think they would tell exactly the same story that
you just told around primates, you know, sitting around a fire at some point
where where it just basically this idea that we're going to we're going to
assume that each of us has an internal perspective that's like me is just
a lubricating fiction for being a band of cooperating individuals that
there actually is no such thing.
And that that's a pretty common probably the the majority, I guess, view
nowadays in philosophy of mind and then and that that that's exactly that
in fact, exactly that kind of fiction.
That's a fiction that makes it easier to be successful and to do things.
And then eventually it's a fiction that we we turn on ourselves right that
that basically after you tell stories about other agents doing things,
then you say, wait a minute, I'm an agent to I do things I have free will and
I'm a you know, I'm a person and that that that basically is just a user
illusion.
Yeah, you know, there are plenty of plenty of people who write books on
human consciousness where that's the conclusion that you're basically a user
illusion that provides for social lubrication.
I'm not familiar with that perspective, I guess.
I mean, I, you know, I don't want like, yeah, I could I could name a number
of books that would that.
It's a very mainstream. It's a very mainstream thing. I mean, it's it's
you know, I, I, I, yes, it's very hard to sort of internalize that view because
it basically says that you are a walking illusion in many ways.
But but that is I believe the kind of the mainstream perspective.
I read a bunch of things about the self being an illusion and so on and it's
none of them seems very convincing.
I noticed they all put their names on their books.
Yeah, well, that's that's true. And that and that's, you know, that gets back
to the to the issue. I think I think Adam mentioned free will at the
beginning, right? That's that's that's it. I had I had lunch with
with a philosopher once who didn't believe in free will and the waitress
came by and said, well, what do you have? And they and they said, well, let
me see. Are you going to choose a sandwich?
I'd like how come how come you don't sit back and see what the what the big
bang ordained, you know, for it gets impossible for us, right? It's not.
I've never met anybody who can actually, you know, so people say they don't
believe in free will, but I think it's a I think it's a false introspective
report. They don't act as though they don't. And so you would never
would you agree with that? I mean, you would never conclude actually from observing them
in fact, they don't believe it. Yeah.
Yeah, I think I was talking about Medsinger, the German philosopher who wrote
wrote some book or one of them about there's no free will and no moral
responsibility. So I'm going to ask him, OK, is this how you raise your sons? No,
no, no. Of course, you have to learn to behave by the rules.
In these mainstream reductionist views arguing against free will, I mean, I
don't disagree with their logic, but they seem to frame it as all or nothing.
So if you don't have, say, independence from this entire causal chain of the
universe, then there's none as opposed to taking more of this degrees of
freedom approach like Kevin Mitchell or Roy do or this cognitive light cone
approach that can be narrow or broad and give you more freedom. Why would that
even evolve? What would be the advantage of being able to act completely independent
of the environment? Everything else that serves no purpose.
What you want to do is spot multiple possibilities in the environment
and make advantageous decisions on that basis.
Well, that's right. I think a lot of these accounts are very
backwards looking. So it's all about explanations and pointing out that
well, look, there's this whole chain of chemistry going backwards that's
responsible of everything that happens. And that's fine. If you want to take the
micro reductionist perspective and you're content with looking
backwards at what's already happened, but that isn't what we're trying to do
here. I'm not interested in explanation. I'm
interested in invention. I want to know what next, what are you going to do next?
And that kind of framing where you're just looking back and thinking which
Adam, Ziggs and Zach to get you here are completely useless
as a frame for invention. You're not going to do anything new.
In fact, just a couple of days ago, I
had this blog post where I asked GPT
Ford to write a dialogue between
a hiring manager at a software company and a young applicant who
just read one of these books saying there's no free will. So he goes in there and they say,
so are you a good coder? He says, code? The computer
is a physical system. The electrons go where they go. What do you mean, code? There's no
room for this magical code that's going to make the electrons dance. They just, you know, the computer does what it does.
And that's exactly right. If your
perspective is that everything is going to happen
according to the Maxwell's equations where the electrons go, you're not going to code a damn thing.
And, you know, and then you're a terrible candidate for a job that requires
forward-looking creativity. You know, backwards is easy, forward
is where it's at.
You were in the final couple of minutes. Thank you, Michael, for
doing this and thank you, Adam, for setting it up. This has been
very stimulating, giving me a bunch to think about.
Yeah, thank you both. If you have time, I wanted to ask one more question. Mike, you brought up
union synchronicity and we haven't talked about any of this, Roy.
So I'm curious to hear your thoughts, but I'll add one more piece where some of what he says
is very compelling to me. And then on the other
hand, I have Steve Pinker as one of my advisors. So he looks at that
in like very cognitive, rationalist terms of, okay,
this is just one of many biases that we have where chance events occur
all the time. And most of the things that
have no meaning, you just completely dismiss. And then every now and then
it's like type one error, right? Now and then
you're going to get a false positive. And I go back and forth between
thinking, yeah, when these chance encounters happen that
hint at something connected, is that just
me imposing like my predictive processing onto the world? And it's really
just things happen all the time. So there's bound to be coincidences?
Yeah. I really liked Jung when I was young.
I read a whole bunch of his books. I even had plans to go to the Jung Institute
and learn that. And somebody kindly
talked me out of that.
He was certainly brilliant and operating in the
outside the normal range. And that's part of the appeal
to try these things. But the synchronicity
you have to postulate there's some higher
power integrating or organizing
things. It's a variation of that everything happens for a
reason argument. And
in terms of human evolution, a lot of things
happen for a reason. And that's how we learn to relate to each other.
So just looking at each other is like, oh, there's an animal doing something.
How does this affect me? But
I start to infer, well, the person is doing that for a reason
which we can infer. And so we learn to think in terms of
invisible causes behind things.
But the synchronicity
to take random coincidences and see a deeper meaning
is relative. But I guess I believe there's a lot of randomness
in the universe. So I'm not really a believer
in synchronicity as a thing. Now, some things do
happen for a reason. And there are, you know, you can explore coincidences
and some of them will not be coincidences, but a lot of
them are. Right. When it gets all mystical, it seems to fall
on its heels. But when I think about Mike's example of the
comic strip, neurons talking to each other, firing really
in accordance with a whole plan of a higher intelligence
that they can't perceive. And then thinking about how narrow our perception is
and just thinking, is it possible that there's some like large scale
computation that we're all part of? And thinking about, I don't know, this evolutionary
game theory or these sort of natural laws of
selection that are guiding in a certain way. And then other people
say, you know, it's not selecting for some end goal.
It's just selection just is and what survives just is.
Yeah, I think, you know, I think the question
of whether there's a larger pattern is an empirical question. So I
not going to claim an answer to that. But I do think that the concept of
synchronicity, and I've only recently started working on this. I don't have a mature
version of this idea, but I'll just spit this out that I think
the concept of synchronicity goes way beyond our human
tendency to notice patterns. I think that
a proper version of the concept of synchronicity would talk about
a multi scale pattern so that when you're looking at electrons in the computer,
you would say, isn't it amazing that these electrons went over here and those
