but collectively, regardless of what problem
you're working on, there's some generalized pool
of cognitive resources that you're pulling from,
and then over time, it can drain.
Well, we're starting when we talk about the red and so on,
that there is a central nervous system.
You're right that no one cell participates
in both the pressing the button
and the receiving the food reward,
but the brain manages both.
Yeah, but you've got the same problem
when you say the brain, there really isn't any brain, right?
There's a huge collection of cells,
and so for sure, the cells are connected via policies,
and so this is the electrical communication,
and the same thing happens in the rest of the body
that allow the collective to act as though
it was in possession of this associative memory,
but there isn't one of anything, right?
The whole thing is very much a collective,
and you need those policies to make sure
that the collective can know things
that the individual parts don't know.
The brain is particularly good at it,
but there are also creatures that are brainless
that can do it.
There are examples like this in the other body parts.
I mean, it's not just, but yes, of course,
the brain is part of the mechanism of this collective, yeah.
I had a book on the cell last year,
and then it struck me it's the creation of unity.
Usually, the brain uses to process systems
and use that to direct the actions of the body.
The walking would be an obvious one,
that an animal with four legs, the brain has to kind of
understand left and right, front and back,
and coordinate them to move in alternating fashion,
to move forward versus to plant, so the brain gets
the whole body to operate as an integrated system
by sending out separate commands to the separate limbs
based on this integrative system that
organizes the whole thing.
So that is the emergent organization,
of course, it's very adaptive too.
Yeah, I mean, well, a couple of things.
One is, so we study a lot of things that don't have brains,
and so slime molds and the single cell organisms,
and tissues and everything else.
I mean, they all do this stuff, but again,
and again, they're all made of parts, as is the brain,
where it's made of, I mean, they're really,
it's very, once you start thinking about
what a truly centralized controller even means,
it's really hard because everything's made of parts,
right, and it's, I've got this slide where,
that I sometimes show in my talk,
you know, Descartes was really into the pineal gland
because it was, it's the only unitary thing
in the head, right, and he felt that, you know,
our unified experience as humans should have a single,
you know, should have a single locus in the brain.
But if he had had a microscope,
he would have looked in there and said,
my God, there's not one of anything,
this thing's full of cells, right, and still, right,
the hard problem remains is, you know,
understanding how you're going to bind all these things
into a coherent self.
And so, yeah, so I've got this model,
what part, because we deal with cells and tissues
and synthetic organisms, I mean,
we make synthetic life forms and so on.
And we deal with all this kind of stuff.
I've been trying for a framework
that is kind of agnostic about the medium.
So what do all decision-making agents have in common
that need to act in physiological space, right,
in anatomical space and physical space
and financial space, linguistic space, whatever.
Yeah, and so we've been working on this notion
of a cognitive light cone,
which is just the size of the goals
that you're able to work towards.
And then the different, then of course,
there's different competencies in reaching those goals.
But so, yeah, I'm really interested in that,
the social question, because oftentimes,
one of the tricks that we use is,
we try to take things from behavioral science,
tools from behavioral science,
and apply them to things that aren't animals with brains.
So we've shown, for example,
that you can do, you know, sensitization,
associative learning, habituation,
or anticipation, all these things,
you can do them in,
the gene regulatory networks already do this, right?
So molecular pathways already do this stuff.
And so I wonder, and so then people will say,
like, well, that's, you know,
since you're stretching the cognitive spectrum
all the way down, you know,
next, you're gonna say that the weather is intelligent.
And they say, well, I don't know, have we tried training it?
Like, I have no idea, but it's an,
to me, it's an empirical question.
You can't just sort of sit back and make assumptions,
right, Jeff?
So I just wonder, I wonder if the social structures,
if they're amenable to some of the same techniques
that we use in behavior science to probe collectives,
because that's what it is, right?
When you ask if something can do habituation,
or association, or planning, or whatever,
you're probing the competencies of a collective.
And I think we could,
I assume we could probably test that,
but I don't know, right?
I mean, you wouldn't, maybe you know,
if anybody's tried that in social, social circumstances.
I don't, I don't.
We've been talking to Roy a bit about active inference
in these entropy-based predictive processing theories
of consciousness.
We've been talking about it in the context of drive
for exploratory play, sensation seeking,
reward sensitivity, and boredom.
But I'm wondering if that generalizes more
as this underlying, say, computational mechanism
you're talking about that connects between,
whether it's human cognition,
or more basic animal cognition,
or even these higher-order organizational systems,
social systems.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, we study a variety of connection policies,
and one of the, let's see if this rings a bell at all.
One of the policies is a kind of memory wipe.
So if I have two cells sitting next to each other,
there's a very, so if this cell sends a signal,
you know, some chemical signal and goes out
and it hits the cell, that way of communicating,
it's very easy for this cell to know
that that signal came from outside.
That's not my information,
that's somebody else's information.
And so you can choose to believe it,
or ignore it, or whatever.
But there's this magical thing in bioelectricity,
which is there are these electrical synapses
called gap junctions,
and what they do is they connect directly
the internal miliars from one cell to the next.
And so what happens then is that's very different,
because what happens then is if something happens to cell A,
and there's a memory trace of it,
let's say a calcium spike,
or something that's a memory trace of that event,
it propagates directly into cell B,
and it doesn't have any metadata on it that says,
hey, I'm coming from someplace else.
Cell B sees this calcium spike and says,
oh, we've been poked, right?
And so now when you're sharing memories,
if you and I are sharing most of our memories,
it's really hard to keep independent identities.
We start to sort of have this mind meld where,
and now we're bigger,
so we have some bigger computational capacity,
we're physically bigger,
but also we have a joint memory,
and we also are bound to cooperate,
because we can't even physically entertain the thought
of defecting against each other,
because we're sharing the same thought,
and we are the same informationally,
we're the same being to some extent.
So that memory wiping property is one thing
that I think really facilitates this joining into collectives.
Another one is shared stress,
this idea that if one cell is under stress,
what it might do is export some stress molecules
to its neighbors, which then also feel stressed,
they don't know that this is somebody else's stress,
and so my problem becomes their problem.
And so now if I need to get somewhere in there in my way,
now everything sort of gets a little plastic
because they're jiggling around,
because they're not happy either,
whereas otherwise they would have sat there
and not let me pass.
So like the sharing of this globalization of stress,
and there's some other stuff too,
but I don't know, does any of that sound relevant?
It starts to look like pheromones,
and then you get into my world of hormones and development.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Somebody said recently, it's funny,
somebody said to me recently,
boy, it's really hard to change your mind
and your priorities, and they said,
