So there must be this some optimum point
if you define a function that say on one hand,
you want to maximize the amount of sun you're capturing,
but on the other hand, you want to minimize the amount
of like false positive or empty space.
So you're trying to optimize across those two variables.
And then I'm wondering at the level of the boundaries
of organism, if you have something like that too
where you can have all these philosophical questions
of am I still me if I take away one skin cell?
Yes, or even a hair like,
but you keep removing cell by cell.
Eventually there will be no more of you left.
So it must be something like you do have boundaries,
but they're fuzzy boundaries
and there's something like these confidence interval bands
of how much can you remove before you actually no longer
have the thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think that's that's super interesting.
And I think there's a couple of things that feed into this.
One is that people, so I was just reading about this,
the cool example where, you know, blind site
where someone doesn't think they can see,
but in fact, if you ask them to guess what's in front of them,
they guess correctly.
And so they in fact can see,
they just don't know they can see.
There's the original patient that was studied for this
would say that that's not part of him.
It's that vision.
It's something else.
It's something something extra.
You know, he didn't think that was part of him
because he didn't have a direct perception of even though
it was part of a successful part of his behavioral repertoire.
It wasn't something that he had conscious access to
and he didn't feel that was part of the self.
So that's that's asking, but we also have to keep in mind
that's asking his left hemisphere,
presumably the one with speech, right?
Because there's actually another hemisphere in there
that you don't normally hear from.
And there are a whole bunch of other stuff in there
that we don't know how to talk to yet, right?
Other other organs and so on
that might have their own boundaries in different spaces.
And that's also on a practical level.
That's also what we deal with when we work on cancer.
So when we work on cancer,
what you see is that when when individual cells electrically
disconnect from the rest of the body,
they they're cognitive like on shrinks.
They're back to their amoeba, tiny little amoeba goals.
And as far as they're concerned,
the rest of the body is just environment to them, right?
And similarly, when we when we make these Xenobots,
you know, you start with a frog embryo,
you dissociate it into individual cells.
The cells are all alive and you take some of them
and you make this Xenobot, but the but the the the embryo
is gone, right?
The tadpole is gone.
And so where did it go?
And right, because the cells are all alive
and it's exactly what you just said.
You know, you could sort of take one after the other
and then and then eventually you have something else.
You have a collect, you have a bunch of loose cells
or you have a you can make a Xenobot or something,
but the individual is gone.
So yeah, these boundaries are fuzzy indeed.
And then and then in fact, I mean, that's the other the the
end the end point of the story then is that you can actually
go backwards and you can force these.
And this is a this is a cancer approach that we work on,
which is to not to kill those cells,
but to force them to re reconnect to their neighbors.
And when they reconnect to the neighbors,
they once again become part of the collective
that's working on making nice skin, nice muscle.
They stop being metastatic and they they go back to.
Wow.
Yeah.
And yeah, we've done it in frog.
It works great in frog.
We're now moving into, you know, human cells,
but but but it's a different right.
It's a different way of thinking about it
because you you you take advantage of that memory wipe.
You know, they forget about their little local goals
and they start working on whatever the collective goal was.
You know, by the way, I was good.
How far does the cognitive light cone extend?
Because when you when you talk about say humans
are the pinnacle of that like our subjective experience
of being one and then you can go narrower in all of the sub
levels, you know, down to the cellular level within humans
and all of those are narrower versions of that light cone.
But when you expand across humans,
it seems like there's not only a jump to me
and to you and to different selves,
but there's not the same like connecting continuum
with it.
So because on one hand,
I am tempted to say you can look at broad scale social
organization or like network dynamics as an even larger
portion of that light cone,
but it doesn't seem to have the same continuity.
Well, I don't you mean it doesn't like first person continuity.
Like it doesn't like you think it doesn't it isn't like anything
to be that social agent.
Right.
And and we we both are I think sympathetic to panpsychism.
So saying even if we only have conscious access to what it's
like to be us at this higher level,
like it's there's it's possible that there's something that
it's like to be a cell,
but I'm not sure it's possible that there's something that
there's something it's like to be say a country.
There's actually a really good paper about that,
which I will I'll look up in a minute and I'll try to put
on the chat that actually talks about the kind of the the
philosophy of that.
So I sorry.
Sorry.
What is it like to be a bat?
No, no, there's another one that's I'll I'll that's a there's
a different one.
I'll find it.
Okay.
But you know, I don't know.
I think that I think that if we didn't know any cell biology
or neuroscience and somebody said to us,
did you know that here's what I think I think I could take three
and a half pounds of these these little electrically excitable
things and smush them together in this process where the whole
thing kind of folds on itself for for nine months and whatnot.
Did you know that that's going to give rise to an internal
perspective of you know, a human, I would say hell no that
that doesn't sound that doesn't sound plausible at all.
I think we have we have no idea what what kinds of things give
rise to those kind of first person perspectives.
I don't think that necessarily just because you're bigger in
scale, I don't think that necessarily your light cone is
bigger.
So I wouldn't make the claim that necessarily groups of people
have a bigger cognitive capacity than individual people.
In fact, I don't know.
You could you could say what you think about the intelligence
of groups versus versus versus single individuals.
But I don't think there's any reason why it has to be bigger.
But I also don't see.
Yeah, we don't are intuitions, I think for for what is
sufficient to have that that that that inner perspective, I
think are really badly calibrated.
I don't think we have a clue.
I'd be inclined to think you'd need a brain and central nervous
system to have a to have conscious experience.
I mean, that's fine, except that the brain and nervous system
show up very slowly.
So that both both evolutionarily and developmentally.
So that means that we need some sort of a story about when
does it kick in?
And I've never heard a good story about that.
Yeah.
I'm not speculated that the first conscious experience would be
pain that would be adaptive.
And there was a signal that the tissue is being damaged.
That's perfectly reasonable.
And that would be the disruption of a cell membrane in a
microbe because that depolarization that neurons have
when you when you trigger them, which presumably they don't
like and so on.
That is as old as the hills.
That's that's that's pre multicellularity.
Never mind neurons.
And but I agree with you.
Yeah, that that kind of basic that kind of basic basic damage
and that physiological that that delta from from physiological
homeostasis is the origin of it.
But it's really old, you know.
Yeah, good.
Well, to get things.
This is sort of the other side of your example of the rat.
No cell experiencing both the biopress and the food reward.
But with pain, you step on.
Step on, I don't know, fire ants and the brain says,
ouch, and you know, grab onto something and pull yourself away.
That would be the same thing.
It's a whole body response.
And you know, perhaps you could find example of which no,
one cell is involved in both the input and the output,
the input being the signal of pain and the output being the,
the motor movements to escape it.
Yeah.
Want to see something fun?
I'll show you a, show you a quick, a quick video.
Hang on a second.
Yeah, this is cool.
