But you guys think I don't.
OK.
Cool.
All right.
Got it.
So shall we start?
Maybe I could introduce what I think we have as common ground.
So Roy, Mike is a biologist.
He does very technical work on bioelectricity
and how cells intelligently communicate and self-organize
into complex systems.
And Mike Roy is social psychologist, one
of the world's most famous social psychologists.
So he's written on basically everything.
But most notably, in my mind, he's
got a book on self-control or a book on what
is the nature of the self.
And recently, another book on free will, which you and I
have talked a lot about.
And I see myself somewhere in the middle between you two
doing developmental cognitive neuroscience.
And I think we all have in common these shared
philosophical interests in the self and self-control,
self-organization, and what are the biological evolutionary
mechanisms behind all that.
Cool.
Well, self-organization, I think, is
one of the deep mysteries of the universe,
or one of the most important things by which we get
from electrons floating around in the ether
to the global economy.
Yeah, and people actually, so this is great.
I'd love to hear your take on a few things,
because people ask me all the time,
so I study the journey that we take.
We start life as a single cell, this unfertilized oocyte.
And then you get to be an embryonic blastoderm, which
is this flat disk of, I don't know, 50,000 cells.
And we look at that and we say, that's one embryo.
Well, what are we counting when that's one embryo?
What's going on?
And so I study this slow process of this emergent self
where all the cells are committed to the same goal
and anatomical space and the collective intelligence
of these cells and dealing with novel problems
they haven't seen before and things like that.
And people often ask me, they see this stuff and they ask,
well, what are the implications for social structures?
Can we scale that up?
Because I often talk about scale-free dynamics
that you get in molecular network cells, organs, and so on.
And people naturally will say, what are the implications
for social structure?
So yeah, I'd love to hear your take on the social self,
how much of this collective intelligence stuff
you think is, in fact, multi-scale,
that you can talk about these things,
meaningfully at a higher level.
Yeah, I'd love to hear that.
Well, there's the common process of, again, self-organization
of things lending themselves or taking on parts
of larger systems.
I don't know that the one by which cells become,
single cells become embryos and embryos become babies,
I guess, would be the same as by which people
merge into groups and groups, merge into nations,
and, like I said, nations merge into the global economy.
It's just that, I guess, with the global economy,
they discover advantages.
So globalization is coming whether we like it or not
because it makes the system work better
and ultimately creates more resources
which filters down to individuals benefiting.
If it filters all the way down to the embryos,
I don't know that embryos work any better
because of multinational corporations
or international trade, but maybe they do.
But still, there is the common practice
of moving up toward greater systems.
Yeah, I mean, what we see is that there are certain basic
principles by which these things connect
that allow them to do two interesting things,
that allows them to scale up the goals
that they're able to pursue.
So single cells pursue little tiny local goals,
but cell groups can pursue very large goals
like making limbs.
When I say pursue goals, I don't mean emergent complexity.
I don't mean this open-loop.
Where there are a bunch of simple rules,
they all follow these rules and complex things come out.
I don't mean that.
I mean, beyond that, there's a second-order situation
where what you get is actually a system
that is able to specifically pursue certain goal states.
And if you try to deviate it,
we'll find ways to actually quite clever ways to get there.
And the scale of those goals gets bigger and bigger,
but also in other problem spaces.
So cells, straight lines,
problem spaces.
So cells start off solving problems
in physiological state space,
in gene expression space, and so on.
But embryos, groups of embryos solve problems
in anatomical space.
And then of course, animals with nervous systems
will also solve problems in three-dimensional space
and move around,
and then eventually linguistic space, and so on.
So, yeah.
So, I mean, what are some of the principles
that you think underlie the scaling in your area
when you go from individual people upwards?
What are the kind of,
what are the policies that underlie all that?
Yeah, all right.
I was gonna ask you what are the principles
at the cellular level.
Okay, I mean, there's the obvious point.
If any of us was punked down in the jungle alone,
we'd have a hard time surviving
let alone reproducing or making a comfortable life.
So, there are advantages to the individual person
to being part of a group.
There's safety in numbers, I guess.
Basic communication in the simple herds.
Humans do a lot more with shared information
and division of labor and things like that.
Division of labor improves what the economists
call the efficiency of a system
so that the same amount of work by the same amount of people
can produce more resources.
I would say like, if I had to,
yeah, I'm a professor,
if I had to catch my own food from nature
and build my own shelter,
there'd be an sorry condition, I don't have those skills.
But with division of labor,
everything is done by an expert, a specialist.
And so things get done better.
And then their economies of scale,
which is why the large corporations
can basically out-compete the small ones.
So, again, the same amount of effort work,
the same amount of energy expenditure
produces more resources
in the larger complex system.
Now, is that true at the more basic level also?
Yeah, so far, that all tracks pretty exactly.
You know, I also wonder,
so there's this other phenomenon
that you can call something like a cognitive glue
where imagine you've got this rat
and you train it to push a lever and get a reward, right?
Well, so it forms this associative memory
that pushing the lever is associated with getting a reward,
but there's no individual cell in that rat
had both experiences.
So the cells at the bottom of the foot touched the lever,
the cells in the gut get the reward,
but no individual cell had that experience of both.
Right, yeah.
Right, and so the memory,
that associative memory is owned by the rat.
Well, what's this rat?
This rat means a bag of cells,
but it has a mechanism for doing credit assignment
and memory of things that belong to the collective
and not to any of the individual cells, right?
That's one of the cool things
about being an emergent individual
is that you get to have memories
that none of your parts have.
So I'm curious as to, okay,
and so what that means is that you become trainable
as a collective.
So you can train the collective on things
that no individual in that collective actually knows,
but the collective knows.
So I'm curious if you think that societies,
corporations, whatever, you pick the level,
whether those are trainable.
We did a project once trying to train an ant colony,
not the individual ants, the colony, right?
The collective intelligence of the colony.
And we didn't get to finish it,
it's sort of inconclusive,
but I wonder if anybody's done those experiments
and I wonder what you think prediction would be,
whether collections of humans, not the individuals,
but the group is actually trainable.
I wonder if this connects to Roy's idea of ego depletion,
where he's shown that across a wide variety of tasks,
it's almost like people have this finite pool
of cognitive resources or of effort,
and if there could be some sort of computational
mechanism underlying that,
where say any of your individual neurons,
it's not like they get tired,
