went over there. But together, that's an AND gate. And by the way, that's
part of this other calculation, like amazing down below all they're doing is
following Maxwell's equations, but looked at it at another level. Wow, they just
computed the weather in Chicago. So I think
it's not about, well, I was going to say it's not
about us and our human tendency to
pick out patterns and things. But actually, I do think it's that too, because
if synchronicity is simply how things look at other
scales, of course, we're going to get good at it. And of course, we're also going to make mistakes.
We're not going to be perfect at it. We're going to be looking for these kinds of things. And sometimes we're going to
overdo it. But that's not to say that there are mundane
explanation, things that look random and
physical and deterministic at one scale.
You're missing a lot if you don't know if there
is a different scale of observation. And it's like,
yeah, you could study your computer using Maxwell's equations,
but you're really better off if you know what a high level programming language is.
And that is total mysticism from the perspective of the electrons.
This idea that there's this giant algorithm that's determining
where we go. It's mystical nonsense. Except that if you don't buy into that,
you're not going to code much. We would still be in the 50s
as far as information technology if we didn't buy into that particular brand of
mysticism. So I feel like there's definitely a revolution
along those lines coming for biomedicine.
And this is our obsession with the biological hardware and with the molecules
instead of the expectations, the memories, the preferences
of our collective cells and so on.
I'm betting a lot of our lab work on that. That's all got to change.
But maybe it goes higher than that. I don't know.
But anyway, yeah, again, same.
Thank you so much for putting us together. A real pleasure.
Please send over if you don't mind. If you have anything
that's relevant to this from your work that I should read, definitely send it over. I'd love to.
All right.
Okay, well, thanks again.
Thanks, Adam. This was super interesting. Thank you both.
Appreciate it. Thanks, guys. Bye. See you later.
