is the core issue. I mean, even getting down to neuroscience is the brain enables movement,
moving topics around, moving pieces, moving music, moving people, movement, movement, movement,
dance, movement, choreography, movement, movement, how you use harmony, how you use writing, how you
use words, all of these things work towards that same thing, movement. Einstein said when asked
about the universe, when asked about God, something's moving. There's something moving.
So, and yet he froze it in space time. The whole concept of space time freezes the wave.
And so, there's something profound about the fact that his insight arguably got rid of movement
by putting time as part of the substrate. So, you know, and this is going to come up when
we talk about cubism, where you have been on this new project, which is, again, once again,
seemingly increasing the dimensionality of independence, like parts, no longer just two
parts of your hands being independent, like multiple parts of the same hand are now independent.
And that goes back to like Duchamp, with the nude descending a staircase, which was
something of a reference to space and time, where the tube of the nude,
like one human form creates a tube over time. Do you see that you're playing with
sort of concepts that are coming out of this science inspired exploration and the tension
even internal to somebody like Einstein? Is it movement or is it frozen?
I'm quite inspired by neuro anatomy. And I'm quite inspired by physics. A good buddy of mine is
far more articulate about math and physics than I am. He's, you know, a big
devotee of that stuff. And he's a musician, his name's Marcus Miller, not the bass player,
he's a saxophone player. But he's really interesting. And so he and I, you know,
talk about stuff like that. I tend more towards the neuro analytical side of things. So I'm
very interested in the homonculus. I'm interested in the hippocampus and the corpus
corpus callosum and how the different hemispheres of the brain enable movement,
which plays directly into my coordination. So I explore those kinds of spaces. I explore how
we perceive time less so than the actual substrate of time itself. And, you know,
although I do ponder those things, I am very concerned with what's going on under the hood,
you know, what's going on in the mind. I like to analyze transcripts of conversations between
someone who has dementia versus someone who has Alzheimer's and listen to them talk to each other.
How to understand each other, because to me, that's the same as like two pieces of music
being played at the same time, you know, because when something makes no sense at the
language level, or it's incoherent, the only way that we have to try to glean anything from it
is by analyzing it from a different perspective. So if I analyze it as music,
like the rhythm of my voice, you see what I'm saying? These are the kinds of
techniques and manners and methods of analysis that start to come into how I go about
assessing genius, pursuing genius, and pursuing challenges and pursuing fluidity
at what I do. And so getting back to that question of Miles Davis and Kenny G, again,
we're starting to get into topics that form a substrate of analysis. All these topics are the
components of a platform of analysis through which I ponder the event horizon of music and
musicians. So like Lex Luthor said to Otis and Superman, you know, there's some people who can
swerve, some people can look at the contents of a bubblegum wrapper and figure out the secrets of
the universe, you know what I'm saying? So that's the thing. So if we want to pejoratively call
Kenny G a bubblegum wrapper, but yet, actually, I know you didn't, I'm not accusing you of that.
I'm just saying, but so many people normally do. This is why I'm, the reason I chose
folks at home, the reason I chose Kenny G was that he was accessible. I agree, just like bubblegum.
Bubblegum is, people would argue, people would argue, right, that his music is bubblegum compared
to a filet mignon or a few. Well, where I was going next with that is, is that if I think about
two records of Miles, Bitches Brew versus Kind of Blue. Sure. Bitches Brew was pretty challenging,
even though it was trying to be a little bit more in the rock idiom. Kind of blue, despite the fact
that it is unbelievable musicianship, was inviting. And it became so iconic because it worked at so
many different levels. It didn't intrinsically tell me, you know, bug off kid, this is for experts
only. It said, this is the highest level of musicianship, and it's going to work in a way
that you can put it on without having to, you know, just break your head over. When I think
about Art Tatum, when I used to put the needle onto my vinyl Art Tatum albums, I would only do it if
I was in some place to receive the brilliance of this person that I could not possibly understand.
He was playing so fast and so technically at such a different level. I mean, I would, would,
would it be fair to say that many pianists consider Art Tatum, you know, at the absolute,
maybe even the top guy ever to play jazz piano? Sure. Many would, and then there would be those
claims that it's not that musical. You know, go contrary to that. And yeah, that's okay. But just
some people at home have never heard of Art Tatum at all. At another level,
there's different times for different things and different moods to every season, too. Yeah. Right.
You know, there's situations where Art Tatum's best would be inappropriate or counterproductive to
very few circumstances in my life. Do I think, wow, I really just want to hear some Art Tatum.
The only situation I'm in when I really feel that for myself, and again, not as a musician,
is when I want to remember what the human mind is capable of. And this is the great conundrum.
This is the great paradox, because as we were saying, someone could hear Kenny G's silhouette,
for instance, and experience profound tranquility and serendipity. They could listen to Yanni
and get that. There's people, if you go to YouTube, you can look in a comment and someone
would say, oh, he's the Mozart of our generation, something like that. So
incredulity is, I'm sure, of course, you've heard of it, the fallacy of the incredulity fallacy,
where just because it's impossible for you to find believable makes it untrue. So similarly,
there's only a certain threshold that classifying or dissecting
validity or worth can go. And let me put it to you this way. There's a story about Charlie Parker,
where he was at a club and he was listening to a guy play that was, to everyone else's opinion,
really weak. But Charlie Parker was really into checking it out. And he was able to hear things
inside of what that guy was doing or what that guy was going for that gave him ideas. And I think
when I was first starting out with rock jazz, that was something that I experienced in a different
kind of way, where when I first started hearing some of these young bands, and I would hear some
of their live shows on the internet at that time on YouTube, I would think to myself, man, this
doesn't really sound that great, but the people are loving it. And so then that caused me to
have a different thought process about, hmm, maybe there's other aspects that are in play that
connect to people's enjoyment of things. And so it really called some things into question.
It really caused me to think about things from multiple perspectives and basically threw me
into the ocean suddenly. It's just like what we see in politics, where you can feel really strongly
about a particular thing, then you can find out that there's others that feel even potentially for
the exact same reasons that you feel strongly about a thing. For those exact same reasons,
they feel the exact opposite thing. And it can be very a very incredulous sort of kind of situation.
Well, I bring up this example of Dolly Parton writing this brilliant song, Jolene. And if you
look at the lyrics, they're incredibly tight and economical and conveying so much more through
implication than they even state explicitly. Jack White heard the song recorded with the White
Stripes, turned it into a pre-murder ballad singing the female song in a male voice. And Dolly
Parton, I believe, wrote him a letter saying, you may understand something about guitar,
but you understand nothing about women. But I think the joke was on her that she'd written
such a brilliant song that she didn't realize that it was now approachable from a completely
different angle that she hadn't had the last word on her own song. So there are all of these weird...
And that reminds me of the difference between Newtonian physics and model versus Einstein's
physics and models and the quantum theory and things of that nature, how I might be
misstating this, correct me if I'm wrong, that classical physics start to break down at the
quantum level per se? You would say that classical physics is recoverable from the deeper model,
but only as an approximation to the true physics within a regime. But nobody has thrown away
Newtonian physics because of Einstein, because where it works, you don't need the extra Einsteinian
perspective. Now, that was an amazing statement. Did you trap me in something? No, you just said
something cool though. You just said something that blows the whole thing open very nicely.
Tell me. Well, we don't need necessarily X. We don't need to discard X in this location,
or we don't necessarily need to bring in Y to this location. So we can substitute
art tatum for Rachmaninoff. We can algebraically plug in Kenny G. Miles. We can plug in
whichever artists or things that we want to in a thing and have that same exact dichotomy of
this works in this particular space. Eric, I totally... You see where I'm going with that?
So similarly, let's just say people want to have a romantic evening. But Eric, look,
there is an aspect of this that I'm fighting, which you're making a very deep point that whatever
moves you, whether it's the way the performer looks or the feel of the evening, there is the
total effect on the audience and the listener from having been present at a performance.
There is also something which I can't get to escape, which is you're just at a different level
than just about anybody I ever meet. And we can play around with that. And I play a little bit of
piano. I know when I'm in the presence of greatness, and you are at a different level than almost
anybody I've ever met. And you don't have to say anything back, but it's an uncomfortable thing
to hear. We can talk about the fact that who knows, maybe Taylor Swift is as musically interesting
as Miles Davis. It's a reasonable... That's not what I'm saying. That's not what I'm saying.
Let's look at it from a different perspective, please. Another perspective. Let's look at it
from a DJ perspective. All right. What is a DJ's job? A DJ's job, one of the jobs of a DJ is to
curate and present music for people for a particular occasion to elicit either a certain
response or to provide an atmosphere that the venue or the client is interested in.
Now, if we take that down to a microcosmic level inside of our own head, take it to the
piano, for instance, take it to these instrumental scenarios. Each note that I decide to play in
that nanosecond and that microsecond, I decide to play it, that's the same as me DJing. That note
is a track. Now, imagine how many notes that you would hear in the average performance, and then
in my case, I'm going to play a zillion notes. So then that's a zillion tracks that I've dropped
in a particular moment or a particular session. So I'm trying to get into how mental processes
are uniform, whether it's at a hyper slow speed or a hyper fast speed, the same process is there.
So this conversation that we're having might seem nebulous or maybe even evasive on my part
or vague in my part or noncommittal or something like that. No, I should tell people that in
general, when you and I talk, what I get is a time release understanding of your points over the
next three or four days as they finally make sense to me. So I'm going to challenge my audience. I
told them at the beginning of this show that I would never spoon feed them. You are a more
challenging person to talk to because quite frankly, your perspective is just richer and you
speak in an unusual fashion. And I quite frankly, it takes me days to understand what conversation
we just had usually. Well, I appreciate the accolades and I love you too, Eric. And I really
love you. I just admire what you've done for us. And I'm going to blow people's mind by just letting
you be you. But it is important to know that these levels of being exist. And that's part of why the
show is called the portal is that you are in touch with something that most people have no ideas
even available. Well, I will say that I do find inspiration having recovered from heavy depression
and heavy panic attacks, even sort of debilitating ones that it's inspiring for me to try to share
perspectives that hopefully some people could use to get a different angle on their sufferings, say.
Like when I talk about some of these things or when I answer your questions a certain sort of
type of way, some of these techniques, some of these ways that I'm managing myself
also help me manage stress, help me manage depression, help me manage panic attacks.
And you've had anger. I've seen anger. And you certainly have anger control,
things of that nature, fury, rage. And it also helps me get a higher chess rating too.
Because well, think about the godfather for a moment. Remember how
the James Kahn character Sonny ran out the house because Carlo was being super aggressive to his
sister. But then the bad guys realized, oh, that's the way to get him out there because he'll jump on
that. And so then they manipulate the toll booth. Yeah, they manipulated his anger. They manipulated
one aspect that was predictable about him. And they manipulated that to get out there. So
similarly, I think within ourselves, there are certain weak spots or different things that
can manipulate us, whether we want to or not, into bad situations or, you know,
whether it's a micro bad situation or macro bad situation. And so it's important to develop
techniques to manage those kinds of things, ergo, box, well tempered clavier. So I always
wondered why, because as growing up as a kid, I was like, why is it called well tempered? What
does that mean? I only know one kind of temper. Well, anyway, all of these particular devices
and techniques and responses all played to trying to find the most accurate answer and, you know,
find the most accurate way to approach a situation. And that's a very musical thing. How do we
approach this? We see it in chess too. How do we approach this position? It's your move. You've got
to make a move clock ticking. How do we approach this? You can see it in screenwriting. Okay,
I've got this idea. I want to have this character save the world. How do we approach this? Okay,
I'm at the piano. The people are waiting for the next tune. Okay, I've got this idea. I'm playing
something with my left hand. And I've got this idea that I want to bring out. I've got this energy
that I'm feeling. I've got this inspiration. But how do I approach it? How do I bring this thing
into existence, existential reality, aesthetic reality? How do I do this? Intentions oftentimes
are not enough. You have to match up with execution. That's when we start to get into
the conversation of levels. Now, again, it can become a debated and subjective thing.
And that particular stalemate, getting back to the Kenny G. Miles Davis thing, that particular
stalemate only gets broken by something objective. When we're faced with subjectivity that seems
endless, then that stalemate gets broken by the simple question of, okay, who's going to pay for it?
Ultimately. So who's going to hire Miles Davis? Who's going to hire Kenny G? Now,
that can get to the lament that you were referring to earlier in the big picture.
These problems of like the comedian's comedian can't get hired, but all the people who can get
hired look to that person and they say, that's the guy who's really got it going on. This is the
confusion about this. Now, the thing quite blunt, you know, I'm just going to over, you're an
overwhelming presence. I'm going to try to overwhelm you right back. One of the things that I love
about your playing is that you're playing at this incredibly technical level. It's so inventive,
but you bring so much soul and so much showmanship and the branding, the whole thing is going on.
Whatever layer of the stack I want to plug into, it's available to me. If I want to just have
the most beautiful tunes, you're providing that. If I want to see something new and innovative,
it's happening. And what I've seen is, you know, and I, this is a little bit off color. It's like
you make love to a room of 3000 people at a time and everybody is locked in there. Everybody's in
the pocket. Everybody's feeling the groove and we're thinking and we're feeling at different levels.
I think maybe one of my mistakes here is, is that I need to get you in front of the piano first,
have you play us some stuff. And then when we talk about these levels, I'm not going to be quite as
back footed. I should probably shouldn't have done the Kenny G thing just because people will,
well, people will infer that I meant something from it that I didn't, but so be it. I disagree
with you. All right. I think that it was perfect. I think that it's actually a spectacular thing
because it's really going to be a type of provocative and easily recognizable distinction.
Well, yeah, I mean, it gets back to one of the other points that you were making with regards
to distinction. How do we tell things apart? So we have to use things that are very distinct in
order for us to have a distinction in the conversation. I mean, that's the same thing that
happens in great film. If your premise or your opening part of your film lacks a strong enough
of a distinction about a situation, that particular lackage deficiency is going to haunt
the film the whole time. The premise of dirty dancing, there's this professional dancer
and there's this competition and he wants to win that. His partner ends up having
a super dangerous, super harmful, I guess illegal, just terrible abortion.
And then there's this rich girl whose father's a doctor who saves her life, that woman's life,
