swimming counter to the stream, or do you think that you're just a part of our age, and in fact,
the same as it ever was? Thank you, first of all, for saying that.
I think of myself as just an arch-traditionalist in some sense, part of the tradition of jazz with
a nod of the hat, or an eye on Miles Davis, John Coltrane, Arctatum. Part of the tradition of jazz
is to innovate and to individuate, as Carl Jung might say perhaps. That is the focus that I find
myself orbiting, and that's my pursuit. I've sort of painted myself in a corner in a lot of
different ways, and I use that sort of sense of being trapped or forced to commit to this thing
that I've painted myself into a corner with, and I use that particular situation, that particular
scenario, to drive out and bring forth innovation, as they say, ingenuity. What is that necessity,
is the mother of ingenuity or mother of invention? Well, that's just the thing. For people who don't
know you, and they're going to not only know you hopefully, but we have a beautiful Yamaha piano
behind us, they're going to feel you shortly. Let me just give you sort of a non-musician's
impression of where I've seen you innovating. First of all, you've taken what used to be called
prepared piano, where people would leave like bricks and paperclips in the back of the piano,
and you've stuck your hand in there to coax all sorts of sounds out that add such a rich
dimensionality to your playing that you have access to many more degrees of freedom than a
standard person, so you're playing in the back and in the front of the piano. You've innovated this idea
which you called rock jazz, which was a canonical innovation in that originally,
when jazz was coming up, people use the popular songs of the day as the substrate on which to
improvise, and you pointed out that autumn leaves is not a part of our current canon,
it's a part of our older canon, so why not use the rock songs that everyone knows as the substrate
to be true, not to the letter, but to the spirit of jazz, which is to use that which everyone
knows and show them something they don't, huge innovation. Like all of the best Jerry Lee Lewis
footage where he kicks away the bench and he's just playing standing there, you've got this
insane powerful stance, you use this armor to convey the aggression, and I think I was talking
about the violence of creativity, one of the reasons we're afraid of creativity is that we're
afraid that creativity is always a violent act. You came up with this thing called counterbop,
where you're bringing sort of Bach-like counterpoint into the jazz idiom and
achieving a level of independence, we say of your hands, but of parts of your mind that I've never,
I don't think I've ever seen at the keyboard. To say nothing of how you've innovated, I'm starting
to hear that you're DJing from inside of the piano, it feels to me like everything you touch
is a response to a constraint, that you take on the constraints of the traditional,
and then you force yourself Houdini like to break out of them. Is that an accurate description
of what it is that's driving this sort of explosion? I would say that most of it is accurate, some of
it would be argued from the perspective of branding and that sort of kind of thing.
But isn't that part of innovation? Right, so there's that, you know, that's part of creativity too,
and it's important as well. So I would definitely say that counterbop of all of the innovations
is one that's got the heaviest musical academic durability. I would say that rock jazz was innovative.
However, I'm not the first person to play rock tunes or rock covers on a piano. I think I might
be the first person to sort of go at it with the ferocity and the physical degree of power
and endurance and sort of fidelity to those pieces. So I think that I go about that particular
endeavor in an innovative way. Branding it as rock jazz, perhaps that's innovative and using that as
a wedge to create an extension of my career. So, you know, there's an innovative quality there.
I would say counterbop, which is a more recent situation, more recent device that I've come
up with. That's something that I can definitely say is innovative in the sense that
I really haven't heard anyone mix Bach counterpoint with bebop. There's a lot of people that have
brought baroque counterpoint, European counterpoint into jazz. However, and this is for all of the
people who are going to immediately pounce on this statement or scream, wail that, oh, it has been
done before. Actually, no, it hasn't. It hasn't been done in a swinging way. So the idea that
jazz doesn't have to swing or that sort of kind of a thing, that's going to be a thing in that
particular wormhole right there can go very deep, but suffice to say that no playing Bach counterpoint
or that sort of kind of a thing inside of jazz is very different from counterbop, which is why I
call it counterbop, because it's not counterpoint, it's counterbop so that you have two Bud Powell
or two Charlie Parker like lines full of all of their internal striations and internal acrobatics,
shall we say, harmonic melodic acrobatics, working within the traditions of swing and
the traditions of bebop at the same time simultaneously. There are a couple of pianists
that do have some very highly developed left hands
that are able to do it to a degree and perhaps a good degree, but I haven't heard anyone get it to
like the highest levels and I believe that I've found a way to do it.
You know, I have to say this because I'm not a jazz guy. I don't have some of the problems that you
have. There's an elephant in the room and I want to kill it at the beginning, which is jazz is such
an intellectual pursuit and it's so discriminating as to the fine points of one's ability that it
really is a Mount Olympus and it's left most of the world behind and so you always have this
problem that when you're talking the small number of jazz cats who can really track what you're
saying and know the history, like they're historians of the subject, will always pounce.
Any simple statement is going to be wrong and they'll point you to something that happened
with Django Reinhardt way back when and it's incredibly intimidating to have to work within
this tradition. One of the things I've most appreciated about you is the way in which you're
willing to both take on the constraints and totally overturn the apple cart at the same time so that
you're really true to the spirit and I think the people who will resist you at first will thank you
later. If you think about, you know, Ray Charles, for example, who wasn't quite at this level of
jazz mastery but as an innovator brought gospel into the popular idiom, boy did he catch hell for
that or, you know, playing around with country idioms, you know, the black guy taking on supposedly
white songs and showing what can be done with them. I think that one has to break sensibilities
and norms and one of the things I don't want to get caught up in is have you self-censoring
yourself so I'm going to take full responsibility for all the wrong things that we say about jazz
history on this show. Not your problem, my problem. What do you see for people who don't
understand the difference between, let's say, a Miles Davis and a Kenny G? Nothing against Kenny G.
What are the top people in this field do differently? How did America end up with
the classical music that was this advanced this quickly and who are the really top priests at
the pinnacle of that summit? For you. Okay, so that's a solid and complex, multifaceted octopus
question, which is fine. It's understandable. Okay. I'm a big fan of science and I tried to
exploit the scientific method whenever possible. So from the perspective of the human animal,
you know, every sort of opinion about this or that as far as sound goes or as far as
as far as certitude or validity. For instance, if you put Kenny G's name next to Miles Davis's name,
I think that it's difficult to have a truly acerbic scientific conversation about that.
There's going to be those that feel as though Kenny G is the greatest musician that's ever lived
and there's going to be those that think that Miles Davis is the greatest musician that ever lived
and then there'll be those that think that the idea of calling someone the greatest musician
that ever lived is repellent. And then how itself is flawed and has a bias inherent in it
that intrinsically undermines the sort of conversation or the purity of the assessment.
I don't want to trap you in that. No, it's fine. I feel as though it's important as far as in the
process of me answering your question and in the process of you getting a sense of who I am
and how I feel about things or how I classify things. So that answers the first aspect of
my approach to comparison. Got it. So, existentially speaking, they're sort of the same
depending upon, you know, for instance, you could do a mind-tack where you turn on a television
and switch the channel to something that just gives you white noise. Right. Now, you can do
a mind-tack where you could hear jingle bells inside of that white noise. You can pretty much
hear whatever you're listening for. John Cage certainly explored ideas like that.
Right. You can hear whatever you're listening for in something and this goes to politics,
this goes to, this goes all the way out into all of human thought and bias endeavors, right?
So, I'm a chess player, so I shy away from that particular battle line. I'm going to shy away from
putting a qualitative or a sort of a validation-oriented thing with regards to
the Kenny G versus the Miles Lewis and all that. Let me take Kenny G out of it.
Well, no, it's fine. I think it's a perfect example, actually. You're not going to let me
out of it, okay? Go ahead. But it's perfect, though. All right. It's perfect. Then riff with it.
Yeah, yeah, it's perfect. The extremities always allow us to get the clarity as far as I'm
concerned. That's a big aspect of what I look at when I'm evaluating things. The more extreme
something is, the more pronounced it is, the purer it is and the easier we can see how it functions
in reality. Our political climate is one of extremes these days, so then it's very clear.
Everyone's agendas are very clear, and so we can see how those things interact and
where they agree, where they disagree, and the bases is upon the bases, the bases,
bases, c's, or whatever that word is, the plural bases, the bases upon which each extreme side
proffers their position to be concrete. Anyway, so when it comes to the aspect of
classifying levels of greatness in musicians and stuff like that,
that becomes a difficult thing to nail down because of the movable objective criteria,
the attackability of the objective criteria that we would try to put out there, right?
But what we can talk about, we can talk about branding, we can say, or we can talk about
physical difficulties, we can talk about things like that. I'm trying to remember all of the
question, but I can say that as far as who really inspires me in that sense at the highest level.
Right, the highest level. To you. To me. I'm highly inspired by John Coltrane. I had a chance
to tour with Elvin Jones, who was his drummer, so I was able to be Sorcerer's apprentice for two
years, amazing experience. I would say I really look up to many of the European classical masters,
Stravinsky, Liszt, Chopin, Bach, Beethoven, Brahms, Rachmaninoff, Debussy. I look up to
Hollywood film masters, Martin Scorsese. I look at German impressionistic master,
F. W. Murno. I mean, there's so many geniuses and so many diverse fields to be inspired by,
and to me, the actual physicality or device or technique that they're using to access the light,
shall we say, the light is somewhat secondary. I just am inspired that these people
touch the light. I mean, Simone Biles, this gymnast that's out now is doing amazing things.
The Williams sisters, Michael Jordan, moving Steve Jobs, I mean, Einstein, Newton,
there's just so many numerous people. I'm inspired by the existential fact that they even exist.
Okay, well, this is in large part what the portal is all about. And just to open something up, and I
think this is the perfect episode to do it. I haven't said it before. The N is often too low
in any particular field. The number of true geniuses, like if I think about physics,
there are lots of people who would be considered geniuses in any other field, but the top level,
five people are less than the last century. And so you have to aggregate field by field by field
if you want to see the pattern. And in some sense, that's what I hear you saying is that
you're looking, you're not going to let the instrument define where you look for inspiration
and what you port back into your own craft. Sure, there are specific dynamics to executing
behaviors, ideas upon a particular device or medium. The inspiration for that sort of thing,
in my case, comes from multiple places, which I'm sure is the same for many people. As far as
within the field, who really inspires me, like I would say, John Coltrane and Art Tatum,
from the perspective of how they merged extreme, extreme technical mastery of their
given instruments, how they merged that with a profound quote, in-house, I'm referring to in
their own mind, in their own flesh, a profound in-house understanding of where to put the music
and what approaches to take, similar to a chess player in the sense that a chess game,
if you know how the pieces move, okay, cool. Yeah. And if you, as long as you're
functioning in some kind of way that you can either digitally or physically move pieces around,
you can be part of the game. So now, how do the levels begin, how do you get from there to
Magnus Carlson, right? And so that internal game of, okay, why did you decide to defend this when,
in fact, the greater attack was coming over here, you know, that kind of stuff. Okay, so there's a
great analogy with jazz in a weird way, which is if I go back to Guy, I think of as potentially the
greatest creative genius of jazz, arguably, would be Louis Armstrong, who sort of invented modern jazz
from the hot fives, hot sevens, not to slight the Jelly Roll Mortons of the world. That is
understandable to me in the same way that a game of like Morphe or Copa Blanca was understandable
when chess was sort of in an earlier stage of its development. But as both of these fields
progressed, you always have this problem, which is that the greater play loses the casual observer,
like they can't figure out what's going on. And I bring this up in the context of something,
I saw you hanging out with Herbie Hancock and it warmed my heart. I heard him describe playing
with Miles. And he said, I hit a chord that was so wrong and so off, I wanted to clutch my head.
And he said, what I didn't know is that there was a level of musicianship beyond this,
where Miles heard the same chord and figured out the exact right notes to play that made
it the right chord in arrears. And it was a keyboard player, you know, talking about a
trumpet player who was fixing his mistake because he didn't hear it as a mistake. He just heard it
as notes to be played with. And I think about that in terms of like the improvisational idiom,
yes and there are levels and levels and levels and they lose us as casual observers. Like,
would we have known that moment happened if we were in that club or at that recording date,
if we weren't at the top level of the profession? Well, I think as they say,
if you have a good plumber, you never know anything's wrong, right? So I think we're in the
business of not letting the audience know that anything has gone wrong. Now, analyzing the word
wrong and that sort of kind of a thing, that's where a matter of skill and understanding come
into play. We're talking about phenomenology at that point. We're talking about event horizons.
We're talking about existentialism at that point. Let me be slightly less obtuse.
In the world of film scoring, I think Bernard Harmon was the one who made the famous statement
about the great paradox that exists in music, where a piece of music could quote unquote be
terrible. It could be really weak, bad, have a lot of inconsistencies, fail at a lot of different
levels, clearly be mediocre in its aspirations and its execution of those aspirations. However,
however, with the right visual apparatus going with it, with the right film going with it,
suddenly that piece of music is the penultimate apex zenith of perfection for that particular
moment. This is the great paradox. So similarly, when Herbie played that chord, Miles definitely
aware of this type of paradox can come to that and put a sound with it that transcends one aspect
of sonority, transcends one aspect of analysis and speaks, as Miles Davis said, a higher level
of theory. It speaks to a higher level of theory. If you're coming from the perspective that
any sound is just a sound free of bias, free of predestination, you suddenly have expanded
your toolbox. And so then it just becomes a question of how familiar are you with employing
these quote out of the box sorts of effects and manipulating that sort of kind of thing.
You know this joke that Leonard Bernstein put into West Side Story, where he takes the most
dissonant interval, the tritone, right? And he goes, Marie, which is like, uh, and he goes to the
fifth, which is like the most consonant. And then he's like the most beautiful word I ever heard,
Maria, right? And the whole idea is that the release from maximal tension into maximum sonority
is the most gorgeous thing. So he's going to take the ugliness and just serve it up as like this is,
you know, the feeling of just having met your true love. In screenwriting, conflict and tension
are the building blocks of your story. I mean, that's drama. That's irony.
Night and day. These are the binaries. These are the opposites, life and death, pain, pleasure,
happy, sad, all of these things opposites. There was a philosophy of aesthetic realism
that one of my professors in Manhattan School of Music would talk about.
And I don't want to butcher their tenants. However, one thing did stick out. They would always
talk about was how the coming together of opposites is how beauty forms or is the component of beauty.
And so, you know, while I might not necessarily call it beauty or, you know, put that term to it,
movement, speaking of counterbop, speaking of bebop, speaking of improvisation, movement
