Hi, this is Eric with A Few Thoughts for this week's Housekeeping. What I want to bring
up this week is how to think about the portal podcast, and in particular, I want to give
a few thoughts on how we should measure the scale of a critique or the power of an idea
and how these two different concepts might interrelate. Many years ago, I used to live
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and we had our own very peculiar notion of celebrities back
then. Tracy Chapman literally used to busk on the street for money, and NPR's car-talk
guys lived locally. It was within that milieu that I would go to talks for entertainment.
As a broke graduate student, lectures were a godsend, as they were free and plentiful.
I would attend them the way other people would go to movies or concerts, and from time to
time that would include Noam Chomsky's lectures on political theory as he worked at MIT. I
was always impressed by his sincerity, and sometimes I would stay after and talk with
him. On one such occasion, I told him that I had had a conversation with a contacted
NPR, and that that person might be interested in getting him a regular slot of perhaps five
minutes or more. I was naturally very excited to make something like this happen if it were
in fact possible. Noam's response was surprising to me at the time. He was absolutely emphatic
that he was not interested. Somewhat stung, I asked him why he was so definite. He replied
in such a small slot against a backdrop of NPR-filtered news, he would appear to the
audience to be a stark, raving madman, and that there was no way of presenting a deep
critique so as to overcome the relentless framing of the news into narratives in which
NPR was engaging. I have thought about that interchange many times since then, as I have
been haunted by its implications. What good, after all, is a Chomsky-level analysis if
it is barred from having any impact when done at scale.
When we have a critique of a well-known narrative or worldview, it usually can be sorted into
a taxonomy according to whether it accepts, bends, or is forced to break the frame of
the storyline with which it contends. As an example, imagine we were back in 2016 and
I were to critique the coverage of the U.S. presidential election for failing to contend
with the ideas of Donald Trump, saying that, I feel that we aren't covering Trump sufficiently
because we all know that Hillary is going to win, would constitute a critique, but one
that accepts the narrative without challenge. Saying instead, Hillary is going to beat
Donald Trump by much less than she imagines and will have to build her mandate after the
inauguration if she is to be effective, would bend the Hillary's inevitable media narrative.
But saying instead, I think all the pundits and polls are wrong and that Donald Trump
should be expected to win would break the narrative entirely. This breaking of the frame is usually
cause for derision and is, of course, exactly what got Ann Coulter ridiculed on Bill Maher's
program when she made just that prediction. To return to our story in Massachusetts, almost
all of Chomsky's points were in fact narrative breakers in this third category. He would
have stories we'd never heard from East Timor, detailed history on Iranian self-determination
and oil reserves, data on Chilean atrocities. To accept Chomsky was to accept a world of
different stories that, oddly enough, could usually be authenticated but which were frequently
not referenced outside far left circles. Thus, Chomsky could not play inside the game
of NPR, which was often bending and sometimes challenging official narratives, but seldom
ever breaking the dominant frames within which the storylines developed. In short, Planet
Chomsky was an alternative universe in which a Howard Zinn might be found but where you
would never find Samuel Huntington or Henry Kissinger. I mean, they might have taught
down the street at Harvard in the adjacent zip code one digit off, but it was another
incompatible universe entirely. So what can one say about the style of deep critique which
must break the frame of its target without knowing any further information?
Well, in the first place, no one can really argue that all frame breaking is unwarranted.
I mean, clearly the US view of North Korea is such a critique, for example, as is the
mainstream Baptist critique of an offshoot cult like the hate-fueled Westboro Baptist
Church. And yet, when the narrative under scrutiny is our own narrative, the very one
upon which we depend to give direction, meaning, and security in our daily lives, we can be
relied upon to fight everything that breaks our frame irrespective of its validity. So
with this in mind and the COVID pandemic response as our backdrop, who are today's deep
critics? And should we be listening to them or ignoring them as is our reflex? Well, I'm
glad to say that Noam Chomsky is still going strong. And I dare to think that upon his
eventual exit from this world, he may well be remembered as America's leading public
intellectual, even by many of the respectable people who paid him absolutely no mind while
he was still a living threat to our system. Naseem Taleb, of course, is another candidate.
Now, Taleb's idiosyncrasy is notwithstanding. It is particularly difficult to contend with
the substance of Taleb's critique because it is so vast. Where other people trade accusations
about the misuse of statistics, Taleb verges on saying that the field of statistics is
itself the problem. While some might argue about the fallacy of appeal to authority,
in a particular case, Taleb instead goes after many of the expert class by name, endearing
himself to his targets by calling them IYI, for intellectual yet idiot. He does this,
I believe, because he wants to signal that all frames coming from the mainstream should
be considered dead on arrival with him unless verified from first principles. A third case
might have been my old friend and colleague Serge Lang at Yale, who I may discuss another
time as he is no longer with us. And I will leave Scott Alexander, Venkatesh Rao, Peter
Thiel, Nick Bostrom, and others for another time. My aim in bringing up these various
and varied critics is to bring to consciousness that there is actually almost no real information
content in pointing out that we disagree with nearly any deep frame-breaking critique if
it is targeted upon our own narratives. This must be the baseline expectation if we wish
to see ourselves as self-aware and metacognitive. We oppose most all such critics reflexively
and completely independent of the merit of their arguments for reasons of self-preservation.
And yet, even knowing this, my goal at the portal is, at least in part, to provide you
the listener with just such a deep critique. The problem here is that the critique as it
stands is simply so vast that it is difficult to consider independent of whether or not
it makes sense or is true. Think, for example, about the past episodes we've been through.
We've asked you to rethink science and its culture from the bottom up. The portal, in
fact, began with an interview about stagnation during a period where most everyone else was
talking about some dizzying pace of technological change. We've explored the idea of universal
societal lies and preference falsification, and the idea that Judaism might not even be a religion.
And most insanely, the need to stave off an apocalypse, potentially through planetary escape,
well before we were all told to stay indoors as a planet to avoid a killer virus. I mean,
if there is a silver lining to this pandemic here at the portal, it is surely that our talk
about the twin nuclei problem on the Joe Rogan program and worldwide apocalypse seems a lot
less far-fetched after transitioning suddenly from business as usual to worldwide lockdown.
So, how can this be done at scale without paying the same exact reflexive penalty of
cognitive dissonance as all the other deep critics seem to have suffered? If there is an
answer here, it is to be found in the concept of the portal itself. My goal is not to tell you
that where we are is terrible and contains no meaningful options. The highest ambition, in
fact, of the program is to show you how else you might think about finding passages to something
real and more meaningful than the place you were when we first met. After that, if you want to
remain in place, that would be a choice rather than a sentence. So, what I want to leave you with
is a notion which I believe goes back to Richard Dawkins. At some point, he opined that one could
measure the power of an idea as if it were a fraction. To this way of thinking, the power of
an idea is measured as what the idea explains divided by what the idea is forced to assume.
For example, Dawkins might claim that the theory of evolution is powerful specifically because
it explains the origin of all known species and adaptations, but only assumes the principles
of natural and sexual selection. Maxwell's equations, by contrast, are powerful because
they explain light, x-rays, radio waves, magnetism, electricity, photons, all as an unpacking of a
single geometric concept. Weber's theory, by turns, that all government can oddly be unpacked
from the simple concept of a monopoly on violence would be such a theory in the social rather than
the natural sciences. As such, it may be easier to accept Darwin's, Maxwell's, and Weber's critiques
of all that came before them specifically because their criticism is not scattered and flows simply
from unifying and underlying principles. In the case of the portal, we have endeavored to follow
this example. Quite simply, and there's no getting around this, our critique of modern life is
partially characterized by just how deep it is. Yes, we are really saying that we have had a
universally unworkable leadership class in place for nearly 50 years and that most of our institutions
are not functioning ethically or honestly. In other words, most of us adults grew up in a bubble.
Of course, that probably sounded a lot crazier to many before most people saw the worldwide clown
show that was and is the developed world's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. But just imagine
that almost every critical area of civil society leadership is just as badly prepared as our public
health sector to react to immediate changes in need and you will start to watch your brain tune
out as it may well have during initial discussion of the virus in January. After all, what would one
do to fix it? I mean, I myself get innervated just like you whenever I think about the most
straightforward implications. Where would we even begin for God's sake? Yet this is why we have
endeavored to provide you with a very small denominator to combat the sense of hopelessness.
I mean, if there is more or less only one root cause to the problems we are picking out,
then our idea will have power in the sense of Dawkins and we need not work individually on
thousands of idiosyncratic downstream emergencies clamoring for our attention. In our theory,
almost all of this novel level of systemic failure and institutional leadership follows from a
simple change in growth regimes. In the post-war regime from 1945 until the early 1970s, growth was
so remarkable and constant that we built our institutions around expectations of economic
expansion and technological innovation. And then, just like that, most all of that growth stopped
around 1971 through 1973, maybe having to do with predictions of Derek de Sola Price more than 10
years earlier, which we can discuss another time. Like Weber's theory of a monopoly on violence or
Darwin's explanation of selection, the validity of this simplification rests on what can be unpacked
from relatively mild assumptions through the theory of embedded growth obligations. Because
these institutions are all facing the same system of pressures, there is a near universal need for
every titular head in this cohort of leaders to hide the fact that their institution is predicated
on high growth expectations and that they are all now failing and that the expectations cannot be
met. Further, if this is correct, they are failing in exactly the same ways with the same class and
type of leaders at the helm, whose top skill must be this masking of the inability of the leadership
to meet the growth obligation embedded within the foundations of their institutions simply to keep
the game going. This is what must now come to an end. Generations are in fact defined by their
cognitive development during whatever environment was present during their formative years. The
important generational divide is likely between the silent and baby boom generations on one side
who grew up as children and young adults amidst real growth and who were thus attached to the
narratives of success under difficult circumstances, with Gen X and the millennials still waiting their
turn and largely alienated from narratives which offer them very little other than debt and near
permanent holding patterns. Once the baby boomers in silence exit the system, we are likely to see
their successors start to actually admit to the terrible state of the institutions. So if you're
interested in this theory, this is now your homework assignment. As you watch this cohort of leaders
wrestle with the COVID pandemic, ask yourself what part of the bizarre nature of this response can be
deduced from the theory of embedded growth obligations. We have now spent in the United
States the last 28 years under baby boomer administrations. So how well did they do to
prepare us for this pandemic? Did they leave us stockpiles of essential supplies? Did they resign
when they failed in their duties? Are their instincts compatible with the heavy burdens
which are now likely to cascade from here? And if pandemic leads to depression and depression
leads to war, would you wish to send yourself or a child into battle under President Sanders,
President Trump or President Biden as commander-in-chief? Or would you look for a portal instead to
avoid this choice? This portal episode introduces you to one of my favorite people and favorite
artists on earth. Now let me say this, if you were to ask me which of my guests so far is most
often an open portal to the transcendent, this is the one. And I've seldom been as certain as I am
here. It's hard to know what to say about Elu, aka Eric Lewis. Two things, however, are clear.
He is a straight up genius and a force of nature. Are we friends? I'd definitely say yes, but it is
a strange thing to be friends with an avalanche or a tsunami. At our Shabbat dinner table, for
example, he's one of our favorite guests, but he often speaks to me in riddles and sometimes
reminds me in speech of how Jimi Hendrix used to struggle to talk to mortals. And in many ways
beyond that, the comparison seems a good one. If one looks at the musical notation meant to say
what Hendrix was doing on guitar, it is remarkable how little is captured. This is because Hendrix
expanded the dimensionality of the guitar with feedback, micro embellishments, and electronic
wizardry so that the notes provided only the barest substrate for the tapestry of sound that was
being woven. In many ways, Eric has done the same thing for the piano. So just as Les Paul proceeded
Hendrix in using the studio as an instrument, and flamenco artists were tapping on fretboards
long before Eddie Van Halen changed the percussive guitar game, Eric was not the first to play with
the internal organs of the piano to coax out new sounds. But far beyond the prepared piano
experiments of art music composers, when Eric ripped the cover off the piano to play both the keys
and the harp-like strings behind, he brought so much dimensionality and soul that he at last
overcame the critical limitation of the instrument that had plagued it since his birth. The piano's
mechanical action, which is one of the great triumphs of pure mechanical engineering, ensured
that there was regularity to most every note. Eric replaced that regularity and created a
higher dimensional instrument. If the piano was Einstein to the harpsichord's Newton,
in Eric's hands the piano went relativistic and quantum finally at the same time. I should say
that this is one of many different innovations that Eric has brought. He has explored the fusion of
Baroque counterpoint and jazz into a style that he calls counterbop, which quite frankly stretches
my mind farther than it can often go, as well as innovating rock jazz to replace the Tin Pan Alley
songbook of standards. Additionally, he has innovated in several aspects of showmanship,
as well as DJing and screenwriting, which is hardly surprising as my entire body can seemingly
fit inside his brain case. As for this interview, a word of warning. I should say that Eric is being
very kind to me indeed by inviting me to at least pretend to play along with him, either on the high
registers of the piano while he is playing, or using the clogged harmonica that I happen to find
in my pocket the morning we recorded in LA on a famous Yamaha that was apparently used to record
Angie by the Rolling Stones. I would appreciate it if you didn't see it as me getting in his way
so much as an act of supreme generosity from a true innovator and friend to a humbled curator.
I hope you will look into Eric's music after you've had a chance to listen to our uninterrupted
conversation and that you'll sit back, relax, and meet the portal that is my friend, Elu, Eric Lewis.
Hello, you found the portal. I'm here today with one of my favorite people and our guest,
Eric Lewis, Elias Elu. I don't exactly know how to describe what he is and what he does,
but we'll start with pianist and we'll go from there because he's also a DJ, screenwriter,
and a guy who, well, one of the reasons he's on the show is that it seems like everything he touches,
he has to innovate. So, Elu, welcome to the portal. Thanks, Eric. So, one of the things I just want
to jump right into is that I'm super frustrated with where music has been recently, and I think
it's really interesting that you occur in our era. From my perspective, a lot of our popular music
has been getting simpler as it was getting more intricate and more dependent on musicianship
back in the 70s, and a lot of what we're seeing is a shift to the studio, to simpler forms, and
you come along, and for my money, you are innovating at the very highest levels of jazz, rock, and pop
all at the same time. Are you seeing something like that, where you were somehow like a salmon
