but now she can't dance. And so then the daughter now who is a klutz has to be taught how to dance
so that this guy can go ahead and win the competition, but it has to happen in secret
now because the father, you know, it's the plot that however, it struck me, it blew me away
that such an amazingly painful, controversial topic, such as abortion, such an amazingly
painful, excruciatingly, mind-bendingly, sad topic. And divisive. Divisive. Yeah.
Yet, this is a dance at the finale, the dance in the finale, we see that at weddings online,
you can see different couples trying to do that. So when it came out in the, you know,
cinematically or as far as storytelling, the power of such a topic that seems, what does that
particular, what does that particular thing have to do with a dance competition? But think about it.
As a screenwriter, I thought about it, if you take that out, right, then you're sitting with
pen and paper and you're like, okay, well, I've got this dance competition. I've got this dancer.
I've got this klutz. So the good guy, you know, the great dancer needs to teach this klutz.
How to dance so that he can win the competition. Now, if you replace that other scenario with
multiple types of problems, you'll find that it's hard to get something as compelling as that.
However, that person took a heavy risk. Now the screenwriter was a woman. So then she,
yeah, the screenwriter is a woman and she was a mambo dancer and she was, her father was a doctor
and she went to country clubs. And so she experienced this Dickens-like type of life where,
you know, there's rich and poor and, you know, all these kinds of things. And I'm sure her father
was, you know, warning her about the dangers of sexual activity and, you know, pitfalls or what
he's seen and stuff like that. So she put that all together. So perhaps because she had an experience
with it and she's a woman that she was able to speak on those subjects so amazingly. And she had
the understanding of how to bring those subjects together because she lived it. Right. You know,
however, it wouldn't occur to the average person, but this is what we call genius. You know what
I'm saying? That's genius and it's lasted the test of time. But that's my whole point with why
the whole opening, and this gets back to what you're talking about when we're talking about
genius and things of that nature. You did a genius thing, yet you're trying to get me
to discount that or go away from that, but I'm identifying you're a genius and that ties to
what I was saying about how Charlie Parker would hear a guy that people would say, what's he talking
about? But he's listening intently. That's the whole point. All these things come together.
So you've created this podcast as the example of the thing that we were talking about in the podcast.
Yeah, these are wheels within wheels. This is the universes within universes. Quantum,
it all breaks down at this level, but it holds at this level. This is why we love having you over
for Shabbat dinner. All that kind of thing. So you did it from the very beginning. All right.
Your instinctive thing. I didn't force you to choose those names. You naturally chose those
names. All I'm doing is the same thing that I would do inside of my mind. If I get an idea,
the sensor filter in my mind is like, wow, that's actually pretty cool because I'm referencing
all these other things. I'm seeing all this stuff. It's just like a chess game. I'm seeing the checkmate.
I'm like, wow, this king is positioned over here. Okay, I've got to do this in such a way that by
the time I'm going to spring this trap, he doesn't even see that that subtle move he made actually
provide. The funny thing is, I think I chose Kenny G, if I recall correctly, because I think I
remember hearing that he had actually been an innovator with some circular breathing technique,
and that he was somebody who was seen as being middle of the road, but actually a good deal
above that in musicianship. So I think I had some different process. I wish it was that I had some
super clever idea, but it was probably only one or two moves deep. But thank you for saying.
It still functions perfectly. I get to dance with you. So you get to
do what Miles did to my Herbie Hancock move. And just like in dirty dancing, he had to take
what she was doing. Right. And from what I've understood about dancing in that particular
format, it's the man's role in traditionally to showcase the female. Yeah. He's more of basically
a pole, a static figure that's showcasing all the things that she can do. That's what makes
a good male dance partner. I don't know how things work as far as how we're identifying on
political roles these days. However, I think traditionally that's kind of how it works.
There's a beautiful aspect to this concept that healthy male-female relations in a heterosexual
context have to do with passing power back and forth. And so the idea is that he might have
the responsibility of leading, which people will say, well, that's an impressive act. But then if
the idea is, no, but it's not just that I'm leading, my role is also to become the substrate
to showcase your abilities. These kinds of dynamics have broken as we've gotten very
simplistic in saying, well, that's power, that's oppression. And not recognizing that these things
are part of an interwoven whole. So the idea is that if I evaluate myself as a podcaster,
and I'm just thinking about myself, and I'm not thinking about the dynamic of the conversation,
because I'm just learning this. This is like eight episodes in or something like that.
Yeah, it's a question of I need to learn more yes and because of the improvisational idiom
that podcasting is. Improvisation is everywhere. Everyone's doing it. Each word we speak
is improvised. We're drawing from a vocabulary. We're putting concepts and ideas to sound. We're
utilizing these instruments, and we're bringing out energy, and we're moving things around to
create a type of movement, progression. And these are all the things that get depicted in art all
over the place. So a lot of times it's very easy to find genius or brilliances. The hard part can be
after you've managed to identify it accurately, that is, to stay with it and then bring in enough
tradition or enough substantiation to further demonstrate why that thing is genius. That's
been my mission in this particular conversation. I thought pivoting between the Kenny G and the
Miles Davis element was brilliant, and it provided such a great foundation for the conversation,
because we can go further. We can talk about how Kenny G racially is very interesting. In fact,
that was one of the things that inspired me as Elu was the idea that
there is a huge number of black people that really got into this guy playing soprano saxophone.
They were really into it, and they made him rich. Much to the consternation of many black jazz
musicians who couldn't understand how a white musician like that could get such loyalty and
money from a target demographic. Well, because some things transcend quote, quote, color,
it is what it is. Some things transcend that for different reasons. So part of Elu was also an
experiment, because I was thinking, well, that's interesting. What if I tried that in reverse?
What if I, a quote unquote black guy from a murder capital from Camden, New Jersey. Look it up,
folks, Camden, New Jersey. There's a Rolling Stone article called Apocalypse New Jersey,
the sad story of Camden, to get a sense of where I'm from, native of that place. What would happen
if I, who has spent my life learning Miles Davis, learning art Tatum, learning all of this
traditional, quote, black music? Yeah. What if I learned how to play the Rolling Stones? What if
I learned how to play Nirvana? What if I learned how to play that stuff? Because when I was doing
the traditional thing, I won the biggest competition in jazz. I got a full scholarship.
This is the Thelonious Monk competition. Yeah, I won the Thelonious Monk International
Piano Competition. I had also gotten a full scholarship to Manhattan School of Music,
which I graduated Dean's List. All of these types of accolades, I toured the world with
Wynton Marcellus, but I couldn't get a record deal, which is always, I mean, this is when I
talked about your anger. Right. I couldn't get a record deal. I was so flabbergasted to hear this.
Right. And then the idea that you figured out this hack, which, right, which is, and that's what
we're getting into here. So when we talk about, when we talk about Kenny G. Miles Davis, it goes
deep into a lot of aspects for me because I looked at him, I looked at Yanni, I looked at Liberace.
Right. And I was like, wow, they have massive followings. If you took them to
downtown New York's jazz scene, how distinctive would they be as far as skill level goes relative to
you know, your average college musician or post college musician? So then that was where I got
the idea to, well, one of the places that I got an idea to do an experiment. Well, what would happen
if a quote unquote black guy from the hood decided to start expertly playing Sweet Home Alabama,
which I ended up playing on America's Got Talent. The enigma of that,
speaking of elephants in the room. Right. Right. The elephant in the room is, you see this guy,
I mean, sure, the average person is going to say, oh, I don't see color. Oh, wow, you're just playing
Sweet Home Alabama. But you know, I don't know. I kind of don't think so. I don't think it's just
that. But either way, that's my point. So I sought to see if the same thing could be true in reverse.
And sure enough, it did. Now, I didn't write my own music the way Kenny G wrote like silhouette.
I didn't use drum beats and things of that nature. And so there's relativity as far as, you know,
degrees of success with that. However, I did achieve a very. Okay. But like even in this
situation, just to rip off of it. Sure. You know, this movie Victor Victoria, the story of a woman
playing a man playing a woman, a female female impersonator, right? Right. Okay. So you're telling
me when you do satisfaction, that you're actually swerving and feeding the Rolling Stones black
back to white audiences, potentially a very visibly black man. On the other hand,
there's this beautiful video of Keith Richards taking apart and dissecting satisfaction. And he
says, you want to know where what it is? And he starts playing it as like a Mississippi blues
on the guitar. And so you realize that he took this, this riff, you know, off of the fifth,
sixth, flat seven, you know, typical blues pattern disguised it. And now you're sort of
weirdly the black guy playing a white guy playing black music, feeding it back to white audiences.
And in some sense, giving this really beautiful and friendly middle finger to this whole
notion of race dividing us that we have to both note it because it does exist and it influences
us no matter how much we deny it. On the other hand, it doesn't have to preoccupy us constantly
and be the only thing. I always think about, you know, this race and IQ point that keeps coming
up. I never see this happening among people who are deep into music because the contributions
have been so profound from everywhere that it just is like, why are you exploring these ideas
that clearly don't capture who has contributed and how much has been done?
For me, chess has been a great liberator or a great questioner of some of these more
quote, race driven concepts because I learned chess from basically black street hustlers
in Washington Square Park and they prefer speed chess. Yeah, Blitz guys. And so they
had great admiration and aspiration towards some of the Russian GMs and just to hear these
men who are the epitome of soul, the epitome of quote, blackness, flavor, all of that stuff,
rhythm, all of that stuff to hear them use about Kappa Blanka or to pull out a game
Nimsovich or Tau or some of these great masters to, you know, go over those games and
say, well, see, he's a killer here. No, hold on, hold on, wait a minute now. We got to
watch the bishop, watch the bishop. Boom. Okay. Okay. He saw that. He saw me coming, huh?
Like just all of the snappy pattern. I remember getting into about a conversation
in Washington Square Park about Tigran Petrosian, the chess player, and these guys were like
convinced that somehow he hadn't been understood for the soul that he was bringing to the game.
Right. So for me to get around that was like very striking because at that time,
I was really starting to feel, you know, my depression was coming in, my panic was coming in
because in my thoughts, I'm like, wow, I've won the Monk competition. I've towed the line,
full scholarship came from Camden, full scholarship, graduated, all this stuff,
but the powers that be don't find me, I guess, marketable enough to have me be a representative
of their agency, you know, in the form of a recording artist. So I really started to have
some really mind-bendingly, rageful and, you know, things going on in my head. And I noticed that
there were some other artists, quote unquote, white artists that were starting to experiment with
rock in the jazz lane. They were getting jazz record deals, but they were working with rock
concepts overtly questioning, does jazz have to swing and things of that nature that me from
the Wynton Marsalis, purist background and aspiration, I would never question, does jazz
have to swing, right? So there was a lot of anger starting to build up from a couple of
different places from, you could say, a political aspect and also from a personal aspect, because
I'm like, I can't even get a record deal here. Like, how good do I have to play? What do I have
to prove here? And ultimately, who are you guys to judge whether I'm worthy of a record deal? Or,
you know, it kind of got into these kind of simplistic and superficial anger in private
places. Which diminish, and this is one of the reasons to be blunt about it. Since I heard you
play first, I don't know, close to 10 years ago, but maybe in person a little bit less, I've often
thought I have to be promoting this guy, not because he's not going to get famous on his own,
but because he shouldn't have to say what doesn't need, it just doesn't need to be said. When I
watch you in a room, everyone knows something amazing has happened. And if I can just tell
one story from our personal life, we were having dinner, my wife and I, with Sam Harris, and he
was fading in San Francisco. And I said, hey, do you want to go over and hear a friend of mine
play a little piano? It didn't sound very inviting, but I wasn't going to tell him anything more.
So he says, you know, fine, if it's quick. So we get him over to this place and you're there.
We go over and there's this old beat up Steinway. And there's a crowd of people who are sitting
around waiting to hear you play. And this one woman will not be quiet. She's just not calming down.
She's on her phone. And you say something like, Hey, something amazing is about to happen. You're
about to have a life altering experience. You need to be in the right frame of mind.
And everybody in the room who knew you knew what was about to happen. And everyone in the room who
didn't know you said, what? Nothing. Nothing. Nobody talks like this. The room quieted down.
I've never seen Sam Harris so deep in meditation. He was his whole world was like rewoven
with with the music you were playing. And he was just speechless at the end of it. And we all stayed
up late into the night. There is something in this, which is it doesn't need to be said. I don't
know why it's so hard to get through because the music does speak for itself, but I think it goes
back to your just wheels within wheels curation. One of the things I wanted to do and you were one
of the people I had in mind when I started this podcast was I wanted to show people what is possible
in their lives. And I'll be honest with you, you have two separate effects on me. Sometimes I hear
you and I just sit down at the piano and I want to play play play and get better. And other times
I don't want to touch it. I don't want to look at it because I know I'm never going to be at that level.
And it is difficult and uncomfortable to work with genius and to and to see it in in a field
in which you're just playing and you're never going to aspire to be at the top of what you
might be able to achieve. That particular night, I know that you're paraphrasing or recalling.
I know how I get when I feel as though there's a person that's violating things for others.
So I don't recall my exact words. I'm pretty sure that I wouldn't
call attention to myself in the sense of, hey, I'm about to do something amazing in that sense.
If I did, it wasn't from a narcissistic standpoint. No, Erica wasn't. It was from a person.
She thanked. I don't know if you remember this. She came up to me and she said he was absolutely right.
That said, I just want to kind of clarify that because I don't want to create the impression of
a naked, narcissistic, egotistical kind of thing. That's not my point.
You did say something like that, but it was the feeling of it. For me, it's just that she was
ruining a situation. You've got Sam Harris there. You've got people there and she's bringing a scenario
that ultimately no one else was going to sort of deal with it. And so I kind of-
She's making a choice for everybody. And you see this. So then I had to make a choice as well.
Well, this is the thing. How often do you have a conductor who stops a performance
of an orchestra of 50 people because somebody's cell phone goes off? This is now a common feature.
We don't make the room for opening our hearts. And I think to be blunt about it,
I'm sorry if I told the story in a way that didn't convey it, but what actually happened was that we
all did have a communal experience that we're still talking about. And I can tell you that
there are a small number of performances. The time I saw Prince open for the Rolling Stones,
the time that I saw a clarinet player blow Dizzy Gillespie offstage that I'd never heard
of named Tony Scott, there are a very small number of things that actually just change your life.
And this was one of those nights. On the other side, I've come to understand
over time what aspects of my playing and also what aspects of my personal behavior or
presentation have been detrimental to my progression in certain aspects of the business.
So I also want to make sure that I bring in that aspect too because it's very immature also
