Welcome everyone to this session of the Foresight Existential Hope Group.
My name is Lou. I'm the coordinator of this group whose premise is that we live at a very
high stake, special time in the history of the great human projects,
one where things could change drastically.
Technology is developing exponentially faster than perhaps our brains, our societies,
our institutions can absorb safely, and this is creating problems, the greatest of them all being
the threat to the very existence of humanity and our civilization.
And to quote the Continience Project website, which we are going to discuss today,
what we need is fundamentally new problem solving and coordinated choice making
capacities that are adequate to address the complexity, the scale, the rate of change,
and the significance of the novel issues we face.
With the Existential Hope Group here, we have given ourselves the ambitious task to create
the most beautiful futures we dare to imagine. Futures of radical abundance,
of flourishing for all, for life, for the biosphere, we want to expand the boundaries
of human knowledge to unfathomable lengths and to accelerate the technologies that can
manifest those futures. But we acknowledge the need to remain careful, deeply conscious,
and level headed in this quest. This is no place for blind optimism,
or we will fall into the precipice. So we walk a delicate line.
We sure do.
In conclusion, of the gazing abyss, our dreams should still be bold and daring.
And ex, hopefully, this is how we build an era of exponential technology that is
constructive rather than destructive. And this is how we build a new civilization,
one that is safe, that is the safety word of its incredible power.
There is no guarantee we'll make it, but if we don't try, we won't succeed.
So I am totally thrilled to welcome a great duo today to discuss strategies to build
collective intelligence that match our ambitions and challenges. Daniel Schmacktenberger, who is
a founder of the Continence Project, and Phoebe Tickel, who is a foresight fellow and advisor
to the Continence Project as well. Most of you probably know Daniel, whose work focused on
long-term civilization design and tries to develop better collective capacities for sense-making,
meaning-making, and more informed choice-making. So Daniel, I mean, I told you that you've been
a great inspiration for my work, and I'm very grateful that you're joining the session today.
Phoebe, as I said, is a foresight fellow, also a dear co-conspirator for goods,
to both you and I, actually, and with moral imagination, has this project that works on
empowering collective imagining and communities, and so is extremely aligned with existential hope
and the perfect bridge between existential hope and the Continence Project. So yeah,
in summary, I am really grateful for this opportunity to bolster both of your missions,
and maybe before we start and get into the meat of this discussion, I just wanted to say that one
of the central tenets of the existential hope approach is that when we look at how our society
and culture thinks about the future, there are way too many dystopian visions out there and almost
no positive envisioning. But to quote Lucille Clifton, we can't create what we can't imagine,
and so before we dive into problem-solving concrete strategies and the Continence Project,
I would love to hear from both of you briefly what is your most ambitious,
deep and exciting vision for the long-term future? Let's say if we solved existential risks and
achieved existential security, what would happen? What could it look like? What are the possibilities?
Another way to frame this question, at least for me, the way I understand it, is almost
what drives you to so much reflection, work, effort to build the civilization in your words,
Danielle, that is not self-terminating. Why so much work? And beyond what are the
futures that inspire you? Where do you draw your motivation from? So yes, maybe any of you feeling
ready and excited to share first? Bibi, do you want to go first? I think you should go first,
Danielle. Sure, I'm happy to. First, thank you for inviting me here today. I kind of can't
believe that I haven't been to this group before understanding what the mission is and how it's
framed. The framing is beautiful, like it. There's a lot of things that I often talk about that
sounds like I don't have to talk about here because they're already givens, but the way you
framed the unique power that exponential tech gives and how do we become safe stewards for it,
I think, is a really great framing. And when you said there's a lot of dystopic futures,
but not that many positive ones, these positive ones are just silly. They fail quite obviously,
or they depend upon magic, dilithium crystals and warp drives or whatever. So it's how do we have
ones that don't depend upon things that we can't depend upon, that don't hit obvious failure modes
and where there's an enactment path from here to there, because oftentimes the enactment issue
requires more violence than makes that in-state actually possible to change where
entrenched patterns are. I think it's a great thing for the group to be focused on.
A lot of people think, okay, let's say that we were to ensure a post-exrisk world of existential
security. Now the whole focus is we get to become a higher Kardashev scale civilization and go spread
out through the galaxy, or we get to do advanced transhumanism and solve life extension and fuse
our consciousness with the cloud and the AI, or none of those inspire me actually. Those are fine,
maybe we do some of those. But I'm actually not inspired by getting somewhere in particular.
Like this might, I don't know, this might be a strange way to start it off, but yes,
what I'm motivated by, I am motivated by the beauty of life that already is just
continuing to get to flourish. I'm motivated by moms getting to keep falling in love with
their babies and kids getting to discover nature and trees and fall in love for the first time
and study the beauty of poetry and mathematics. Like it is prima facie meaningful. It doesn't
need to go anywhere in particular. It does also have an evolutionary process. There's a becoming,
but it's not a becoming towards some omega point. It's just the process of becoming.
And the meaningfulness of that is grounded in the being of it. That's the thing that I'm ultimately
care about and am in service to. And it's not a given at this given particular time that that
does get to continue here. And it's also not a given that it gets to continue as well. Obviously,
it's not equally beautiful to be born into all situations. And so to the degree that we have
been born into situations that give us some capacity to possibly be able to affect the
future that other people will be born into. That's meaningful.
Awesome. Yeah. There's already extraordinary amounts of beauty all everywhere around us.
I totally resonate with that. Okay, TB, want to share?
Yes. Very happy to share. What an amazing way to kick off a conversation with Daniel, who
yeah, I love thinking with and being in conversation with and with this amazing community that I'm
having the chance to discover more and more through the honor of being a fellow. So yeah,
very, very pleased to be here. Lou, when you asked me this question, you kind of primed
me a little bit with it. And I sat thinking about it for like a good 20 minutes, just thinking about
when you asked me like, what is the future that really motivates you? And I realized that
there's something inherently creepy about projecting a future that I think is good
onto the lives of people I've never met yet and who are not yet born. Like I really sat with that
and I was like, that's just such a meta way to answer this question. But that's honestly what
came up. And actually, I came to something quite similar to what Daniel said, which is this kind
of a future, a future that looks good to me, because I can only really project a desirable
future that feels good to me, I don't want to project that on others. But it is a society and
civilization that is based on wisdom and based around wisdom. And for me, wisdom
really comes down to two things. The first is sacredness. And when I say sacredness,
I don't mean like worship or something religious or even spiritual doesn't really feel like the
right word. For me, sacredness is being in touch with the cosmic reality that is being
like a conscious being alive in this moment on earth and just like the crazy amounts of
like statistical chance that this is happening. And that right now, all of our neurons are firing
in a way that we're able to communicate, we're not even in the same physical reality. Like it's
just like every moment, there's just like so much incredible meaning and richness. And I feel as if
the way we've organized our society today, actually actively wrenches us away from that
all the time. And this is actually why conciliance is such an exciting project for me and why I'm
involved as an advisor and love love the work is like being dragged away from that
realization and lived experience of the sacredness of all life is partly, you know, to do with the
sovereignty of like the epistemic sovereignty of being able to be a sovereign individual who can
be free in the moment to feel and think what they wish to and not be bombarded and manipulated by
advertising or algorithms that are kind of pulling your attention or even just like artificially
constructed scarcity that create these states of being that pull us out of that sacredness. So I'd
say something something like sacredness and sovereignty. But I really have no idea what that
future looks like, whether it's on the earth or on moon or underground. I mean, who knows, like
who knows, like the actual physical what is very unclear to me and I'm and I'm not
I'm quite suspicious of anybody who has like an ideology of what the future should look like. So
hope that wasn't too meta an answer. No, no, totally resonate with that too. And
yeah, I don't think anyone knows what it will look like. But for sure, I think the trajectory to get
there is not going to be boring. Anyway, so thank you. There was like a really, really appreciate
the priming the session with this and also resonate with both of what you said greatly.
So now that we know what we are fighting for, let's dive into the pragmatic and the concrete
solutions. Daniel, what are the concrete solutions that are proposed by the Continence
Project and how what are the goals and how do we reach them?
There's a there's a step or two in between
concrete goals and how we reach them and what is most
spiritually motivating where we started. Let me see if I can try to do that first.
So you talk about existential hope as a kind of
reframe of existential risk. What would a future that is post existential risk and
and what would a transition process be that would get there. So I'll just speak about existential
risk for a moment because if we're going to make a civilization that makes it, we have to make sure
that it doesn't fail from any of the fail cases. And it takes only any of them. There's this asymmetry
where any of the existential risks happening and the civilization doesn't move forward to not happen
there to move forward. They have to all not happen. So we have to understand
not just the whole ex-risk landscape, but what about the patterns of human behavior at scale,
the patterns of markets and the nature of how we create technology and the nature of how we do
governance and decision making, orient towards catastrophic and existential risk,
and don't orient towards solving it that well so that those are the things that we're looking at
solving to find kind of categorical solutions. And the first thing I'll say and I am sure this
obvious here is people have faced civilizations have faced existential risk for a long time
historically, but they were only local, right? They faced it in war and they faced it in famine
and sometimes in natural disaster. And in fact, every previous civilization doesn't still exist.
They all failed from either internal civilizational decay issues or, you know, outstripping their
environment or being overthrown or something like that. It's just we never had the level of
technology that allowed a global existential risk to be a real thing until the bomb. And
for most of us, the bomb was before we were born. So it seems like a long time ago, but
in terms of the arc of history and obviously in terms of evolutionary time, it was like a second
ago. And so we have to get that when we think about the actual possibility of global existential
risk or even radical regressive civilization. Maybe there's some humans, but we kind of lose
civilizational progress. It's a super new phenomena. And to really get the sense of like the couple
things that we have to factor right now. Up until the bomb, adjacent powers and particularly
adjacent major powers always fought wars. There were never really long periods where they didn't
fight wars. And so when you study the history of Europe or you're studying history in general,
it's a history of largely inter-kingdom, inter-nation, inter-tribal, depending upon where you go,
warfare. And with the bomb, we had this, we had the situation where we could never fight wars
again between major powers. We could fight proxy wars. We could fight asymmetric wars.
And so that was a really radically new situation that the world couldn't use the only problem
solving mechanism for border disputes that it had always had as a last resort against other
things. And the Bretton Woods world was the answer, which is nation states alone don't prevent
world war. We've seen that twice. We can't have world war again. We need some international
structures, the UN, the World Bank, the whole Bretton Woods agreement process,
that can make it to where we're so economically interdependent on each other through globalization
and global supply chains that it's never more profitable to war than to not war,
where it would damage us to go to large scale war, and where we can grow GDP so much that
everybody can get more without having to take it from others. This is the very highly positive sum
game theoretic dynamics decreasing violence. You fast forward 75 years and you run running
that kind of globalized supply chain and seeing what that did to population and resource consumption
per capita and cumulative environmental effects. You start hitting all the planetary boundaries
and you can't run that thing anymore. And you get to the place where almost all of the
commodities that we depend upon are built over six continents of these kind of vast supply chains
where something like COVID happens in one area and you get cascading failures across agriculture
and shipping and tech and finance across the whole world. So you get fragility that highly
interconnected system also means that failures in one place can cascade. And so for a number of
reasons we're kind of at the end of the Bretton Woods answer. And now we need an answer that
still doesn't have war because now we don't just have the bomb, we have many existential weapons,
many different catastrophic weapons. And there aren't just two actors that have them. There's
lots of actors including non-state actors that have them. So we still need a no war solution,
but it can't involve radical growth of material, linear materials economy through GDP and increasing
fragility of supply chains. And so now we need a new thing and there's no precedent for it.
And because we have a fully globalized civilization, we need a civilization that doesn't
fail and there's no precedent for that. And so how do we make a civilization that doesn't fail and
how do we make a civilization that doesn't need war and whose answer for not war doesn't cause
those other risks? Those are like new questions that we have to answer that previous civilizations
figured some parts out, but definitely didn't figure these things out. And when you say safe
stewards, like that's a really key way of thinking of all of the x-risks that we face are mediated
by tech. If we had stone tools only, none of them would exist. If we were in the Bronze Age,
none of them would exist. And so the question is if tech is extending our choice making power,
what types of choices do we have to make for the choice making power to actually be viable and
thriving long term? And I don't know if people here have had these conversations or heard where
I've talked about it, but we have a world where we still model ourselves as apex predators and
then using social Darwinism and game theory. But we're not apex predators because of tech.
That's kind of the key insight is an orca can eat one tuna at a time and we can put out a drift net
and take up a whole school full of tuna. That's not an apex predator. We can move to every environment
and become the apex predator in every environment they can't. But we're in a multipolar trap of
if we don't behave like the apex predator somebody else does, meaning they will do the tragedy of
the commons or the arms race thing, get so much game theoretic advantage in near term that we then
fail in the long term. So everyone is racing in kind of multipolar traps, applying apex predator
theory, but with something more like the power of gods in terms of being able to destroy species,
create new species, destroy ecosystems, make an Anthropocene. So, you know, the myth of poetic is
with the power of God, you have to have the love and wisdom of gods to guide it. And this is Phoebe's,
you know, wisdom and sacredness. The love is the recognition of the sacredness or the intrinsic
meaningfulness of life. And wisdom is the how do I think through what and feel through what right
choice and in acknowledgement of that sacredness looks like. And obviously, the market system
doesn't do that adequately and none of our kind of global systems do. And that makes sense. So,
