Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy. I'm Niasz Brotski. I'm Stephen Zuber. And today we have a guest,
Aaron Bolton. Hey there, Taren. How are you doing? I'm doing wonderful. How about you guys? I think
you're doing wonderful because you're very high. That's usually what it is. Yeah. Our topic today
is going to be. All right. I don't know if I'm pronouncing this right. Neutropics? So the official
pronunciation is nootropic. Nootropic. If you speak Greek. Yeah. If you speak Greek, the community
usually says Neutropic. Okay. Yeah. All right, then we're going to go with Neutropics because I like
my community more than like ancient Greeks. It's like a whole less syllable. I think it's a little
bit more marketable. So Neutropics, for those who are unfamiliar, are drugs that increase the
functioning of your brain? Am I getting this right? Yeah. Or just generally alter your mood. Some
things don't really try to improve you. They just actually pulled it. I pulled up the formal
definition for this just because I knew that there was one that was fairly stringent. And
speaking of pronunciation, I'm never going to get this. It's a Romanian psychologist and chemist
named Corneliu E Georgia. Throwing that out there. He coined the term Neutropic in 1960s when he
invented paracetam. So there's like five criteria and it's they should enhance learning and memory.
They should embrace or excuse me, they should enhance the resistance of learned behaviors and
memories to conditions which tends to disrupt them, e.g. electroconvulsive shock, hypoxia,
whatever. So it's supposed to make you able to learn and retain stuff even under like physical
duress. They should protect the brain against various physical and chemical injuries like
barbiturates and scopalamine, whatever that is. They should increase the efficacy of the tonic
cortical, subcortical mechanisms. Not sure how he knew that in the 1960s. They should lack,
not that they don't know what those things are, but I don't know how you'd measure them
whilst taking a pill. Drill holes in your brain. I guess. And then just look, yeah, whatever.
And then they should lack the usual pharmacology of other psychotropic drugs
and possess very few side effects and extremely low toxicity. So most, I think, when people talk
about Neutropics, they're talking about cognitive enhancers, because very few things fit all five
of those specific things in case we had to pick her. And as a community that values intelligence
and mental functioning so highly, these drugs are pretty popular. Oh, yeah. Crazy popular. So do
we want to start in with the more common ones, or did we want to jump straight to the good stuff?
I always like starting off small, because my deduction transseminism related is wearing
glasses, like I wear glasses. I'm like, then that's on the same track to transseminism. You
don't like what biology gave you. So in the same way, people are like, oh my god, brain
altering drugs, that sounds terrifying. Until you say like, no, we're talking about
at base things like caffeine, nicotine. Brain altering drugs sound amazing if they
make your brain better. It's like people are like, why would you want to change your body
chemistry? And I'm like, sometimes an infection will murder me. And that is why I want antibiotics.
To you and me, it sounds great. Better living through chemistry.
Yeah, to you and me. But to the way, the wayary skeptic, they might think that, you know,
tampering with what Mother Nature gave you is, you know, dangerous and stupid.
But they don't realize they do it all the time. Yeah, I hate that sort of thing, because if someone,
if someone was born with some sort of congenital defect, okay, so for example, there are people
who have very poor attention spans based, not poor, but different from, from the baseline that
makes it hard for them to function in society. And so we give them medicine, like ADHD, what is
the medicine? Adderall, yeah, to, to return them back to normal functioning. So a person that I
know has schizophrenia and he only functions because he is on antipsychotic medicine. So people
all the time are willing to give people medicine to bring them up to baseline if they are what,
what is considered below baseline. But for some reason, they draw the line at making you better.
I'm like, why, why is that if, if, you know, if 80 IQ is, is bad and 100 IQ is better,
then why isn't 120 IQ better than 100? There's, there's no reason. I mean,
if you wouldn't make someone who's at 120 IQ dumber to bring them down to 100,
then why wouldn't you increase them the other way around if they wanted it?
I can give, I think the answer, although it's not the answer I agree with to this,
which is there's a difference between helping somebody hit average peaks versus giving them
a leg up against the average person. And then I guess you can, you can,
the men people have the intuitive difference between like emitting and committing crimes
or acts. And so, you know, it's helping one person is one thing, but hurting a person to
make them more average is, is another. So they're like, well, we won't, we're not going to hurt
people, but we're rolling and help people up to, you know, average. I don't see why you wouldn't
help them up more if they wanted it. I don't either, but you and I are too, too into it.
I think that that is the common mode that people are operating in, right?
I think there is generally like a fear that it could increase, you know,
inequality and stuff like that. I mean, those are the big social consequences of,
of drugs like these is like whenever you put it in school systems or places where a performance
enhancer can just completely separate one child, you know, kids from another kid,
because one of them was taking a drugs, right? Then all of a sudden everyone has to take the
drug. Yeah, totally. We should get into that later when we get into our downsides section.
Well, since I can't resist jumping on it really quick, I knew somebody in high school who could
survive great on like four hours of sleep. Oh my God, I hate those people. And yeah,
I'm super jealous of her. So I don't hate those people. I wish I was those people.
But the rest of us could take Adderall or Ritalin and get to where she's at for the most part.
You know, there's a couple downsides. Our sleep wouldn't be as restful or whatever,
but people, that's like not, you know, as far as talking about like making the
Xaverage or whatever, that doesn't seem to be like enough of a reason to get someone on drugs.
It's like, all I need to be as awesome as that, you know, outlier is. So I think the whole point
is to kind of make it, you know, somewhere in the middle. So like if you couldn't function without
it, like you said, if you have, if you're taking psychotics or if you're taking, well, it's basically,
you know, like speed with a PG rating, if you're taking Ritalin or Adderall, but if you're a person
with ADD or ADHD that like chills you out rather than speeds you up, it's actually really interesting.
If you've seen somebody who on with pretty severe ADD, not having taken their meds,
they're just like you are, if you've taken too much Ritalin, at least a couple people that I knew,
but then they take it and they're like, God, I feel better and it's like the opposite of a cup
of coffee for them. I see. Okay. So I understand the downsides of, of getting reliant on a drug.
For example, steroids. If we're bringing this back to body stuff, which is much easier to
understand than mental stuff sometimes, because you can see the effect that steroids have,
they literally grow the muscles on your body. Athletes that use steroids outcompete those who
don't buy a mile. If you're in a, if you're in a sport where story, steroid use has been normalized,
you have to take it to compete. Like bicycle, bicycle racing is famous for being
one of those sports where you have to cheat because everybody else does
not necessarily with steroids, but in some way. And that all that does is now make it so that
originally when people have sports competitions, it's so that we can see who's the best, right?
We, we want to see people competing and being better than each other. And so if one person
takes steroids, then he's the best now and everyone has to take steroids. So basically,
we're all back to where we were before with everyone being more or less than the same
relative field, except now everybody is taking steroids, which might not be that bad a thing
if there's no downsides to steroids, but unfortunately there's a lot of downsides to
steroids, which is why you want to keep steroids out. If there were no downsides at all, it might
not be that bad of a thing. If there were no downsides to steroids, it might be a good idea to
give everyone steroids from birth so that everyone is much more physically fit and able to do a lot
more things in their life than they would otherwise be able to.
Totally. And I think that's where Neutropics were originally. Like one of the things that
he put in his definition whenever he invented pyroacetam was that it was a really, really
low risk profile. And I think for a long time, the community really kept with that. And they were,
you know, a lot of people just researched stuff that had really, really low risk
profiles, but gave you only like marginal gains. And then people would come in with
Medafinil and it doesn't have a non-existent risk profile. It has the risk profile of a
proper prescription drug and it gives you a much larger boost. So people are now willing to accept
stuff like micro dosing and prescription drugs that have just huge risk profiles on long scales
whenever you're talking about taking them. Yeah. I basically don't believe in a drug with no risk
profile at all. Yeah. Because from what I've heard, caffeine has more of a risk profile than
Medafinil does. Oh, I would totally believe that caffeine's risk profile is huge. Yeah. And,
you know, a lot of people whenever you hear about Neutropics think that a lot of them are going to
have risk profiles that are around like caffeine and stuff, but like Neupept, it's incredibly low.
Pyracetamide's lower than sugar, you know, as far as your like lethal dose for 50% of a population
of like rats and stuff like that. So it's just incredibly safe. So let's discuss the first
Neutropic that basically everyone is familiar with being caffeine. I wanted to say when you said
risk profile, I think we should expand what that means a little bit because the first thing I would
say to argue that is like, well, I know a lot of people who drink coffee every day and live to be
95, right? Well, I don't know that many 95 year olds, but a handful. So risk profile doesn't
necessarily mean will kill you, but has negative effects. Like one of the major negative effects
with caffeine is that it is addictive. That's only negative if you can't get any more caffeine.
Said every drug addict. But that is definitely a downside because the withdrawal symptoms suck
and because due to the body's natural ability to get used to anything, eventually the caffeine
doesn't have that much of an effect anymore. And you're just taking caffeine to stay baseline.
And that blows because you wake up in the morning and you're like, I'm a zombie and I have to take
caffeine just to get back to normal. Whereas if you'd never gotten addicted, you just wake up
and be normal and have the exact same thing as the guy after he drank caffeine without that
beginning area where you have to dose in order to be normal. That's where I try to be with my
caffeine usage is to have it where it's a boost for me and not a get out of bed thing. Now basically
I take like 100 milligrams in the morning and sometimes more later if I need a boost.
Yeah, you're an addict.
But well, yeah. But I mean, I don't know if addict is the right word. I mean,
it's it's the accurate word, but I don't know if it's the right word to throw around in the
situation just because I mean, it's not what I mean, it doesn't paint the picture of, you know,
a a crack addict, right? So yes, do I need it to feel good? Yes. But
in it's not, I think, I mean, yeah, the withdrawals suck. What am I trying to say? It's not
it's addiction, but it's not that bad. Come on. Okay. No, no, I mean, there's a lot of things
that aren't that bad. You can lose a finger and that's not that bad, but you'd still rather have
the finger, right? I feel like we're we're I don't feel like that's a very fair comparison.
See, I kind of think it is a fair comparison because I maybe this is just me,
but I would be willing to risk one or lose one or two knuckles of one of my pinkies
if I was not addicted to things anymore. I think maybe this is just due to my experience of having
been a cigarette smoker for, I don't know, 10, 15 years, but having that leash around you,
that this chemical controls your mood and requires you to go out and have some more of it every
few hours or you are just grumpy and unhappy. The freedom when I finally broke that addiction
is amazing and that is the same reason I try to avoid things like caffeine because having
having my neurological state controlled by something else really sucked. And I mean, yeah,
like you say, it's not a big deal. You can just go out and smoke or go out and have caffeine
whenever you want, but you still feel that leash around you all the time. It's the lack of freedom.
I feel the same way if I don't get lunch, right? Like I'm not trying to be pathetic,
but I can't break your lunch addiction or a good night's sleep or something.
Yeah. So, all right, point taken. And I see where you're coming from. Certainly
that dependency is kind of annoying. I guess it sort of depends as far as where I'd say,
if I have a problem with it, like how much is impacting my life? I spend, let's see, 180 pills
is like $10. So sometimes two pills a day. So I spend maybe 10 bucks every two months on caffeine.
So like that's not really hurting me that bad, right? If I spend eight bucks a day,
you know, getting two Starbucks or something. Hey, I'd have more problems than just my caffeine
addiction. Huge Starbucks drinker. Well, no, I meant like, because I, oh yeah,
this isn't something that I should have spelled out. When I drink coffee, I need to feel the
diabetes coursing through my veins with every sip. So like I get the, give me all the sugar,
all your cream, I want it to hurt. So if I was drinking two Frappuccinos a day, I would probably
die. So not from the caffeine, right? But yeah, okay. Where were we going with this caffeine
something? Risk profiles. Yes. Right. But it's also not stuff that you have to necessarily see
immediately. Like whenever you came off a caffeine binge and you're really exhausted and stuff,
the brain is something that we don't really understand a lot on a neuroscience level about
how it works. And so there's things that can increase like markers for tumors. And that's not
necessarily they're saying that they're increasing the likelihood of tumors. They're just increasing
the thing that we look for whenever we're looking for tumors. And so it's hard to really see what
these chemicals are always doing. And a tumor is not going to show up for 20 years. So I mean,
you can do some real long-term damage just because a lot of these things aren't really,
really scientifically looked at with the microscope. I don't know. It's the long-term damage that I'm
kind of most afraid of. I honestly, with my experiences, it's been the really long-term
damage has been the stuff that I've been least afraid of. And maybe that's just me being ignorant.
But it's part of the whole longevity community is we're kind of waiting for
leaps in science to be able to cure a lot of the things that might come up hopefully. And if it
can help me perform better and just generally, not even just performance wise, just generally have
a better quality of life. That's a small sacrifice. Yeah, the idea that like, well, maybe in 20 years
when my liver finally dies, I can totally be 200 bucks in the weekend off work and bam, new liver.
So yeah, fingers crossed, fingers crossed. And if not, you had a good run on your way.
So I guess the first new topic everyone is familiar with is the caffeine. And the effects
of caffeine are generally to help you think faster and concentrate easier. Yes, is that the case?
Yeah, pretty much. It stimulates you. It just kind of wakes you up in a more like
slapy in the face kind of way. The alertness kind of ties into all that too, right?
This is pretty much a good example, but it's hard to be labor or that sounding pointless
because everyone probably is familiar with the effects. So it's the opposite of waking up tired
if you have too much caffeine. It's your, you know, instead of being sluggish and withdrawn,
you're kind of like jittery and just super awake. So yeah, caffeine, I think is one of
those things everyone's pretty familiar with. I read a hypothesis that one of the big boosts
of the Enlightenment era was that back then access to clean water was kind of restricted.
And so people would have to drink things that made the water purer. And the big popular one
before was always alcohol. It killed the stuff in the water. You get a nice buzz. Everything's great.
And around the period of the Enlightenment, people started switching to coffee and tea instead. And
so all of a sudden your thing that purified your water instead of making you slower and
dumber made you faster and smarter. And people started getting together and just talking about
things and they're like, oh, hey, let's do some science on this. It's kind of no surprise that,
I mean, historically looking back that the light, the Enlightenment didn't take off 500 years earlier
because everyone was drunk all the time, or at least buzzed. Like I couldn't imagine
waking up and only drinking wine all day. I mean, even if it was like lightly watered down,
you know, whatever, but even so, you're just getting a, you start the day with a buzz and it
never, you know, just, it stays there. You probably are desperate for it in the first thing in the
morning. So, you know, as long as you're comparing addictions, Enyosh. Yours is much better. Mine
kicked off the Enlightenment. It's got that going for it. The other one, people are fairly
