familiar with is nicotine and I am not a big fan of calling that a new tropic, but a lot of people
do. Oh yeah. Would you like to explain why? I honestly don't know. I think it's just the stimulating
nature of it. Whenever you're talking about like lower doses, like a full cigarette is
nuts. As far as doses, we just found out when we googled how much nicotine is in a cigarette.
Eight to 20 milligrams per cigarette. Yeah. And then like, I mean, on a new,
new tropic level, you're looking at like one and like maybe like two milligrams or something
like that that people typically dose. So, I mean, it's, it's a lot lower, but it's stimulating.
You know, it wakes you up kind of like how coffee does nicotine does this interesting thing too,
at least in my experience and some reported online, but it wakes you. It kind of makes me
more alert when I'm tired and for most, for many people, they smoke when they're stressed
because it chills them out when they're stressed. Yes, I've heard that it's sort of just kind of
maybe if you're, if you're, you know, like if you max out at a hundred, I'm trying to draw this
whole scale on my head. If you're too high, it brings you down. If you're too low, it brings
you up, but whatever that midline is, is above average. The thing about nicotine though, it
lasts very short. Oh, yeah. It's half like a few minutes. Yeah, nothing. Yeah. I don't think it's
worth it for that and that regard. And also it just isn't nearly as effective as anything else.
And no, I say it's probably on the higher end. Whenever we're talking about at least like the
original definition of these things, like the things with really low risk profiles, it's
leaving that space and going into the thing that, you know, as a higher risk profile, but it has a
much higher effect. Like a typical dose, there was a point where I was in that really low risk
profile stage and I was taking like maybe eight things a day and that was almost bringing me
up to maybe a cup of coffee, you know, or a little bit of nicotine. So it's, most of these
are sub-perceptual. You can't really tell. The other thing with nicotine that I would stress
is that we're not necessarily talking about smoking cigarettes. So like, well, there's a
whole bunch of baggage that comes when you're burning stuff and inhaling it that way versus
other ways of taking it in. vaping is one common way that has by far less medical complications.
My current way of taking a nicotine is I chew a little bit of nicotine gum now and then,
a little bit most days, but I buy packets that are two milligrams per piece of gum and I have
half of a gum at a time. So I'm looking at like one milligram of nicotine, maybe three,
four times a day. And how long does that last you? How long does like the feel of it? Oh yeah,
just a few minutes. Yeah, maybe half an hour tops. But that's because the release on the
gum is way slower too than like a puff on a cigarette. I know this is my own prejudice
speaking, but I really don't think it's worth it for the mental aspects. The thing... Okay,
have you guys read Friendship as Optimal? Yes. Okay, so I never finished Friendship as Optimal
because one of the protagonists is a researcher and she points out how dedicated she is to this
because she is smoking cigarettes to increase her mental abilities. That wasn't like the first
chapter. Yeah, I know. I didn't... You didn't get far and far. And to me that was like,
this is an excuse that an addict uses. Smoking a cigarette is not a good way to get nicotine at
all and it frustrated me. I think the, in my opinion, probably the most useful thing about
nicotine is the addictive profile of it. Nicotine, one of the most addictive substances that there
is psychologically speaking, when I was quitting smoking, lots of times I would simply like put
a paperclip or a pen or something in between my two fingers like you hold a cigarette and bring it
up to my lips and that would help relieve the craving a bit because I had a bit of a psychological
addiction to the physical motions that happen while you're smoking. And I've heard that the
nicotine can be very useful for that if you don't like exercising but you really feel you need to
take nicotine when you get on a treadmill. And after a couple weeks of this, you will start
having a physical need to go and get on the treadmill for that. So yeah, if you want to condition
yourself to do stuff in an obsessive way, the nicotine is great for that. But it is just so
addictive that even the things you're doing while you're taking the nicotine become addictive and
I don't think it's worth the risk in any sense. I'll just qualify on friendship is optimal. The
protagonist started smoking because she anticipated her lifespan on earth being a few more months.
Yeah. So she was like, well, I'm going to burn the candle hard at both ends to get this shit done
and get it done right and work 16 hour days or whatever, right? Yeah. So agreed. That sounds
like, you know, addictive speaking, but I didn't get that impression at all from where that character
was actually going. Okay. And from what we were talking about before, the how fast you get the
nicotine in a cigarette and how much there is is really counterproductive if you're not already a
smoker. Like every now and then I'll still have a, we were just saying, every now and then I'll
still have a cigarette at a party and I will take one drag and I will get lightheaded and have to
hold on to something because you get a lot of nicotine really fast if you're smoking it.
And so the scientist lady, if she is taking that as a smoking to to be an enhancement,
she is getting dizzy and not able to do things for a while or she's already a smoker and she
has a tolerance and therefore it isn't helping her in any way except to keep her from getting
really grumpy due to not feeding the addiction. Maybe the author didn't smoke.
Well, yeah, or possibly he really enjoyed smoking. I don't think there's too many people that would
argue that smoking specifically like smoking cigarettes is no tropic. Okay.
That that's obviously like like it's not measured. It's just like
I feel. I feel like the obviously addiction. I feel like the dare officer who comes into
your school now and tells you not to smoke. Sorry. You're also eating this horse. You're
also an anti caffeine. Are you pro anything? I am pro clean living and exercise exercise
my new tropics. It is it's it's one of the more powerful ones and that's
you know there's one more time consuming ones to yeah totally and that's the thing is you're
sacrificing right so so much time like if you want to I mean so I like I'll triple down for a test
within tropics if I'm taking an exam or something or if I've got something really important I need
to be doing but you can't like well I'm gonna go for you know 90 minute run and then I'm gonna
sit down and take this test or I'm gonna try to take it while running two years before I take
this. Exercise really is awesome. Yeah. I mean I meant it as a joke but
totally sleep is another one that people don't realize it's just like that's really the most
you can do as far as increasing your ability to think straight is just getting the proper
amount of sleep drinking the right amount of water and then you know eating right and exercising
that's that's by far and not not damaging your sleep like do not look at any backlit screens for
at least a half hour before going to bed preferably an hour or an hour and a half and do not drink
caffeine within six hours of going to bed because it can damage your sleep too. I try to do all the
sleep hygiene things but I haven't I sleep through the night maybe twice a year oh yeah I'm typically
like by that I mean where I go to sleep and that I have no awareness until I wake up in the morning
that happens every six months tops huh I wake up two three times a night usually just to toss
like just to rotate or something or whatever but I'm I don't do really that thing in movies where
they're like huh where am I what time is it I'm always like either I'm unconscious or I'm like
fully alert but I can you know if it's the middle of the night I can turn it back off and go right
back to sleep most times I know I always think about like I wonder how that impacts me not sleeping
well all the time I'm probably that can't be great I would imagine not I I know that I move
when I sleep because when I wake up I'm in a different position but unless I'm sleeping with
someone I don't ever like remember it I don't wake up enough I think I just do it while I'm
unconscious I'm sure I flop when I'm like unconscious too but there are times where I'm
like oh I rolled off my pillow and I'll get back on Twitter something but yeah I don't know it's
it's a thing you might just be one of those like unicorn people who only needs four hours I'm not
though I'm so tired but no I mean I I get by it's not debilitating it'd be one thing like if I
was up for an hour every time this happens two three times a night but that's almost never the
case how long have you been using stimulants I mean I've probably been drinking coffee for
12-ish years middle of my teens do you think if you're like to wean off over the next few weeks
and then just take a month with no stimulants at all see how your sleep is affected um as far as
like caffeine part I think I mean like I said I'm on 100 and 150 milligrams a day right now which is
less than a medium cup of coffee so I mean I don't know and I have it first thing in the morning
I don't know if that's gonna hurt my sleep that much I mean I know the half life is six or so
hours probably not a few just only have it in the morning yeah I mean I could give it a shot
but then I'd be then you're asking me to go without caffeine so we already talked about
how much of a problem this is yes but maybe I'll give it a shot maybe it'll be a lame couple days
but couldn't hurt so so we've been beating around the bush for a half hour because what everyone
really wants to hear that came to this podcast is midaphanel midaphanel is like the star child of
the new tropic community and I have never used it as far as I know and so I am coming into here
as far as you know I I'm yes maybe I used it once and blacked out because it was so intense you
are so in a flow state that you just like the whole day we've gone what we really should have done
was I should have brought over some this morning nope you could have had some and then we could
have talked about how you felt on the air not sure I want to take that experiment right before
we record a podcast for science for science in your fine for science I mean it's too late now
but it's next time next time yeah so I am going to be the noob in this situation and you guys are
going to explain midaphanel to me and why it's great and what it does and etc I'm a noob deterrent
so you're up it's it's where it really shines is probably whenever you're sleep deprived so any
anytime that you didn't you know get a good night if you were out partying or something like that
you can pop one and it'll usually take you back to like around a hundred percent like if you if
it would have been like a 50 percent day you can get pretty close to fully functional if not just
a little bit higher functioning so I think that's really where you know the original intent of the
drug is and then where it was originally developed for narcolepsy yeah okay yeah or like night shift
workers and stuff like that like people with weird sleep cycles um not weird but just like you know
against the norm so it helps a ton if you miss sleep it's incredible can you just not sleep ever
if you keep taking it no no totally it's it's more displacing sleep it's taking sleep from
somewhere else it's taking energy from your next day and just applying it today essentially so you
could go like I'm sure there's people who've done like three-day binges or something where they just
didn't get any sleep and and you can operate at a really high level for those three days
but then those three days are up you're gonna crash hard and you're gonna you're gonna need to rebound
and get a lot of that sleep maybe not all of it but you're gonna need to get quite a bit of it back
I think there's less to do with the medallion a little more to do with skipping that much sleep
yeah totally so if you have like a good sleep cycle um you're willing to not like overdo
the drug and and you know you just go about your day regularly it can be pretty pretty cool how
it brings you above baseline could you take it regularly to cut your sleeping down to four hours
a night or is that not a good idea either no it's any anytime you're messing with any of these I
would say always get a regular amount of sleep just just to be safe so what happens if you take it
on a day that you are fine you don't have any sleep issues does it help in other aspects
yeah you just perform better that's really the only way to describe it is just like most things that
you do are easier to do and and happen I'll say that I know at least one person that doesn't do
anything for and I think yeah totally yeah there's non-responders yeah your mileage may vary but for
me it you like I said it makes it easier to do things and I I love it if I could get it every
day I totally would oh well I guess like I could get it every day I'm not sure why I'm not taking
it every day so don't do it so don't definitely don't do that yeah because that's that sort of it's
I want it to be you know a treat for my brain if I need a good day so what it what it does for me
is it doesn't take me outside the bounds of a day that I've had normally but it puts me in like my
best cognitive days that I ever have so I mean I have one of those you know maybe it's on the same
days that I sleep through the night a couple times a year I feel just great I'm sharp I'm on point all
day this just it's one of those in a pill wow so yeah it's it's awesome it's not like taking
Adderall where any amphetamine for that matter yeah like in fact even the current ones like
Vivance they're incredibly clean drugs Modafinil is is just so much cleaner it doesn't bring you
to 150 it just brings you to like 110 yeah it's awesome I think even when I've seen it marketed
like for unlabeled use it's it's labeled like under this weight category of non-stimulant
alertness aid and that's that's a good way to put it doesn't make you jittery it makes it just really
easy to focus and just whatever that you know that feeling you get in your head when you're burning
energy doing something cognitively it just feels like you have more of that like a lot more like
I've never run out on a modafinil day so I mean you can sit there and whatever it is you're doing
you know I think one of the things to keep in mind is that you might want to plan what you plan
to work on before you take it because it makes it pretty easy to get for some people makes it
pretty easy to get immersed into whatever it is you're doing uh or whatever it is you're
you're going to end up doing anyway so planning your day out and be like all right well I'm going
to take this then I'm going to go and write for six hours is a lot easier than saying well I'm
going to take it hang out for a couple hours then go right for six hours because the next thing you
know you've spent a lot of time focusing on something unproductive yeah spent the last eight
hours optimizing your operating system right or like one time I had to take it and I stayed home
and played Skyrim all day and it was probably the most immersive Skyrim play I've ever had
and uh like so it was a lot of fun but it wasn't I think an optimal use of my time
but it yeah I mean it's you know some people you know I don't I don't typically use a lot of marijuana
but actually I never use a lot but um I don't typically use at all but I know people you know
who smoke and play a video game or something it's kind of like that but this is the opposite of
the opposite effect probably I'm you know you're just I don't know it's it's hard to it's it's
like having too much caffeine but minus all the side effects you're not jittery you're not
uncomfortable you I mean as long as you're drinking enough water you're not going to get a headache
let me qualify that for for my personal experience once again your mileage may vary we're not doctors
etc so that's that I've also only overtaken 100 milligrams at a time yeah so typical
doses for neutropic use are between 50 and 200 and I think the prescribed dose is between like
two and six hundred so depending on how bad your narcolepsy is or how bad your work shift
disorder is they could give you you know three four five hundred milligrams a day I've only taken
a hundred so one of these days maybe I'll take you know two three hundred and just see how I
roll throughout the day but uh Taren is shaking his head I have no idea why you're shaking your head
all right so let's talk about the risk profile in mid-alpha now uh well or why are you shaking
your head first then we'll just because you can have I mean overstimulation is a really bad day
you're you're constantly dehydrated the headaches are crazy I mean on modafimil days I usually try
and drink at least double the amount of water and I drink about like two nalgene of water
a day normally so I mean your water intake goes way up your your body burns really hot
on this thing and honestly we really don't know anything about how it works um so it was
interesting that you said it was a non-stimulant what it was like awareness promoter is is that
what I think though the the it was this was amongst my other medical dragon but it said
non-stimulant alertness aid alertness aid yeah so I think what they mean by that is that you
don't really get increased heart rate so I took uh let me jump on this really quick as far as
stimulant alertness I took um co-worker a couple years ago gave me I don't know how much
whatever he took and he's a 220 pound bodybuilder a fedra and if he hadn't told me this is going to
feel pretty intense I I and like if I just felt this way without knowing why I would have gone to
the hospital and what is a fedra it's it's been banned a couple of times I have no idea how in
what form he's still getting it legally but either some legal way to get it it's basically uh I should
have looked up the the fancier definition adrenaline yeah it's basically adrenaline like it but like
caffeine is kind of basically adrenaline this is more more of that yeah but it's it's the point
where oh yeah yeah like some some like professional athletes had heart attacks and stuff so they
banned it at some point and then now it's back in some other form anyway the entire time like my
palms are sweaty like I felt like tunnel vision is probably too dramatic but I definitely had some
perceptual impacts my heart was just pounding like I could feel it I could I was perspiring and I
