they meant by that is that a system in the molecular domain that's made up of molecular
processes that form a reaction network, that is, that catalyze each other's production, produce
each other in a way that also involves the fabrication or production of a, of a membrane
that makes the system bounded in space, that this is the minimal example of the emergence of,
we could say, a body. That is, an individual that's not only individuated, but self-individuating.
Because a system like this alters its boundary conditions in a way that, say, a candle flame
doesn't, doesn't alter its boundary conditions in the way that a living cell does. So they
talked about this as a kind of basic biologic. You have this auto poetic loop. It's a strange
loop in a way, you could say, using Hofstadter's term, that complex auto poetic systems are
adaptively related to the environment. That is, they can modify their behavior in relationship
to their zone of viability. What is, what is going to lead to the system's dissolution versus
what is going to enable it to continue to hold together. This is constantly driving it in
relationship to the environment so that we know, for example, that very, very simple bacterial
critters that they swim about with the flagella rotating clockwise, counterclockwise, tumbling
versus directed swimming, and that this is under the controls through stronger word, is under the
modulation of the ongoing auto poetic metabolism. And this is a kind of basic sense making.
Because these organisms differentiate in their environment things that are significant versus
insignificant. Sucrose versus heavy metals, things that will make it swim up gradient,
that enhance its metabolic continuation, things that will repel it and make it swim away. So I
like to put this by saying that living, even at this very fundamental level, is sense making
in precarious conditions. That's what it's embodied sense making in precarious conditions.
Now if we think of this in a, in a much more evolutionary sense where we're particularly
focused on animal life, animal life is about multi-cellularity, about a body that has many
kinds of cells with neurons that are needed to signal rapidly and across large distances,
sensory and motor ends. But it's the same kind of strange loop organization where now the
auto regulation is facilitated through the self-production of the neuronal cells in a dense
network like those circles with the black arrows that I showed you before. And in animal life,
we see what looks more familiar to us, what we would call cognition, emotion, affect, and so on.
And of course in mammal life, this is social from the ground up. There's, in mammalian life, no brain
is an island. Everything is about coupling and co-regulation. So this is very, very quick going
through a number of different things, but what I'm trying to bring out and emphasize to you
is what happens when we put life back into consciousness by way of the primacy of embodiment.
This perspective transforms how we think about what philosophers call the explanatory gap between
consciousness and nature. The gap is no longer, or the problem is no longer the gap between the mental
defined as fundamentally non-physical, or the physical and the physical defined as fundamentally
non-mental, which is how philosophers usually set it up. The problem is rather the passage
from the living body to the lived body and back again. How do we negotiate that passage?
And that's what I call in my book, Mind and Life, the body-body problem.
Negotiating it requires that phenomenology and science work together without one aiming to usurp
the other. We can think of this as a kind of mutual circulation or mutual illumination,
where phenomenology and science work together to illuminate each other by way of
the primacy of consciousness and the primacy of embodiment. Okay, so this brings me to the last
part of the talk, which is the idea of neural phenomenology, which comes from Francisco Varela.
He didn't invent the term, but he brought it into current currency and used it in a particular way.
And in his usage, it works under the assumption of the primacy of consciousness and the primacy
of embodiment and investigates the relationship between conscious experience and brain activity.
Varela's working idea, this is now back in the 90s, up to the time that he died in 2001,
was that the flow of experience, or what William James would call the stream of consciousness,
reflects what neuroscientists today call intrinsic brain activity or spontaneous brain
activity as much as or more than stimulus evoked activity. So the brain is constantly
endogenously generating its own activity and it's doing that in a way that's under the influence
of stimuli, but the way that stimuli are received and dealt with has to do with what the brain is
doing intrinsically, spontaneously. And Varela's idea was that a careful phenomenology of the flow
of experience can be used to illuminate intrinsic brain activity. It could help to,
as it were, recover noise, what would otherwise be treated as noise.
And that this kind of phenomenology would benefit from trained contemplative insight.
So you can think about it as, on the one hand, we have the phenomenology of consciousness,
now we're really talking about, of course, human consciousness, and the neuroscience investigation
of it, and bringing the neuroscience of meditation into the sphere of the neuroscience
of consciousness, and bringing meditative insight into the sphere of the phenomenology of consciousness
in this mutually illuminating, mutually mutual circulation way. Now there are a number of studies
that I just want to highlight for you. I'm not going to go through them in detail because we don't
have time that pursued this approach or at least tried to pilot it to some extent. One was a study
that Varela published or actually appeared after his death, where they looked at different qualities
of attention, antecedent to the presentation of a stimulus, which was a stereogram, a depth illusion,
and they looked at how the antecedent spontaneous activity and different qualities of attention,
distraction versus attentional stability, modulated the behavioral response to the stimuli,
and the vividness of the perception, and they were investigating this looking at frequency
phase synchrony patterns recorded through EEG, so oscillatory activity as recorded by EEG and the
temporal phase relationship between the signals. So this was published some years ago.
Another study that just appeared a year ago is one that I participated in,
which used experienced Terravada of Apasana meditators to report on when they first noticed
the arising of a thought, and the idea was to use this ability to track the neural activity
further back in time than would be possible with an untrained observer of the arising of
spontaneous thoughts as a way of getting a more fine-grain temporal portrait using fMRI of the
antecedent neural activity generating spontaneous cognition. And another study looked at using
real-time fMRI feedback and how people with attentional stability through meditation are able to
through the feedback about their own neural activity to modulate in a reliable way
the signals coming from, in this case it was the posterior cingulate as measured using fMRI.
So these are just all examples of some neuro phenomenological kinds of studies,
and if you're interested in the details of this, there's a short review paper that I did with
Sinha Fazlpur, who's a PhD student of mine on the brain dynamics and how they're viewed from a
neuro phenomenological perspective. Okay, so neuro phenomenology then is about, we could say,
cultivating the experiential side of the embodied mind through contemplative training.
And Varela's idea was to embed contemplative practice and mind science in a larger common
framework based on the primacy of lived experience where, again, there's a mutual illumination
and circulation back and forth between phenomenology and, in this case, neuroscience.
All right, so this brings me then to the concluding thoughts.
To repeat something that I began with, there's no way to step outside of consciousness
as lived experience and to measure it against something else.
Everything we investigate is disclosed from within lived experience,
and direct experience never shows up apart from our being embodied and situated in the world.
It therefore makes no sense to aim to reduce experience to something essentially non-experiential
as the physical is classically conceived to be,
rather understanding how consciousness is a natural phenomenon may require radical revision
to our scientific concept of nature, such that consciousness, in quotation marks because I'm
talking about the concepts now, such that consciousness and nature don't mutually
exclude each other at the outset or by construction as they have basically for a sense Descartes,
rather they imply each other or arise from something neutral between them.
At the same time, our ultimate and truly hard problem, our hardest task,
is not to solve an abstract mind-body problem. It's rather to live the mutual dependence
of experience and embodiment with benevolence, with mindfulness, and with care. This is especially
meant to, if you were at Adam's talk yesterday, to echo his discussion of the situation we find
ourselves in today on the planet, the Anthropocene, and whether that's going to be a good or a bad
Anthropocene. So I want to end with Stephen Batchelor's poetic rendering of one of the
verses from Nagarjuna's Fundamental Stances of the Middle Way. This is one of my favorite
ways of rendering some of his thoughts. You are not the same as or different from
conditions on which you depend. You are neither severed from nor forever fused with them.
This is the deathless teaching of Buddhas who care for the world. And in my favorite part,
when Buddhas don't appear and their followers are gone, the wisdom of awakening bursts forth
by itself. Thank you.
Thank you, Evan, for this. It was wonderful, very illuminating, inspiring, awesome in many ways.
Thank you. And I would like to know if the people I invited to comment will comment. I'll
count to five. If they don't, I'll move on. Ah, we have a hand. Okay, come over please. So this is
Professor Peter Tsif from the Brain and Cognitive Sciences, and he's one of our speakers tomorrow
morning. So it's a beautiful talk and an important perspective. So neuro phenomenology
is something I care about a lot. It's something that's missing in science pretty much.
So within neuroscience, as we could in principle have three basic sources of information,
everything associated with brains, including neurons and consequences of neural activity,
like bold signal and fMRI and EEG, then behavior, and that's associated with psychophysics. And then
there's our experience. And this is not really emphasized enough. And if you do emphasize it,
like I do in my own work, you have to kind of hide it behind the guise of hardcore psychophysics.
But the field could move in a true neuro phenomenological direction if it
allowed, for example, human neurophysiology, which it doesn't now, but it should, I think. And in fact,
I think it would be much less ethical for neuroscientists who do these experiments on each
other than on monkeys, where, for example, let's say I had a year left to live and I had my trusted
friends who are neurophysiologists opening my skull and controlling neural activity,
say going into particular brain areas that are involved in color perception or shape perception
or whatever, and manipulating that activity in a controlled way. There's an area called
B4. If I go in there, I can have 20 hertz stimulation, 30 hertz. And I could say,
you know, when you do that, I see red flickering here. And there's lots and lots of things we could
do. So my hope for the future within science is a real embrace of neuro phenomenology to take a
causal manipulationist approach towards subjective experience beyond simply bombarding us with
drugs like psilocybin, which has some consequences that might be analogous to some
Buddhist experiences. But let me say, you know, we do know that we can manipulate brain activity
through drugs like psilocybin or, you know, even banging you on the head and you see phosphines,
and that that triggers subjective experiences. So I think the assumption behind neuroscience that
subjective experience is realized in, or I suppose supervenes upon, neural activity is,
I think a good one to go with, at least for now, unless, until someone can prove to a,
to me or any other standard neuroscientist that there could be disembodied
subjective experiences. And I'm not saying that's what you're advocating, but
right. So if we assume that consciousness is embodied in the sense that it's realized in
neural activity, then it's a worthwhile enterprise to try to figure out what that relationship is.
Let me just close by saying that I think it's kind of cool to hear somebody point out the irony or
the absurdity of science, you know, neuroscience, which is taking the only thing that we know for
sure, which is our conscious experience, and then using that, based upon that evidence to
create models of things that presumably don't have subjective experience and then try to
eliminate conscious experience from the universe on the basis of these things that were derived
from that. I think that's a very good point. It's ironic and it's really foolish, but it
happens for deep historical reasons, I think. So Evan, you come from a tradition that goes
through, I would say, Merleau-Ponty and Heidegger, through Husserl to Kant and back to Plato's
Allegory of the Cave, something like that. And psychology and neuroscience, the traditions I
come from, well, I would say the traditions started with Wilhelm Wundt in the 1860s and
70s, who started a movement called structuralism, which was introspectionistic and reductionistic.
Unlike anything that it goes to now. It was reductionistic because what blew people's minds
in the 1850s was Mendeleev's periodic table. And they said, oh, okay, well, if there's atoms of
matter that can explain all the complexity of matter, well, maybe there's atoms of mind. Let's
find out what those atoms of the mind are. So it was reductionistic. What are the atoms of the mind?
And it was introspectionistic because he would take a grad student and put an apple there and say,
what are your subjective atoms? And there's a redness and roundness. Good, okay. So this kind
of movement started by Wundt, which is really the first peeling off of psychology from philosophy,
went on for some decades. It had two rejections. One rejection was the American rejection of
Wundt and structuralism, which rejected its introspectionism utterly. And this was John B.
Watson and his followers that are later known as the behaviorists. And they said, it's ridiculous
to have a science that takes unobservable subjective experience seriously. We have to focus on what's
publicly observable and that's behavior. That's behaviorism. Almost simultaneously around 1910
or so, you had a German rejection of Wundt's introspectionistic and reductionistic structuralism.
And that was the Gestalt movement, which rejected the reductionism, but kept the introspectionism,
which so they were both rejections of this, but the German movement almost got wiped out by
Nazism, because the founders, Max Wertheimer and Kafka were Jewish and
Wolfgang Kirle, who wasn't Jewish, they all had to come to America, couldn't get jobs because
it was dominated by behaviorists. So in neuroscience and psychology, what dominated overwhelmingly
was the American emphasis on the publicly observable. But there has been a recent re-invigoration
or rebirth of Gestalt psychology within these traditions. And I think there might even be
a merging in of these Husserlian traditions now, if we could really create a kind of neural
phenomenology that allowed us to manipulate human consciousness in a way that we could report.
And so that we could really understand the neural basis of consciousness. But I think it would
require a new kind of science, namely human neurophysiology.
We have another commentary from a different perspective.
Wonderful. Okay. Shingaroshi will speak tomorrow too.
That was really a very wonderful, rich and inspiring talk. Thank you. And your words about
the horizon reminded me of something that I asked my mother about when I was about seven or eight.
I wanted to know, is there a God? She said, oh, I don't know. I said, no, really, I need to know.
She said, well, here's a piece of paper and a pencil. Let me show you something. She drew a
circle. And she said, everything we can know can be proven by science, by the rational mind,
and it's all in this circle. And I said, but all I care about is what's outside the circle.
To that she had no response. And the other thing I wanted to say is you mentioned
what happens in the awareness of thinking, the awareness of what thoughts are arising during
meditation. And how important that is as we go further in contemplative work to notice thoughts
as they arise, because so often we get hijacked into what we might call a very negative mindset.
And that it's possible to change that right as it's happening. And, you know, in terms of
what we just heard about the needs of this very really crisis-ridden world we're in,
to be able to do that, for each of us to be able to do that and change our minds
again and again is absolutely crucial.
Great. Well, now I'll open to questions from the audience. I just ask you to raise your hand.
I'm going to bring the microphone to you because we have video recording this. Okay.
Hi. So I have a question. So one of the things that I
just find most interesting about the idea of consciousness is all these
ongoing works on machine learning, right? So a lot of these things now cards can drive,
you know, they can respond to you when you speak to your phone. So how do you actually
