start to draw the line as to where is this just a machine doing some sort of, you know,
linear fitting or where is it actually conscious? When is it actually making decisions and how
does that really fit into the large, you know, big data area that we live in? How do you start to draw
out the same notions of consciousness and neuropsychology that you're talking about here
into a more technological space? Yeah.
So I think of all of those technological devices and advances, especially,
you know, coming out of computational work as examples of the re-implementation via technology
of the abstraction from concrete lived experience so that the concrete lived experience is then
altered by the technological re-implementation of those scientific idealizations, abstractions,
mathematical models and so on. With regard to consciousness, my own view, I didn't,
you know, I didn't argue for this today, but this would be my view is that,
or let me put it this way, that embodiment lived experience in the sense of embodied situated
experience requires a system that is going to have the kind of individuation or autonomy we
could say that we see in life in living systems and that we have not been able to achieve this
in robotics. It's proved to be an extremely difficult problem and that it may indeed someday
happen that we have systems of that sort, but simply building devices that are able to control
their own operation in certain ways is not sufficient to create a system that is autonomous
in that sense that it individuates itself in relationship to its environment and constantly
things in the world matter for it by because of that ongoing demand of individuation where,
you know, metabolism is the concrete example of that in terms of life. So I, you know, I think
we're far away from that and I think that, you know, that that's actually really necessary for
consciousness in the way that that I think of consciousness. Yeah, this is not something that,
you know, most people who work in AI would agree with. It's very much, there's a sort of line of
work in AI that emphasizes the importance of autonomous agency and the difficulty of building
truly autonomous agents, but autonomy means here what we see clearly in the case of a living organism.
The kind of autonomy that a living organism has is not the kind of autonomy that we see in any
artificial system yet. We may someday though.
I think the thing that excites me most about what has been said here both by
Peter C. and by Evan is the idea of a new kind of science, like something that is,
I don't know what it is, you know. It's something new. It incorporates obviously first person
subjectivity. And one of the things that I feel like has been maybe left out a little bit or I
haven't heard mentioned, the primacy of embodiment, you know, this is, this is the body and consciousness,
awareness, interacting with the body, being placed in different areas of the body. The body
itself adopting different positions, different movements, different experiences arising through
the body. I'm particularly talking about Qigong, but of course there are many other systems that
do the same kind of thing with an incredible amount of detail and power in terms of exploring the
nature of consciousness and the nature of embodiment. And I would see that, you know, very much as one
of the seasonings in the stew or maybe one of the, you know, vegetables, so the meat and potatoes
in that stew. Yeah, I mean, I completely agree with that. I'm a long-term
Tai Chi-Chuan practitioner, so I'm committed to the importance of the embodied perspective in
terms of body practices and what they can tell us about affect and emotion and attention and
intention and awareness. And there's some work in a neuro phenomenological vein that's been done
with some of these kinds of somatic practices. Not a lot, but it's a very interesting and, you
know, fertile area. My wife Rebecca Todd is a neuroscientist, but before she became a neuroscientist
and came over to the dark side, as I like to say, she was a contemporary dance choreographer. So,
and we have another person here who works in dance and neuroscience. So I think that's an extremely
interesting and very fertile area to explore. Yeah.
Thanks a lot for your talk. I was thinking about this model of the horizon and I wondered
if the question that's sort of coming to my mind is whether saying that all consciousness is
horizoned is the same thing as saying that consciousness is not all inclusive or that
it's limited. And if it's not, if it means something more than that, what more does it mean?
So, I mean, one of the things I like about the horizon metaphor is that
it's a structure that goes with you, but of course you move and explore and you open up new
horizons. So, you know, the way that Husserl, for example, thinks of it is that when we, we explore
what he calls the outer and inner horizon of things, we explore how things look from different
perspectives, how they're situated, you know, as figure to ground, how my view of it from here
refers to a possible view that I could have of it from there. And my perception is always a kind
of sensory motor exploration. So, we're constantly, you know, structured by a horizon, but we're also
changing the horizon and opening it up to new vistas. And then Husserl has this wonderful,
wonderful sort of way of saying that the world is the horizon of all horizons. And what he means
by that is that it's not just another horizon, it's the thought that we can think that all
horizons themselves open up into other ones and that at the limit, the horizon of all of that is
really what we think when we think the concept world. And he, in this context, has this marvelous
statement where he says, the world is one, but not in a sense in which it could have been two.
So, the horizon is, the horizon of all horizons is one all encompassing horizon, but not in a sense
in which it could have been, you know, two rather than one. So, I think of the horizon as an open
concept in that way. It's not a limitation. I mean, of course, it is a limitation in one sense,
but it's a limitation that always points beyond itself. And this is the idea in phenomenology
really of transcendence, that consciousness is that which always, in some sense, opens up to
what's beyond itself. Yeah. Let me just make a comment connecting to your image of the circle.
I call it the island of knowledge. So, there is some similarity there. And as a good island of
knowledge, you know, it's surrounded by the ocean of the unknown, the mystery, right? And perhaps
that's the horizon, right? I mean, it's this need that we have to go beyond the known into the
unknown, right? And that's where perhaps this human curiosity and transcendence is all root of that.
Yeah, this reminds me of, you know, way back in college studying philosophy and comparative
religion. One term that stuck with me, and I don't remember from where it came, but transcendental
subjectivity, just so it encompasses both. Yeah, transcendental subjectivity is Herschel's way
of talking about the primacy of lived experience. Yeah, it's that it's not, it's transcendental
because it's the condition of possibility for anything showing up in the way that it does for us,
which means that it's not, as a condition of possibility, it's not just another thing in the
world. It's transcendental. And he talks about this in terms of subjectivity. And then he shifts
eventually into talking about the life world. And some of us would see this as his kind of
grappling with his still being caught in Cartesian ways of thinking that are bound
to a notion of subjectivity, whereas he's shifting into trying to talk about the primacy of the
life world towards his later thought. Yeah.
Thank you. Thanks very much for that. I just wanted to ask you what you thought about the
fact that this term consciousness, I think part of the reason it's problematic is that it's,
it implies a thinness, so that whether we think of it as being either innate or emergent,
there's always this mistake that it's somehow something that is there, a property that things
have rather than this participatory field. And I wonder what you think about the possibilities for
turning towards more like attention or awareness, because there's at least overlap there with
fields like neuroscience, although then there is the problem of whether it's something that is
implicit or not. Yeah. I mean, there's always a problem with Ness words that they can get
reified. They're, you know, they're prone to that. I tend to try to vary the words that I use. So
sometimes I use consciousness. Sometimes I talk about awareness. I don't think attention is
synonymous with either consciousness or awareness. Attention for me is a cognitive function that
has to do with selection. And it's used in a lot of different ways, depending on the cognitive
science context itself, I suppose. So I do use attention when I'm really wanting to refer to
a specific way in which cognition or awareness is modified or modulated so that something is being
oriented towards and selected. That's usually the way the cognitive psychologists talk about it,
I suppose. So, you know, sometimes I talk about lived experience or sometimes I talk about embodied
experience or sometimes I talk about awareness versus the contents of awareness. And, you know,
at the end of the day, they're all words and it sort of depends who you're talking to and what the
conversation is. But I do agree that, you know, we need to be cautious with the words and be sensitive
to the ways that they can, you know, distort what we're trying to talk about. Yeah.
But it might be that attention and consciousness are as close together as can be without being the
same, like a married relationship. Yeah. Where that which we call consciousness is the domain of
everything that we can volitionally attend or are volitionally attending now. And so I would
challenge people, you know, can you can you find something that you are that you can be conscious
of that you cannot volitionally attend at your will or anything that you're volitionally attending
now that you're not conscious of. So that's true. It's like the relationship with an operator to
the upper ends. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, so this is a debate, I would say, in cognitive neuroscience
right now between people who think that there's a kind of phenomenal consciousness or phenomenal
awareness that is awareness or experience apart from any possibility of attentional access to
it and those who say that that's not really a coherent notion and that if it's if it's a
conscious, I mean, of course, you know this, right? If it's a conscious experience, then
there has to be the possibility of attentional access to it. So I mean, I'm inclined to think
to agree with you that when we're talking about awareness, there's got to be the possibility
of some kind of attention where that means some possibility of orienting towards it
and enhancing certain aspects of it for certain aims volitional or intentional. That's that's how
I would be inclined to think of it for sure. Yeah, but it just to be, you know, I guess open-minded
it's contested, right? Certainly within the context of Buddhist, say Abhidharma philosophy,
you know, attention, well, or the word that we translate as attention, which for them has in
that in that context, the sense of orienting towards something before it's even sort of selected
for like scrutiny, that that's what's called a constantly present mental factor. So any moment
of awareness has that factor and a moment of awareness is like a hand and there are the various
fingers that are always there that enable you to kind of cognitively grasp something. So attention
is like one of those fingers that enables you to sort of grasp something. But they but attention,
we wouldn't still reduce awareness to attention. Attention would be a kind of
aspect or component or factor of awareness. Yeah.
The that that particular that particular question
makes me feel like maybe it needs empirical rather than abstract investigation. Now that
may not be true of that specific question, but more generally, if we're dealing with
neuro phenomenology, the thing I love about phenomenology as opposed to most forms of
philosophy is that it includes an empirical practice of actual direct investigation, which,
you know, I think is essential to this whole endeavor. And, you know, I've
I've practiced various forms of meditation, which are definitely that. And I've read a
certain amount about the methods in phenomenology. And I'm continually frustrated at not being able
to find any source of clear descriptions or, you know, training how to cultivate the specific
methods of phenomenology. And so partly I'm asking you for references. Yeah.
I mean, so this is the situation in sort of the canonical phenomenological text, you know, text
by Husserl, text by Sartre, Merleau-Ponty is that you have these very rich descriptions.
And there's no real discussion of, you know, how these descriptions came to be in terms of the,
you know, the volition and the attention of the phenomenologist. You know, there's scattered
things in Husserl and Husserl is a kind of interesting case because his descriptions always
in a way outstrip his theoretical structure. So, you know, he's trying to do things theoretically
and they draw him into, you know, real concrete phenomena of, you know, of importance and interest
like our consciousness of time. And then he starts to investigate it and describe it. And
the descriptions actually outrun his theoretical constructions. Then he has to go back and rework
the theory. And this like his whole life is about this, which I mean is very fertile. That's not
a criticism. But by the same token, there's very little you can find about what exactly
is the attentional skill that's required to generate these kinds of descriptions. And of course in
contemplative traditions, there's obviously much more of that. There are practice communities
and traditions and instructions on, you know, how to do those kinds of things. Yeah. So this is why
the movement in phenomenology today is to try to be enriched by those practices.
Okay, you have one more question. I think there's one back there and Adam also had one too. Okay,
two more, three more questions. So let's make it brief. Very briefly. I'm not sure I understand
at all the idea of lived experience. I'm sitting here thinking, does your idea of consciousness
and so forth and lived experience exclude sudden blinding insights from some sort of beyond
something beyond I've ever lived in my experience?
No, it doesn't exclude that. I think there are countless reports throughout many traditions
of people who report sudden insights that they experience as beyond what beyond exactly means.
That's a whole other question. But experientially, no, I wouldn't I wouldn't dismiss that at all.
Oh, your discussion about the attention made me think a little bit about the unconscious.
Is there is that the main difference between consciousness and unconsciousness just attention
or are there other aspects of unconsciousness that can be applied with this neuro phenomenologic
point of view to try to figure out what's going on? Well, the idea of neuro phenomenology is that
increased stability of attention can facilitate access to aspects of
let's say cognition that would not otherwise be readily accessible. So it's it can maybe
change the threshold of unconscious versus conscious. But of course, from the perspective
of embodiment, you know, most of what we are is not accessible to our, you know, our cognition
or our consciousness, nor should it be wouldn't be a good thing if it were probably.
Are you sure? Oh, sorry. Okay. Okay, our last question.
That's to be really good. No pressure.
Well, I'd like to go back to the subject of the horizon. And you said it was
defined as a phenomenal subject. And you used qualia as the phenomenal content content.
I still would like to delve into why not? Why can't you go past that horizon? Maybe introspectively,
but and then you need to back out of that with the science behind it. Why not?
I'm not quite sure I understood exactly what you're asking. I mean, is it why can't you
go beyond the horizon? Is that the question? Well, I also heard you say that you can create
new horizons. Yeah, I mean, right. So and so you're, but not duality. So creating a single horizon.
And yet there's beyond the circle. So I mean, the horizon again, I would say is,
you know, if I go out and stand, you know, I don't know in the quad, I'm going to have a certain
horizon. But as I move, of course, I get a new horizon as I move. So I don't ever step outside of
having a horizon, but the horizon does change. So the idea is that it's a, it's a structure of the
field of awareness. Let's, let's not talk, let's use the word awareness maybe instead of consciousness.
It's a structure. Awareness has a field structure. There are the particular contents that come and go,
but they are local modulations of the field and the field has this horizontal structure. And I can
change the particular horizon as it were, but I can't ever, as long as there's a field of awareness,
not have a horizon. You can think. Well, inside there's a different kind of horizon, I would say.
Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's an information bubble that we live in, you know, and, and, and there is stuff
outside that information bubble, but you cannot get information from it because there are limitations,
physical limitations, emotional limitations. So I think that's the idea. Yeah.
Okay. So before we go, remember, we have tomorrow at eight o'clock at the White Church here,
there is a meditation session for those who are interested. And then otherwise we'll reconvene
here at nine o'clock for our planetary discussions. Thank you for coming and have a great night.
