experience can be reductively explained. I'm emphasizing the word reductively now. Can be
reductively explained by one of its structural residues. For example, in the context of neuroscience
today where we're thinking about consciousness, something like Tononi's integrated information
theory, or the global workspace theory of consciousness and its neuronal architecture,
to claim that we can reductively explain consciousness in terms of that, rather than
establishing a relationship between the two, is to turn the whole epistemological procedure upside
down. And this is indeed Husserl's point in his work of 1938, the crisis of European sciences
and transcendental phenomenology. He argues that it's in principle absurd to think that we can
explain subjective experience by reducing it to certain objects of science, since these objects
are abstract relational structures extracted from the life world of lived experience. So it's to
invert the order, the epistemological order. He's not arguing against science. He's arguing that we
need to understand how it's situated in relationship to our lived experience. And Husserl thought
that the deep, you could say existential or spiritual crisis of our scientific culture
is that we constantly forget that lived experience is the source of science and its ground of
validity. This is what Adam and Marcelo and I have been talking about in terms of a kind of
blind spot in our scientific culture. Now finally, this brings us to a more difficult, but in some
ways more precise philosophical sense of the primacy of consciousness, which following Kant,
we could call the transcendental primacy of consciousness. And transcendental here is
being used in Kant's sense, not in say the sense of transcendental meditation. That dates me, I
suppose. So the idea here is that consciousness is the condition of possibility for scientific
knowledge. So let me read to you something that Kant says when he's defining the word transcendental.
He says, I entitle transcendental all knowledge which is occupied, not so much with objects, with
what? As with the mode of our knowledge of objects, with how, how we know, not what we know. In so
far as this mode of knowledge is to be possible a priori. So Kant says we have knowledge, we take
that for granted. And now the question is how is it that we know what we know? What are the
conditions of possibility for our having the kind of experience and knowledge that we have?
And that kind of investigation is a transcendental investigation in his sense. And the point here
is that consciousness then is not another object of knowledge, or we could say not just another
object of knowledge. It's that by which any object is knowable. And when we think about it this way,
that is to say transcendentally in Kant's sense and also Husserl's, consciousness is irreducible
to the domain of objects. It doesn't make sense to treat it as an object because it's the condition
of possibility for objects being manifest to us in all the ways that they are in the first place.
So to summarize, consciousness has primacy existentially in the sense of it's what we live,
our concrete lived experience. Epistemologically, it's the point of departure and the point of return
for science. And transcendentally, it's, this is a sort of English rendering of a German term,
as you can probably tell, it's the un-go-behind-able condition of possibility for knowledge.
Okay, so now, note, it does not follow from this argument. That is to say this argument
does not logically entail that consciousness has ontological primacy in the pan-psychist sense.
That is, it doesn't follow that the property of being conscious is an extra ingredient. This is
Dave Chalmer's term, in nature at the fundamental micro-physical level. And I'm going to come back
to this point later when I talk about pan-psychism. I just want to flag that nothing I've said so far
logically entails that way of thinking about consciousness, that it's everywhere in nature
micro-physically. I think that way of thinking gets something right, but I also think it gets
something wrong. So I'm going to come back to that. That's a sort of teaser, I hope.
Okay, so I've now told you what I mean when I'm using this expression, the primacy of consciousness.
So now I want to say some things about the problem with physicalism.
In a nutshell, physicalism I think is a useless thesis. Physicalism is the thesis that everything
is physical or everything concrete is physical. The immediate problem is that physical is not
well-defined. What does it mean? Attempts to define it make physicalism either false, empty,
not in the Buddhist sense, or non-naturalist. So let me spell that out. This is not a thought
by any means original to me. It goes back to the philosopher Carl Hempel and it's known as
Hempel's dilemma. And the dilemma is if we define physical as what contemporary physics tells us
is physical, then physicalism is very likely to be false. If we define, because physics obviously
is a work in progress and any inductive argument from the history of science is going to lead us
to think that physics is going to undergo radical revision. On the other hand, if we define physical
by what the ideal completed physics, if it even makes sense to think of that, but let's suppose
that it does, if we define it in terms of the meaning of physical for the ideal completed physics,
then physicalism is empty because we don't know what that physics will be.
We have no, we have no kind of tangible sense of exactly what that means. Now, at this point,
some philosophers, there's a, there's a kind of trend in philosophy today to try to define
physicalism for the scientists and for other philosophers. So some philosophers will say,
look, we shouldn't hand over all authority to the physicists or to physics to determine what's physical
because no matter how far the bounds of the physical stretch, it's a conceptual truth or you
could say it's an a priori truth that the bounds of the physical can't include fundamental mentality
or strong emergence, the idea of radically new emergent configurational forces.
Now, I don't think this works. This gambit basically shows that physicalists, and I'm talking
about physicalist philosophers now, are caught between on the one hand wanting to be naturalists
because the whole point of the term physicalism as opposed to materialism was to signal
the preeminence of physics, physical science. So on the one hand,
physicalist philosophers want to be naturalists, as indeed they should, who defer to science,
but they want to be metaphysicians too because after all, they're philosophers
and that leads them to place a priori restrictions or to try to place a priori restrictions on what
can count as physical. Now, I think that a number of years ago, Chomsky in one of his books,
basically showed that this is really wrong-headed. He points out that trying to restrict a priori,
what counts as physical, is like a 17th century materialist responding to Newton, trying to restrict
a priori, what counts as matter. And we know from the history of science that science simply
supersedes that kind of metaphysics or that way of doing metaphysics. Okay, so the upshot then
is that understanding the mind and its place in nature is of course
a genuine and extremely important scientific and philosophical enterprise,
but physicalism is useless to it.
All right, so now maybe panpsychism. Is that what follows here?
Well, I don't think so.
Panpsychism is undergoing a resurgence. You can see that in the book there, which just came out
last year, a collection of articles by a whole bunch of philosophers, very interesting articles
on panpsychism, exploring it as an option in philosophy of mind today or metaphysics.
So it's the view that everything is mental or phenomenal or experiential,
to put it in the most general way. And it's based on this recognition that you can't get consciousness,
quality, the qualitative characteristics of experience or subjectivity
out of the abstract relational properties of natural science.
Equations relating magnitudes, for example, are mathematical functions.
You don't get the consciousness out of that. You get an abstract relational structure.
So that's a recognition. That's an insight.
But panpsychist's response is to postulate that consciousness is everywhere as an intrinsic property
of physical nature. Now, I want to take you through the argument that leads to this thought,
or what I think is the best argument or the most interesting, I suppose, forceful.
And this is an argument that we see in some ways in Whitehead, although I wouldn't quite
call Whitehead a panpsychist in this sense, but in some ways we see elements of it in Whitehead.
We see it in the physicist Sir Arthur Eddington. We see it in Bertrand Russell,
and we see it today in Galen Strassen, all of whom are extremely interesting writers.
And the argument goes like this. Physics reveals to us only the relational properties
of physical phenomena. It gives us models with magnitudes and equations relating them.
Relational properties need intrinsic properties, are determined by intrinsic properties,
so this argument says, certain configurations of physical phenomena generate or constitute
phenomenal states, the brain and the body. So the intrinsic properties of physical phenomena
must encompass this power. Our own inner awareness reveals that phenomenality, the taste of something,
the quality of something visually, is an intrinsic property of our experience.
Indeed, it's the only intrinsic property that we know of, because science doesn't give us
intrinsic properties. So phenomenality must then be an intrinsic property of physical phenomena,
or at least of certain organized physical systems. That's the argument as we see it deployed today.
Now, there are two problematic assumptions in this argument.
One is that relational properties are determined by intrinsic properties. It seems to me entirely
possible that, and indeed it would be a Buddhist idea, that there are no intrinsic properties,
Svabhava, own being. There's just dependent arising and relationality all the way down,
all the way up, and all the way out. So this premise is contestable, and indeed there are some
very interesting technical arguments around this in Indian philosophy, Indian Buddhist philosophy,
and Tibetan philosophy as well. And then secondly, our own inner awareness reveals that phenomenality
is an intrinsic property. That is to treat our inner experience as if it were just a matter of these
special intrinsic non-relational qualities, which divests our experience of its embeddedness,
its situatedness, and its embodiment, its relationality in other words. So I don't find this argument
persuasive. Indeed, I find it subject to two different extremes, you could say. One is
what would be the, what in philosophy of science today is called the structural realist position,
though I would call it the structural reificationist position, which says that, well actually,
only relational properties are mined independently real, and they're real structural features of
the world apart from the mind, and that's what science is about. So that is to me to reify
scientific models. It's to forget that they are idealized abstractions out of our concrete lived
experience, but panpsychists fall prey to a different kind of reification because they reify
consciousness as an intrinsic property, and they forget its relational and contextual constitution
by way of embodiment. Panpsychism also has another interesting problem, which is called the
combination problem, and this is in a way a more interesting one because it leads me,
it's going to lead me positively into saying some things about embodiment. So if you think,
as a panpsychist does, that there are micro-level phenomenal properties or experiences everywhere,
then there's the problem of how do they combine to form macro-level ones? This is a sort of strange
mental version of a physicalist composition problem, now just transposed into the mental register.
William James put this very well in his writings when he was talking about panpsychism. He says,
take a sentence of a dozen words and take 12 men and tell to each one word. Then stand them in a
row or jam them in a bunch and let each think of his word as intently as he will. Nowhere will
there be a consciousness of the whole sentence. Where the elemental units are supposed to be
feelings, the cases in no eyes altered. Take a hundred of them, shuffle them and pack them as
close together as you can. Still each remains the same feeling it always was. So he's basically
saying, look, if you think that there are phenomenal properties scattered everywhere,
you need to explain how they cohere in or combine into subjects of experience and you
don't get that just by sort of putting them in a row. Now the panpsychist response to this
today is to say that, well, mental properties belong only to genuine individuals, not to mere
aggregates, not to mere collections, not to conglomerates. But then how do we determine what
counts as a genuine individual? This is the boundary problem. Do elementary particles count
as individuals? Well, it doesn't seem like they would count as an individual in the way that
say a bacterial cell would. So what's the principle of individuation here exactly? I think one of
the best statements of this is by Greg Rosenberg, who's to my mind one of the most interesting
panpsychist philosophers. And he says, the hard nut of the boundary problem is that animal
experiencers possess a kind of inherent individuality at a physical mid-level of reality, which is hard
to explain. If panpsychism is true, why do the boundaries exist just so? Boundaries are harder
to explain than combination. We are faced with the need to understand what it is to be an inherent
individual in the natural world. This takes us to embodiment because the boundary problem is,
in a way, the problem of embodiment. Because to be a genuine individual is not simply to be a
particular. It's to be a system that has some kind of bounded organizational unity through
ongoing internal material transformation. Again, think of a living cell.
So that kind of system is not any kind of particular. It's a body. It has an embodiment.
Okay, so this brings me now to the primacy of embodiment.
So let's recall our guiding thoughts, the primacy of consciousness, no way to step outside of lived
experience. But now we're looking at the other side of the coin, that lived experience never shows
up apart from our embodied being in the world. And in the Merleau-Ponty quotation I gave you
earlier, we're now emphasizing this thought, the world is inseparable from the subject,
but from a subject who is nothing but a project of the world.
Now, to illustrate in the most general way the emergence of individuality, I want to do it
in a schematic way by way of this figure. So the circles represent processes under some conditions
of observation. And the arrows represent enabling relations or relations of conditioning. So if a
circle has an arrow pointing to another circle, then that circle is enabling, is a process that's
enabling the one that is pointing to, contributing to it. Under observation, we see that some of
the arrows form a tightly interdependent network, the ones that are black. They have a unitary
character to them because they have, in the logical or algebraic sense, a kind of closure,
that is, every process in that network is the result of another process and is affecting another
process. It doesn't, closure here doesn't mean that it's separated from the environment because
indeed it's being, it's embedded in the environment in terms of the gray circles and the green arrows,
which indicate conditioning relations from the network into the environment. But when we have a
system that has this kind of network density, we have the emergence of a kind of individuality
where every process is contributing to every other process so that the network emerges under
certain conditions as having a robust individuality that continues for a time until it dissipates for
whatever reason. And each circle, black circle in the network, is doing what it does under
conditions of precariousnessness, precariousnessness, yes, that's a word. That is to say, if, if it
weren't for that network, the network is functioning as a kind of constraint on it. If it weren't for
that network, it would have a tendency to run down an atrophy. So it's holding together because of
this entangled mutual modification. Now, I put this in very abstract terms, but you could think of
this as, this is I think maybe the easiest way to think of it as the emergence of life of a proto
cell or of a cell with an internal metabolic reaction network that's constantly modifying its
activity. And I'm going to, I'm going to elaborate that in a minute. But before I do that, I want to
link this to a very important Buddhist philosophical way of elaborating this concept of dependent
origination that we began with earlier. So in Madhyamaka philosophy, particularly as it develops
later in India, the writings of the commentator on Nagarjuna by Chandra Kirti, the idea is that
dependent origination can be thought of in three ways or having three aspects. There's causal
dependence, dependence on conditions. There's the dependence of the parts on the whole. And we could
also say the whole on the parts because the, the parts give rise to the whole, but the parts are
what they are in context of the whole. And then there's an interesting one that Chandra Kirti
points out, which is dependence on concepts. That is, we've framed this in a certain way. We're
observing it at a certain scale of observation. We're picking out certain things as salient for
our purposes. When we do it that way, it then becomes an objective matter, a testable consensual
matter, what the nature of the situation is, but it's still being conceptually framed by us.
So there's a kind of conceptual dependence here as well. So this is what dependent origination
means as it gets elaborated in Indian philosophy. It's a very powerful notion. Okay, so let's
illustrate this more concretely now in the case of life. The Chilean biologists in Bertrand
Materana and Francisco Varela introduced this idea of auto poasis, self-production. And what
