I want to welcome you and thank you for joining the conversation on this elusive subject of
consciousness, which is our topic this evening and continues with our presentations tomorrow
morning.
My name is Gendo Allen Field. I'm a lay ordained Zen Buddhist monk and teacher. I lead practice
at the Upper Valley Zen Center in White River Junction and also at the Zen practice group
here at Dartmouth College. This year several of our Dartmouth Zen students are studying
cognitive and neuroscience and from our conversations emerged the idea of a cross-disciplinary,
cross-cultural conference on the nature of consciousness. Professor Marcelo Gleiser
and his Institute for Cross-Disciplinary Engagement, also known as ICE, here at Dartmouth
seemed a natural partner for this effort and his enthusiasm and backing have made this
event possible. We are also indebted to Amy Flockton, administrator for ICE and to Amy
Zhang, the Dartmouth senior who designed our poster. Is Amy here by any chance? Sorry she's
not here, but I was very pleased with her poster. I'm also indebted to the Tucker Foundation
and Chaplain Devine Litvin for financial support and to the Church of Christ at Dartmouth for
the use of their gathering hall for our meditation both this afternoon and also tomorrow morning
at eight o'clock. So our purpose has been to bring together three perspectives on consciousness,
the scientist, the philosopher, and the Buddhist. I am grateful to the presenters we have assembled
that you will meet in the course of this conference and I'm personally grateful to
Shinge Roshi for accepting my invitation to join us. After today's presentation the conference
will resume tomorrow with an opportunity as I mentioned for meditation practice with Shinge
Roshi at 8 a.m. There will be morning presentations concluding at 11.20 with a panel discussion.
At 12.30 everybody is invited to join our presenters for lunch, which may be purchased
at a cost of roughly, I think it's $10 at the class of 53 Commons and directions will
be provided. I want to conclude with words from our proposal for this conference. Our
aim is dialogue across cherished distinctions between academic areas of study and between
science and, quote, religion. It is a timely conversation in a changing world where openness
and acceptance of different views contend with anger and fears of lost identity. Consciousness
is not merely an academic concern, but one that underlies a meeting of minds across all
that divides us. Please welcome Professor Marcella Gleiser, who will introduce today's speaker.
Okay, welcome everyone. My name is Marcella Gleiser. I'm a professor of physics and astronomy
here at Dartmouth and I'm also the director of the good eyes. There's the bad eyes and
the good eyes, so this is the good eyes, the Institute for Cross-Disciplinary Engagement.
Our mission is to do something that people talk about a lot, but it's very hard to do,
which is to bring the sciences and the humanities into constructive engagement. We do that through
a series of different activities. One of them is we promote public dialogues in theaters
and big cities across the United States. Just to give you an idea, in February we had a physicist,
Sean Carroll, and a Buddhist scholar, Alan Wallace, talking about the nature of reality in San
Francisco. We had almost 1,500 people in the audience. We really hit big because you had all
the techies with the physicists and all the people interested in other ways of knowing with Alan,
so it was a wonderful experience. We also have a fellows program and other things. Within the
fellows program, we are fortunate to attract people to Dartmouth that are very distinguished in
their fields. Two of the speakers they are going to hear from are currently ICE fellows, so Evan
Thompson who is going to be talking today and Adam Frank who is going to be talking tomorrow.
So I invite you to visit our website, ice.darmouth.edu, where you can find out about our many,
many activities, lots of lectures, lots of interesting things that we promote, an amazing
collection of video interviews with people from experts in Lucretias, the cosmologists thinking
about the multiverse, and also a virtual library which is open and free to the public on many,
many different topics that we cover. So please do visit ICE. And so let me thank Alan for being
the initiator of this whole thing. He came up to me and said, you know, we should try to do this
cross disciplinary conference on bringing different perspectives on the question of mind.
And I thought what a great idea. It does indeed fit very well with what we do at ICE. So I was
very happy with that and it's so nice to see an idea become reality, you know, and have you all here
present today. And we should have many different ways of thinking about this, which is again a
reflection of the question of the mind problem, right? It is not something that we can solve
only through science or through philosophy or through spirituality. It really needs a multiplicity
of views in order for us to move forward. And I think that's what we're here for today, to learn
from each other and to hopefully come up with, again, this constructive engagement of these
different ways of knowing, which is really what we're here for. So to open our discussions, we have
here Evan Thompson. And I'm going to read this description because I couldn't do anything better
than this. He's a professor of philosophy at the University of British Columbia. He writes about
cognitive science, phenomenology, the philosophy of mind and cross cultural philosophy, especially
Buddhist philosophy in dialogue with Western philosophy of mind and cognitive science,
which is, I have to say, a very rare thing to do in academia and something that should be
celebrated right there. Well, as a child, Thompson was homeschooled at the Lindisfarne
Association, so very radical stuff. A think tank and a retreat founded by his father,
William Orwin Thompson. In 1977, Thompson met Chilean phenomenologist Francisco Varela,
when Varela attended a Lindisfarne conference, which was organized by Thompson, his dad, and
Gregory Bateson. Thompson received a PhD in philosophy from the University of Toronto in 1990,
and an AB in Asian Studies from Amherst College in 1983. Thompson has taught at the University of
Toronto, Concordia University, Boston University, and York University. While at York University,
Thompson was also a member of the Center for Vision Research. Thompson has held visiting
appointments at the Center for Subjectivity Research, what a great name, in Copenhagen,
and at the University of Colorado Boulder, so he picks his places very wisely. Thompson worked
with Francisco Varela in Paris, and during this time, Varela and Thompson wrote The Embodied Mind,
Cognitive Science and Human Experience. Thompson's book, Mind in Life, Biology, Phenomenology,
and the Sciences of Mind, explores how life relates to mind, and his most recent book,
which is quite a wonderful achievement, is called Waking Dreaming Being,
Self and Consciousness in Neuroscience, Meditation and Philosophy. So Evan, please.
Before you start, as MC, let me just tell you a little bit about how this goes.
So hopefully you'll talk for about 45 minutes, and then I have invited two of our guests to
offer commentary if they wish to do so. If they do, wonderful. If not, I'll open it to questions
from the audience, okay? All right, good. Well, thank you very much for that very generous
introduction, and for the invitation to be here, and thank all of you for coming here this afternoon.
I'm going to be speaking about the nature of consciousness, a neuro-phenomenological approach,
and I want to begin with an image that I imagine many of you are familiar with.
This is a lithograph by MC Escher that's from 1956, and it depicts a man in a gallery
viewing a print of a seaport, and the gallery in which he's standing is one of the buildings in
the seaport. The picture exemplifies what Douglas Hofstra calls a strange loop. The gallery is in the
town, the town is in the picture. The picture, as a picture, is mentally in the person viewing it,
that is sort of as a content of his perceptual experience, but the person is in the picture,
and of course we are the ones viewing this strange loop, so it's in us in a sense.
And at the center of this strange loop is a circular void, or emptiness, where Escher
has signed his name. Now in Buddhism, this absence at the heart of presence is called
shunyata, emptiness, and it's one of our themes of the meeting. And in one of the very early
Indian Buddhist philosophical texts by the Indian philosopher Nagarjuna,
the fundamental stanzas of the middle way, Nagarjuna says, whatever is dependently
co-arisen, that is explained to be emptiness. So we have these linked concepts of emptiness
and dependent origination or dependent arising. Now I think in contemporary Western philosophy,
there are a number of ways in which this idea is echoed in thinking about the relationship
between the mind and the world, the idea of dependent origination. So for example,
Hillary Putnam, in one of his classic books from the early 1980s, says the mind and the world
jointly make up the mind and the world. Some decades earlier, the French philosopher
Maurice Meloponte said in his phenomenology of perception,
the world is inseparable from the subject, but from a subject who is nothing but a project
of the world. And the subject is inseparable from the world, but from a world that it
itself projects. Now I want to take two guiding thoughts for what I'm going to tell you today
from these strange loops. One I'm going to call the primacy of consciousness,
and what I mean by that is that there's no way to step outside of consciousness in the form
of lived experience. Everything we investigate, including consciousness and its place in nature,
is always disclosed from within the horizon of lived experience, and this includes when we're
doing science. The second thought is what I'm going to call the primacy of embodiment,
and that is that lived experience never shows up apart from our embodied being in the world.
So with those introductory thoughts, here is the outline of what I want to present
to you today. I want to say some more things in detail with a bit more philosophical precision,
I hope, about what I mean by the primacy of consciousness, and then I'm going to say some
things about the problem with physicalism. Physicalism is the philosophical or metaphysical
thesis that everything that exists, or at least everything concrete that exists, leaving out
math and logic and things of that sort, everything that concretely exists is physical,
including the mental. So I'm going to say some critical things about that, and then the question
will arise, well does that mean that panpsychism, that everything is fundamentally mental? Is that
how we should think about things? And I'm going to say panpsychism does have an insight, but
no, it's not quite right. And that's going to take us into the primacy of embodiment,
my second guiding thought, and then I'm going to end with some remarks about neuro phenomenology.
Okay, so to talk about the primacy of consciousness, let's go back again to this
quotation from Merleau-Ponty. The world is inseparable from the subject, but from a subject
who is nothing but a project of the world, and, and this is the one I want to emphasize for our
purposes at the moment, the subject is inseparable from the world, but from a world that it itself
projects. So the primacy of consciousness here can be thought of as the idea that in knowing the
world, we cannot step outside the horizon of our lived experience. So let, let's think about this
metaphor of the horizon for a moment. The line of the horizon is a limit beyond which we can't go,
but it's an apparent line and a structure of our perception, and it travels with us.
So on the one hand, we could say the horizon is indeed real.
It's the farthest point the eye can see before the Earth's surface curves away beneath our view.
But we could also say, in the philosophical sense of the term ideal, that it's ideal. That is to say,
it's a structure of our perception. It's not something that exists independent of perception.
That doesn't mean that it's in my head. It's a relation between me and the world.
Now, in phenomenological philosophy, particularly the writings of Husserl, we have what could be
called a horizonal conception of consciousness. Husserl uses the term horizon throughout his
writings in a number of different ways. But very generally, we could say that the horizonal
conception of consciousness is the conception of consciousness as the horizon from within which
the world is present and disclosed to us. Wherever we find ourselves, whether we're observing
something in a scientific context or whether we're out on a boat sailing, we always find
whatever we find from within the horizon of our lived experience. Now, if you're a philosopher
or you're familiar with contemporary philosophy, the horizon is, let's call it, a phenomenal
structure of consciousness. It's not a particular phenomenal property like the sourness of lemon
or the redness of the sunset. It's not, in other words, a quailie, that is, qualia in the way
that philosophers use the term qualia to refer to the particular qualitative properties of a given
perceptual or sensory experience. Indeed, qualia and phenomenal contents, that is,
whatever you're experiencing, whether you're awake and perceiving, whether you're mind wandering
and caught up in some thought, whether you're falling asleep and seeing images play before
your eyes, whether you're in a dream, whether you're having a lucid dream, whatever it is
that you're experiencing, those contents appear from within the horizon of consciousness. So,
this horizonal notion is not a content, any particular content. It's a structure. It's
a structure of awareness, but it's a phenomenal structure. Now, here we come upon the first sense
in which I think we can highlight the primacy of consciousness, and I'm going to call this the
existential primacy, because consciousness, in this horizonal sense, is not something we have.
It's rather something we are, or we could say it's something that we live. So, it has existential
primacy, and phenomenologists talk about this in different ways. Heidegger talks about our being
in the world, Mello Ponti talks about the lived body, Husserl talks about the life world, the
horizonal consciousness of the life world. There are different terms, and some may be better than
others, but they're all about this existential primacy of lived experience. So, if we think about
this though, horizonal consciousness in a way is nothing in itself, right? I said it's a structure,
not a particular content. It's whatever the contents that we are experiencing are structured in the way
that they are. So, in Buddhist terms, that is to say, it's empty, shunya, of own beings, fabava.
That is, it doesn't have an intrinsic reality of its own. Rather, it's nothing other than the
manifestation of the world. It's, we could say, the disclosure or manifestation of our life world,
our concrete lived reality and lived experience. Now, I just use the term life world, which is
another phenomenological term of art, Labanzelt. So, let's think about this for a minute in relationship
to the concept of the universe. If we're thinking as natural scientists, we might say the universe,
that is the totality of nature, contains the life world, contains our life world. And indeed,
that makes perfect sense, and there's nothing objectionable about that statement. But for a
philosopher, we also want to be able to say that the life world, and now we could elaborate this
as the space of meaning within which anything is intelligible, anything is thinkable,
anything is observable, that that contains the universe, because the universe is always disclosed
to us from within the life world. After all, our scientific endeavor of opening up new realms of
observation and new ways of intervening within them is always within our life world. So, a philosopher
wants to say, yes, of course, the natural science perspective on the universe has its validity,
but the philosophical position that reverses the primacy or the order of priority also has its
validity, and it's important not to lose sight of that. Now, this brings us to another sense of the
primacy of consciousness, which is its epistemological primacy. And in a way, I've already said this,
but I'm going to elaborate it in a bit more detail. As we live and as we investigate our world,
we open up new vistas with new horizons. We do this in all sorts of ways. I'm emphasizing science,
but of course, art does that in its own way. The way that we do this in science is powerful,
unique, distinctive, and it's by producing objective knowledge. Objective doesn't mean
independent of us. It means tested and it means consensual. You could say it means intersubjective.
So, let me spell that out. Lived experience is a point of departure and a point of return
for the production of objective knowledge, because the way science proceeds and the way it's
evolved historically, if we look from, say, Galileo up to today, is that we set aside aspects of our
concrete experience on which we can't agree. The particularities of my sensations versus yours,
or how I taste things, or aesthetically evaluate them versus the way that you do,
our values, our emotions, we try to as much as possible bracket those. There are questions
about how much we can do this, but that's the effort. And then what we do is we extract, abstract,
and idealized invariance, structural relational properties that are structural residues of our
experience. And then we can treat these as objects of consensus. We can test them. And these are
things like general propositions and logic or mathematical models or formulae.
And then we implement these abstractions by way of technology. And when we do that, we can intervene,
we can manipulate, we can measure, we can control phenomena, always in a contextually situated
and limited way. But all of that, of course, is registered in our experience. You have to
observe something. You have to record a measurement. That requires experience.
So an important implication of this is that claiming that consciousness in this now sense of lived
