So I like that.
Yeah, maker spaces too.
There's like libraries tend to have these free maker spaces where you can use different resources.
I'm just like kind of being a spokesperson for libraries right now, so I'll stop.
Every time I hear somebody talk about libraries, whether it's online or in person,
I learned something that like some of libraries do that I didn't know.
Like when I was a kid, they just, as far as I know, they just rented books.
And then, oh, they do movies and video games too.
Oh, and audio books.
Oh, and digital books.
And oh, tools and suits and stuff.
Yeah, you can get free classes.
Their maker spaces are awesome.
All the community center stuff is there now.
Yeah, that's kind of true.
Yeah, I actually really like wish that libraries would kind of take over that space.
I mean, like they're kind of starting to, but like, yeah, anyway.
Real quick question to you guys.
Do you both think that owners of property, both physical and intellectual,
should be able to monopolize it and exclude other people from using their property?
You're asking whether I'm a communist?
Sort of.
I'm going to sneak in a gotcha here.
I think my answer to that is sort of, I don't know.
My answer to that is man, I don't know.
Okay.
That's hard.
What do you think, Steven?
I think, I mean, intellectual property, I think is, is harder to define than harder to like constrain.
Like, is it my idea?
Like, I remember there was a thing with like Apple trying to patent the tablet.
Oh, God.
Because they had the idea of a big touchscreen repeater.
Apparently they said it was theirs.
And I think you told me that they like, no, no, check it out on Space Odyssey 2001.
There's one on the table here.
This was already public property before you guys got your hands on it.
So, like, or, you know, another, like, I think Sony and Apple do the stuff, kind of stuff all the time.
They wanted to patent like the home button on the bottom center of the screen.
Like weird stuff like that.
The rounded corners were a patent.
Yes.
And so like, you know, that seems weird.
And, you know, a lot of that seems just to be kind of like to, to litigate other competitors out of the market.
But like, if it's a, if it's a thing I have, like that makes it a lot easier.
I think it's my stuff.
I can do whatever the fuck I want with it.
My intuition.
It's weird that our intuitions are so different for physical things versus IP.
I mean, like everybody, I know pirate stuff and nobody, like, some people feel kind of bad about it.
And like most people just don't.
But like it's, can you imagine if we lived in a world where everybody just stole stuff from the convenience store all the time?
I think it's the, the parting, I'm not very in on the community, but I'll occasionally see like the comment sections of, of Torrance.
People are like complaining to the uploader.
Like, why is the, like the audio on this so bad?
And it's like, because it came out in theaters two days ago, you entitled piece of shit.
You're trying to steal it.
Yes, I'm here too, but I'm not complaining about it and already paid to watch it.
So anyway, so what's the gotcha?
Oh, I was just going to ask when's the last time you saw a piece of media that you shouldn't have.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
Never.
Cause I'm a good, you know, copyright hearing American.
Yeah.
I recently watched, um, um, what's the new Star Trek called?
Oh, you did try to, you did try to loan me a DVD and I had to turn that down because I knew that that was prohibited by the agreement that you made with the company when you purchased it.
No, no, that is my mind now and I can loan it to whoever I want.
But yeah, no, I watched an episode of the Orville just last night on someone's Plex server.
So yeah, because where is it like CBS or something?
Who has cable anymore?
Who owns a DVD player?
I have an Xbox.
I have an Xbox one.
I don't think it plays DVDs.
Yeah, it does.
Oh, it does.
Well, today I learned.
I don't play the Blu-rays.
So yeah, anything can play Blu-ray can play a DVD player.
I believe.
Okay.
Well, in any case, like I only know one adult with a, with an expansive physical collection of movies.
Yeah.
And like, I just, I mean, it is like, I know this is like totally an aside from the post and I totally get like the people who make those things should, should get paid to like make them.
Right.
If I could have paid to watch Game of Thrones and not paid for a two year locked in contract with HBO, I totally would have.
Right.
What I would like, I think what could work is like.
Except for season eight.
I would have paid to finish this.
Finish the show.
That's true.
I would have paid and been angry.
Completion money.
But let, but you'd be less angry if you paid two bucks an episode or five bucks an episode even, then you would be if you paid 60 or whatever, 40 bucks a month for HBO just to watch it.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because you still have to watch ads, right?
I'm not sure.
No, not on HBO.
No.
Okay.
I mean, that's great.
Like, but I guess just to me, it's like, I don't want the whole thing.
Just I want the little part that I want.
If I could get that, I'd be way more inclined to pay for it.
So I think that's actually where things are going.
Yeah.
I think Apple.
I mean, that's kind of what Spotify did.
They, they took piracy and made it, you know, so easy and convenient that all you have to do is listen to ads every now and then that now everyone uses Spotify instead.
Yeah.
And the service is like super affordable and like way more convenient than pirating and making your own playlist.
Absolutely.
With, you know, the one downside being that artists generally can't afford to eat anymore.
Yeah.
Don't love that.
Yeah.
Shall we go on?
Shall.
Yeah.
This is kind of what we're talking about.
But an intuition behind the fact that society is shaped by people's desire for more discretion in decision making the above the previous stuff was.
So some discretion is necessary to ensure good outcomes.
A wise human decision maker can always make the right decisions in hard cases where a mechanical checklist fails.
And they use the examples of like job hiring or admissions to college, that sort of stuff.
So there's still humans involved there.
However, what we observe in the world is more discretion than would be necessary.
We have discretion that enables corruption and special privileges in cases that pretty much nobody would claim to be ideal.
Rich parents buying their not so competent children, Ivy League admissions, favorite corporations voting themselves, government subsidies.
Decision makers want the freedom to make illegible choices or to put it more favorably, they want to destroy value.
So it is weird that like, you know, a law that like, you know, showed that required like transparency in politician funding would be seen like as constraints on someone's freedom.
But that's kind of what they're getting at here.
And like transparency is like violating their right to make bad decisions or make super biased ones in ways that like we as the people that they're representing don't know about.
The more you're constrained by optimization processes, the less freedom you have.
And, you know, once things are very transparent and these processes are in place, then you've lost that freedom that used to have.
Yeah, this also comes back to now these are cases where people are making decisions that affect others.
So you're part of a community or society or country.
Obviously, it seems like we should be free to make decisions that affect only ourselves but when they're talking about decision makers.
I can think of cases where I do and don't want people to have that ability to destroy value.
So like there's an example of say like a military general making decisions that maybe destroy value and that like people would object to but like,
because this person has this level of expertise and knows what's going on in a world that might be the right choice.
Even though it's the unpopular choice.
Maybe making it a military general makes me like more inclined to be disfavorable towards it.
So maybe instead of that, let's do the example of the banned things store.
Like a lawmaker saying, yes, we should have these banned things stores.
And then like the rest of society might be thinking about the mother of four who died of the Dr. Snakey's arthritis oil.
I think like another way because like politicians everyone hates, you know, everyone like it's a very politicized topics like parents or other like decision makers.
Right. So you want your parents decisions to be based on like their best judgment.
Hopefully that's like well informed.
You don't want it to be based off of like somebody lying to them or like Nestle's weird practice of like giving people formula and getting them hooked on it.
Because they're not producing breast milk, right?
So or or parent making decisions like not vaccinate their kids because some celebrity told them not to.
In general, I think you want parents to have the freedom to raise their children how they want because they are most likely to have the local knowledge as to how a child can be successfully raised in this environment.
And given the temperament of the child, like usually you want that to be parents decisions and there's just a few rare cases like the vaccine thing when you're like,
no, do you really we can't let you have this decision at this point?
Yeah. And at that point, like maybe the line where I think because the difference there is like, hey, I don't think you should be allowed to kill your kids.
So I'm pro back. I'm pro mandatory vaccination.
But like maybe you're like, you know what, I don't want to educate them.
I feel like that's just going to, you know, hold them back from like finding a good life meaning of like some, you know, craftsmen labor or something.
Right.
So society has decided like, no, you have to educate your kids.
If you don't want to go into public school, fine, but you have to like do at least something.
I think it was the.
But I think I was going to say that the difference there is like it's it's different between like the shows that you let them watch at home or something on TV, right?
Because whether or not your child is educated actually has an impact on society at large.
Same thing with vaccinations.
Exactly. Yeah, vaccinations. Definitely.
They do go to school and get other kids sick.
So but if you're if you're going to say, no, I'm not going to educate them.
They don't need to learn how to read society is like, yeah, they kind of do because they it's going to the rest of us kind of have a have an accrued interest in everyone having a minimum minimum level of competence.
Yeah.
There was a, I thought a really interesting example right near the end of this post about Stalinism where there was a particular intellectual in, I don't know, Russia around the time when Stalin was coming into power, who.
All the arguments at the time were in favor for communism and particularly Stalinism to enforce communism and make it make it work.
So it was obviously the most logically morally correct thing to do to support Stalinism.
It was the only way to move the human race forward.
And the person said, you know what, even though it's obviously the correct and most optimal way to run a society, I just don't want to.
And so they had that that I think that would be a case where the freedom to not choose the most optimal path is sometimes important.
And, you know, it turns out nowadays we know that was not the most optimal path at all.
But at the time that was not nearly so clear at all.
And so the ability to to be free to destroy that value, I guess, was important to.
Sounds like this person was a dissenter.
Yeah, I think they were.
Yeah.
So like that's another case of people having different preferences that come into conflict.
Yeah, I think it's.
But he was also convinced that that was the optimal thing to do the way to reorganize society.
Why what was his motivation then for saying no, I don't want to.
Because he wanted there to be some mercy and kindness in the world, despite the fact that it was not optimal.
I think that's one of those things where like that's that's a like non explicit value, although it was more explicit in their preferences than it was other people's because like.
The reason that you don't like tyrants is because you want a decision like what if the tyrant is wrong.
And it turns out that like having the flexibility there is worth having some some shake about it's like a democratic system, right?
Because at least then there's in theory the chance that like we can at least get back on course rather than just trusting somebody to keep us on course all the time that we can help kind of steer.
And yes, that means that will occasionally hit stuff.
But at the very least it means that we have everyone has a hand on the wheel.
Yeah, this is sorry we finished.
Yeah, go ahead.
It's actually making me think more of kind of the sacred cows.
