have access to perfect information?
And I guess like, you know, we kind of answered that the, you know, nobody has access to perfect
information and you have to just make the best, the most optimal choice within the bounds.
And I guess then thinking about that, I agree with what Eneesh was saying about it.
It seems like a goal should be making better bounds.
And you can do that by learning more if you can about the question you're trying to answer
and the problem you're trying to solve.
See, it's different because I feel like you should have the right to make the wrong decision
if given that you have all the information.
But if you don't even have correct information, in what sense are you free?
Yeah.
And I'm still struggling with the idea that like, anyone ever makes the wrong decision
quote unquote.
I think everybody chooses kind of what Steven was saying, what they think is the most optimal
choice based on the information they have.
I think like very few people are going to be like, I know that this is good, but I'm going
to do this other thing that is bad.
Like that there's the, you know, the trade off of alcohol, but that's just a, I know
that like I'm going to be hungover tomorrow.
But right now my preferences are I choose to have fun tonight.
I'd rather borrow happiness from tomorrow and have more happiness tonight.
Yeah.
I don't know.
There's, there's times when I'm self destructive or it's not even that.
It's just like, I want my outsides to match how my insides are right now.
And that, that involves them destroying.
Even that's working on a preference to like feel your emotions more strongly though.
I guess.
Or to have them kind of like, like, uh, reach some kind of catharsis about them.
I just like, I really am having a hard time imagining a, and then maybe, maybe it's just
a, the definition of what a good or a bad like choice is.
Well, and it's easy to imagine like someone making a bad decision, you know, because
you can, you can look at it in hindsight and be like, look, that decision killed them.
Their decision to use that much drugs was a bad decision because now they're dead.
Um, or their decision to, you know, uh, put all their money on the roulette table was
a bad decision because they lost.
So I know we've all seen the dark night in the situation where the Joker tells Batman
that your love interest is over here.
Harvey Dent is over here.
And now Batman gets to choose who he wants to go save.
Given the fact that the Joker lied to him and actually swapped the, where he told him,
did he ever have any sort of choice?
I guess he, he sort of did.
He still chose who he wanted to save, but.
He couldn't save Rachel.
Yeah.
In the situation because he, did he have the freedom ever to save her then?
No, not really.
The Joker constrained his, his abilities by giving him the false information, right?
Yeah.
He had the freedom to decide who he'd rather save, but not the freedom to actually do
anything.
Right.
Which is what makes, like, that's what makes that decision, like by the Joker way more
evil.
He could have given him a random location of an empty warehouse, right?
But he actually sent him to Harvey Dent's place, which is hilarious.
You know, the Joker got a good laugh about it.
And that's, that's what makes the Joker such a good bad guy.
Um, yeah, that's interesting.
I don't know, like reading this article, I'm just like thinking of the opinion that
I just want us, I want there to be more freedom.
And like by freedom, I mean information, I guess.
Well, sure.
But do you also, by the definition of this article, therefore want there to be less
optimization?
Because if you always choose the most optimal thing, you're never free.
I was going to say freezing it in the sense of always choosing one or the other.
I think it was the trap that the essay is trying to make us fall into, but there's
no reason to go into.
Yeah.
It's like, you're free to make, you're only free to make the optimal decision if you
have all the right information.
Um, but that's assuming you want to make the optimal decision.
Sometimes you just want to fuck around and, and, you know, waste your time.
So you're free to choose the most optimal decision, but you're also free to not do
so.
Right.
Okay.
So like, it would sure be nice.
Like if my, if my decision was like, all right, in five years on making this amount
of money, working at this place and have a house this big or something, whatever your
arbitrary, measurable goals are, then there is some path to victory there, right?
Um, like it's not clear to me if Contessa's power from worm could say, I want to waste
tonight.
What's the best way to do that?
Right.
There probably is some answer to that.
If you're, but like, I guess it's not clear what waste means there, but like what she,
what Contessa can do is not use her power.
So she has the path to victory that gives her the optimal, uh, 117 step route to solving
whatever problem she's facing.
Or she can say, I'm not going to ask my power and I'm going to just do what I think I want
to do.
So that sounds like the best, that sounds like the best outcome.
Kind of like having that, that, that earring parable with Scott, Scott, Alexander's post,
but not having to wear it all the time.
The downside would be like that.
If you are wearing it, life would be so much easier and you would be offloading a lot of
your decision making onto this thing, but it would be, it'd be a cool thing to have,
but one to be like really careful about using, I guess.
I think I'm still struggling with is the, the idea that there is such a thing as a bad
or a good choice or an optimal or a non-optimal choice.
In the case that such a thing existed, that a person would ever be, would ever want to
or be able to choose the bad or the non-optimal choice.
I mean, people can be wrong about what the actual optimal choice is, but like, who is
deciding what is and isn't optimal here?
Like you can, um, look at your brother and like be like, okay, like I'm a rationalist
and my brother's, uh, not and I can see that he's doing this thing and I could tell him
like, hey, obviously the optimal thing to do would be this, but then your brother could
say, well, I'm a hedonist and I don't actually care about advancing my career or this or
that.
I just want to have a party with my friends every night and that actually is his preference.
Are we talking about what someone's preference is?
What is actually making them happy?
Or like, are we defining optimal by some other metrics?
That you're an effective altruist and a rationalist and all that stuff?
Yeah.
Um, I, I take it to mean that you're actually going for what you're aiming for.
So in that case, your brother's aiming to have a good time.
Yeah.
Um, you know, not necessarily looking at looking at a hypothetical person, um, you know, who
says like, I guess you could say it was a wrong decision if like what they thought was
going to be a good time actually sucked or, you know, like led them into, you know, a
long strain of decisions that they regretted.
Um, so like if you're, if your thing is like, I'm going to party four nights a week and
then you fail out of college and you can't party anymore.
Right.
Then you can't party anymore or you can still party.
Well, you can have much worse parties by yourself.
Um, but like, you know, if you wanted to do both, you wanted to go to school and, and
party a lot, but like it turns out that you miss measured the scales and you failed out
of classes or something.
Right.
I think there is some level of extreme extrinsic good and bad in all these questions too, because
right now we're just focusing on what does the person think will make them happier or
whatever, but, uh, all your actions affect other people too.
So if you, if you put stress on your family, if the emotional financial, whatever, if the
rest of society is being brought down by your actions in some way, those could be classified
as bad, even if it's what's making you happy.
Cause everyone else in society now has a reason to try to, uh, make you not pursue those particular
goals or at least moderate them in some way.
Yeah.
Actually, uh, thinking about that, I think you're right.
And in the example of the hypothetical brother, there's still the internal family systems.
Um, there's like the domineering part of your brother who wants to party and then there's
the part of your brother that doesn't want to like be broke and sitting outside the 7-11
out of a brown paper bag, party of one after failing out of college and not having any
way to make money.
So yeah, a person is like a society and.
And a person is in a society.
Like the point you're just saying, yeah.
So, and even then too, like this, this hypothetical person still wants like presumably healthy
relationships, cause that's part of being a happy person for almost everybody.
And if some of their decisions are ruining that, then they're going to be like, oh, that
is something to do.
I should have done that.
Yeah.
And yeah, there are certain measurable things like you were saying, uh, having human connections,
having enough food, having shelter, like there are certain basic needs that we can actually
measure and figure out whether these are being met for this person.
So it's not like just people.
There's not such a thing as a person who only has one, uh, utility function.
Yeah.
Or if they do, it's a lot of numbers and they get a lot of weird answers depending on how
you're running them.
Like if you spend five years chasing a gambling addiction and at the end of it, you have nothing
and everyone hates you because you borrowed a lot of money that you can't pay back, then
like you've made the wrong decision.
You should have stopped earlier.
Um, even, even if that was me, I would think that I'm assuming, right?
I look back and be like, well, that sucked.
Even if each individual bet was fun at the time.
Right.
Yeah.
Now I'm wondering if I'm going to look back and be like, there's a really annoying question.
So like each individual episode was fun to record, but man, this podcast was a shitty
or like rewatching or like wasting my time.
Um, so like Sam Harris does this at the end of his shows, which I feel like isn't, like
it doesn't fit with the rest of his, his podcast, uh, personality where he does like free fire
questions.
It's like the same five cast questions for every guest.
He doesn't do it every time, but he does it to a lot of people.
And one of them is like, um, what, what are you doing now that in 20 years you'll expect
you'll regret doing?
Right.
And Robin Hansen is the only one so far.
I think he's had the best answer to that, which is like nothing.
Cause if I was aware of that, I'd stop doing it.
But that's, that's Robin Hansen.
Robin Hansen was also brought up in this post as an example of an optimizer.
Right.
So for the rest of us humans, um, it's like, there's a good chance that I will think, oh,
you know what I should have done through 2018 and 19 is instead of, you know, binge watching
shows that I already seen and playing video games, I should have like read more books
on my job.
So I could advance my career raster or something.
And yet I'm not sure if that'll hold me back enough to like make me regret doing that.
Cause I'm having fun.
Yeah.
