I found a way to feel less guilty about watching TV.
Like generally what I do when I'm working out is like watch a comedy show or something.
Right.
But I can't really watch them much cause most of the time I'm not facing the screen, which
is why they're comedy shows.
Uh, and I've needed some falling behind on things like Umbrella Academy and all this
other shit.
Uh, I picked up a guitar and now I'm just kind of like practicing my fingering while I watch
things.
And I'm like, Hey, I'm doing something at the same time that I'm wasting time enjoying
myself.
So, uh, you know, figure you spend 20 minutes a day practicing fingering.
It's not much, but over the course of 10 years, you might be able to play a song or
two.
And the other way to do that is by Nintendo switch.
So you can play video games and watch TV at the same time.
How do you enjoy either one when you're doing both?
Um, so at least fingering is pretty mindless.
I used to like play video games and listen to podcasts as long as it's not like a story
heavy video game or one that takes a lot of your like four brain to solve a puzzle.
Yeah.
So if I, if I'm playing a game like God of War, which is actually really story heavy
and there's like, there's too much going on to like do I do something else?
Um, those, but those ones are like more intrinsically fun than just like kind of like, eh, you know,
or like, like Sudoku or Tetris or something, right?
Where it's like, I'm engaging brain a little bit.
So I can play Sudoku and do anything else.
Um, but the game that I'm thinking of that I got on the switch, there's, it's like a turn me.
You got to press a every time you want to continue the game.
So like there's like dialogue that you can like most games, I guess, but, um, it's called hand of fate.
You can Google it if you're curious what I'm talking about.
But it's a card one.
Yeah.
Okay.
But the short version is that it's really easy to play this game in a way that I can constantly look away from the screen.
So that's how I can watch TV at the same time.
But, um, I should move on.
Yes.
And I think this makes a wonderful segue to something I've been meaning to bring up for a long time.
Let's do a little intermediary section between now and the less wrong posts.
Uh, World of Warcraft Classic is coming out August 27th and I am so fucking stoked guys.
Woo.
Oh my God.
Oh, cause I, I played this game a lot when I was fresh out of college.
Uh, and good Lord, it's just so, I was about to say so much fun, but it's hard to call it funness.
I recently saw a video which put it up, which summarized it well.
A lot of people are looking for meaningful work that meaningful work feels very rewarding.
And World of Warcraft, uh, the original classic is a very good game simulation of meaningful work.
Yes.
Uh, because it is work.
It's not necessarily fun what you're doing, but it feels meaningful because you are helping your community.
You are helping your guild to get better and to get stronger and you will all be doing something together.
So everything that you do always feels like it is good for your society.
And to contrast that with like a bad video game where like in Warcraft, correct me if I'm wrong.
I never played it because I knew I didn't have the discipline to play that and have a life.
Like, you know, eat and sleep and go to school.
Um, but where if you do the thing, if you go through the quest, beat the big boss at the end, you get the prize.
Not every time.
Not every time.
Okay. Well, at least it's still fun to do maybe.
Yeah.
Whereas like a game like Destiny is where it takes four hours trying to get through this long raid and there's like a 2% chance of getting the prize.
Right, right.
And like the work isn't even that much fun.
It's more like all these stupid puzzles and like you got to shoot and stuff or whatever, but like it's more just like jumping through all these hoops in a way that isn't at all rewarding.
Yeah.
Um, the current World of Warcraft, I've been playing it a little bit just to like get my fix in.
It's first of all, it's completely different game just in terms of game mechanics.
Like this is not the same game that they had 14 years ago at all.
But also now it's much more of that looter shooter thing where you you sign in, you play for 40 minutes, you get your shot at some loot if you accomplish your mission, which generally always do.
And then that's it.
There's no community, the people that you played with you probably won't see again unless you've like started your own group.
But, uh, yeah, just it doesn't feel the same at all.
There's no, no real continuity.
It's a one-time session game that you can play over and over in 40 minute increments rather than a persistent world where what you do feels like it matters from week to week.
Hmm.
So it still can be fun if you like that sort of, you know, kind of a actiony puzzle game sort of thing is how I think of it.
I guess you said the same thing about Destiny.
It's kind of like a puzzle game where you shoot things.
Yeah, because it wasn't fun.
Yeah.
And that game had so much hype behind it.
And they had Peter Dinklage back at like, you know, the Prime of Game of Thrones do the voice with a little robot.
And they're like, we're going to keep adding stuff to this game for 10 years and it's going to just, you know, it's going to be coming to you guys for free and we're going to just keep making this game bigger and better.
They're charging like 30 to 60 bucks for every expansion and then like dropped after two years.
And they even like ended up replacing Peter Dinklage as the voice actor because they just didn't want to keep paying him.
So they had someone else do it.
It was like that whole game was a great to me like lesson in how like to do something the wrong way.
Yeah, my coworkers were super addicted to that game, though.
I mean, regardless of all the dropped balls and missed opportunities and broken promises.
They do a good job of making addictive addictive games.
Yeah, I think it was just the we were working together in an office all day long and then these guys would go home like have dinner and then they'd all log into Destiny and like and play together.
So it was still the community aspect of the game that was getting them to come back to it.
Yeah, I did that when I was delivering pizzas.
The guys that I played with we played Call of Duty and that's like it's a lot of the same.
It's the exact same kind of game.
You know, first person shooter and the zombies missions are a lot more like playing Destiny raids where it's like,
except you don't win at zombies, you just get further.
But like all the fun of that is playing with a team that's good and wants to cooperate.
Do you feel like when you successfully meet your goals, you're making the entire team better?
Not in either of those games, except like because in Call of Duty, you're not progressing at all.
There's not like experience levels that you're gaining playing the zombies missions and in Destiny, you're typically only strong enough.
And I'm talking about the first one.
I never played the second because I decided I was never going to give them my money again or I never and I'd never reserve a game again like pre-order.
So although I did pre-order Breath of the Wild, but I knew that one was going to deliver and it did.
So good.
Yeah, the thing you're talking about, Edie, that was so rewarding.
I didn't play World of Warcraft.
I was addicted to Ragnarok online for six years.
It was great.
I had this group of friends from like, I was playing on the international server.
So I had a friend from China and a friend from Brazil and friend from Mexico.
I'm still in touch with some of these people.
Two of the people that like, like six years ago, like we're like dating online.
There was a girl from Florida and a guy from Mexico are now married.
Nice.
I went and visited them in Florida.
Like, yeah, like that was kind of my substitute for having real life social interactions because I used to be too socially anxious to talk to people.
And I think a lot of people are that way too.
So I don't know.
I have mixed feelings about MMOs that do community stuff really well like that.
I think they are really great for people that don't have that ability in real life who are socially anxious, who are maybe like live in the middle of farmland and don't have access to people.
And then there's also the dangerous addictive quality.
Yeah.
The addictive quality is something to be worried about.
But like, even if you have access to people, like if you live in a big city, it's like sometimes playing a game is more fun than doing real life.
And, you know, you can meet people that, you know, your friends in real life don't have interests in.
That's why a lot of the less wrong communities online, right?
There's definitely a benefit to doing it in person too.
But to the extent that you can't or it's inconvenient because you live all over the state or something or all over the country or world, that it's nice.
We'll just like, you know what, Friday and Saturday night, we're going to get online and chat or, you know, kill some monsters.
Yeah, it's a fake world, but it's real relationships.
Yeah.
That shouldn't be the tagline for a game.
That's second life.
Yeah.
I guess the thing that's dangerous about them is the substituting fake work for real work or vice versa, you know, where you're leveling up and you achieve quests and you have like these metrics for everything that you can see and measure and you get the little like slot machine dopamine release of reward when you level up and there's fanfare.
Well, real life doesn't have that and it's much duller and harder.
It takes longer.
And that's how games are rewarding is like you good games are.
And that's what I was trying to get out with.
I got some of the specifics wrong, but with World of Warcraft, you kind of get in, you kind of get out what you put in.
And maybe if you hit a level cap or whatever, then you're just in it to see if you can get the last little thing.
No, MMOs are pretty famous for, for rewarding time played.
Right.
More than anything else.
Yeah.
Grinding ability.
And, you know, every time you kill this thing, you're going to get X amount of experience.
And if you're trying to get experience, you're going to get that doing it.
So whereas in real life, it's always a crap shoot.
So speaking of all that, I am creating a guild on a PvE server alliance in North America.
So if anybody wants to join, I'll put a link to the discord that I have created.
I'm assuming there won't be too many people.
I certainly hope there aren't like a hundred people in the guild because that's 50 more people than we need.
Yeah.
But if you're interested in playing, come on in.
Obviously we'll start with more than the required 45 because I expect a decent amount of people will drop out during, you know, the leveling process before they hit Max.
Do I need PC to play this game?
I believe there's Mac versions.
Hmm.
I'm wondering if I want to do this.
I'm sucking you in.
Raid times are going to be Sunday and Monday nights once we get up to raid, which will be a few months.
Okay.
I'll give it some thought.
Okay.
Yeah, I'm considering it.
I don't actually regret the six years that I was addicted to MMOs, but that was because I used them to teach myself how to do real life social interactions and like stuff with economics and just like overcoming an adonia.
I don't know.
There's useful stuff about games.
I don't regret my time in World of Warcraft either, but I also like eventually just stopped playing.
I learned how to do all this stuff in real life and now like I can get a real job and make money with it or have friendships in the real world and it feels better than doing it in a game used to.
I've gone back and tried to play it again and it's not as rewarding after I've experienced the real thing quote unquote.
That's what I'm kind of worried about.
That World of Warcraft just won't be as much fun now that like you said, the real thing exists.
So maybe I won't even get up to 60 myself, but I'm always going to give it a shot.
It's worth experimenting.
And that's the thing too is like assuming you already have the hardware to play it like the game is 60 bucks, which is like nothing to shake a stick at.
But you know, if you play it for 20 hours, which is probably a gross underestimate, you know, that's three bucks an hour for fun.
That's like that's way less than what you'd be willing to pay for a good time.
So like that was the thing, you know, we talked about that game that I was playing.
It was 30 bucks.
I bought it on a whim because I'd liked the first one a few years ago.
I was like, even if I only play this for 10 hours, like that's still a lot less like dollar per hour of fun than, you know, going to the movies or something.
Absolutely.
Which I'm planning on doing here at some point probably today.
So I don't I think my usual threshold of like, you know, movie is like whatever six bucks an hour for fun.
That's probably too much.
Well, it depends.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Six bucks an hour for an hour and a half movie that'd be like, yeah.
Movies.
I guess movies are a bit more expensive than that here.
Well, I was also saying they're a bit longer too.
So that's true.
They have been creeping up.
Yeah.
Most of them are around two hours now.
