So this principle extends beyond physics.
Have you ever caught yourself saying something like,
I don't understand how a PhD physicist can believe in astrology?
Well, if you literally don't understand, this indicates a problem with your model of human psychology.
Perhaps you are indignant.
You wish to express a strong moral disapproval.
But if you literally don't understand, then your indignation is stopping you from coming to terms with reality.
It shouldn't be hard to imagine how a PhD physicist ends up believing in astrology.
I actually just said, I literally don't understand how people cannot accept the transporter argument.
Yeah.
And we need to update our vocabulary in this community to be like,
I am strongly morally disapprove of the fact that people think that the transporter argument.
I actually literally don't understand why people don't get the transporter argument,
which means I have a serious hole in my models of other people's psychology.
Right.
Yeah.
That's good to know, right?
So now you can actually like, wait, this is actually like a problem with me not understanding them.
Not a problem with them for being inscrutable.
Right.
This sounds like a thing, something that you can figure out.
I should hope so.
Yeah.
So I now try to avoid using the English idiom.
I just don't understand how to express indignation.
If I genuinely don't understand how my model is being surprised by the facts,
and I should discard it and find a better model.
There are no surprising facts, only models that are surprised by the facts.
Nice.
Yeah, to frame things, right?
Always working to get better models.
Always working for your models to be a little bit less wrong.
Totally.
Wait a minute, that's the name of the show.
Yeah, I don't know if it's like the number of times that I've read these particular ones,
or these are particularly good sequences,
but I feel like there wasn't much to say about any of these three,
like kind of just like a fist pump, like, yep.
Yeah, these ones are poignant.
I think that's probably why you selected them for episodes in the Methods of Rationality podcast,
because these ones don't require a lot of extra backlog or discussion or anything like that.
It's like, no, you read this and you basically get what it's saying.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Also why I had three of them in this episode, because I knew we'd get through them pretty fast.
And they're all coherent.
They all had one theme that they were hitting.
Exactly.
For next time, we will be talking about the posts,
where the unsurprised, the third alternative, and third alternatives for afterlife-ism.
Dope.
All right, shall we get to one or two listener feedbacks before we wrap it up?
Sure.
Alrighty.
Mr. Oliva says on the subreddit,
oh, this is in regard to our last episode about the is-ought distinction,
the is-ought distinction is not that statements including ought cannot solely follow from statements including is.
That your moral result must be the product of one or more moral premises.
Simply from describing the world, meaning cannot be derived without the arguer providing it.
Death is bad is Emyash's moral input to his argument.
Badness is not a measurable quantity of the universe.
I, so I understand what he's saying.
And I, I agree that badness is not a measurable quantity of the universe.
However, I disagree that you need moral inputs to make moral assertions.
So, in the example of death in the simplest case, we already, we already, at least I believe, we established,
I at the very least said that there is no intrinsic value to anything in the universe.
The only value that exists is what agents value, right?
We give value to things?
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't know if you said that last time or not, but yeah.
I meant to say that even if I didn't.
So, given that only agents can value things, what agents value is the thing that matters.
And since the overwhelming majority of humans do value their lives a lot,
they have a lot of reason to, first of all, pursue their own continued living and to make it so that people who stop others from living,
are punished.
And even better would be to make those people have an intrinsic aversion to taking others lives.
There's like, this is what badness basically boils down to, right?
It's things that I will be punished for.
It's things that I don't want to do because I have been inculcated by the rest of society that doing this will make me feel bad.
It will make me be shunned.
It will just everything about that's that's what badness is.
It's everyone coming together and saying, these are our preferences.
Please do not harm them.
And if you do, there will be consequences.
Like, does that, does that make sense at all?
Yeah.
I think this is the same intuition I was coming to when we were talking about the free will argument where to the extent that we can say that something.
I don't know.
Badness does have no meaning on the scale of the universe, but that's because like Iraq is not sentient.
We're humans.
We're, we're sentient.
We're able to come up with concepts like bad and good because we have sentience to be able to think about it.
And I think that you can actually, there is something measurable in the brain of all the brain or the nervous system of all living organisms that like, you know, the very core of every living sentient thing is that it wants to continue existing and being sentient.
So maybe it's not like a law of the universe the way gravity is, but it's a constant.
Or at least we haven't discovered any exception to this really.
It's a more or less universal law of human psychology.
And I mean, I think, like, I get around a lot of the like philosophizing on like good and bad and whatever by just saying like make the world a better place.
I know that like better than is doing the lifting.
But people I think have have have are less caught up in their intuitions about like trying to extrapolate what that means.
Like, all right, cool.
You mean like, you know, less suffering and pain and like more happiness and flourishing, right?
And it's like, yeah, exactly.
Whereas if I just say it's bad and like, well, what do you mean by bad?
What if I thought it was good and you thought it was bad?
Then our opinions equal.
And so you kind of you can occasionally dodge that whole argument just by by reframing the the the the position that way, right?
So if your thing was like death leads to a worse world or something, maybe it would be a little like that's not exactly the way to put it.
But yeah, I think it's more because people want to keep producing this to is statements.
And I think that people have a desire to live is an is statement.
You can measure, you know, if people have a desire to live or not.
And in some respects, how strong it is.
But me saying, I don't care about your desire to live and I'm going to do whatever I want.
You're saying I shouldn't do that is an odd statement.
Yes, and no, I mean, I'm saying that everyone who has a desire to live has therefore strong reasons to prevent you from wanting to kill other people,
both in terms of punishment and in terms of just creating in you a desire to not be a killer.
Yeah, but but like my in that circumstance, my desire to like not be a killer being shaped by society isn't because like I agree that death is bad.
It's that I agree me and being in prison is bad.
Well, or just that you acknowledge the fact that society has successfully instilled these emotions in you that you would feel awful if you kill someone.
Like would you feel awful if you kill someone is a yes or no question and has society instilled that that emotion in you is something that's probably measurable.
I know there's a lot of societies that do not make a distinction about some people that you're allowed to kill.
Yeah, but I think that those are societies where they dehumanize.
Yes.
Like you shouldn't kill people and your enemy does not count as people.
Yeah, but luckily gay people aren't people so we can throw them off of buildings or something, right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
So there's whether that emotion has been instilled in you or not is also a is question.
And why was it instilled in you is because the people who did the instilling had motivations of wanting to you to not kill them.
So I mean, I think it's all comes back to his questions.
Yeah.
I'm not sure if this is what Mr. Allieval was getting at here, but I remember being very tired and we recorded that episode and kind of after the fact being like it really would have behoved us to taboo a lot of words.
And that discussion because this is like a lot of the is on question relies on there being agreed upon meaning of words like good and bad.
So like probably would have been good for us to have good to have defined what we meant by that or what like maybe other people making that argument mean by that because I think that we're actually like people on other sides of this argument are actually usually talking about different things.
Yeah, you're right.
I guess I guess bad is my shorthand way of saying undesirable.
No, no, no.
In general, people have many reasons that actually exist for making you want to hate that have an aversion to doing this.
So like death is bad means that in general, everyone around you has many true existing reasons to make you feel bad if you kill anyone to make you have emotional pain when you kill people.
So it's a perfectly normative claim rather than a moral claim.
Yes.
Okay, cool.
And those reasons are that they want to live.
Yeah, the last paragraph of Mr. Oliwala's comment was even if we stated it empirically as death makes people sad and death causes people not to actualize their goals.
You'd still need to provide the moral statement people being sad and not actualizing their goals is bad before you could derive the moralized conclusion death is bad, which is yeah just defining what we mean by bad there.
Right, but you're not you're not making a moralized claim you're making a normative claim.
Yeah, I'm saying that people being sad and not actualizing their goals is a reason for them to instill in me the emotion of emotional pain when I do those things that would make them be sad or or not actualize their goals.
Yeah, I think this is a sense where the word bad has no meaning in the context of Iraq, like the word bad only has a meaning in the context of a sentient being.
Yeah, and again it comes back to sentient beings don't want to die sentient beings don't want to feel sad sentient beings want to actualize their goals.
Do either of you or did either of you read Sam Harris's book on the moral landscape.
No, I didn't anyway.
I don't think I have.
So it's, I think lyric, our friend of the show lyrically put like they point out that there's some like problems with the book that they're not a huge fan of.
But what I like about it is that it sort of like it deals with that same sort of philosophical bedrock question kind of like we just did and then like just kind of just past it.
Like, I think he bites the bullet in a different way rather than saying like look no this is like not just purely a fact about human psychology and I'm making normative claims about what people want and what they're trying to make you do.
It's more just like, yeah, I'm going to say that, like, that's one reason I like reading Harris's stuff is that he does.
He's one of the same tools that I like where basically he like reduces something to like an absurd level, just to see if there's like an actually an intuition there that's like that actually pans out.
So, like, I'll take something run run with it all the way and see if it's if there's anything that it makes sense.
And so his his analogy is like the best or the worst possible world for everyone.
And so like whatever that kind of means to you you imagine something that's like hurts all the time.
Whatever it is right now basically hell writ large.
If you don't think that that's bad, then we need to stop using the word bad or I have no idea how to talk to you.
Yeah, there's universalize will universalizable aspects to badness pain.
Yeah, one loneliness being one.
I mean, things that are the opposite of goals that we as a sentient being are trying to actualize.
And you could even just say it's like something that we want to avoid.
Like, and so that's where he kind of just comes down and says, like, look, if you say that there's no difference between like the best possible world and the worst possible world.
And you're like, Nope, I have no preference about one or the other.
And it's like, all right, cool, then I'm not talking to you.
I'm talking to people who can see why living in the worst possible world for everybody is is wrong or is bad.
And why we should strive for the best possible world for everyone.
And I just want to say that I did not come up with the vast majority of what I've said by myself.
This is almost everything taken from the works of Alonso five we had on the podcast once and his theory of desire utilitarianism, which basically says that all value boils down to what sentient beings desire and, you know, and our verse to have an anti desire for cool.
Yeah.
And as sentient beings, that's really all that we can do.
Yeah.
And, you know, I don't know, it's probably not the end all of all morality, but it's what I have latched on to what I think is the most correct description of how the moral process works.
Sounds good to me.
All right.
Sunday, Jay says, imagine a society in which every time someone had a health problem that could be fixed with a bodily transplant, such as blood transplant, bone marrow transplant, kidney transplant, a donor would be picked at random from the male population in a way.
If you didn't want to be a donor, then tough luck.
It's being a donor or going to jail.
There's of course always the chance of the operation going wrong and the donor would end up dead crippled, otherwise radically changed in ways that stop them from following their dreams.
If you value human life over the bodily autonomy this much and find such a society more appealing than the current one, I can respect your decision of being pro life.
So that was obviously in response to her abortion, a lovely, popular, wonderful abortion discussion.
Yes.
I, I'm, I'm mixed on this one.
Are you?
Would that be a good.
I think that's not a good trade off.
To, you know, I still, I still think bodily autonomy is kind of a value that I will defend.
I'm going to put the shelling fence there for good reasons and I don't think it's quite the same here.
Okay, say that, you know, you're chosen to give someone the kidney transplant.
You go to the hospital and they, they do the kidney transplant and it's against your will.
And now you have, but like you're actually fine.
You still have one functioning kidney.
Your brain's still the same.
The operation is like, maybe, I don't know.
I think the longest, maybe it could go on as a week.
They did point out like, oh, maybe you could like be injured or crippled, but otherwise you're fine.
