Yeah.
Kind of wish they would make some shorter movies.
Yeah.
So I can like actually watch them sometimes.
Dude, watching Army of Darkness now is crazy.
It's like 74 minutes long.
You're like, whoa, is this is this a TV episode I just watched?
It's over already.
Yeah.
Especially with all like the Netflix originals that are like 50 minute, 55 minute episodes or something.
And it's like a mini movie or like Game of Thrones is an hour.
Like the last one, the last season was like an hour and 20 minutes in episode.
So where's it?
I didn't think any of them were that long.
So season seven, they have some that were that long.
Well, some of them anyway, we're over an hour, which is over the time.
I love it for a movie or TV show and is encroaching an old movie time territory.
So yeah.
And then there's Avengers Endgame that was only three hours or three three hours long and it wasn't long enough.
It didn't feel three hours at all.
No.
It's crazy.
Shall we move on to the last wrong posts?
All right, let's do it.
Let's do it.
The last wrong posts.
The first one that we are reading and talking about this week is Universal Fire.
This is actually one that I did a.
I read the essay out loud in one of the down periods when Eleazar was writing more chapters of Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality.
So I will post a link if you want to hear me reading the entire thing that exists.
There just occurred to me.
There are also two other audiobook podcasts for the sequences.
Yes, there are.
That we haven't been linking to and kind of like just we mentioned them once or twice, but we never linked to them.
Yeah, we linked to them once or twice, but we don't do it regularly.
They're out there.
If you want to find them, they're both on iTunes, I think.
So yes, if you don't want to read these, you can you can listen to all of them.
Right.
Reading with your ears is so cool.
Yeah.
It's going to say listen to them while playing video games.
Exactly.
Optimization.
That's right.
While you're out there grinding bat dicks.
Wait.
What?
Is this a World of Warcraft?
It's a joke of one of my friends as a thing.
We're like, yeah, I'm just going to go out and collect bat dicks for the next two hours because you get random parts of the animal.
Not random, completely random, but like sometimes someone's like, I need to attend wolf pause.
And someone's like, I need 11 bears now.
And someone's like, I need 20 rat dicks.
50% of what I know about World of Warcraft or some of that South Park episode make love, not Warcraft.
Yes.
And I feel like they did a good job.
Yeah.
Even though I don't have anything to compare it to.
I did demo the game for like a week when I was, because there was like a trial that you could play.
And I was like, I'm way too into this.
I can't do it.
Because I think I mentioned this before offline, but I put, I think 450 hours into my first
playthrough of Elder Scrolls of Libyan.
Yes.
And I was like, that's offline.
That's a lot.
That's a lot of hours.
And like, if I was online, like not just like competing with myself and like trying to
make a great character, but also measuring dicks with everyone else out there, I would,
I would lose sleep.
I would just stay up all night taking caffeine pills and drinking soylents and just like running.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I would run myself ragged playing this game.
Yeah.
Not a good idea.
Not for me.
All right.
Universal fire in universal fire starts off telling, talking about a piece of fiction, a book where
Harold Shea is transported from our own universe into the universe of Norse mythology.
This world is based on magic rather than technology.
So naturally when he tries to light a fire with a match brought from earth, the match
fails to strike.
Boom, boom, boom.
Eliezer has a problem with this.
Eliezer says that Antoine Loren de la Vossier, I think.
Yeah, pretty good.
Okay.
Discovered fire.
His great innovation was to weigh all the pieces of the chemical puzzle both before
and after the chemical reaction.
So he discovered that all the parts including the weight of the air after a fire are equal
to all the weight of all the parts before.
He also knew how to separate gases and discovered that burning a candle diminished the amount
of one kind of gas, which they called vital air, and produced another gas called fixed
air.
Today we would call them oxygen and carbon dioxide.
When the vital air was exhausted, the fire went out.
He said that the thing that's really amazing about this is that way back in the day when
people didn't know how their bodies worked, not on a real deep level.
You could look at your hand and flex your fingers and really have no idea why that worked.
You know the muscles are doing work and moving them, but why are your muscles contracting?
How is any of this possible?
Must be the soul inside you, right?
Yeah, why does your hand move and not like a piece of clay that you're holding that shaped
thing?
All of this seems kind of obvious to us now because we all took elementary school science
and stuff, but just a quick side note there.
Anyone who hasn't read anything on a history of science, I think it's worth just grabbing
something like a brief history of nearly everything.
There's not a book version of that too, but just putting yourself in the mindset of somebody
who didn't know all this stuff already, because you look at it now and I'm like, oh, chemistry
is boring.
Do you have any idea how weird it was to live in a time when you didn't know what stuff
like now we now we know and it seems like something that humanity is always known, but
we've only known for like a few hundred years, like stuff made of atoms, right?
So that I think that that sort of thought experiment, which you can run by reading a
history book is like just vital to getting the wow of science and to make something like
this make more sense.
And that's yeah, that's where he points out, imagine not knowing all this stuff and then
discovering that humans in the course of breathing consume vital air and breathe out
fixed air, just like a fire will consume vital air and make fixed air, meaning that people
also run on combustion.
We're made of fire.
Which is like, what the fuck?
Which is I mean, that's pretty fucking amazing when you think about it, right?
Who, if you discovered that, would that not freak you out?
Especially if you discovered it in the context of knowing so little else about the nature
of the world, right?
Yeah.
And so it's, yeah, what you could infer would be through the roof.
Yeah, why is there fire?
What happens?
There's obviously no fire inside me, but what?
Yeah, like you put a candle in a jar and it eventually burns out.
You put a mouse in a jar and it eventually burns out.
Yeah.
Like why are these things the same?
Right.
Because you don't know what's in the air and you don't know, yeah, the parts of it.
Yeah.
Is the fire alive?
I don't know.
Elias explains matches catch fire due because of phosphorus.
He gives some breaks down a bit more.
I skipped ahead a little phosphorus is highly reactive.
Pure phosphorus glows in the dark and may spontaneously combust.
It's also well suited to its role in ATP, your body's chief method of storing chemical
energy.
If a match stops working, so do you.
For the match to not catch fire when phosphorus is rubbed against something would mean that
phosphorus isn't working, which means that our own internal chemical processes aren't
working either.
They both work off phosphorus.
So I didn't read this, this fantasy story, but couldn't humans also just run on magic?
I suppose that's I guess how it must have worked.
Yeah.
So that would have been a cool rationalist version of that story.
If like Harold Shea had been like, the match isn't working, but then how am I working?
And then done some experiments and been like, my body's made of magic.
Yeah.
That would have been cool.
He ends with phosphorus derives its behavior from even deeper laws, electrodynamic and
chromodynamics.
Phosphorus is merely our word for electrons and quarks arranged in a certain way.
You cannot change the chemical properties of phosphorus without changing the laws governing
electrons and quarks.
So if you stepped into a world where matches fail to strike, you would cease to exist as
organized matter.
This reminds me of a, I feel like there's been a couple of stories like this too.
But I remember as a kid, I had this book of a short like science fiction stories.
And there was this one where there were these two kids that discovered a time machine and
the one kid was cautious and looked like we shouldn't use the time machine.
And the other kid was like, I was born in the wrong era.
I need to live in Victorian times.
And then like finally they wrestle over the time machine.
The one kid uses the time machine and then she's just floating in space because she's
gone back in time to Victorian times.
But you know, everything has been moving this entire time.
Right.
That's also my objection with ghosts that unless like maybe they're affected by gravity
though.
So ghosts must be affected by gravity, I guess, which would make, which is weird because
they're supposed to be substance list, substance list lists.
And like if you're killed like on the fourth floor of a high rise and they demolish it,
make room for like a parking lot, are you just like floating up there?
Or do you like zip away from the earth when like, you know, the moment you die and like
every year the earth swings back.
But then of course the galaxy is rotating too.
So like you just never really get back to where you were when you died.
I did actually read this story about ghosts where a ghost like there's this girl who could
go back and forth between the spirit world and the real world.
And she kind of became a ghost when she was in the spirit world.
And at one point she's in her dad's apartment in New York and turns into a ghost and just
falls through the floor.
I love people actually think about stuff like that.
Yeah, I think Dan Dennett when he's talking about his, you know, mind stuff and all that
in some of it because the philosopher of mind.
Like how can Casper go through walls and catch a ball and play like catch with you?
