Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Inyash Brotsky. I am Stephen Zuber. I'm Jess Dickey.
I'm Jess J-E-S-S. Dickey-D-I-C-K-E-Y. Not just icky.
Someone wrote in too before you put you on the website, was Jess Sticky?
Not that one either.
I thought I pictured a stick like a stick.
I'm somewhat stick-like, but that is not my name.
I've noticed that when...
But you're not dick-like.
No comment.
All right. Well, she's the nicest dick in this room anyway.
Oh, right. They. Sorry.
Thank you.
I know Polish a little bit from my parents, and I can talk with them, but then I listen to fast things like a newscast.
My parents are pretty good with English. They cannot understand English songs.
And the same thing with Polish because the words and songs are kind of like drawn out or smushed together or stopped at weird points for the meter.
And it's just, yeah, you have no idea what anyone's saying if it's not in...
I struggle to understand speech at all.
Right. Yeah.
Jess Dickey.
Thank you. All right. Now that that's cleared up, what are we talking about today?
Today, we're talking about a post called Degrees of Freedom by Sarah Konstantin, which can be found over at the new less wrong, which is just less wrong.com.
It's called new because there was a whole restructuring at some point in the recent past.
Yeah, I don't know if it's that new anymore. I think it's just less wrong now.
Okay.
Call it less wrong 2.0.
I think they used to call less wrong 2.0 back when it was lesser wrong, but now that it's just full on less wrong.
I guess it's just less wrong again, less wrong we born.
It's like that thing where like the remake video games and they just like now they're like they're just calling those same things as the ones that came out 15 years ago.
Yeah.
Like God of War, the one that came out in 2018 wasn't God of War 5.
What was it?
Just God of War.
Wait, they're not even with a subtitle or something?
No.
Just God of War.
Right. Minus the just.
This is the new original God of War.
That's stupid.
It's going to be confusing in another 15 years when God of War 10 comes out and it's just God of War again.
Jesus.
Okay.
But I like this post.
I found it and I said, Hey, we should talk about it.
And the other two on the podcast said, Yeah, let's, let's do that because why not.
So here we go.
And it kind of fits into the stuff that we've been talking about a little bit with like constraining choices and I don't know, like a vaguely of a theme over the last few episodes of like kind of centering on autonomy and that sort of stuff.
So.
And free speech.
Yeah.
I think it totally fits the, the whole rationalist thing in general because as rationalists were often trying to optimize everything, I guess, the, what's the Harry Potter quote?
I don't want to rule the world.
I just think it could be optimized better or something.
That sounds right.
I should know this.
Or I think it could be organized better.
So I don't think we said the post was called degrees of freedom.
Yes.
And the one sentence synopsis of it is the more constrained you are by optimization, like you want to make the best choice possible, the less degrees of freedom you have.
Yeah, cool.
Yeah.
The, the two definitions that Sarah puts forward are optimization is of all possible actions available to me, which one is the best by some criterion.
Okay, I'll choose the best.
Multiple possible options are equally good or in commensurate by the criterion I'm using.
My decision algorithm equally allows me to take any of them.
She points out that if you're only free to do the optimal thing, that can mean you are free to only do one thing all the time as rigidly as a machine.
If, for instance, you are only free to act in your own best interests in quotes again, you don't have the option to act against your best interests.
People in real life can feel constrained by following a rigid algorithm, even when they agree it's best.
But what if I want to do something that's not best?
Or they can acknowledge they're free to do what they choose, but are dismayed to learn that their choices are dictated as rigidly by habit and conditioning as they might have been by some human dictator.
So just like the naive question from the top is like, I can imagine decisions that I make that I'm a not putting into like a decision hierarchy that I'm ranking.
But be like, I'm fully aware are sub optimal.
And it's not that I'm indifferent is that like I'm kind of just doing the easiest things, I guess.
That's kind of a different sort.
Yeah, but
That maybe depends on the way you're defining indifferent.
And by how you're defining optimal, because the fact that it's the easiest if that's like really high in the preference order, then yeah, it's optimal for that.
Do you feel bad about doing those things though?
Sometimes.
Okay, like I lately I have not been actually this entire year I haven't really been writing been kind of slacking on a bunch of things I used to do a lot of and instead just drowning in video games.
And I always feel like I am wasting my life.
I am going to die have nothing done and I'm doing this instead and man I suck but I do it anyway.
And so I'm clearly not indifferent about these things.
I feel bad that I'm not doing the most optimal thing for for my life.
Yeah, so I guess brushing past all of like the the depth of that the the surface thing is like we seem to making choices that don't fit in either of those two categories right?
Yeah, this um this article presupposes that there's a coherent you and the way brains work is more like crystal society where you've made up of these different parts that have different preferences and they're all putting in bids.
So you have parts of you that want to play video games and then parts of you that want to write and they're in conflict and the parts that want to play video games are winning currently.
It's true, but those parts suck. They are unoptimal.
You get into the same thing when you get a society to when you have people with different preferences.
So it's hard to steer towards one optimal decision when you've got people with different preferences or parts with different preferences.
I used to not to belabor on the point, but like I used to feel bad with playing video games a lot.
And I'm not sure if like just the rest of me stopped caring or like I started enjoying video games more.
But I don't I don't I don't spend a bunch of hours a week and sometimes go weeks without playing a game at all.
But I guess I've somehow at some point gave myself permission to like stop feeling bad about doing things that make me happy.
So I was like, sure, like this weekend I had basically entire weekend to myself and I could have been more productive and said I played a lot in my Nintendo switch and goofed around and like I could have read books to make me better at my job or you know done something like that.
And I didn't do any of that stuff.
So I don't know, like I had a fun time.
That's I don't know.
I guess I'm maybe I need to reassess but like I'm like, no, I need the time to relax.
But I've been doing that for like 10 years.
So I should probably stop relaxing and start doing stuff.
But anyway, I've either of you read a pair of Scots parable about the optimizing earring thing.
Optimizing what?
Your ring.
Tell me about it.
It's about a magical artifact that's an earring that will whoever is wearing it they will always whisper the optimal decision the optimal thing for them to do at that moment.
Using their own personal utility function like if you want your children to love you or it whispers to you what to do if you want to provide for them it whispers to you what to do if you want to make the world less getting global warming.
What the fuck am I saying?
Is it like a path to victory?
Basically it's whatever.
I'm thinking Contessa too.
Yeah.
Yeah, basically it's whatever is the most optimal action for you to do right then using your own utility function.
It always tells you what it is.
And that's a character from Worm whose superpower is the ability to see the path to victory.
Oh nice.
Okay.
And it's as overpowered as it sounds.
Yeah, that sounds ridiculous.
Yeah.
But in the parable the people who find this ring are always live very happy lives.
They end their lives just surrounded by friends and family that love them.
They are pillars of their community.
They have all the resources that they want and which usually isn't that much because
they're not like money seeking people.
They just want a happy life, right?
And then afterwards whenever an autopsy is done on them they find that their brain has
shriveled to be almost nothing because they just simply don't have to think anymore.
They simply do.
They offload all their cognition to listening to the earring.
Yeah, yeah.
Because there's only ever one best choice and when you always do the best choice you get
the best outcome.
And I mean in our cases we still got to think and decide what the best choices are.
But if you had something else like a super intelligent AI telling you what would be
the point of you thinking anymore.
It's hard to find one.
Yeah.
And I still am wanting to push back against the idea that there is one coherent best,
you know, one coherent preference or one like, you know, readily identifiable best option.
I think that humans don't work that way.
And it's probably good that we don't.
I think humans are definitely much better modeled as societies, like you said.
Should we go on with the rest of the post?
Let's go on.
Does someone else want to read the next one?
Sure.
Freedom as indifference, I think, is looking behind our intuitions about things like rights
or ownership.
When we say we have a right to free speech, even a right bounded with certain limits,
as it of course always is in practice, we mean that within those limits you may speak
however you want.
Your rights define a space within which you may behave arbitrarily, not optimally.
A right, if it's not to be vacuous, must mean the right to behave badly in some way or another.
To own a piece of property means that within whatever limits the concept of ownership sets,
you may make use of it in any way you like, even in suboptimal ways.
And then this is still on the subject of property.
To own something just is to be able to hang on to it, even when it's economically inefficient to do so.
As Weil says, is that Weil?
I don't know.
Property is monopoly.
The owner of a piece of land can sit on it, making no improvements, while holding out for a high price.
The owner of intellectual property can sit on it without using it.
For better or worse, rights and ownership define spaces in which you can destroy value.
You only truly own what you have a right to wreck.
I think that's a damn good point.
I think that's kind of fun, yeah.
If I shared my car with somebody, I'd have to be more responsible in taking good care of it.
And yet, since it's just mine and it's got scratches and whatever, I don't really care.
I always feel much more like I have to take care of other people's property when I'm borrowing something.
Yeah, but as it's mine and then I get to value it exactly as much as I want to.
I also like the point about the ability to destroy value, because we both live in subdivisions, HOA places, right?
Here, there's just a service that comes in most everyone's lawn.
Out in the suburbs, everyone owns their own lawnmower, which they use once every week, maybe?
Not everyone?
When I was living in New Jersey, there's some pretty poor areas.
And I remember there were some people that, we had this system at my local community library that I worked at
where we actually were coordinating people lending lawnmowers to people who couldn't afford a lawnmower
so they could upkeep their lawn so they weren't getting fined.
Oh, neat.
It's ridiculous.
Some people also have neighborhood kids mow theirs for money.
But most people have their own tools for whatever and just keep them to themselves and never share them
even though 99% of the time they aren't in use.
And it'd be much more economically efficient to have some sort of pool where they're shared,
but then you run the risk of them being broken, them not coming back,
and so everyone owns their own and just, it's a huge waste of money.
And most people don't like talking to the neighbors enough to try and coordinate.
Like, all right, everyone give me 20 bucks, I'll buy a lawnmower,
then we can find a way to store it or something.
Yeah, it used to be easier to coordinate community resources when communities were like tighter knit.
Yeah, when they existed.
Yeah, to talk up libraries again.
A lot of libraries are starting to have systems where they will have,
I'm not sure if lawnmowers, but they have like tools,
like tool kits that you could borrow with your library card.
I know that some had like suits that you could wear to job interviews.
I think that's a really cool idea.
Yeah, that's awesome.
It's kind of bringing back the idea of there being community resources
and libraries are generally paid with state money or local, locally funded, you know?
