Right.
So maybe he gets to choose which parts of him are corporeal.
That's that's how like a lot of the ghost movies handle it, right?
Movies like Ghost with Patrick Swayze.
Yes, yes.
Although he doesn't choose just not fall through the floor.
He just chooses to be able to push things over and stuff.
Maybe he's just subconsciously choosing that all the time.
Sure.
You'd think you could learn a lot.
Like that'd be like the fun way to fuck with somebody who's just recently a ghost, right?
They can't push things, but it's like you realize like you're doing it to the floor right now.
It's like either they gain the ability to push stuff really easily or they just start falling.
The character in that story actually was like, man, how do ghosts work?
How could I could fall through the floors here?
Why don't all the ghosts in the world just sink all the way like through the Earth's crust
and just stuck in a big ball in the core of the Earth?
I think we just figured out what hell is.
We did it.
Theology solved.
I guess if you like take a completely relativistic view of the universe, I mean, sure, maybe we're moving,
but there's no difference between that and everything else moving around us in relativity terms, right?
So maybe the ghosts are just like really, really into relativity.
I believe I am standing still and everything else is moving relative to me.
Things are moving in some sense, though.
I mean, the universe is expanding.
It's not like it's all real.
I mean, it is relative.
Never mind.
Your decision whether or not it's relative doesn't impact whether or not it is, right?
No, it's still relative.
Right, but that's something your understanding or your decision to accept that doesn't change whether or not the universe is relative.
It's not like an observer phenomenon in the sense that you're controlling.
Right.
We're moving relative to the sun and the sun is moving relative to us and how we choose to think about it is just how we choose to think about it, right?
Right, but not what we choose to...
There is no...
Our ability to interact with it isn't determined by our understanding of that, right?
Yeah, but there's no universal 0-0-0 coordinate.
But I'm saying that if you're a ghost...
Oh, they shouldn't be able to choose that either?
They shouldn't be able to choose that either.
Yeah, well, maybe that's the one magic power as a ghost.
That's fair.
Alright, universal law.
Someone else do this one.
I got it.
Cool.
It was one of the most startling unifications in the history of science for it brought together the mundane realm of matter and the sacred realm of life,
which humans had divided into separate magisteria.
So this is referencing the...
The prior post.
Yeah, the fire.
The first great simplification was that of Isaac Newton.
He unified the course of the planets with the trajectory of a falling apple.
Which, by the way, I didn't realize was as big a deal as it was,
but apparently people had a really big thing between the world of the mundane down here and the world of the heavens above,
which was like God's domain.
It was supposed to be a completely separate thing.
Yeah.
I mean, they actually literally thought heaven was above the clouds in the sky somewhere.
Right.
And that the stars were implanted on a dome around us, right?
Or separate domes that you get.
They're rotating in weird ways.
Well, depends on how far back you go.
At one point, yes.
I'm not sure what they were thinking in Isaac Newton's time at that point.
They may have still been doing the dome thing.
It depends who you mean by they.
Right.
There's a lot of people alive in Newton's time.
The most important thing is that like they're they're literally two different planes of existence, right?
It would be, I don't know, like the spiritual world and the real world.
Like this is the real world.
It's like the matrix, right?
As opposed to the world outside the matrix.
They're completely divorced and and trying trying to prove that the two were the same thing was just crazy.
Mm hmm.
Newton's discovery gave rise to the notion of universal law.
One that's the same everywhere and every when with literally zero exceptions.
Human beings live in a world of surface phenomena and surface phenomena are divided into these leaky categories with plenty of exceptions.
The only time when it seems like we would want a law to hold everywhere is when we're talking about moral laws.
But even here there's exceptions.
The idea of a rule with literally no exceptions seems insanely rigid.
The product of closed-minded thinking by fanatics.
So in the grip of their one big idea that they can't see the richness and complexity of the real universe.
Which did you guys get that a lot in high school too with people?
A lot.
Yes.
You still see it now with, you know, the White House saying that, you know, the established scientific criterion or scientific consensus on climate change has nothing to do with the truth.
Yeah, so.
But I meant not just in terms of science, but in terms of like, well, you're just such a rigid nerd.
You can't even understand that other people could be different.
I've got that in a lot with people talking about like spiritual phenomena or like astrology or whatever.
It's like, well, you know, we can't know everything.
Yeah.
Science, like that people, you know, scientists think they know everything.
They're just so closed-minded.
Yeah.
How can we ever really know what's true?
And yet you're going to tell me a book that tells me exactly where outside the box is.
Great, thanks.
Right.
But this is your chakra positions.
These are the correct ones too.
Yes.
So this is the customary accusation made against scientists, the professional students of the richness and complexity of the real universe.
Because when you actually look at the universe, it turns out to be by human standards, insanely rigid in applying its rules.
As far as we know, there's been not one single violation of conservation of momentum from the uttermost dawn of time up till now.
I think this is brought up in the post too, and I didn't copy it.
But sometimes when I get into arguments with religious people about what God actually cares about and people say like, God wants us to be happy.
God doesn't want us to be suffering or dying.
Have they seen the world?
Right.
Yeah.
God dislikes gay people.
I'm like, look, God made suffering.
God made gay people exist.
You know what God really fucking cares about?
Beatles.
No, well, what God really cares about is that no one be able to move faster than the speed of light because you can't.
If God was all powerful and really cared about something, you just couldn't do it much like the speed of light.
I like that.
And the Beatles joke is because there's what 140,000 different species of Beatles.
I think like 70% of all biomass is Beatles or something like that.
I'm not sure if that's the exact number, but like there's a lot of Beatles.
Hundreds of thousands of species.
Yeah.
I think it's more than 140,000.
I don't think we're the chosen species.
God's a beetle.
The Egyptians were right.
Well, I'm thinking about the beetle rolling the sun across the sky.
They have multiple gods though.
Anyway, sometimes very rarely we observe an apparent violation of our models of these fundamental laws, which yeah, my dad's like, I'm just wrong all the time.
If you'd learned to think like reality, then here's the towel.
Since the beginning, not one unusual thing has ever happened.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Yeah, I love it.
And then rolling with the theme of thinking like reality, that's the name of the next post, think like reality.
Reality has been around since long before you showed up.
Don't go calling it nasty names like bizarre or incredible.
The universe is propagating complex amplitudes through configuration space for 10 billion years before life ever emerged on Earth.
Quantum physics is not weird.
You are weird.
Human intuitions are produced by evolution, and evolution is a hack.
When you go down the fundamental level, the level on which the laws are stable, global, and exception free, there aren't any tigers.
The fact that there aren't, in fact, there aren't any persistent objects bouncing around at three-dimensional space.
Deal with it.
Probability theory tells us that surprise is the measure of a poor hypothesis.
The model is consistently stupid, consistently hits on events that assigns tiny probabilities, and it's time to discard that model.
A good model makes reality look normal, not weird.
A good model assigns high probability to that which actually is the case.
You want to reshape your intuitions so that the universe looks normal.
You want to think like reality.
I still have trouble with that, but I do find I'm less surprised than I used to be since I've adopted this rationality thing.
Can you give any examples?
The example that most jumps to my mind is a time when I actually was very surprised, which was when Trump was elected.
I was shocked by that, which means that my model of American society was just way fucking off.
A lot of people said that in response to that.
People in this community, well, it happened, so clearly my model was wrong.
All of our models were pretty wrong.
We have to update our models.
I can't imagine what it would be like to say, no, my model was right, the reality was wrong.
That's not a very scientific or rationality-oriented way of thinking about things.
It seems like, at least in regards to the politics thing, a lot of people are like, I think I was right all along.
There was just this one special exception, this one time, and they come up with excuses.
It's like, no, man, if you were that surprised by things, your model was off.
You were failing to account for a significant thing that turned out to be rather important.
I know one thing that Julia Galev either does or did was keep a surprise journal.
That's a damn good idea.
Yeah, even if it's little tiny things.
Oh, I didn't expect that to work.
That's a really good idea.
I've been trying to do the calibration, assigning probabilities,
random kind of vast numbers to things, and then using that as my anchor to update on things when you're right or wrong.
But it's often really hard to do that in real life because real life doesn't come with numbers.
And there's a lot of things happening that you wouldn't have thought or took the time to predict in advance.
So one thing you can try and do is just train yourself to notice that feeling of surprise.
And then be like, oh, okay, what just happened? What made me feel that way?
Then you can assess those after the fact when there's downtime to think about it.
Yeah, you can count how many times you were surprised and see if it decreases over time.
Because, yeah, the other thing with the calibration exercise is that often the thing you're surprised about doesn't come up again.
So if you're like, oh, okay, I was giving that 40%.
I guess I better up it to 60.
Trump's not going to get elected again.
Do you actually think that he's not going to get elected again?
Oh, I don't know.
I was trying to think of an example of something that was really surprising that is very unlikely to come up again.
That was a bad example.
I should bet each of you 200 bucks that he does.
So that you get 400 bucks if he does?
Right.
But then I'm screwed because he's president and I'm not 200 bucks.
That's the win-win for you, Stephen. I see what you're doing.
Right.
So I think Stephen Hawking's thing, he wanted to bet somebody that black holes weren't real.
At least in that way he would have won the bet if he was wrong.
