For much of human history, we were kind of like the LLMs,
figuring things out by kind of matching patterns in our minds.
But then came more systematic formalization and eventually computation.
And with that, we got a whole other level of power
to truly create new things and to in effect go wherever we want in the Ruliad.
But the challenge is to do that in a way that connects with what we humans
and our AIs understand.
You know, I know that you make a big thing about the way that we
measure and observe the universe rests upon that sort of notion of
things having temporal persistence.
I guess that the same kind of commitment is inherent
in assuming that there is a non-equilibrium steady-state solution
to the dynamics in a classical formulation.
Human language, mathematics, logic, these are all ways to formalize the world.
And in our century, there's a new and yet more powerful one,
computation.
For nearly 50 years, I've had the great privilege of building up
an ever taller tower of science and technology
that's based on that idea of computation.
Is this a fact of physics that the world is predictable enough
that an observer who can sort of continue to exist is possible?
I mean, this is something which I think from my understanding of fundamental physics,
one of the things that is not obvious is that an observer who persists in time
is possible in the universe.
And that very existence, the emergence of an observer is what manifests to us
and indeed does manifest to us as a kind of intelligence,
a kind of sentence that may or may not have some kind of deep planning associated with it.
I've been interested in trying to characterize what our observers like us like.
And the thing in our physics project that's really the kind of the sort of motivation for that
is that there is this thing we call the Ruliad, this kind of entangled limit of all possible
computations, which is in a sense has everything in it.
For me, two critical features of observers like us are that we are computationally bounded,
we have sort of only finite minds, we can't untangle every detail of what might be happening
in the universe, we can only look at sort of aggregated large scale features.
So computation isn't just a possible formalization, it's the ultimate one for our universe.
It all starts from the idea that space, like matter, is made of discrete elements.
And from that structure of space and everything in it, it's defined just by a network of relations
between these elements that we might call atoms of space.
So it's all very elegant, but deeply abstract.
But here's kind of a humanized representation, a version of the very beginning of the universe.
And what we're seeing here is the emergence of space and everything in it
by the successive application of very simple computational rules.
And remember, these dots are not atoms in any existing space, they're atoms of space
that get put together to make space.
The observer thinks they're standing still.
The observer is not zipping around all over the place.
The observer believes they're stuck, they're persistent in time and they're stuck
in more or less the same place in space.
If we didn't have that, we wouldn't be able to make a video that anybody recognizes,
even though the underlying connections in all these hypergraphs are all absolutely correct.
We just wouldn't be able to see that.
So in that sense, we can say that to an observer with those characteristics,
yes, black holes are persistent things.
And yes, if we kept going long enough, we could build our whole universe this way.
So eons later, here's a chunk of space with two little black holes that if we wait a little while,
will eventually merge, generating little ripples of gravitational radiation.
And remember, all of this is built from pure computation.
But like fluid mechanics emerging from molecules, what emerges here is space-time
and Einstein's equations for gravity.
Our computational rules can inevitably be applied in many ways,
each defining a different kind of thread of time, a different path of history,
that can branch and merge.
But as observers embedded in this universe, we're branching and merging too.
And it turns out that quantum mechanics emerges as the story of how branching minds perceive a branching universe.
So the little pink lines you might be able to see here show the structure of what we call branchial space,
the space of quantum branches.
And one of the stunningly beautiful things, at least for physicists like me,
is that the same phenomenon that in physical space gives us gravity,
in branchial space gives us quantum mechanics.
So in the history of science so far, I think we can identify sort of four broad paradigms
that for making models of the world that can be distinguished kind of by how they deal with time.
So in antiquity and in plenty of areas of science even today,
it's all about kind of what are things made of and time doesn't really enter.
But in the 1600s came the idea of modeling things with mathematical formulas in which time enters,
but basically just as a coordinate value.
Then in the 1980s, and this is something in which I was deeply involved,
came the idea of making models by starting with simple computational rules and just letting them run.
So can one predict what will happen?
No. There's what I call computational irreducibility,
in which in effect the passage of time corresponds to an irreducible computation
that we have to run in order to work out how it will turn out.
But now there's kind of something even more.
In our physics project, there's things that become multi-computational
with many threads of time that can only be knitted together by an observer.
I'm remembering when I was like 15 years old or something,
maybe 14 years old or something, I went to some talk by some well-known physicist
and I sort of said, they were talking about black holes and I was like,
is there something similar between electrons and black holes?
And it was like, no, no, no, that's a completely silly idea, you should forget that idea.
So I talked about building up the universe by repeatedly applying a computational rule.
But how is that rule picked?
Well, actually it isn't, because all possible rules are used
and we're building up what I call the rouliad,
the kind of deeply abstract but unique object
that is the entangled limit of all possible computational processes.
Here's a tiny fragment of it shown in terms of Turing machines.
So this rouliad is everything and we as observers are necessarily part of it.
In the rouliad as a whole, in a sense, everything computationally possible can happen.
But observers like us just sample specific slices of the rouliad
and there are two crucial facts about us.
First, we're computationally bounded, our minds are limited.
And second, we believe we're persistent in time,
even though we're made of different atoms of space at every moment.
So then here's the big result.
What observers with those characteristics perceive in the rouliad
necessarily follows certain laws
and those laws turn out to be precisely the three key theories of 20th century physics.
Generativity, quantum mechanics, and statistical mechanics in the second law.
So it's because we're observers like us that we perceive the laws of physics we do.
We can think of sort of different minds as being at different places in rural space.
Human minds who think alike and nearby, animals further away,
and further out we get to kind of alien minds where it's hard to make a translation.
I would suspect that there is something which you are something interesting
which you're effectively taking as axiomatic about observers.
And perhaps that, I mean, in a sense one of the things I'm trying to do right now
is to think about what aspects of observers are in fact there,
but we've always thought they were obvious.
And one of the things that's really dramatic in that simulation
is how much activity there is in the background of space.
That is, that space in order to exist has to have a lot of activity
just to knit together the different pieces of space.
Could we think our way out of it?
I think we possibly could in a sort of science fiction sense.
Simply because we've got the right kinds of models of our lived world,
which is just the physics that you're talking about.
But lots of other observers would not be able to do that
unless they had that right kind of internal model,
that implicit way of modelling the causes of all of my sensations.
I mean, I think you were talking about thinginess, so to speak,
which is a lower bar probably than observance.
I mean, thinginess might just be the ability to maintain an independent object,
maintain something that we can consider to be a persistent object.
Just Chris Fields.
Chris Fields.
So he frames exactly what you were just saying in terms of there being little
pockets of concentrated planning, sort of self-modelling of the kind
that invokes the consequences of one's own agent.
He'd articulate that in terms of a minimal Markov blanket.
So something that cannot be reduced, that has, if you like,
the capacity to be an agent, and then it sees itself enacting its plans
through a hierarchy of subsequent Markov blankets.
So you could say that the, you know, the inclusive Markov blanket
around this little packet or the irreducible Markov blanket was an agent,
but the agency sits at the heart.
And of course, he thinks that's consciousness.
You're both absolutely brilliant.
And I think Tim and I both look up to you quite a bit.
So this is actually a pretty terrifying situation for me.
Let's see what happens next.
So look, there's no real way to order two of one's heroes.
So I just went to the tried and true alphabetical.
So we're just going to, we're going to introduce Dr. Friston and then Dr. Wolfram.
So Dr. Friston, welcome back to the show.
You are an esteemed British scientist who is widely recognized
for groundbreaking quantitative methods to understand the human brain.
A professor at the Institute of Neurology, University College London.
Friston invented statistical parametric mapping and voxel based morphometry
to neuroimaging techniques that have revolutionized the field.
Dr. Friston has published over a thousand papers in scientific journals,
making him one of the most cited scientists.
He is the originator of dynamic causal modeling
and the much acclaimed free energy principle.
A deceptively simple and yet profoundly impactful idea
that has fundamentally reshaped our understanding of the brain and living systems.
More recently, he accepted a role as chief scientist at versus AI,
a company implementing cognitive computing and distributed intelligence.
Welcome back to the show.
It's great to be here.
And can I just say it's a great honor to be here with Stephen Wolfram.
I don't think we've ever actually met and it's, it's lovely to see you.
I'm very nice to meet you too.
Yeah. And Dr. Stephen Wolfram, you are a renowned British American computer scientist,
physicist and business leader known for your considerable contributions to multiple scientific
domains as the founder and CEO of the innovative software company Wolfram Research.
He developed Mathematica, a comprehensive computation environment,
along with the Wolfram language, an original symbolic language that greatly
alters the interaction with computation as an early pioneer in theoretical physics,
cellular automata and complexity theory.
He wrote the best selling book, a new kind of science,
arguing for a fundamental shift in scientific paradigms.
More recently, he launched the Wolfram physics project,
ambitiously aspiring to build up a fundamental theory of all physics from a computational
foundation for his influential work.
He has achieved numerous accolades, including being the youngest MacArthur fellowship winner.
Wolfram's transformative approach continues to impact the landscape
of computational science and beyond.
And welcome back to the show.
You've been on a few times with us now.
Yes, great, great to be back.
And this is, you know, I, I have been meaning to learn what does Carl Friston really do.
So this is my opportunity to do that.
So I'm looking forward to this.
And am I allowed to just jump in and start talking about?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, of course.
So I've been, I'm, I'm sort of curious how horribly wrong I am in my sort of
vague idea of, of, of, of Carl and his free energy principle and so on.
So see, let me, let me try my version of this.
And then you can tell me what's, what's horribly wrong with it.
I mean, it's kind of like, if you're a, a brain-like thing, you kind of the concept, I think,
