if you chase injustice with greater injustice, you have not gotten rid of injustice. You have a
problem of the old lady who swallowed a fly, right? I'm trying to figure out how to get through
to their minds what I see. Now, maybe there are ways in which I'm wrong. I'm open to that,
but I'm not open to the idea that suddenly everything has been wrong and the one generation
has suddenly figured it out. I have to say something, Eric. Please. As we, I realize that I
don't really care. Yeah. I really don't care what millennials think about me, and I really don't
know if I care what I think about them. The overreaction to the hashtag generation was,
which I thought was a perfect example of a kind of snarky Gen X way of looking at millennials
was intended as comedy, and it was tended as something to talk about. No, I understand exactly.
I got a little chuckle at it. Right. But still to, and then when I did take it a bit more seriously
and expounded on it in my book and realized that I was sympathetic as well as annoyed.
Right. I just, I don't know. I think that the reaction to that was endemic of millennial
thinking and that it is, I don't know, it's problematic. But I also realized I've got other
things to worry about. That's fine. What I'm worried about is we've got a generation
that is now going to probably use its high leverage positions to derange a lot.
And cancel us. And well, canceling, you know, some of us can afford. What worries me is,
I see this as eroding the outer layers of our civil society. They're about to get to core
structure, and it's going to keep going. And I don't think it's cute. I think,
I think it is absolutely capable of getting us into war. I think it's capable of getting us a
president that would be dictatorial as an overreaction to their nonsense. So I don't think
nothing is riding on it. I think a lot is riding on it. And I have two contradictory impulses.
One is to say, what is it that you're actually trying to say? Maybe we can work to try to
understand you better. And the other one is cut that shit out. Right. And so I don't have the
indifference I think that you do. I think what I have is I have two contradictory impulses,
one of which is to say, I bet you're saying something and I'm just not getting it. And the
other is you're wildly out of control and you need to see a different path. Of course. Boomer
youth, millennial youth, Gen X youth. I know which one that I am probably most impressed by on a
certain level in terms of, and I'm shocked in terms of a kind of level of clear headed,
I don't want to say adulthood, but just a way of dealing with the world that is wildly different
from millennial and Boomer. And I think it's interesting that you think that there could be
a moment where Gen X might step up to the stage and announce itself forcefully in a way that
perhaps we have. We're doing it now. I mean, you and I, I think we're modeling a conversation,
which we have a couple of disagreements. Yeah. I think it's polite. Both of us
are capable of taking our sabers out of their sheaths, but there's usually no reason to.
No, never. And what I do find is that I just think what I was hoping to do here a little bit
is to talk about this context and this firmament, which I think has been invisible,
that we've have a Boomer millennial story. There's a very important role of Gen X that
has been ignored. Your, your, your work, I think has been probably the best example of it, to be
honest. I find it almost impossible to read because it's so, it's so right. And that what,
what we do next is we have to think about the long-term longevity of our society. I'm very
worried, for example, that some of these millennial females need to start families,
even though they're pretending that it doesn't really matter one way or the other,
whether they have families or not. I think it's going to be incredibly destructive if we don't
have people invested in the longevity of our society through somewhat normal structures.
Now, I could be wrong in that. Maybe the idea is, is that a family is an outmoded concept and
that people don't need this to be fulfilled. But I do think that if we don't actually have
adults in the room and we don't become those adults and strong and caring above, you know,
just the way you're dealing with a bratty child, we're too cowed by these bratty children. We
actually have to say, Hey, I'm really sorry, but you, you have to stop throwing a temper tantrum.
And if you have to go to your room, go to your room, but you're out of control. We can't have the
New York times becoming the agent of like individual destruction as it destroys the
reputations of people who fall out of line of the orthodoxy. That, that thing is a threat to our
society writ large. Anyway, I don't know whether you agree or disagree. On that note, all right.
I think I, I completely agree. Well, I completely agree. It's been fantastic having you here.
And you've been through the portal with Brett Easton Ellis. I hope for those of you who are
listening on Apple or Spotify, you'll subscribe to the program. And hopefully we'll be putting
it out on YouTube as well. So make sure to subscribe to our channel and we'll see you next time.
Thanks very much.
