people or come out to anybody. So I had a very even keel acceptance of that. But it does separate
you. You are only four percent of the population. There isn't a large pool of other people like
that. So that was my burden in a way. And I also did. There was a kind of darkness in LA
in the late 70s and into the early 80s. I felt it. I saw it in music. I saw it as a kind of,
it was minimalism. And it was a kind of numbness that was being explored in a lot of the art and
a lot of the music, certainly in part of the punk scene and in the new wave scene.
But it was a numbness that had a feeling as well. It was numbness as a feeling.
This is beautiful.
And I completely, that to me was what influenced less than zero. This notion that numbness was
a feeling and that numbness was something that you could enter into and play with and try to
express in some ways. And that was where I was at in my late teenage years in LA. That was what
was on my mind all the time. And that's what influenced the style and the tone of less than
zero. That makes any sense.
Well, this is the weird thing about it. I've never heard anyone say this. Numbness is home to me.
Like there is a weird way. I found myself driving the Ventura freeway
after college and I had gone to some party that hadn't quite worked out and was unclear what the
address was and whether somebody's was squatting and somebody else's like had all of these weird
characteristics and the emptiness just washed over me. And I think Tom Petty was playing on the
radio and I just felt I'm totally numb. I'm completely alienated and I feel completely home.
That is what I felt, but I do think that might be very specific to our generation.
So that's, I think our generation is weirdly the key to a lot of what we see going on in general.
But because our generation is also invisible and because this place had very different
characteristics, I do see it that there's a little bit, you know, the portal theme here
has to do with trying to figure out how do we get out of all of these mysteries that
were trapped within and culturally in part, my belief is that LA pushed out a lot of this kind
of nihilism to the world. It couldn't easily travel. And so we were talking about music before.
I remember being very cued into this band X. And X I thought was going to be huge. It was a huge
mistake on my part. And how could it not be? They were witty. They had these weird harmonies,
I think that happened in fourths between John Doe and Xeen. Billy Zoom. Billy Zoom was the
DJ Bonebarus, the drummer. So do you remember the song, their big hit regionally was the song
Johnny Hit and Run Pauline? Of course I do. Off the Los Angeles LP. Right. Now this song,
dude, do you remember the lyrics to how it goes? Um, vaguely. You got to remind me.
He bought a sterilized hypo. Shoot a sex machine. It's about serial rape. He's got to rape
24 women in 24 hours and the last one wouldn't cooperate. This thing is so off. It's so dark.
It's so completely wrong. And it felt normal for Los Angeles at the time. Yeah. And it was like
this massive miscalculation that first of all, no fault divorce hadn't happened nationwide.
Like New York, it doesn't happen until I'm really late. Right. And so there was something about
this period that was highly regional, but also was being broadcast everywhere,
even in kind of cryptic ways. And I think that your book probably less than zero probably looked
kind of like wildly weirdly exaggerated to the outside world. I don't think it was that exaggerated.
Well, look, certainly there were things in it that I wanted to do as a writer. I certainly
did not see a 12 year old girl get gang raped, which happens near the end of the book and where
it's treated as just as natural as stubbing your toe or something to come across them and
like, isn't there something about where people are hanging out with a corpse? I mean, well,
now that was based on something that I had heard. You're kidding me.
There was a story going around that there had been this person who'd OD'd in an alley. I think
somewhere along Melrose, this rumor went around in 1981, 82, and that kids just were brought to see
the body of another kid. And people had heard about it and someone would meet someone at a party
because of course, remember, there was no cell phones then. And then people would come over,
find the space and just gawk at this dead body. And that is a scene in lesson zero. But overall,
I really did try to make it seem as realistic as possible. And almost as if it was journalism,
almost as if it was reportage, that Clay, the narrator of the book, was really describing
the world he was a part of, but not necessarily describing what his emotions were and all of
the things he was feeling during that time. You understood that he was very detached and alienated
because he never talked about himself. And he just described what his friends would say,
he just described what he would be seeing. And I think part of why the book works for people
is that this voice never varies as the book gets darker and more violent and nightmarish in a way.
And so I guess that's what I was aiming for when I was writing it, to find that kind of
accumulation of power by resisting hyperbole and then describing everything in a very flat,
minimal way. And of course, writers in the past had done this, but transposing that into a
contemporary teenager living in a big city was something that I hadn't seen before.
Teenagers in who were narrating novels were usually very emotional. Look, going back to
the few that there were, whether you were going to Judy Bloom, or whether you're going back to
the granddaddy of them all, the catcher and the rye, I wanted to do kind of the anti-catcher
and the rye in that way. But I think I drifted away from your question, which was kind of about,
I mean, first of all, getting back to X, they were part of the reason that they didn't
fully work as a band was that they didn't have hits. They kept each subsequent studio album from
Los Angeles to, I guess, Adult Toys to Under the Big Black Sun. And then I think it was,
the Eight Love Grand was their stab at MTV, kind of a commercial record.
I left the story then.
After Under the Big Black Sun. I thought that was my favorite of the three records that had been,
even more so than Los Angeles. You could see that the songwriting was kind of moving
away from the really kind of rough speed rock of Los Angeles and entering into a kind of more
thoughtful kind of songwriting. But for whatever reason, they never really broke. And I think
that they were a huge influence on Less Than Zero. One of the epigraphs in Less Than Zero is from X.
So I was obviously thinking about them, but I was also thinking about Led Zeppelin,
because Led Zeppelin is also the other epigraph in Less Than Zero. But exaggerated, I don't know.
Look, as I said to you earlier, I really ran with that story I heard. And I also knew parts of,
from a couple of boys who were living on their own, actually, in Beverly Hills, who were not staying
out of Malibu with their divorced dad, couldn't deal with them. And they got an apartment in
town at 17-year-olds, or the father had rented it for them. And I often wondered how they had such
nice clothes, how they were able to go to this place or that place. And it was interesting,
because look, at that, they knew a guy named Ronnie Levine, who was murdered by Johan of
the Billionaires Boys Club. Is it Levine Eleven? Ron Levin, right? I should know this. This was
my high school. And so I got to know Ron Levin through these kids. We were all 16. And I remember,
this just goes to give you an idea of what my adolescence was like. We would congregate because
we all had cars at Ron Levin's and have drinks in Ron Levin's living room. And then Ron Levin
would pour us all into his convertible Rolls-Royce. And he would drive us to Flippers, which was a
roller rink kind of bar disco that's on the corner of La Cienega and Santa Monica Boulevard that is
now a CVS. By the way, this is a weeknight. This is a school night. And so we would go with Ron
to his booth. Ron must have been, I guess, 48, 47, maybe. And he was gay, very definitely gay.
And he would have six 16-year-old boys sitting with him at a booth. Flippers was all ages,
by the way. There were a couple of clubs around town that were all ages. He didn't need to be
18 to get into some of these clubs. Well, this is just to short stop it. I left this town when I
was 16. And when I think about all of the stories that I had in clubs and bars,
they have to be 16 and earlier. And it doesn't make any sense to me.
Look, I guess the drinking age was 18 in LA. It didn't move to 21 until I think the mid-80s.
It was always, look, I got into, when I was 16 in LA, I got into everywhere. I got into bars.
Was it ordered drinks? I could get into the whiskey on a weeknight. I never, and all my
friends did, too. I never remember having any problems with getting carted or anything along
those lines. Like somebody would always know somebody. The place was totally fluid. I mean,
I want you to keep the love and story. I'm sorry about the short stop.
There's nothing else about the love and story. It's just, it gives you an idea. And maybe there
was a little cocaine involved. But that just gives you, and that must have been 1980, 1981.
That kind of just gives you an idea. And all, nobody was damaged. None of us were triggered.
None of us felt we had to go to the police. None of, everyone just felt, okay, but true. But
how many funerals did you go to back in the day? I have to tell you. I didn't know. I didn't go to
any. I didn't. I mean, look, I mean, compared to now in terms of... Or emergency rooms. I mean,
maybe funerals wasn't that much, but this was not cheap. It wasn't that everybody was fine at the
end of it. No, but I do think comparatively, there was a kind of Gen X resiliency and strength.
Which is what I want to get to. Okay. But I do, I think there is, and I think that
we were not wimps. Let's just put it that way. You know, I, sure, I knew people, you know,
you have to understand drug problems. We didn't really know what that was in 1981 or 1982.
I didn't have friends who had outsized drug problems. And I really never heard of rehab.
Well, people were doing amazing quantities of drugs and then going off to Yale and Princeton
and Stanford. Of course. Or UCLA, where a lot of them went. But, you know, the notion that
no one believed you could get addicted to cocaine in 1982. No one really believed that.
Look, I don't know if I've ever heard anyone who's been addicted to cocaine either. But
back in high school, look, the other thing that I had got to say is that, and by the way,
the love and story is finished. That's, I just want to see. Good, good, good.
Nothing else. Well, ultimately what happened, Ron Loving up murdered by Joe Hunt, which is a
whole other story. But we, I don't want to lead over that. We've just had Quentin Tarantino release
once upon a time in Hollywood. It's the story leading up to the Manson murders where with an
alternate ending. Yes. And I guess for me, I was thinking back to this very,
I don't know whether Joan Didion's writings move you, but they've moved me a great deal.
She was perhaps the biggest influence on lesson zero and my writing.
Okay. So when I read, I think it's the white album where she's talking about how the 60s
ends spiritually with the murders on C.L.O. Drive. And, you know, she writes with this just
exquisite prose and it's so, it's so perfect for this in a city that thinks about earthquakes and
canyon fires. She says, you know, that the rumors spread like wildfires in the Hollywood Hills or
something like this is just dripping with this gorgeous analogy. And I thought about that.
And then I thought about how that gives way to the 70s. And the 70s is this period that's like
the golden age of serial killers. Yes. And then you end up with like this very weird concept of
privilege, which is one of the reasons that the millennials concept of privilege absolutely
doesn't work for me, where you have like these very privileged schools and you have a murderous
club of investors who somehow the kids are just not happy with their station in life.
And, you know, there are these schemes maybe to kill parents and, you know,
you get the Menendez brothers. And I get the feeling that her feeling is that things ended
with the murders on C.L.O. Drive. And our story is like just getting started in some weird way.
That the 60s versus the 70s is a big shift because the 60s had this horror and idealism
fused together. Yes. And the 70s that the sort of the idealism just drops out, but the horror
keeps going. Yes. I think you said something about that's very interesting about living here.
Maybe you didn't say it. Maybe I'm taking what you said and moving it some less.
I think me and my peers were very aware that we were living in a particular time
that was a kind of movie. And that was youth culture of the early 80s really seemed to be
centered in L.A. You saw it in all of the movies from Fast Times to Valley Girl to the music that
was being made to the go-go's being thrown out there. There was this sense that we were at
the Red Hot Center of Youth Culture in Los Angeles in, say, 1982. Certainly, look. Listen.
With some echo of like Jim Carroll on the opposite coast.
I guess so, but there was something more interestingly contradicting about Los Angeles.
There was something, you know, the darkness and the beach and whatever. I mean, it was
this yin-yang thing. And so, being very aware of that, of course adds, I don't know, a kind of
artificiality about the way you interacted with people and the way you behave. Now,
I'm saying this not on a completely literal level. I'm saying this just an overall sense of a costume,
your car, the decor of a nightclub that you would walk into and be very aware that, you know,
this was the place. Just the staginess. This really goes back to what you first talked about.
L.A. as this stage, this movie set, Sunset Boulevard cruising around, Mulholland Drive,
going up to Mulholland to get high. The beach, the beach, such a huge part of your Southern
California childhood. But that's also not to say, to move it out for a little bit, you said this
about the East Coast. I felt that time for the East Coast wasn't necessarily the late 70s.
I think it comes in, well, for me, I felt I was never more in a movie than I was during the
yuppie years of the late 80s in New York, right before the crash, 1987. And that to me. And even
afterwards, the crash didn't really change or alter the way New York operated. But 87, 88, 89,
Manhattan to me was something as evocative as the roaring 20s or the swinging 60s of London.
You were very aware. When was Gordon Gekko? 87. Okay. So you're moving with the party. You see,
for my trajectory was I'm in the same ferment with you in Los Angeles. Then I go to college on the
East Coast. And suddenly it occurs to me that the East Coast has not gone through this. People are
getting drunk on cold duck for the first time. And I'm thinking that's so cute. Because we're
getting drunk on cold duck in ninth grade. But anyway, I mean, yeah, I wasn't conscious of
wanting to chase the scene. But I don't know how you felt, but I felt growing up here,
which really now in retrospect was kind of glorious. Growing up as a teenager here in LA is
like fantastic. It was the worst thing ever. It's so interesting. You're a writer. So you're able
to do something. Well, look, I wrote less than zero, which is a complete. No, no, that was it.
Kind of. Yes. But there is also, I mean, I got to tell you, Eric, that so many people who read
less than zero, so many kids loved it because they wanted to move here. They wanted to be part of
that scene. That's a weird thing. They thought it was so cool. And it wasn't supposed to be in
some weird way. Well, but when you have death and sex and money, people react and respond
mimetically, even if it's the most unhealthy thing in the world. Well, that's the late 70s.
Here we are in the late 70s and into the early 80s. But I completely lost my train of thought.
We were talking about, oh, yes. I mean, less than zero was dark. There was darkness around my,
the years that led up to me writing it. But I also, when I was living here, I know what I wanted
to say, but it had to do with the fact that in so many ways, I feel that we were lucky to grow
up out here. Yes, it had its disadvantages and its darkness. But looking back, I mean, there were
things about it that I loved. And maybe I loved them at 17 and 18, and you missed those two years
of the massive freedom that one would have. We weren't living out here in 17 and 18,
where you graduated at 16, and then you went off or did you stay here?
No, no. I was 16, turned 17 in Philadelphia, and then I was in Boston. And what I found was
that, I mean, just to be honest about it, I've stayed away from the city really for 37 years
because I just thought it was the blackest to darkest, most seductive hellhole.
Which it is. It can be.
Which it is, and it can be. And it was generative. I mean, so that notion of repulsion and fascination
home and total alienation, it's been impossible to talk about because it's all these things that
usually come bundled, like home and support and meaning, and that bundling didn't happen. And
what I start, if I think about the title of this film that you probably remember,
the decline of Western civilization about like Derby Crash and the Cramps and the germs,
all that kind of stuff, that seemed like overblown. And in many ways, I actually think, well,
whatever the thing is that is unraveling the American tapestry was really present and visible
early here, and where I'm going to try to get to and see if you're willing, and if you're not,
that's fine too. One of the things that people may know me for is coining this
phrase or pushing it out, the intellectual dark web, which people don't, I've never heard
