nature. One of the things that I have to deal with is that I have moles all over my face and some
percentage of every YouTube video that I've ever done comments and you think the guy would have
some money and he'd have the moles removed. Why is that guy wearing a wig? That's clearly a weave.
Nobody his age has hair like that or whatever. And the shaming is incredibly powerful.
On the other hand, the transcendence is incredibly powerful. And the number of people who can see
both of these things, which is yeah, they have a point and they're also creating a huge negative
externality and cost that they're not taking into account. We are in some sense in some sort of
awkward waking up that there has been a very dark side to fashion to the models,
to the way in which we've eroticized children. Very often these women are recognized when they're
12, when they're 14. And we have been complicit as a society in the eroticization of children
for a great deal of time. So what astounds me is not that they push back, but that the quality
of the pushback is so shitty. Well, it's just a reflection of their way of thinking. It is pure
ideology. I don't sense someone, I mean, look, writing anything is kind of, you know,
I don't want to say an act of magic or an act of willing disbelief in terms of you're creating
something out of nothing. And I'm creating this idea about my memories of the 90s and what I was
attracted to about fashion and contrasting it negatively to what I feel fashion is now,
where I just, it's not as interesting because it's, I guess, more inclusive in terms of letting
you see the strings and everything. But letting you see the strings and letting you see how
everything is made is really endemic to this culture now. It's in every Wikipedia page.
It's in connecting all the Marvel movies and all the backstories to all the characters.
This generation, there is no mystery in terms of that. They don't want mystery. I think mystery
frightens them and makes them feel whatever, unsafe. Ambiguity makes them feel unsafe and
it confuses them. So I don't know, is it really shitty, the thinking is shitty? I guess it is
to a degree. It also is overly reactive to me. And it, and of course it is because the minute
something is posted, you want to get your voice out there. So you post something 20 minutes.
That's true. But like I would say that, for example, I always ask this question,
do people want to be seduced? If you, if you believe that you don't want to be manipulated,
you'll never have the experience of being seduced because seduction is in some sense a willing
manipulation, usually on two people's part, right? And so when, when Jennifer Lopez was
trying to seduce the world at scale with this dress that miraculously stayed on her body,
we wanted to be in the audience. And I'm sure, you know, one of the beliefs I've had about gay men
is that in some sense, very often gay men are like magicians, assistants or consultants,
they very often take great pleasure in seeing how the trick is done
without wanting to be completely, like the heterosexual manager sitting there in the audience
lapping it up. And the gay men are like, oh, you know, did you see her makeup? It was fabulous.
Like they're actually thinking about the construction, the craft, you know, they're
sort of a different eye. An outsider eye. Yeah. A bit of an outsider because you're not being
carried away. Like women also will say, oh, did you see, I love the way she, you know, she wears
her false eyelashes. Right. Whereas men are like, if they're heterosexual, they're sort of
believing the whole thing. Right. I can't imagine living in a world where I didn't want to be seduced
daily. Right. That's what I want to be. I want to be seduced all day long. I want to be seduced by
every book I pick up. I want to be seduced by, why else would I drive to a theater?
Why else would I drive to the arc light and pay a ticket and sit in a dark, empty room? Unless I
want to be seduced. I want to be seduced by my coffee. I want to be seduced by everything. And
I do think there's a pushback on that because giving into seduction is being out of control.
It is being out of control. But that's the pleasure. But I think at this point before,
it has to do with this crazy loss of trust. And in a world characterized by loss of trust,
I do understand the desire to worry about, well, you weren't careful and you are shaming and
you're having a negative effect over here. Right. Whereas in a world of higher trust,
people say, you know, like in Silicon Valley, the concept of pitching, people say, pitch me.
You know, because the VCs who have the money are used to being seduced.
You know, like, oh, your pitch was insufficiently manipulative and insufficiently seductive.
You're going to have a harder time with your company if that's how you do things. Let me
show you how to be, how to orient things so that you're more likely to succeed because that way
I'm more likely to make money with my investment. I think that there's some aspect where this desire
for radical transparency has to do with people who feel very cut out of society.
I think it has to do with, because people don't read anymore. I think it has to do with people
don't read fiction anymore. I think it has to do with a kind of strange lack of empathy,
even when everyone says, you know, warm, fuzzy things to each other, which to me,
increasingly is just virtue signaling and acting out, you know, feeling you're virtuous and being
virtuous as I write in the book are two very different things. I think it's, I think it really
is down to people don't read anymore. And that someone can find more meaning in
Cuphead, which is the giant new video game that all the kids are playing. And that they'll never
be reading. They'll never know the mysteries of HB Lovecraft or whatever. I do think that
something has been severely minimized in terms of experience and in terms of a breath of experience.
And I don't care if I sound old. I've always sounded old. I sounded old when I wrote Lesson
Zero. I mean, I was an old man at five. But you said that you wouldn't choose novels again.
I wouldn't. I absolutely would not. What would you choose in a world?
A web series, a TV show, a mini series, I'd choose it. I do think they've replaced it. I think
adult literary fiction has slid down. We've lost about 13% of the readers since 2013.
That is a lot. That is a bad business. And that's that's over a loss of a billion dollars
in sales. That is suggestive of something. And I also don't meet anybody anymore who reads
serious adult fiction, serious, meaning quasi literary to literary adult fiction. I'm not
talking about, you know, obscure writers that are only taught in academia, but it is something that
I don't know. I am of I really do believe that reading that kind of long form fiction
encourages empathy and encourages you to step into other people's shoes and to see the world from
three or four or eight different angles rather than your own. And that to me is the purest
example of getting that experience more than theater, more than listening to a record, more than
going to a movie because it is not a passive experience. It is an active experience of actually
putting yourself in the shoes of the character and seeing the world through the way that they
look at it. And it's just that you can't get that in the other kind of medium. And if that's
going, I mean, I don't know. I mean, what's replacing that?
Well, I don't know that there is and that's one of the things I wanted to get to, which is
if we are in fact losing the capacity, as I've said, for semi-reliable communal sense making,
that we can't make sense of the incoming information in any way where we can communally kind of agree
on, well, what just happened and what should we be thinking about, about how to approach that.
If we don't have a canon where I can reference a line or two to get at a really complicated
thought, in my own tradition, we've lost canned humor where a lot of, let's say, Talmudic teachings
were contained in a joke and you would just use the punch line. Nobody told the joke once
everybody knew it. You just use the punch line to say, well, that's a super subtle principle.
Like, well, in terms of referencing one line, the idea is, that does protest too much,
me thinks, is a complicated concept. I don't want to have to explain it from scratch,
but if I can point out that somebody is falling out, Al Dershowitz seems to be protesting too
much at the moment. And I don't want to have to say more. If we don't have common literature,
common canon, if we don't have the time to sort of take a more Straussian view, which is, what is
the writer really trying to say that can't be said in the open? If we believe that transparency is
always the answer and that sunlight is always the best disinfectant. Is there any way of waking up
into a different era so that this thing that is suffusing our culture doesn't take the whole
enterprise down? Sometimes I think I'm old. Sometimes, and I am, I am old. And I think that
this is the natural state of things and that we are just moving forward on this trajectory.
And that bit by bit, you can fight, I suppose, in a natural way to try to stay on that trajectory.
But it's moving along and that golden world that surrounded you is moving on to younger people
and to sexier people and to more vibrant people. And I think sometimes, and I don't believe this
is true about reading, I sometimes think that, oh, this is what it means to become somewhat
obsolete in terms of a pop culture world, in terms of being a member of the pop culture world.
And it just goes this way and people are left behind. I think a lot about why the Quentin
Tarantino movie struck a chord among so many middle-aged men, I know, is because it's really
an exploration of that. So all of this is a roundabout way of saying that maybe people
are figuring out, and the trajectory that we're on is the one that they want to be on.
But I just don't know if it, I don't know if it is and I don't know if,
look, I don't think we're ever going back to read the long form.
I agree with that. I don't know that I want to go back to the previous world.
Yeah, no, I don't think I do either. And I am, I just wish it to a degree. And I think it's,
it's, as with you, that I guess a little bit more empathy, critical thought,
and that this notion that you can see two things in a sentence or in an opinion,
you know, Fitzgerald's famous dictum about the only smart people are the ones that can really see
both the beauty and the horror in a rose. And if you, if you, you need to be able to see both to
be an artist or to be a person in the world, if you just see one or the other, whatever.
And I don't see that anymore. And it is, that's what I miss. I mean, I don't really want to
necessarily go back. Though, look, watching, I don't know, watching the Quentin Tarantino movie,
I mean, I wouldn't, I don't know if I wouldn't mind going back here to Hollywood in 1969,
just in terms of a, on a certain kind of fetishistic level in terms of clothes and decor and
music. Well, I mean, I think that there is a golden age of Hollywood. I think that one of
the things we're missing is we developed this idea of critical thinking. And it turned out
that there was a parallel theory that never got developed, which I've called critical feeling,
which is how do you get your feeling to be responsive and adaptive as opposed to reflexive
and kind of, right? And the, the, the group feel is this very weird thing that the millennials
are traveling on. My theory about this, I don't know whether you'll bite on this or think it's
silly, is that maybe Generation X are the so-called magic Negroes to the millennials. The
millennials are a larger cohort. Maybe they're going to mean more, nobody from the 1930s who
was born in the 1930s ever became president of the United States. Maybe the idea is that Gen X
has a different role and that the millennials are hungry to be inducted by something older,
something more established, to be recognized. The boomers are weirdly not going to do it. The
silence are almost spent. And I wonder whether our problem is that we, we're angry. Like,
I don't think Generation Wuss really works because what it does is it sets us up oppositionally.
We're taking their nonsensical energy, which by the way is completely maddening. And I think it's
very strange that I grew up in a very threatening world, real physical, physical risk. And I'm
more worried about Twitter than I ever was in the world where people were wrapping their cars
around telephone poles or ending up ODing in the Cedars ER. Something about this world is weirdly
dangerous because there are no normal rules. It doesn't know when to stop. It's willing to take
away your ability to earn, to destroy your reputation, to move your private life into the
public sphere. And it doesn't seem to have any empathy. I wonder if the real trick, and this
is like the hardest thing to even imagine, is to realize that these are damaged kids and now
damaged adults and that our grit is supposed to serve them. Maybe we're supposed to lose twice,
lose once to the baby boomers in the silence. We're supposed to lose again, but we are supposed
to take up our place, helping them become a better version of themselves. I think most of my
audience is millennial. I bet yours is too. A great deal of it is millennial. And I talk about
the demise of a lot of things. I talk about the demise of reading. I talk about the demise
of American cinema, which you would think would not be interesting to them at all, but
they're there. And certainly, I have a large millennial following, despite how often millennials
attacked me this past spring with the publication of the book. They were definitely there at the
readings. They were definitely there at the signings. And a lot of them were there when I gave a talk
at the Peter Deal Foundation about a month ago. So there is that audience. And I agree with you
on a certain level. I do think they want to learn and they do want guidance. I think they're hungry
for it to a degree. But they are overly sensitive about how people see them. And that is a very
interesting and I think a new thing in terms of shame, because the guiding principle or one of the
strongest signifiers in the millennials I know is shame. Shame is a huge motivating factor to be
shamed. And that is something that I don't know. I can't relate to. And I don't think Gen X can
really relate to that as much either. It was never as powerful a motivating factor in terms of how
you express yourself, in terms of being online, in terms of how people talk about you, message
boards. It was a bigger deal for us. I think that what we don't understand is that we're not,
this is another theory, feel free to shoot it down. I've watched the very strange interactions
between millennials from a perspective of a Gen Xer. What they'll often say is that was a little
rapey. And if you use the word rape to a Gen Xer, it's like, boom, you've just dropped a bomb.
But like rapey, I would never use the word rapey. And then another one of them will say,
yeah, you're right, it was a little bit rapey. And then they go on. And so the idea is that
they're trading, they have an agreement, which is like, it's normal for people to say things that
are kind of rapey and racist and kind of like, you're starting to go into dangerous territory,
just I'm signaling to you, you probably don't want to go there. And they're like, thank you very
much. I didn't want to go there. And then they all go on their merry way. Very often what we do is say,
what did you say? Like, we're back on our heels because we're not part of this agreement.
And we have an idea of like, there was nothing wrong with what I said, don't you dare talk to me
that way. Or no, no, no, I absolutely didn't mean it. I promise you, I promise you. So we don't
understand that it's relative to an agreement that we're not part of to warn each other to back
off and give a quick apology and then keep moving on. And I don't even agree with it. Like,
from their perspective, if I'm showing them a George Carlin routine, and they say, that was a
little racist. We're now at a weird impasse where if I continue to say, I think that routine is
actually quite important, and you really need to look at it and pay attention and try to figure
out what he's saying. Now we've escalated. Wow. I gave you your warning shot and you declined it.
Now I'm going to have to call you out as really a bad person. And now I'm going to have to
potentially use my high leverage position as a reporter for a famous newspaper to actually ruin
your life. Like, we don't understand that that's not what they're hoping for. They're hoping for
the sort of, oh yeah, I don't know. What was I thinking? I would never want to point somebody
to that George Carlin routine. The ambiguity of irony, that's missing. The ambiguity of irony.
And irony and being ironic was a key, a key part of our generation. And it was a way we expressed
ourselves. And it's a way that we dealt with things, a lot of it in our novels, in the music
that we listen to. Very rarely was music this declaration of myself and how I'm feeling.
At least as a Gen Xer growing up in the late 70s and into the 80s. But that lack of irony
rips up, takes away shading and takes away a humanity because nothing is exactly as it seems.
And if you want to look at the world in that way and then every little thing that you don't like
becomes racist or rapey and you're not able to place it within a context and taking the totality
of it and look at it from three or four different angles and it's just pure reaction to, I don't
know, a litany of rules that you've been told you have to follow. I'm not doing it. I mean,
I'm just not on, and I don't apologize to them and I don't say anything. But I just don't say
anything. If people, I mean, I've never written an apology to anybody and I've never defended myself
to any of these people either because the arguments just isn't worth responding to
on a certain level. You've taken, you've deconstructed it to a degree where there's
an ounce or so of sympathy. But I also think that they should know better. I think I'm giving people
way too much credit for those pulling up their pants and understanding what it means to be an
adult and that you, you know. I'm trying to get them to entertain the idea that, for example,
