with all the commentary and almost all the commentary on the IDW is bad commentary because
it's the commentary at trying to figure out who are these people without union cards and
why are they commenting on the world. So they're always trying to figure out some way of getting
rid of this thing. It was very much two things. It's an LA phenomena to an extent that nobody
has understood. And it's a Gen X phenomenon to an extent because Gen X is invisible to both boomers
and millennials. Millennials think that Gen X is the boomers. And the idea that there is this
in-between generation that's not large enough to chant things and to vote things into reality,
but is extremely generative, very robust, and has this completely, I don't know how to say it,
you couldn't pick two more different circumstances. Aetan Pats gets kidnapped in New York, I guess,
in 1979 and the milk carton kids start up and suddenly almost overnight, all the kids who
are used to playing in the streets with no adults in sight are brought indoors and things really
change. And somehow the millennials are brought up in that world. Whereas as far as I can remember,
I play back so many scenes from the 70s and I can't see grown-ups, the moms in particular,
or absent, maybe the dads have been absent a long time, but like the moms are somewhere else.
But where were they? Because I would say most of my friends' mothers didn't work.
So where were they? Were they up in their bedrooms? Were they out having lunch with their friends?
Well, do you remember? I mean, I remember some moms, but sometimes mom was getting high with
the kids. I remember that was a particular mom. There were moms who were looking for Mr. Goodbar.
There were moms who were trying to find some self-actualization and that the women's movement
promised maybe there's some new thing to do, but everybody was having a hard time finding
what that was. Right. I think getting back to one thing you said before we move on to that
is that the real darkness for me had to do with the Manson family. And the Manson family haunted
my childhood and my adolescence and still haunts my notion of Los Angeles. So if I had to choose
something that I fixated on and honestly became obsessed by were the Tate Law Beyond Commerters
and the Manson family. And that book that Vincent Bugliosi wrote about the case,
Helter Skelter, was kind of like a strange Bible for me. And it became kind of a dark
touchstone. Yes, I still saw and I was still in a group of people who were trying to have fun
when I was an adolescence in LA and especially when we were free with our cars and basically
free from our parents and had that kind of sense of, I don't know, ascendancy or being able to
go anywhere we wanted to. It erased some of the darkness. I mean, there was a lot of opportunity
to have fun out here. But I also have to say, and this I think connects more with what
in a way what your trajectory was, I wanted to get out. I did not want to stay here.
Oh, so you okay? I wanted to get out. And I knew at 14, I wanted to get out. And I had to wait
for the plan to happen because when I was 18, boom, I was going to go as far away from here as
possible. I did ultimately feel, I think, what you felt. I felt like beneath the facade of beautiful
teenagers and, you know, lovely setting and nice houses that there was a darkness that was encroaching
upon everything. And it really, I really did notice it much more strongly after I'd left for a year
and I came back after actually left for five or six months and came back after I went to college
for my first term. But that was always the plan. And I remember seeing so many movies that took
place in New York, even if they were dark as hell, I wanted to go there. And I remember seeing Woody
Allen's Manhattan, for example, and then that's where I'm going to be. I'm going to be in that world.
I mean, now that world nauseates me, but at the time I was 14 or 15, that was the goal. And I was
going to go to college back east and then I was going to move to New York. All of my friends
stayed out here. All of my friends were going to get into the film business because
that's what LA is. I mean, if you live in a certain area of LA, it is a company town
and you end up, you know, working for the company, which is the entertainment complex.
And that is what happened. My four closest male friends all got into the business.
Really?
And that was what I was supposed to be doing too because we were all making movies and writing
scripts when we were teenagers. And all of our fathers, mine accepted, were somehow involved
in the industry. And that was going to be the next move. And it just, I was writing novels
and I was working on less than zero when I was 17, 18, 16, 17, 18. And I knew I had to get out.
I don't know. You must have felt that to some degree in order to, I mean, I don't know if the
escape was your choice, but the escape from LA was certainly mine. I only applied to colleges
back east. And so I knew senior year that this was going to be over at a certain point. And
that summer of 82, I just could not wait for it to...
Well, that's the thing. I mean, that we were living through a something that I think hasn't
been understood or digested in terms of its importance. And I think that if you think about...
Well, it's being resisted because I talk about it all the time. And it's being resisted. People
don't want to believe that this happened and that we were okay. They want to...
Well, it contradicts what I've called the gated institutional narrative, that there is this
thing where the New York Times is talking to the political parties, is talking to the universities
and they've settled on this thing that's completely wrong.
It's a narrative.
It's a narrative. And the narrative has been cracking. And we have this funny thing, which I
heard you talking about being an anti-anti-Trumper, where the idea is that you have Trump and the
Trumpers. Then you have the anti-Trumpers who are the people who are completely deranged by any
mention of Trump, whatever he said. My partner, my boyfriend.
Yeah, your boyfriend is a millennial.
He's a millennial and he has had Trump derangement syndrome since the election.
And yet, Eric, he is losing that. And he is just simply becoming an anti-Trumper.
Well, because... Well, no, I don't think that that's fair, sir.
My belief is that if you are an anti-anti-Trumper, I am an anti-anti-anti-Trumper. That is, I am
against Trump. But mere mention of his name doesn't send me into paroxysms. I don't...
I'm not apoplectic with rage when he said something that's been carefully constructed
to set everybody off who carries a certain behavior pattern. And so what my belief is,
is that I'm going through a very private, weird little mini-hell in which I intellectually can't
stand the guy, but I understand him very well. I understand why it works. I predicted this in
some weird way. I wrote an essay on K-Fa, but I don't know if you've...
I do, yes. Yeah, that you were one of the people who actually suggested he could win.
It was a you?
Yeah. Well, I just had Timur Karan on the program for Preference Falls. I thought
everyone was lying about their feelings about Trump.
When they were asked about it.
Publicly.
Well, because you needed to say how horrible he was if you were part of the institutional milieu,
or if you needed to keep a job and make sure that you weren't on the wrong side of your clients.
And what has been going... What I find very frustrating, I mean, you have to appreciate,
the mainstream has no positive interest in the show, me or anything that my group is doing
whatsoever. And it's not just... I mean, it's the fact that we have this very negative view of CNN
and NPR, not what they're supposedly standing for. So in this narrative, I guess what my take on it
is, is that the dominant... I don't even know how to say idealism of a time is usually a false
narrative that's hiding how people can make money during that period of time. So we are the world
is a portrayal of concern about Africa, the poor in Asia, what can we do to uplift the people.
But really, it was a story about if we don't break our bonds to our fellow countrymen,
if we don't make sure that we can not have to take care of Appalachia and the poor in the
South and the downtrodden in our inner cities, we're not going to be able to make money. The
way to make money is to move operations overseas to keep your country with its headquarters,
wherever it's tax advantaged. There was some process by which globalization was the betrayal
of your countrymen. And that thing was portrayed as the Davos Idealism. And the Davos Idealism is
cratering because it was a wealth transfer program posing as a philanthropic effort. And so the
reason that nobody wants the Clintons, nobody wants the Democratic Party, nobody wants the
sanctimonious nonsense about our thirst for justice and our hatred of oppression is that
this is a search for a constituency that's large enough to get people elected who can continue
to keep people making money who have been figuring out how to make money. And Trump,
the reason I'm anti-Trump is that he's taking lots of ideas that are actually originally wholesome
and he's giving them this shitty kind of mean spirited, nasty spin. Like for example,
there's nothing wrong with restrictionism whatsoever. There's nothing xenophobic about
restriction. The desire to want to keep a border is not a xenophobic urge.
I completely agree. Okay. So when he tinges it with hints, he's playing around with something,
he knows what the inference patterns of the left are. So he'll say something and the left will
say, oh my God, you're really saying that you think all Mexicans are rapists and then the right...
Well, whose fault is that? Pardon me? I mean, whose fault is that? I mean, that's the left's fault
from taking the bait or overreacting. No, it's not that. They figured out a means of keeping people
in line. Whereas as you start to explore something that will stop the money making,
the transfer of wealth from whoever... It's like forced transfusion. The institutional left,
I believe, figures out how to transfuse one group to supply blood to another. And
what the left is supposed to be is something more wholesome and more decent. As you start to
question the transfusion, you start to get this question like, surely you're not suggesting that
we should close our borders to the downtrodden? That's right. And Trump is saying, yeah, I'm not
scared. You're not going to back me off by just saying that surely you weren't saying, that's a
menacing tone. And for that, many people love him because you remember the scene in Reservoir Dogs
of Tarantino where you've got, I guess, is it Steve Buscemi? And I can't remember the other actor
where they're trying to figure out who the rat is and Mr. Blonde comes in. And Mr. Blonde is the
psychopath who's shot up the jewelry store. And they can't figure out who they can trust. The only
person you can trust is the psychopath because the psychopath isn't under control. Well, Trump came
through as Mr. Blonde. And the one person we know isn't under institutional control is Donald
Trump because he would never say those things. Okay, so now we've got a new paradigm where the
only trustworthy person is the least trustworthy person, which I've been trying to map this out.
And the problem with it is you can't wake people up because they're dying to get back to the process
of making money by betraying their fellow countrymen. The globalization thing came to an end. There's
no new idea about how to make money. Right. And the pyramid schemes are collapsing. Right.
So what's going to happen? Well, that's why you're on the portal, sir.
Well, look, getting back to what you said in terms of, I forgot the name of the book,
it was about preference versus public... Private truths, public lies. Right.
I knew a lot of these people. I wrote about them in white. I write a section of the book is about
the mood in Los Angeles in the months leading up to the primaries and then to the election,
and then after the election. And it is a cast of my usual entitled characters, even though this is
a work of nonfiction. And many of these conversations play out in the Polo Lounge or at Spago, like they
do in my LA novels, with irate rich people who cannot believe that things do not go their way,
which is also something that's less than zero in imperial bedrooms. So even though white is a
nonfiction chronicle of whatever, a certain kind of the arc of a Gen Xer, I see it. It starts out
in the late 60s, early 70s with me as a child. And then I'm standing with my dick in my hand
in the summer of 2018 going, I can't say this. I can't express myself this. Where's freedom of
speech? It just seems to be... And I'm much more upset about it than my millennial boyfriend,
who's used to rules. He's used to all the rules that have been... This is maddening. I can't
live like this. I know. I can't live like this either. But anyways, so I knew these people in
Los Angeles. I knew the Obama Trump voter. I knew many of them who were making that jump.
So, and I just sensed something different by looking at everything than my millennial boyfriend
did who was already printing out his Hillary t-shirts and couldn't wait for the blastings.
No, he's a Bernie guy. He's a Bernie Sanders guy. And he held his nose voting for Clinton,
but anything but Trump because Trump drove him insane. And there was just no fucking way that
Trump could be elected president. So that was all going to be... But so I did know... And I
write about this in white. People said, don't tell anybody I'm going to vote for Trump. Don't
tell anybody I'm voting for Trump. And so I wasn't completely surprised when Trump won.
But what surprised me and this ties into what you were first asking, what completely surprised
me for the next two years leading up to now is how so many of my smart friends became infected.
By Trump. Look, the most... No, say more of what you mean by that.
Well, look, all of our narratives, we have been forced to deal with Trump. I talked about this
in an interview that I gave with Washington Post where I... Even if you don't want Trump in your
life, he's in your life. And you have to have an opinion about him because everyone else is talking
about him. Either people loathe him to such a degree that you're sucked into the conversation.
And I believe it's the same with people who love him. And I know you're... What was that huge
exhale? What was that about? No, no, I'm with you. I'm with you. I want to write an Eliza program.
I swear, I could write a small program that generates his tweets. Like, for example,
before Trump, I had a simple idea, which is that if I wanted to win an election as a Republican,
all I would have to do is to talk about the nuclear family. And every educated person would say,
you mean nuclear, not nuclear, and then they'd lose. It was like an automated reaction,
that there was a class thing that says, correct anyone who says nuclear. Okay. Well, that's a
pretty simple program. Yes, you win the correct pronunciation of the word nuclear and you lose
an election because you're a dick. All right. So Trump is going to hit this thing over and over
again. It's a... The left is programmed to say certain things, to defend certain things. And
if you have to make the point that there is absolutely zero connection whatsoever between
Islam and terror, there is no connection whatsoever. Zero. It's an illusion. Okay.
Somebody can hit that, I mean, all day long, every day. I remember reading an issue of Dabeek
put out by ISIS, where their point was, I think it was called... They had an article called
Why We Hate You, Why We Fight You. And they said, you've marginalized all the people in your
society who point out that there is an aspect of fundamentalist jihadi Islam that just hates
you because you don't believe in all of the way we do. And because that couldn't be said,
like... Why couldn't that be said? I mean, that's when I... There's the break I have as a Gen
after. I'll say it. There was, once upon a time, a heuristic that said the best way to have a
multicultural society is that you have to have some load-bearing fictions, like all religions
are equally problematic in all ways. There's no way that's true.
You know, Jains are not equally problematic as Jews. Jews are more problematic than
Jains and I'm able to say that because I'm Jewish. Of course. Okay. As a result, those heuristics
hardened into dogmas because they were necessary to keep our society operating. We have to believe
at the moment that a jury of 12 people knows how to convict somebody based on guilt, even though
the DNA evidence shows that that's not a real rubric. Okay. Well, I mean, it's a heuristic.
Maybe it works some of the time. Right. Okay. So as these sort of heuristics have been breaking
down and these heuristics of the left are on top of the ones that are necessary for civil society,
they... The desire to maintain this complex of ideas, like trade is always good. No,
trade is not always good for all people. That's beyond moronic. Right. But it's only recently
that you have economists like Brad DeLong saying, actually, what you're optimizing is a social
Darwinist function, which trade is good for you based on the cube of your wealth. So the richer
you are by the cube of your wealth, trade is good for you. Well, Brad DeLong was also saying,
and why is everybody complaining about the trade deals we inked since they helped people in Mexico?
As if like, American voters are going to vote to help Mexican peasants. I mean, it's great if
Mexican peasants are helped, but I just don't see the lowest echelons of American society having as
their top priority helping Mexicans with their vote. I mean, none of this makes any effing sense.
But then why aren't they deprogramming themselves? Because they're not going to move them forward,
