Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and today we're here with
a fabulous author who many of you will know, Brett Easton Ellis, famous from less than
zero American Psycho, and now the book, White. Welcome.
Thank you for having me, Eric.
I don't know exactly how to approach this, but one of the frames that I have is that
we're sitting here in a very unusual city, that many people don't understand how important it is
and what makes it so unusual. One way I might frame that is that because Los Angeles is the
home of the entertainment industry, there's a weird way in which this is the only city in
the world in which I could make the argument that everyone somehow partially lives here,
whether they know it or not. They've consumed the street scenes, which are used as backdrops for
movies and TV, and they have an idea of what the ethos of the place is, which sort of seeps into
the screenwriter's mindsets, no matter who they are, and in any way that LA is different,
it does broadcast itself to the world. Does that resonate with you and can you add anything?
Well, I think it may be resonated that way for me maybe 10 or 15 years ago a lot more.
I think the entertainment industry is not centralized just to Los Angeles anymore,
or at least that's the way we look at entertainment. It seems to be this kind of global thing and not
wholly concentrated in Los Angeles where it used to be. Though now you might have to
say that it is because Disney is the entertainment business. Disney now owns everything. That's
the conglomerate that is going to produce an inordinate amount of content for the rest of the
world. So maybe it actually has come back here and is centered here. But you know, it's strange.
The entertainment business or the notion of the entertainment business is now this global thing
whether it's China, whether it's India, has a massive, has the biggest entertainment
complex in the world, the highest grossing movies. I mean, the biggest... Sure, but that's a different...
The consumer base for Bollywood is very different. So if you're in Indonesia for example,
or if you're in East Africa, you'd be much more likely to run into somebody. I mean,
famously Raj Kapoor and some of his songs are known by all Russians. But that hasn't had the
same impact, I think. I mean, I think you could take the biggest films like a Sholey and people in
the US have never even heard of it. They haven't. That's correct. But I think it's because LA has
been so central in our minds to the entertainment business since its inception, I guess in the 20s
or before that, that we... That's where all of our associations are. They're all... When we think
about the movie industry, when we think about the entertainment industry, that it's just been around
for so long that we always think that we connect LA with that. And I also think that it has a lot
to do with the way LA looks as a kind of paradise, a kind of Eden-like location. And of course, we've
seen so much of it in so much of the content we've consumed over the years. We've seen its roads,
we've seen its hillslides, we've seen its beaches, we've seen its deserts. That might be one reason
why we connect LA with the business of entertainment. I mean, I think just to rip off what you're
saying, if I just thought about street names, why is it that Mulholland shows up in Tom Petty's
Free Fallen or is the title of a famous David Lynch film, Sunset Boulevard, all of these streets,
only New York might have in some sense as iconic street names, which are sort of projected out
through the industry. So that's one indicator to me that if I thought about streets in Houston,
I have no idea what the name of important streets in Houston might be.
No, nor do I. Yeah, I mean, well, look, so much of the talent that creates this content, of course,
lives here. And they reference everything about the place in their work. And, you know, look,
I have to say, as someone who grew up out here, and someone who has written about this in about
three of my novels were wholly, wholly set in Los Angeles. It is the most creatively suggestive
place that I've ever lived. And I've lived in New York, and I've lived in Vermont, and I've lived
in Virginia, and I spent a long time in England and in Paris. Nothing really compares to Los Angeles
in terms of how it's activated my mind and made me want to write. And I still feel that way. I've
always, I felt that way since I was a teenager. There's a sense of possibilities and a sense of
freedom here because of the constant mobility and especially the freedom I associated with
being a young person in LA and having access, if I wanted to, to be at the beach, and then an hour
later be at the mountains, and maybe an hour and a half later be at the desert, that this whole
thing was so available to me. And I had the mobility to get to all these places. And that
activated a kind of freedom in my mind that wasn't only physical, but it was also creative.
And it's very hard to explain that to people. I mean, when I talk to writers
that I knew who grew up in New York or grew up in the suburbs, I don't know if they really
can access that. And I think about that a lot.
It seems to me that in some ways that huge number of different environments
really defines the place. And because LA doesn't have, in what I consider to be,
a good general description in the world, we don't think about it the way we think about Paris,
for example, or even New York, people very often don't realize that this is the home
in part of the Rand Corporation or that there's an oil field that partially defines the city.
It's not a very easy to understand place. And I thought that in part, just as you're talking
about the natural environments of Los Angeles, also the ability to go back and forth between
skid row and sunset strip and to see the ways in which the illusion of the Hollywood Hills and the
dark underbelly make this place just far more generative and dark. It's one of these places
that fits the description, a sunny place for shady people.
Well, that's what I thought about a lot when I was growing up out here in the 70s and
particularly in the early 80s. For example, Venice is a good place to start. I mean,
Venice in the 70s was dark, very dark place. You didn't go to Venice after night.
You didn't even go to Venice during the day. But I remember they started opening
a few restaurants there. There were a few art galleries. I remember 72 Market Street was one
of the very first restaurants, a very upscale kind of piano bar restaurant in a kind of
derelict alley. And there was something kind of very Los Angeles about that, very thrilling,
right off the beach. And Los Angeles really does have the kind of imagination
that allows that to open there and then flourish into other restaurants began opening. I remember
Wolfgang Puck opened Xinhua on, I think, Main Street. And then everything kind of started to
flower out of that. But that was not unusual because I remember a lot of times there would be,
especially as a club kid and going to a lot of clubs, you go to these really cool
chic clubs in the sleaziest parts of downtown in the lower, lower reaches of Wilshire Boulevard.
And there was just something kind of fabulous about an environment that allowed all of this to
kind of coexist. And Melrose, for example, was a place, a strip that I spent a lot of my
adolescence on. And there were very high end stores next to discount clothing stores next to
vintage sunglasses stores next to the sedious bar imaginable. And the fact that all of this could
coexist on a block was really thrilling to me. And it just didn't exist anywhere else
that I've lived in the world. And it's something that I still appreciate about the city, though,
of course, LA, I think, like all places now to a degree, and I don't want to grossly generalize
about it. But, you know, we're sitting here in Hollywood, basically, in a newish high rise.
And all around us is massive construction. There are high rises going up all around
Cahuenga, all around Cole, right by the York Light Theatre here. And Sunset Boulevard,
the Sunset Boulevard from my childhood, is kind of gone and has become a corridor,
not unlike some of the canyons of Manhattan, not unlike the Wilshire corridor in a lot of ways.
There is massive expansion and massive building here. And also done on that kind of global style,
free zone that is so popular wherever you go now around the world where you'll,
I mean, I know they just redid, well, a few years ago, they redid the Bel Air Hotel's
restaurant and bar, which was one of the more fabulous enclaves here. Very mysterious,
you'd walk through a forest over a pond. I guess they were ducks or geese, swans,
they were swans. And then you'd enter into this mysterious, dark, dark bar from out of the 30s,
and a very kind of charming, conservative dining room. Very, very old school. And when they did
the redesign, it basically looked like any airport restaurant in Finland or in London or
wherever. It just, something's happening. And as someone who tours a lot, I see it all over
the place. It's kind of global style is taking over. And the restaurant on the bar at the Bel Air
now resemble pretty much everywhere else, as does if we're talking about this Spago in Beverly
Hills, which Wolfgang Puck recently felt he had to redesign in the same anonymous global style.
Kind of already black and white photographs, these futuristic like tiki torches. I don't know.
So the LA that I think you and I are referencing, and that you can still find in pockets around here,
is like everywhere else, it seems, kind of fading into the new generic global style.
And in a way, I sort of agree with this. However, I've been coming here visiting in hotels,
and there are ways in which the old weirdness of LA keeps sort of, you know, like the Rose and Spanish
Harlem popping through the concrete, that sort of dark underbelly does recur. So I was just,
for example, at this, is it the Saddleback Ranch, which has a mechanical bull on sunset strip.
And I was at a table and a lovely looking young woman says, you know, do you mind if I sit down?
I sort of thought that was odd. I was eating alone. She's like really quite complimentary,
very friendly. I just turned to her and I said, are you a working girl? And she says, yes. How
would you like to go back to the hotel? And I said, why are you doing this? And she turned to
me and she said, well, I just got my real estate license, but unfortunately, this month is a little
slow. And I just thought, well, that's a conversation that's not so easy to have anywhere in the world.
No, it's not. And it reminds me a lot of Hollywood and it reminds me a lot of
a lot of actors that I met out here when I was casting a couple of big projects.
Yeah, that is very much an LA thing, this sort of gay for pay hookup culture that is
big among actors out here in terms of they, you know, the bartending gig didn't work out.
They're auditioning tomorrow. They, you know, they really need some cash.
And yeah, LA operates, but LA has always operated that way. I wrote a novel about it.
Less than zero, there is ways that kids can make pay back their drug dealers.
And one of them is prostituting themselves. And I had heard stories when I was at Buckley
about a couple of brothers I knew who, if not exactly having sex with older men were,
you know, a little teasy, maybe they strip, maybe they'd put on a little bit of a show,
not necessarily have sex with, but there's always been this kind of gray area between sex, money.
Well, also class classlessness, you know, also, I was talking to a very big
mogul, huge mogul. And I was in a conversation at cocktail party and someone asked me,
where do you think the best looking people are? And I said, well, I think I was thinking Italy,
Sweden, and then this mogul who was over listening and said, uh-uh, it's LA, Los Angeles.
This person is very intelligent, has a very good taste, insanely wealthy. And I thought about it.
And I now believe that's true. So this intersection of money, sex, whoring is,
it almost feels like an inevitable thing. And I've written about this twice. And I, and I'm just
kind of realizing this now, or remembering this right now in this moment, not that I, you know,
I don't think about this all the time, is that both of the narratives of my two LA novels,
less than zero. And then 25 years later, I wrote a sequel to a Cold Imperial Bedrooms,
where we kind of figure out where everyone's landed after they were 18.
Both center around this, this, the central metaphor of prostitution in a way, and that,
and beauty and money, and that these were the things that seem so suggested to me about LA.
I don't know, means what? It ties back into the entertainment industry. It ties back into
exploitation and exploiting beauty and youth, and a certain kind of handsomeness if you're a man,
and a certain kind of beauty if you're a woman. And that also being for so many people,
their, their calling card, it's what they really depend on. I remember talking to a very good
looking actor, and someone had made a joke about, oh, it's not going to be fun to see you get old.
And just in this bro, and he was devastated, absolutely devastated completely. And that,
I don't know, that kind of mentality really becomes the emotional basis for the town in
so many ways. So it's not, it's not strange that that happens, because there is that,
that intersection of, you know, beauty, money, exploitation is just, you know, it lends itself,
it lends itself to noir. Right. Well, this is, this is, this is the thing. LA really does,
in some sense, live its noir at a level that would be fictional somewhere else. I mean,
I think about, so there's this very strange coincidence that you and I came from essentially
the exact same milieu. We both graduated high school in 1982. Yes. We were both at, in the same
sort of private school milieu. I believe that we knew people in common, although I've forgotten
who they, who they might be. And I very much had the sense that when less than zero debuted,
that you had privatized my childhood, and that it was this, it was this period, which if somebody
hadn't written about it, would never be believed. And it, the reason I'm trying to get at this,
I guess, is that I think it had an importance that we didn't understand while we were living
through it. So I wanted to try some theories with you, because I think that you are, in some sense,
the poet laureate of whatever this firmament was, which is sort of Los Angeles Gen X. And then
I'll tie it back, if successful, to what I think its significance is for us now, because I don't,
I think it's underrated as a sort of a point of departure with the past. So I guess what my theory
is, is that if you look out at this backdrop behind, behind this, imagine a neutron bomb went off,
which was the divorce bomb. And it started with no fault divorce in 1970 with Ronald Reagan,
who himself was divorced, signing this thing into law. And if you look at a graph of divorce rates
per, you know, whatever, 1,000 women, it's got this weird sort of, it's declining,
declining, declining. And it just sky rackets for the entire 1970s before it starts to want to
decline again. And we lived through this. And while I'm asking, do you remember that suddenly,
like everybody's parents were on the rocks, that suddenly the parents disappeared, that there were
children supposedly of privilege roaming the streets and that it was really dark?
Well, that's a lot.
Am I just remembering?
No, no, certainly remember a lot of divorces, becoming much more aware of them as I entered
into junior high school. My parents' marriage was very strained by the time I was 15. And I
realized that they were going to split. My sisters and I were however relieved because there was
so much tension in the house caused by numerous things, including my father's alcoholism.
So that was, the divorce wasn't the problem, the marriage was the problem. So that was,
the darkness, and I have to say as a teenager, I wished that I had, and I did to a degree,
enjoy this milieu much more than I did. But I was an alienated kid and I was haunted.
One of the reasons I was so alienated was I was gay, which was,
even living in liberal Los Angeles in 1980, 81, even when it seemed gayness was in the culture
and announcing itself in specific ways with whether it was David Bowie or Prince or American Jigolo
or Calvin Klein advertisements, you still weren't out as a teenager. And so that alienates you and
you begin to see the world in a slightly darker place. Or I think you begin to see the world
as it really is. You see through the facade of it. You see through kind of the poses everyone is
making in order to get through. And you really see the lie of high school in so many ways,
when you're gay and you're standing on the sideline and no song is about you and no
movie is about you and you have to kind of reprocess everything. So that was a bit of
the darkness of my LA experience. Divorce, sure. But I think that for me, it was being gay and being
a writer. I didn't know anyone else that was writing a novel. I had written one already when
I was 13 or 14. And those two things really did separate me from the rest of the crowd.
It's not to say that I didn't participate. I went to parties. I even had a girlfriend.
I went to the beach. I had my group of close male friends. I danced at parties.
You knew you were gay at what point? Always or?
Six.
Six, got it.
Seven, yeah. And it was nothing that ever agonized over. It was something I just kind of accepted
and said, OK, this is another thing that I've got to deal with. How am I going to navigate
through this? And it really was never something that tortured me or I felt I had to tell other
