say in the new world order. And that's the problem with Trump. Trump presented something
extremely new into the conversation and the left couldn't deal with it. The media couldn't deal with
it. I always felt that if they had kind of dealt with them in a neutral way and just reported
what he did without all this hyperbole, I don't know if he would have won necessarily. Because
all of the smart, honest people had to be ejected from the institutional layer.
Terrifying. But what I'm talking about is universal expulsion of people who will not
go along with the gated institutional. My theory about this, if you haven't met it,
is that we grew very quickly in a very stable way that was totally anomalous post World War II
to about 1972. And every single institution that you see has an expectation of that kind of growth
continuing. And so what happened is that all of those institutions, when they went pathological,
they became Ponzi schemes and you needed to have a group of people in that institution who would
not reveal the Ponzi scheme. And so effectively, our expert class has been selected for as the
people who will not blow the whistle on the fact that they're lying. And so you can get this at
Harvard or you can get this at Stanford. Maybe the University of Chicago is something of an
exception. Hollywood. Well, Hollywood is, right, exactly. Silicon Valley. And so all of these
institutional things are suffering from the embedded growth obligation disease or ego, right?
And so these egos have turned, like, the institutions are not interested in hearing
how to beat Trump because it's easy. It's easy to beat Trump. It is. But the only problem is,
is that if you beat Trump in the way that's easy to beat Trump, you will not service the people
with second and third homes in the Hamptons, right? And so those people are saying, well,
I wasn't thinking of spending that much to beat Trump, right? No, no, that's really,
that's what the issue is, is that right now, the exciting part is I want to retake the institutions.
Do you really want nine conservative Supreme Court justices? If you do, if that's what excites you,
I highly recommend talking about reparations for slavery. Why don't you tell some sort of a
child Holocaust survivor that they need to pay reparations for slavery? See how that goes.
Oh, I mean, this is insane. We've got just some, you know, and self, I'm used to self-hating Jews.
We've had that as an issue forever. The self-hating American. Oh, man, you know, just suck it up,
man. Okay, so you were born with white skin. It's like watching a teenage girl in a cutting
episode. You're not responsible for every bad thing this country has ever done. We're not going
to right all wrongs. It would be absolutely unjust to go after every past injustice and
like, are we going to get rid of the Arch of Titus in Rome? Because the Romans sacked Jerusalem
and it commemorates, you can see they're carrying off like this giant menorah. They stole our stuff,
man. All right, let's tear down the Arch of Titus. Let's burn the merchant of Venice. How deep
do we want to go with this madness? We're nuts. Well, it needs, well, look, I think part of why
I'm very sensitive about this is that because I am a Gen Xer, I think boomers like my parents,
like my mom, my stepdad. And were your parents born? My father was born in Nevada and my mother
was born in Illinois. They were born in the, you know, technically not. Silent. They're silent,
but my mom completely relates to boomers. Technically, you're the last boomer. Yes,
I am, but I know that you are. But just in terms of the chart, right, right, right,
in terms of the chart. So yes, my parents, my mom and my stepdad are silent, but they really are
boomers. But no, I don't, I'm going to disagree with you. I think that what we don't understand
is that we settled on a narrative in which the boomers are the problem. The silent generation
really begins the problem. And we are letting the silent generation off just as we are not
paying attention to Gen X. And I believe, sir, that you are the last of the boomers,
but that you are spiritually Gen X and that you figured out, you almost started really
defining Gen X. I forget who it was who wrote the book, Gen X. You probably know.
Douglas Copeland. Right, right. I think that what I remember from this is that a few years
either way was really important. Right. And I believe that the silence are the first generation
to wrestle with the problem in 1972, 73 that the country won't wake up to, which is that
our growth pattern changed for structural reasons. It wasn't about some bad decision.
It wasn't about the gold standard. It wasn't about the Arab oil embargo. Something really
structurally changed. Okay. And in my telling of the tale, the silence try to figure out how to
restart real growth. It's like the engine has gone out. They're going to try to restart the engine.
It doesn't work. The boomers look at these efforts and they say, huh, that doesn't work,
but it's good enough for redistribution and to play games with fake growth.
So why don't we help ourselves to fake growth and we'll just grow our slices of the pie as if
the pie were growing. And I'm sure that that must mean that somebody else's slice isn't growing,
but that's really too bad for them. And so the silence start a lot of these problems.
The boomers continue it. The millennials confuse the Gen Xers for boomers because to them,
boomer means older than millennial. Right. And the only generation, and this is the thing that
I find fascinating, that I think really has a good hope of restarting sense making is Gen X.
I agree. I completely agree with that. And I do know that whenever I attempt to do it millennial,
thinking shuts you down. And so that is what I've come up against on this last book tour I've done
earlier this year, and I'm going back out on the road in the fall, millennial hysteria and overreaction
to my talking about millennials in any kind of critical way, and even being somewhat sympathetic
to them completely. You're more than sympathetic, Brett. Oh, completely. You and I are both hanging
out with tons of millennials. Yes. And we're having some success. We're having some, like,
I don't understand this thought pattern. And the millennials, this is another thing that I believe,
and you please correct me if I'm wrong, I'm fairly disagreeable. I think the millennials are starving
to know what actually happened. And partially what I try to tell them is your, the super ancestors,
these silence and boomers who, like, I think Bill Ayers, you know, was the head of the weather
underground, and he gets his job as a professor. Whereas people I know, they say the slightest
wrong thing and they're out. Right. Like, okay, you were a, you were a leading terrorist, and you
can have a job as a professor. That world in which 25 year old men, you know, could take down a home
and immediately build a second home and everything just turned to gold. It's like, well, it's not
really that they were doing anything so clever. They just, they weren't a stream that was moving
really fast and you got a dry creek bed. Right. And yes, a few of you are going to do something so
brilliant that you can do something against that. You know, I mean, like Ariana Grande is not hurting
for money. Okay. However, the idea that you could have in the financial sense beta to a process
where you could just like, I don't know, go to law school or open a dry cleaner or, you know, start
some new nonprofit and you could have a perfectly fabulous life, that thing died. And the millennials
have the sense of like, okay, well, this is all hopeless and maybe we're not really that good.
Oh, yes. And my point is, look, man, these other guys could have three martini lunches and everything
still worked out. Yeah. There is this sense of, and I talk about it in, in my book, I talk about
all of the things I've noticed and I've marked down with living in close proximity with a millennial,
a key millennial for the past 10 years. And the things that I've noticed about them and that
I've experienced and I started to write about this, I actually tweet about it quite harmlessly
and under the hashtag generation was because I was so surprised how offended he was, how over
reactive he was bordering. I felt on hysteric about just the normalcy of the world and the way
human beings are with all of their contradictions and all of their flaws.
As I said earlier, he, and I'm not saying that he puts it out there, but there seem to be, I found
a love of rules, that rules offered a kind of pathway, a narrative that wasn't there otherwise,
and that all of these rules about what you can say, what you can't say, how you can express yourself,
how this is sexist, how that is racist was a way of kind of controlling a world that they felt
had disabandoned them in a way that there wasn't a way to make money, that the economy was against
it. But this is something they can do to you. Which is what they are doing. So it is now happening
and I see it in the reaction to this book, which is critical of a lot of ways of thinking and I
think you and I are pretty much aligned on what the problems are right now. Are we? Let's explore
that. What do you see is, because I have a different take, the rules thing for example,
maybe I'll try that and see whether. Yeah, why don't you try that? Yeah. Okay. I think people
have not understood the role of Marshall Rosenberg's nonviolent communication.
It starts off with a good idea, which is that maybe there's a way in which speech that is
particularly damaging has a physiological impact on us, our cortisol levels spike,
we're going to fight or flight. There's all sorts of, you know, fighting words as part of our legal
structure. What if we call that violence? Okay. Now we have to have nonviolent communication.
So then you have all these rules about what it is that constitutes violent versus nonviolent
communication and speech becomes violence. And then the entire concept of free speech goes out the
window. Furthermore, you have an abandonment, I think, if you probably looked at the gender ratios
of teachers in schools, my guess is that you'll find that it has changed quite considerably
being dominated by one gender rather than a mixture of the two. And as a result, you have this sort
of thing that I don't think people had really understood, which is that in part, there's a way
that boys will be boys was used to disguise a lot of behavior, which I would have called toxic
masculinity had that term not been polluted and turned into something metastatic and unusable.
Right. They're really, I went to an all boys school and man, I saw some stuff that would
absolutely curl your toes. On the other hand, we're now using it to mean somebody who makes
the joke in the elevator, third floor women's lingerie, okay, your career's over. What? That's
insane. Look, my problem isn't necessarily with the things that you're talking about. Kids getting
bullied, for example, no, this shouldn't be happening. It's a part of life. I look back on my life and
I think, well, what if I hadn't been bullied? What if I had been bullied?
Look, just as much as anyone else I knew, any other boys I knew, yes, I was. And
but it, I don't know. I mean, was it traumatic? Did it help me become a writer? Did it make me
want to become an artist? I certainly don't think I would have been a writer if I'd been
captain of football team or the prom king. Certainly things that happened to me that were
painful helped create an artistic person and help my voice as a writer. All the stuff that you were
talking about, fine, maybe there should be a big fix for them. I don't know. I mean, I also think
that life is really hard. And basically how you toughen up is that you go through the hardships
that build you into a person that can deal with life's everyday hassles and the pain that inevitably
comes to all of us. What worries me is how this affects the arts and how we deal with art, how we
let it into our lives. And that is the most worrying thing to me in the last five to 10 years,
seeing that art must be a certain way, that there have to be rules for the art to be accepted to
the community. That outlaw art, I don't know where it is anymore, certainly was a big part of
the world that I came of age in. And certainly it was something that I wanted to explore as
the writer of Less Than Zero or the writer of American Psycho, two books that I think because
of sensitivity editors that they have now at publishing houses would never be allowed to be
published in American mainstream fiction. So that lawlessness and that kind of recklessness
that great artists traffic in is really being minimized because it isn't following a set of
rules. And I talk a lot in the book about how aesthetics don't really matter, that ideology
has become the aesthetic. And that what people want is kind of an affirmation. They want a
lesson. They want to learn something. And they want it to be very, very explicit ambiguity,
metaphor. I really don't know if anybody traffics in that anymore in terms of communicating with
millennials. So that is the thing that has bothered me the most. The other things that you're talking
about, yeah, people shouldn't be in pain, but having to include certain things in your art for
it to be palatable or for you to make money or for someone to publish it or for it to be shown in as
many places as possible, that is, that's a problem. And being told what you can or cannot say in
something you create is also a problem. The list of rules now being handed out to artists about
what's acceptable, what's not acceptable. As a writer and as a public person who has a podcast
and writes essays, you know, about entertainment and about the world that I'm a part of,
and getting attacked is crazy. It is the insanity that you're talking about. I recently
wrote a piece for Italian Vogue about the differences between fashion in 1999 when I
published a large novel that took place within the fashion world called Glamorama and today.
And so I thought about it. I thought, well, okay, well, they're paying quite well when no one else
pays well. And I can riff on this for a couple thousand words. And so I wrote about how mysterious
the fashion world was in the late 90s and how its exclusivity was what it made, what it made
so alluring. Its lack of inclusion is what made people want to be a part of it so
badly compared to now where you can see the Met Gala streaming online and everyone can be interacting
and throwing out their comments while they see in close up the inside of the party and the dresses
right as they're happening. Is that, I don't know, is that exciting? Is it more exciting to
not know exactly what's behind the curtain? And of course, I'm writing this as a Gen Xer. I'm
writing about this in a way that is really conforms to my sensibility. I also talked about how
the models, the women and the men were really quite extraordinarily beautiful and they were
they were goddesses and they were gods and we looked up to them because they weren't us.
They weren't us and that's why we were so drawn to them. These women were otherworldly.
These men were otherworldly and there was something about that that I thought we don't have anymore
where we need models that look like us, that we have to be more inclusive of, you know,
a body image and that we have to accept and that and that the modeling world and the fashion world
is trying its best to do that. And you can see it in shows where, you know, they have
whatever, buck tooth, whatever it is. I'm not not people who conform to normal,
not even normal. No, no, no, but let's be clear about it.
The model bone structure is almost like a mutation. Completely. What we traditionally
think of is something that is extraordinarily rare. It does particular things for clothes
that normal humans don't. A friend of mine is a supermodel and at some point I said to her,
I never realized it, but you're really a mutant. Yeah. And her response was, yeah,
I'm all legs and no torso in her hands or like Edward scissor hand hands. Like
just the way that Mike Michelangelo had to distort the David, somehow these people are
actually distorted. I got blasted for writing this. Yeah. Absolutely blasted by millennials.
Huge, a huge controversy about this piece. Now, I think part of the problem was that it was
translated into Italian and then someone wanted to translate it into English. So when you're
translating Italian back into English, it's a whole other can be all these other meanings,
but basically the beef was, I don't believe in inclusivity in the fashion world.
Well, I meant, I meant exclusivity was what made it so erotic and alluring. No, that's,
they read it as, I'm saying that inclusivity, I don't believe in inclusivity meaning that I'm a
racist, that I am a body shamer. And it was so remarkable to me that that's the message that
they got out of an older man talking about what he liked about in the late nineties about fashion
that moved him to actually write a novel set in that world. A complete distortion of really what
I was saying based on this emotional idea of being excluded themselves. And it's just such a
remarkable way to reread something so that it conforms to your view of the world. I certainly
didn't have that when I read things that I didn't necessarily agree in when I was that age.
Can I push back on this slightly? Yeah, please. So the way I read it is that they might have
actually had a point and then they missed a point. So one of the costs of having fashion
be mysterious, aspirational, and dare I say, transcendent is that it does remind us of our
merely mortal nature. There was a period of time where you would show people without makeup
and just how completely plain and ordinary they were. There are all sorts of faces that lend
themselves to being turned into something that cannot be as canvases on which to be painted,
let's say. And that there is something powerful about deconstructing fashion. If you remember
when I bring up sometimes is Jennifer Lopez's famous Versace dress. I am sure that adhesive
is somehow lurking in the background. But the idea of having adhesive on your boobs and having
the fabric somehow stick, all sorts of contrivances, that's much less exciting and
alluring if I know how the magic trick is done. So the idea of a magic show in which the audience
demands to know how every trick is done is a very weird thing because some of us want to be fooled.
We want to be seduced, but we also are shamed in this process because of our own very plain
