law enforcement for requesting or arranging massages
from underage women that was almost certainly
when a massage was a euphemism for some form of child prostitution.
This was an extremely disturbing episode
in which he was vigorously defended by a high-profile team,
which is his right in an adversarial system,
but it was with a particular vigor that I found
absolutely disturbing and unsettling,
and that the sentence given to Jeffrey Epstein
seemed to be so reduced compared to what he was being accused of
that I felt like I had to just check all of my intuitions.
Why was such a light sentence being imposed?
Further, people I knew went and visited him in prison
and talked about him being a friend,
talked about him being a massage enthusiast.
It made no sense to me that this person,
who was being accused of some form of pedophilia,
was being treated very differently
than I would have imagined by people that I very much respected at the time.
I didn't understand what was going on,
but I started to formulate a second theory,
and I haven't heard it discussed much in the media,
so I'll share it with you now.
The idea is that if you buy the idea that Jeffrey Epstein
was in fact a construct of the intelligence community,
my belief is that he was constructed
to be a sapiosexual Hugh Hefner.
In some sense, he was the Dan Bilzerian of his day.
That is somebody who is not interested in little girls,
but is instead interested in young women.
Women over the age of consent who by law
have every right to associate with whoever they wish to
and can engage in consensual relations.
Now, you may frown upon it, you may look down upon it.
You may say that it's an abuse of power
for a man in his 40s, 50s, what have you,
to be cavorting with some person above the age of consent.
However, I don't take the same exact view of it
that I take the view of somebody going below the age of consent.
In the era of Me Too, we have a different situation
in which people are very uncomfortable
even talking about the legal situation
in which women in their early 20s
who may be trying to wield sexual power
are contending with men who may be trying
to wield political or economic power.
And that's an issue that I don't have
a particular interest in settling.
But whatever it is, it's very different
than somebody sending people to a high school
to find 15-year-old girls or 14-year-old girls
for erotic massages or prostitution or what have you.
So my belief was, in effect,
that the intelligence community
that may have constructed Jeffrey Epstein
was constructing him to be a sapiosexual Hugh Hefner,
but that they had stupidly and mistakenly hired somebody
who was actually closer to Humbert Humbert as an actor.
That is, the underlying actor playing the role
of Jeffrey Epstein, hedge fund genius,
was in fact someone with a pedophilia problem
that was probably not known to the intelligence community
when it constructed the project,
which I believe would have had to have dated
from the 80s or 90s when Jeffrey Epstein first started
amassing his network of high-profile contacts
under this mysterious reputation
as a one-of-a-kind financial genius.
As a result, that would explain a great deal
of why people's intuition was wildly off about Jeff.
People who did not have a problem with an older, rich man
going after young women above the age of consent
were suddenly forced to contend with the question
of, was this person secretly interested
in women below the age of consent
and perhaps considerably below the age of consent?
So this went some of the way towards explaining that.
But I've had another issue that I've tried to talk to people about,
which I also think figures into this story.
Why was Jeffrey Epstein so focused on science?
In particular, why was he focused on heterodox science?
Keep in mind, I'm reading nothing.
This is completely ad-lib, so just allow me to catch my breath.
In my theory, what I fear and what I believe
is that the American Scientific Project
has not understood that it has been abandoning
its scientific assets, and if you look at my work,
you can notice that this is a through line
having nothing to do with Jeffrey Epstein.
In effect, we have made it impossible
for American scientists to profit using the market
from their discoveries because we exclude
fundamental discoveries from intellectual property protection.
Therefore, you have a problem that when you make a discovery,
it is both inexclutable if you share it
in the scientific literature and inexhaustible.
That is that anyone who discovers it can use it
without precluding anyone else from discovering,
from using it.
Okay, when you have something that fits those twin criteria,
then even free market economists will agree
that it constitutes a public good, a failure of the market,
to keep value and price in lockstep.
In essence, we pay for scientific research
out of taxpayer dollars because the market
cannot price it correctly.
So you have something which I believe to be a fantastic value,
including military value and potentially industrial value
as it is translated from pure science into technology.
However, for some reason, the United States has been losing
its appetite for funding high-level scientific research
and protecting it with academic freedom
as the university system goes into free fall.
That is, our university system is structured as a Ponzi scheme.
And after Vannevar Bush and the Endless Frontier Doctrine
forced us to do our blue sky research inside of universities
rather than inside of research institutions dedicated to the purpose,
we developed a weird problem.
We would no longer be able to pay our scientists
and use the fact that people could contribute the labor of their youth
into a system where they would then become professors
to train other professors.
If each professor trained perhaps 20 graduate students
to become professors, you can tell that after a very short period of time,
you've got a pyramid scheme that can't keep expanding
as we did in the post-war system where we educated
sub-10% of our population at a post-secondary level
to around 1970 or so when we were educating
around 50% of our population at a post-secondary level.
So when the music stopped, the system started to decay.
You had an extremely valuable system, I've said before,
that theoretical physics largely constructed our modern economy.
It invented the World Wide Web.
It invented the semiconductor.
It gave us nuclear power, nuclear weapons,
our communications technology and the electromagnetic spectrum.
So many of the things that we take for granted,
including molecular biology, came out of theoretical physics.
And so what I have likened this to is that the United States
had something like a Ferrari convertible
and it left the top down so that it started getting filled up with rain
and it started sprawling steel-me in Mandarin,
Farsi, Russian on its front bonnet.
We are not protecting our scientific assets.
In fact, when Jeffrey Epstein came back out of prison,
I think if I recall correctly, I tweeted that Jeffrey Epstein
was somebody who was funding what the American government refused to fund.
And I recall, if I'm not being too self-kind,
that I said welcome back with a period rather than an exclamation point
because I was extremely dismayed that we are fundamentally leaving this open.
We left a niche for such a person to start exploiting us.
If Jeffrey Epstein was able to find this niche,
then I believe that other nations will be able to find it as well.
So what happened inside of the scientific enterprise
is that many scientists had some memory from inside of the system
when professors would in fact have potentially second homes
or even third homes where they would be paid at a level that was commensurate
with financiers or high-priced lawyers,
that in essence the children of academic families were growing up
with the children of very well-to-do families
because there wasn't such income and asset inequality in the United States.
I believe that the need to pay the scientific community,
particularly the top members of the scientific community,
at a far higher level is not a question of taxpayer dollars.
It's a question of, first of all, being fair to the community that created our economy.
Those are not taxpayer dollars, they are scientific dollars, in my opinion.
We can argue that at some other point.
But it's also a question of national interest.
That is, that it is completely irresponsible for us to pretend that the market
for scientific research talent should be determined by your ability to teach undergraduates.
We should probably decouple the teaching and research enterprises.
We should probably get rid of the majority of our research enterprise
and we should take care of the people who are obeying power laws
at a very high level for the national interest.
It's not a question about overpaying them,
it's a question of we are leaving a valuable asset unguarded.
I believe that Jeffrey Epstein was attempting, in part, to gain control of that asset.
That's why people like George Church or Robert Trivers or Stephen Hawking
or anyone of a number of people like Lisa Randall were found on Jeffrey Epstein's island.
By the way, I think it's very important to stop using the fun phrases,
pedophile island and Lolita Express,
when you have people who almost certainly are not part of any kind of orgiastic culture
like Lisa Randall or Betsy Devine.
It's ridiculous.
In part, what we're doing is we're turning a salacious story
into a very dangerous national emergency,
if in fact Jeffrey Epstein was up to something very different
than the mainstream story would have you believe.
So why is it that I am so disturbed by this and coming forward in this way?
Well, there are a number of reasons,
but one of the reasons is that I came to think about the following issue
which I find potentially dispositive.
I've started asking people who knew Jeffrey Epstein,
did the character you met, whoever that person was, impress you as being capable,
characterologically, of taking his own life out of desperation
when he still clearly had many cards to play.
He almost certainly had many secrets involving very powerful people.
The man I met was so confident and so contemptuous of normal morality
that I don't believe he was even bothered particularly by the reputation
of being a pedophile from his previous stay as a guest of the state of Florida.
