Hello, this is Eric with a few notes on today's release.
This was recorded over half a year ago, and I've sat on it because I didn't want to
release it.
I had hoped that the story it discusses would have been followed up by others as I never
wanted to be entangled with it.
Instead, that story has barely moved.
For some reason, there is no one capable within the world of institutional media or government
of moving this enormous story forward despite worldwide interest.
I have elsewhere named that unseen force the disk or distributed idea suppression complex.
What I see when watching this video of the episode in question is a frightened 53-year-old
man in an unscripted and perhaps occasionally rambling hour of discussion of Jeffrey Epstein.
He doesn't exactly know how to say what he has got to get across, but perhaps that is
because he isn't simply a middle-aged man at all.
When I look closer, I see a terrified 10 or 11-year-old boy who many years ago was sent
to a therapist.
Why was that child so terrified of going to see a therapist you may ask?
Well, because of inappropriate events set in motion by the therapist's behavior at
the first of their two meetings.
That however was not what caused the lasting terror.
Despite the therapist being a trained and established authority figure and the boy
being a minor, it was possible for the boy to simply and firmly say, no, I do not want
that, you must stop.
Thus the boy is not a survivor, he was not a victim, and he did not want a random broken
person to be integrated into his life story.
Today, the man in that chair addressing the camera is simply the man that became of an
unlucky boy who was sent to see a professionally licensed therapist who crossed his path.
What was terrifying instead was that when I explained that I did not ever wish to go
back to that cursed office, I was forced against my will, and with a good amount of screaming
and terror I might add, to go again for a second meeting.
At that second meeting, I was intimidated by the failed and inappropriate therapist
who was obviously himself terrified.
Being forced back into such a dark office alone as a boy to be berated, threatened, and shamed
by an out of control representative of the world of institutional authority, alerted
me to just how badly outgunned the individual is when confronted by the terrifying reality
of institutional actors attempting to silence a lone voice.
Why would no one listen to the boy when he told them what had happened?
Why wouldn't anyone adult, powerful, and credentialed speak up for that child and his
right to be free of the supposed therapy and therapist?
Could no one see the terror in the child's eyes?
Why simply because two sessions had been booked did he need to continue with this random
therapist who was clearly a damaged soul and one who needed real therapy much more than
the boy?
This episode is ultimately about the world of institutions, the institutions of journalism
that will regularly destroy individuals by reputation, but who will generally not ask
comparable questions of other institutions, the institutions of the intelligence world
which owe us information as to what is known about Jeffrey Epstein, Ghislaine Maxwell, and
their operation, the institutions of government that will not hold hearings into out of control
intelligence activities as we did in the 1970s, and the institutions of technology which
track our every move and know all our secrets yet cannot locate a single individual like
Jeffrey Epstein's accomplice who completely and probably seems to have vanished from the
face of the earth as of March 2020.
But just as this episode is about institutions, it is also about individuals and the various
ways that they are made vulnerable to institutional objectives.
Because every individual may be destroyed at will by the same complex of institutions
that are themselves deciding not to act with vigor in policing each other, we are all at
risk when we deviate from their scripts and expect structural change.
Thus, the act of pointing out the absurdity of the story is in fact terrifying, which
gets to the questions raised by the young boy in our story.
Why will no one listen to me when I say I do not ever wish to encounter the monster or
the official class he represents ever again?
Why must I go back to the same institutions that harm me?
Why does a child's evident terror mean nothing to any adult nor any institution at all?
Why can we not talk openly about the risks to the individuals from the expert and authority
classes when we have a conflict between them?
As it happens, analogues of all of those personal questions are now being asked in hushed tones
about Jeffrey Epstein and the bizarre institutional response to his story.
Why are we not expending resources to figure out what giant structure we apparently just
tripped over?
Are we really going to sit here and not ask whether this was a protected or state-sponsored
pedophile running some kind of intelligence operation to control people in positions
of power, wealth, and influence?
Are we okay with the idea that we aren't even asking on-the-record questions about whether
our intelligence community is traffic and underage minors, some as young as 12 years
of age?
Well, I have an answer for that boy.
One day you will become a man and you will fear loss in the battle between the flawed
and vulnerable individual that all adults eventually become.
In the amoral institutional world who continues to hold most of the best cards.
You will learn the story of Gene Sieberg and that alone will change your life.
You will not know to whom you can turn.
You will come to believe that there is no news media, nor justice system, nor social
movement, nor representative government that truly cares about protecting minors in real
terms when institutional power, money, secrecy, and sex are all woven together.
You will become part of the problem by remaining silent for a while to cope with your fears.
That is, unless you are able to overcome them to clear your throat and finally say,
you know what, I refuse to continue to be part of this charade in this way anymore.
I have always felt Jeffrey Epstein was a construct and I now fear that he was a state-sponsored
pedophile protected by governments.
And I have kept quiet too long, partially out of fear that the trail could lead to either
or both of the two nations I love most in this world.
I am not really here for myself and I have been avoiding this.
And perhaps at least directly, I am not even mostly here for the victims of Jeffrey Epstein
and his organization.
I am at last really here selfishly for a young boy long gone, who I abandoned, to prove
to him that was actually possible at personal risk to stand up for children and against
the system.
These young girls are no less deserving, of course, but I don't know any of them personally,
so I will stick to the issue that animates me, the individual standing against the institutions
who would crush him or her.
So to that long dead and previously abandoned former self, let me just say this, sorry I
am a little late kid, I became afraid that the imperfections of what I am about to say
next could derange my adult life and make me vulnerable to those who will destroy anything
and anyone who threatens them using everything at their disposal.
I apologize for my cowardice, it is one of many character flaws that I am working to correct,
but you as a boy did nothing wrong and it will be a pleasure to stand up for you come
with me.
You are a solid kid who didn't deserve this and I think you deserve a better champion,
but Jesus wasn't available, so you got me instead.
Let's do this thing.
I know this is crazy, but I think that there's even a remote chance we can take these guys.
We can at least try and go down swinging.
Let's just release it flaws and all and hope that the world is more kind than its failing
institutions.
With that said, stay tuned, please be a little bit forgiving and enjoy the episode.
Hello, you found the portal.
I think this is going to be a little bit of an unusual episode because it's going to
deal with a current event and I try to make most of these episodes somewhat more timeless
so that they're not referenced to something in specific that is going to age.
But the event that I'm talking about is the very mysterious circumstances that are currently
animating so many people's speculations in the news.
That is the apparent death of Jeffrey Epstein by his own hand.
Now I want to say, first of all, that I have absolutely no special inside knowledge of
the situation.
I know people who knew him and I met him once, but it's not like I have any particular line
on information from any particularly interesting source about the situation.
Furthermore, I don't think that I'm going to be using any special kind of analysis that
is known only to me, but I did want to talk to people about responsible conspiracy theorizing.
That is, in the minds of many people believe that conspiracy theorists are people like
Alex Jones, people who are spouting all sorts of crazy ideas, some of which might have some
grain of truth in them, but in general, it feels like an exercise in talking to the tinfoil
hat crowd.
Now, I don't know much about Alex Jones, perhaps he's better than I think he is, but
what I want to talk about is a different kind of conspiracy theorizing.
So without further ado, welcome to this episode of The Portal on the subject of Jeffrey Epstein.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to be relatively clear that I'm somebody who
believes that there is a fair amount of organization behind the scenes, usually of a relatively
low level of organization that is unknown to the people who are watching TV or listening
to, let's say, NPR on the radio.
And at various times, I've dug more deeply into various stories, and so I want you to
have some idea of my history in the space.
In the 1980s and 1990s, I became very active in believing that the so-called STEM shortage
of scientists and engineers that was claimed by the Policy Research and Analysis Division
of the National Science Foundation was, in fact, a conspiracy in order to make life easier
for employers who would be facing American scientists with an ability to bargain and
make higher wage demands, and that the National Academy of Sciences and National Science Foundation
interceded on the behalf of employers, which was tampering in the labor market in an absolutely
vital sector, resulting in the Immigration Act of 1990 or Immact 90, as it was called.
At that point, I also became aware of what I have termed the Bohas Rectangle Theory.
That is that employers generally in free market economies, when they're complaining about
labor shortages, are actually trying to transfer wealth from labor to capital, complaining
instead that there is a small inefficiency that needs to be rectified, which we might
call the Harberger Triangle.
So that is, employers claim that there's a small inefficiency, but in fact, they're seeking
large transfer payments from the vulnerable to the well-heeled.
I also believe that NAFTA, the Free Trade Agreement from the 1990s, was a kind of conspiracy
supported by the economics establishment of the United States, that they knew that in
fact, economics was not, sorry, trade, free trade, was not a freebie.
It was not in fact, a rising tide that lifted all boats, but was in fact, again, a transfer,
which was claimed to be a pure good for everyone.
This is the difference between something called the Caldor Hicks Objective Function and the
Pareto Objective Function.
I also believe that string theory was largely a desperation measure in physics that was
sold to the world to buy time when in fact, the field of theoretical physics was failing.
I also claimed that the Boschian Commission, formed by Packwood and Moynihan in the mid-1990s,
was a kind of conspiracy to transfer actually a trillion dollars by using the fact that
social security payments are indexed to inflation, as well as tax brackets being indexed to inflation,
so that if you could show that the CPI was overstated and you could reduce the CPI, you
could transfer millions without having to touch the so-called third rail of American politics.
This brings us to the two trading fortunes in New York City that during the first decade
of the new millennium made no sense to me.
Those were Bernie Madoff, then referred to as the Jewish T-Bill, and Jeffrey Epstein.
In the case of Madoff, I made a wrong guess.
I believe that Bernie Madoff was front running a traditional business that he held using actual
orders that he knew were being placed, and in his hedge fund was effectively cheating
based on the inside information he had from a legitimate business in an illegitimate business.
I goofed, and it was wrong.
In fact, he was operating a pyramid scheme.
It didn't occur to me.
In the case of Jeffrey Epstein, we'll get to that shortly, but it made no sense when I actually
looked into the story.
Let me keep going.
I also became aware of what I called the gated institutional narrative.
In effect, a storyline or narrative that many institutions claim to believe, but would
easily be disrupted if outsiders were allowed to comment on it and a way of walling it off
so that these narratives could in fact govern the American mindset and get us talking about
things that we would never normally choose to talk about in terms that seemed completely
unnatural to me.
This is also the origin of the Four Quadrant Theory, which I've pushed out, which is a
way of intimidating people away from holding positions that are not supposed to be habitable.
For example, if you're a xenophilic restrictionist on immigration, supposedly this isn't a position.
The most famous example of the theory is Kathy Newman questioning Jordan Peterson saying,
so what you're really saying is, and this is an implied threat, which is that if you try
to express something subtle, you will be mapped to expressing something that is beyond the pale.
In addition, in the early 2000s, I came out talking against the great moderation and
mortgage-backed securities.
I think I submitted in 2001 to Risk Magazine my first article on mortgage-backed securities,
and I kept talking about the fact that we had not actually banished volatility from the markets.
This is a period of time where I was going around the hedge fund conference with Nasim Taleb
talking about the fact that even though volatility was decreasing, that this was not a permanent state of affairs.
Furthermore, I objected to non-recourse loans in the wake of the great financial crisis,
