They were an attempt to investigate our own intelligence community
in order to understand what the U.S. had become in an era that was rife with dirty tricks campaigns,
often against our own citizens and often against people who had done nothing wrong
other than exercising their constitutional rights to dissent from official narrative
and in general mainstream perspectives.
It is extremely important to me that the United States remain a place that is not only
not hostile to heterodox thinking but leads the world in heterodox thinking.
This is our comparative advantage against places like China and Russia
which use fear to intimidate their people.
If we cannot have heterodox thinkers operating with a feeling of safety in our own country,
I believe that we are lost because I don't think we are going to be able to compete with powers
that are able to organize people and use violence to coerce people
into doing things that our people would find absolutely unpalatable.
Further, if you're running a kind of conspiracy and I'm not against conspiracies
and I'm not against the intelligence community,
but it's important that the conspiracies be ethical, that they be public-minded
and that they be of a very high caliber.
You shouldn't be able to trip over a conspiracy doing nothing wrong
and find yourself in a world of pain.
What I'm going to say about Jeffrey Epstein is that if the official story isn't true
and that in fact he was an intelligence community construct, either U.S. or foreign,
then he was a very poor intelligence construct.
It was easy to trip over Jeffrey Epstein.
He was not well constructed and I'll get into what I think may have been going on shortly.
But the key point is I had someone potentially reach out to me and intimidate me a bit.
I don't know if it was directed, but they seemed to know a great deal about me
and they were trying to, I thought, dissuade me from talking about this and investigating this.
My feeling about this is if I'm tripping over your construct, then you goofed.
It's not my problem.
You drew up this person, whoever you may be, if I'm correct about this,
and you made a mistake and I'm going to say what that mistake is,
but it shouldn't be my job to get out of your way.
It should be your job to make sure that I never run across your problem.
So I believe that Jeffrey Epstein, if he was an intelligence construct, was extremely badly drawn.
All right.
Here's what went into my meeting of Jeffrey Epstein.
My recollection is that Jeffrey Epstein had a staff of young adult women
who I would guess were in their late 20s, perhaps early 30s.
They seemed very professional.
They seemed very attractive and that they seemed to take his schedule
and all of the sort of incidental executive function duties off of his hands.
Principally, I dealt with them according to my recollection and not with Jeffrey directly.
I believe I became aware that Jeffrey wanted to see me
and since I was at that time involved in a small hedge fund,
I went to see him on 71st Street across from the Frick Museum.
When I got to the door, it was an extraordinary experience.
He, in fact, was living in what was for Manhattan,
which is famous for relatively small dwellings, even for the very rich,
in a very large townhouse.
I went through the door.
I was greeted, treated professionally, and I was led to a waiting room.
In that waiting room, which I believe was off to the left as you entered,
I sat in the chair for a while and I noticed that there was a large mechanical piece of art
and I believe that it had some electronics to it.
After a while of sitting in my chair,
my recollection is that I went up to this art object and I started trying to inspect it.
As I was looking at the art object, which I thought was quite innocent,
I suddenly thought that I saw something like a lipstick camera.
That is a very small camera whose lens was staring straight at me.
My first thought was, holy cow,
I've discovered that there's a hidden camera that has been trained on me while I've been in this room.
I thought myself to be rather clever for having found it,
but my second thought was exactly the reverse of this.
I bet this isn't that difficult to find.
The object that it was buried in attracts attention
and it must be that people who look at this object invariably find the camera.
Then I started asking myself, am I supposed to find the camera?
Is this a test?
Is this person trying to make sure I'm comfortable with being under surveillance?
The whole thing was now quite queer and I went back and I sat down as I recall it.
Shortly thereafter, almost responsive to finding the camera,
my recollection is that I was called out of this room
and I was led to the back where I was to wait for Jeffrey Epstein
in a very large room with an enormous dining table.
What was most memorable about this dining table
was that it had a tablecloth that I thought to be incredibly inappropriate.
What I recall was that it had the appearance of a draped coffin
because the tablecloth was an extremely large American flag.
If I recall correctly, there was another gentleman,
perhaps another hedge fund person or a science person who sat to my left
and I stared at this tablecloth and I thought,
oh, you're going to serve me food on a tablecloth made out of the flag of my country
or perhaps you're going to give me a beverage that might spill on the American flag?
Is this a test of some kind of my loyalty to my country
or whether I have some sort of morality that isn't burdened
by some petty reverence to an inanimate object?
I couldn't tell what was going on,
but I started getting extremely agitated and in fact angry.
I think my feelings involved an expletive,
which is F the person who decided that this was a good idea
to put an American flag as a tablecloth
to test new people coming to the house.
My recollection is that Jeffrey entered from the right with a young woman.
In my mind, I remember her as being perhaps 22, 23.
She was extremely attractive.
As I recall, Jeffrey sat down and began bouncing this woman on his knee.
So he motioned for her to sit down and she appeared to be quite happy in this role
as Jeffrey asked questions and discussed science theories
I had about markets, how they related to gauge theory, theoretical physics.
I don't remember the man saying much to me who was also in the room at the time
and so all I have a recollection of is the four of us, Jeffrey, the woman on his leg
and the other gentlemen and myself.
My recollection is also that in order to test our willpower and concentration
that Jeffrey would bounce this woman occasionally,
that she would giggle in order to test our resolve
as to whether we could stay focused in the conversation.
I found him to be quite intelligent.
He clearly was no slouch, but I also found that every single interaction with him
resulted in my being backfooted conversationally.
He was constantly trying to throw me off guard
and at some level I was also irritated and angered.
I was trying to keep my cool during this entire interaction
and I thought to myself, I don't know anybody who behaves this way.
I knew several rich people at that point in my life
and I've known many more very wealthy people, perhaps billionaires of 10 and 11 figure fortunes.
The best of my recollection, I've never met a single other person who behaved in such a strange way.
He didn't appear to be really that focused on markets and trading
and he appeared instead to be focused in creating a kind of cartoonish notion
of what a billionaire might be in a very poorly drawn James Bond or Marvel comic movie.
In so doing, I came to start to believe that I was not really talking to somebody
who was a hedge fund manager or a financier,
but that I was instead talking to a very intelligent and extremely charismatic man.
My recollection was that he was magnetically handsome,
perhaps a little off in certain ways.
Certainly he's been compared to Ralph Lauren, which was my thought,
but he was prematurely gray if I recall the image
and he had a kind of charisma that could probably be quantified in an era of facial recognition.
There was something very, very unusual and compelling about him
despite the fact that he was more than a little bit lubricious.
The meeting ended abruptly at some point and I walked out.
I remember feeling that there are very few times in your life
when you feel the hair on the back of your neck rise up.
I don't know whether that's literally what happened,
but it was certainly the sense that I had met something unholy
and I remember calling my wife and I remember talking to her
and I've used the word construct ever since.
Now, in order to do responsible conspiracy theorizing,
there are a couple of techniques that I would like to share that I use.
One is that I would like to distinguish two separate elements
that may in fact be the same thing.
Let's imagine that the character that I met
is in fact the forward-facing construct
and that there was an underlying human being playing that character.
Now, if he was genuine, then as we say in mathematics,
without loss of generality,
we can adapt ourselves to the circumstance
that the actor and the character were one and the same.
So if the actor and the character are one and the same
and that he was in no way a construct of anyone,
then no harm, no foul.
The theory will accommodate that.
But it allows us to have a different possibility
that the character and the actor are two different people.
Another technique that I like to use
is I like to think about a decision tree.
And a decision tree, I don't want to have to say
which branch of the decision tree is true and which branch is false.
Very often when you share a conspiracy theory,
what you find is that people want to know exactly what do you believe.
Well, what do you think happened?
What do you think was really going on?
Well, the answer is I don't know.
But what if you can come up with a theory
that is true no matter which branch of the decision tree you're on
that you have confidence in?
This is where I've been headed.
Lastly, I want to use a technique which is extremely important to me
that I've talked about before
at the behest of Naval Ravakan on Twitter.
So you can find a Twitter thread
that will go under something like the title,
the invisible world is first discovered
in the visible world's failure to close.
Now, what do I mean by that?
What I mean is that sometimes you discover
that something is not right
only because the explanation for everything that can be seen
doesn't add up.
My favorite example of this is beta decay
in something like cobalt-60.
If you measure the momenta of all of the visible particles,
you will notice that it doesn't add up
to a conserved momentum equation.
And this is what allowed Wolfgang Pauli to hypothesize
that there must be something carrying away some momentum
that is electrically neutral and cannot be seen.
And he named it the neutrino, the little neutral one.
Well, something didn't make sense about Jeffrey Epstein.
How could somebody have that much money,
claimed to be a hedge fund manager,
be so clearly focused on his persona
and not look or sound like anybody I had ever met
in trading at that point?
I believe that this person, in some sense,
represented a failure of the visible world's failure to close,
and so I decided that it was with some probability,
not 100% certainly, that this person was in fact a construct.
Now, around, I forget when it was,
2005, some point through 2007,
Jeffrey Epstein becomes entangled with Florida
