and I've talked openly about the false narratives of the inevitability of Hillary Clinton versus
Bernie Madoff, which was a giant mistake, in my opinion, of the New York Times interceding
in an election in a completely inappropriate way.
They doubled down and came up with the impossibility of Donald Trump, which I tried to use,
preference falsification, the theory of Timor Karan, we just had on the program,
in order to say that the likelihood of a Trump victory was far higher than anyone had imagined.
I had also said various things about Brexit, where I thought that the likelihood that that would
actually pass was high.
Afterwards, after the 2016 election, I talked about fake news as an invented concept.
It had been discussed before that, but there was a slew of articles about fake news,
which I still think was a completely inauthentic attempt to put in a placeholder
for some ability to control the internet, in particular the large platforms,
so that a repeat of 2016 could never happen in the year 2020.
In effect, there should be some way of restoring the gated institutional narrative,
which had clearly broken.
I've also been quite vocal on the data and society alternative influencer network theory,
particularly on the Dave Rubin program.
I think that this was a transparent attempt to attempt to control the internet
and the inability of influencers to gain stature if they're outside the gated institutional network.
I also made several tweets around Jeffrey Epstein,
one of them which says that if he is in fact a construct of the intelligence community,
either the US intelligence community or a foreign one,
then clearly he could not be allowed to live.
Many people also made similar predictions,
but that gives you an idea of the kind of thing that I've been talking about.
I in general believe that where we are as a society is that we are expected to believe in narratives
that any person with a monocle of intelligence and a certain awareness of history
cannot possibly be expected to believe with a straight face.
All right, that leads us to the doorstep of what I call responsible conspiracy theorizing.
Now, in order to do responsible conspiracy theorizing,
it's important not to be definite about things we don't know.
And I'm going to try to let you know that I actually don't know what has happened.
In fact, the official story is quite possible from what I know.
It's not impossible that Jeffrey Epstein was a perverted, very rich man
who is dead by his own hand in custody through an unlikely but not impossible set of circumstances.
However, unfortunately for me, I met Jeffrey Epstein in 2004, I think, or perhaps 2003.
And I met him in his home in Manhattan on 71st Street
when he took an interest in talking to me both as a scientist
and as somebody who was interested in foreign exchange trading.
I found that meeting so bizarre and so remarkable that it has stuck with me ever since.
Recently, when the news turned to Jeffrey Epstein, my wife said to me,
you know, Eric, you called this when you met him early on.
And I said, what do you remember?
And she said that you called me immediately afterwards and you said,
I've just met a construct.
And she asked what it was a construct.
And I said, I met somebody who appears to be a hedge fund billionaire
who I don't think is actually, in fact, involved particularly in hedge fund trading.
I felt like what I was meeting was an actor,
an actor who had been hired or constructed to play a part.
Ever since that meeting, I've used one word and one word alone
when talking about Jeffrey Epstein and particularly with people who knew him
who were friends or acquaintances or colleagues of mine.
And by using the word construct repeatedly,
I attempted to make an indelible image that I was very bothered
and was in fact making a prediction that one day it was quite probable,
although not definite and certainly not certain,
that Jeffrey Epstein would be revealed to be something other
than what he had apparently been chronicled as being
and what he had portrayed himself as being.
As a result, I now have a different situation.
Because I was making this prediction early on
and I had no idea what turn of events would bring us to the present.
I was quite vocal about something,
which perhaps today, if I knew how things were going to end up,
I would have said nothing at all.
So I feel, in fact, a little bit more vulnerable having spoken out on this
as if I know something rather than just a person who found himself
in remarkable circumstances and didn't believe what he was being told.
And this is why I'm doing this right now.
In part, I want to disgorge everything that I know
or believe that I know about Jeffrey Epstein
so that it will be very clear to anybody who would attempt to intimidate me
that there is nothing to be gained.
I know nothing proprietary.
I have no special insight information.
And I want to get to how I came to believe that Jeffrey Epstein
was quite likely the construct of an intelligence community,
either ours in the U.S. or somewhere else.
So in order to do responsible conspiracy theorizing,
my first rule is that one should not attempt to allege
a type of conspiracy that has never been encountered before.
Over the years, many conspiracies have been uncovered.
And so we have a menu, if you will,
of proven conspiracies with which we can try to figure out
whether something is in fact possible.
And to give you an idea,
I'm going to list a small number of conspiracies that have been proven
and give you the idea of why these things figure in my imagination.
And I think that what will happen over time
is that you'll see that I'll refer to the same conspiracies over and over again
because they give us an idea of the boundaries of the possible.
First of all, one question.
Is it possible that mainstream media can be weaponized
by the intelligence community
for the purpose of destroying a well-known individual?
That is, as I am recording this,
I am aware that the intelligence community could decide
to tarnish or destroy, or in their words,
cheapen my reputation,
by planting stories in mainstream media.
In this case, I would point people to one of the most important examples we have,
which is the destruction of Jean Seberg,
the leading actress who was originally found by Otto Preminger
to play Joan of Arc,
and also used by Jean-Luc Godard in the film Breathless as the heroine.
Jean Seberg was accused
due to her radical politics active in the Black Panther Party
of cuckolding her husband
and burying the child of a Black Panther
in a news item that was planted by the FBI
with Joyce Haber of the Los Angeles Times later repeated by Newsweek.
The great thing about this is you don't have to believe me,
you can just look it up.
Does the U.S. have the ability to assassinate its own people
who may be trying to do good?
Well, in the case of the person who invented the term
the Rainbow Coalition, this appears to be the case.
It wasn't Jesse Jackson,
it was in fact a man named Fred Hampton,
and my understanding is he was trying to get Black street gangs
to stop warring with each other to form a political coalition
and was assassinated for his attempt to do so
in his bed in Chicago, Illinois.
So this shows that assassinations by our intelligence community
and our particular form of secret police, the FBI,
is also possible.
Can you have a highly coordinated, silent hit
with tremendous complexity going off almost without a hitch?
I believe that the surveillance photos that we have seen in Dubai
indicate that this, in fact, has occurred recently.
I'm not going to say who carried out the hit
because that is not known,
but it is widely believed to be a particular country
that is not hard to guess.
Is it possible to suicide someone?
Normally we think of committing suicide as an individual action,
but do we ever find the intelligence communities attempting
to, in the sense of a transitive verb,
suicide someone by letting them know
that they will turn their life into a living hell
so that committing suicide is the only way out?
In fact, this is what the subject of the FBI's letter
by the hand of Sullivan to Martin Luther King Jr. was
when the attempt was to tell King that he was finished
and that if he didn't commit suicide,
that his legacy and his name would be tarnished.
Would an intelligence community ever contemplate using organized crime,
such as La Cosa Nostra,
in order to carry out an act that it didn't want to do itself?
This is what we found.
The comedian Dick Gregory was considered being subjected to
when we found out that the FBI was thinking
about having La Cosa Nostra be informed
that he had been talking about union activities and labor racketeering.
So, yes, it is quite possible that the intelligence community
would use organized crime.
This is also a proven fact.
Would we ever have the use of orgies and honeypots
together with an elaborately constructed backstory
in which an actor and the character they played were entirely different?
This is, in fact, the story of Ellie Cohn,
perhaps Israel's most famous spy,
discovered in Damascus as if he was an Arab
who had come from Argentina as a playboy
using alcohol and women in order to integrate himself
into the highest echelons of Syrian society,
particularly the intelligence and defense communities.
So, yes, people are constructed to be something other than they are,
and honeypots are very much a possible use in the intelligence world.
Is their intelligence community interest in control of the media?
I would commend that you look at Project Mockingbird.
Is there any attempt to gain control of innocent influencers?
That is, are there any circumstances in which people simply have the crime
of being influential used against them?
In fact, you can look for Section A of the Reserve Index,
people to be rounded up in times of national emergency inside the United States.
This might include professors, labor organizers, professionals, authors,
the independently wealthy.
In other words, there is very much an interest in keeping track of people
who have done nothing wrong, but in times of national emergency,
you might want to make sure that none of these people are capable
of influencing the population.
Lastly, one of the things that we hear most frequently
is that there is no ability to have conspiracies
because any large group of people would not be able to keep a secret.
It's a really silly idea because Cointel Pro,
which was discovered by the Citizens' Committee to investigate the FBI in 1971,
when the word showed up in documents they stole from an office of the FBI in media Pennsylvania.
Then they used the Freedom of Information Act in order to find out what Cointel Pro was,
and it turned out that it was a permanent dirty tricks campaign living inside of the FBI,
and that the deep throat construct inside of the Watergate story of Woodward and Bernstein
was in fact Mark Felt, who I believe was the head of Cointel Pro after J. Edgar Hoover.
So what we're going to be doing is simply exploring how the things that have been proven to be true
might enter into the story of the unfortunate Jeffrey Epstein.
In this circumstance, I want to say what it is that I'm asking for,
and I'm going to be talking about the church and pike commissions
and having them redone in the current era.
If you don't know what the church and pike committees were,
I believe the church committee was in the Senate and the pike committee was in the house.
