I believe that Jeffrey Epstein, in fact, was contemptuous.
He thought it was ridiculous that he would be jailed for such a thing
and he thought that while it's a matter of petty morality for you and me to mull over,
he simply had to make sure that he didn't run afoul of the system again.
All right, assume that I'm correct that he was such a person
who would laugh at the shame that others would bestow upon him.
Then something very interesting happens.
As you go down the various branches of the decision tree,
you find that there has to be another unseen force if this is true.
Is he dead or not dead?
Well, I can put a small weight on the idea that he isn't even dead.
People's deaths have been faked before.
I don't think that that's what happened, but it's possible.
Or he could be dead.
Then he could be dead either by his own hand or the hand of another.
If he is dead by his own hand, it could be an induced suicide,
as we saw Sullivan was trying to induce in Martin Luther King,
or it could be of his own hand.
If it was of his own hand, could it be out of fear, out of shame,
or out of a sense of duty to something more?
If he was, in fact, murdered,
a whole would have had to been punched in the timeline
so that somebody could have gotten to him
or there would have to be a tremendous coincidence
that somehow he was left alone in a jail
which had not had a history of suicides in over a decade,
if I recall correctly.
In any of these branches of the decision tree,
something is at play and something is at work.
Unless you believe that somehow I have it wrong
and that people who knew Jeffrey Epstein would support the idea
that he would take his own life out of fear or shame,
which I find essentially impossible given the character
that he chose to project
or that the actor playing the financier
and whiz kid Jeffrey Epstein chose to project to me.
I've checked this with several people
and in general, everyone had the same impression
that he was completely contemptuous of normal human beings
with their petty moralities.
It is by the ability to work over all branches of the decision tree
that I've gained confidence.
First that I started talking about this ages ago
and anybody who I've discussed Jeffrey Epstein with
will remember me using the word construct
even before he was arrested and jailed
for solicitation prostitution of minors.
So I've been at this for 15 years
not knowing it was going to end like this.
I think many of us have tweeted out
that if he was in fact attached to the intelligence community
that he was going to have to die
because otherwise these secrets would get out.
And am I scared that I'm thinking about releasing this
to the general public?
Yes, but I'm also scared about not releasing this
to the general public.
My belief is that this was a poorly constructed operation
and that when it comes to light
which intelligence community it was,
we are in danger of countries that I care a great deal about
being thought to have constructed a pedophilic honey trap
using compromise to use the Russian word
for that which would be used to control people
in order to gain some sort of a geopolitical strategic advantage.
Now, I am not of the opinion
that Jeffrey Epstein was a savory character
and I'm not saying that he didn't hire prostitutes
or coerce women into orgies or what have you.
But my guess is that at the moment
he was not using that particular kink of his for children
in order to enmesh scientists or other politicians
as the news media sometimes hints at
when it is not suggesting that he's simply dead by his own hand.
In fact, I think it's extremely dangerous to think about this
as being the decision of a country.
Now, I'm not going to lie,
I've thought that the country might be Israel
and as an American Jew who's lived in Israel
I don't think Israel came to this decision
if in fact he is a product of the Israeli intelligence network.
In fact, this would be something that would be top secret.
It would have been decided by a tiny number of individuals
and it is not right to take down a nation
based upon the idea that you can't even do intelligence work
because you can't drive such a ridiculous idea
as Jeffrey Epstein in order to gain compromise
and therefore control over influential people inside of another country.
What I would believe is instead that this is a tiny program
and that these people should come forward
or that we should find them by re-initiating the church and pike commissions.
There is now so much bizarre stuff of this kind
that it is time to revisit the church and pike commissions of the mid-1970s
to find out what our intelligence and other intelligence agencies may have been up to.
We need something to restore our confidence
and when and if we find out that a foreign power
has been operating in the US, perhaps with our consent
or perhaps we are in fact gaining some benefit from an operation
that we could not ourselves do post church and pike.
I think what we would do well to realize
is that this situation is not the responsibility of any country
but the responsibility of people in the intelligence community
who would have gone out of control.
Now, do I know this to be true? Absolutely not.
Am I infallible? Far from it.
I wouldn't have shared with you that I was wrong about Bernie Madoff.
In fact, if all of these conspiracy theories turned out to be exactly true,
some of them still remain to be proven.
But what I've tried to do is to try to talk to you about the idea
that I don't think that the story is being fully explored.
I'm extremely dismayed that over a very brief period of time
we went from suggesting that Jeffrey Epstein was allegedly dead by his own hand
to believing the medical examiner's report as if this was conclusive.
In fact, the charge that he might have been murdered
with an understanding of the powers that be
that controlled the correctional facility in which he was housed
includes the charge that the medical examiner's report would likely have been doctored.
That's not an additional charge.
You wouldn't murder somebody if the report would conclusively show murder
unless you actually knew that you had enough control over the system to control it all.
Furthermore, there has to be a facility that keeps local law enforcement,
local medical officers from stumbling over something of high value.
You couldn't responsibly run the intelligence community,
which has to be able to carry out covert operations,
operations that are disturbing, operations that are effective
without constantly fearing that low-level law enforcement
and low-level medical examiners could blow the whole thing sky high.
Now, whatever the facility is that keeps our high-level intelligence work
safe from low-level enforcement could easily have been operative.
I don't mean to suggest that it was only that it is not reasonable to suggest
that it is crazy to assume that the medical examiner could be induced to file a report
to support an official narrative.
It is time to return to investigative journalism we can trust.
It is time to return to committees of the House and Senate
that have the power to investigate these things,
and it is long past due that the intelligence services be revisited.
If they, in fact, have very little to hide, then this shouldn't really be a big problem.
But at the moment, the American people have lost full confidence
in our ability to get to the bottom of truths as to whether foreign countries
are meddling in our national elections, as to whether foreign countries
are using their ability to send graduate students into the STEM pipeline
to spy on us, as to whether foreign countries are using our tech platforms
in order to help them with their military advantage over the United States.
Now, I really don't want to come back to the Jeffrey Epstein story.
So what I'm saying to you is it's quite possible that Jeffrey Epstein
is simply dead by his own hand, that he was a pervy billionaire
or near-billionaire who had an interest in science
and also an interest in young women that ranged from women
perhaps of age 23 down either to 18, 15, 12, what have you.
Maybe the official story is true.
All I'm trying to suggest is that for some reason,
I picked this one person to tell a 15-year story about
that I believed he was an intelligence construct of probably another country
operating in the center of the United States elite.
And I believe that that is an additional piece of information
because there's no one else that I've been telling the story about.
I've never met another person like this.
This is a completely suey, generous exception to my general understanding of the world.
And I think if I'm correct that there was something very much amiss
that it was obviously amiss, obvious to anybody who wished to see it
just as the world clearly closed their eyes to Jeffrey Epstein's problems
when it was found that he was asking for massages from underage girls in Florida.
Somebody was turning a blind eye towards this story almost certainly
because it was too salacious not to be interesting.
It was kind of a story that would move newspapers, it would sell advertising spots.
It's far too juicy for people to take this little of an interest in.
And I want to say one last thing about this.
Jeffrey Epstein was enmeshed with a guy named John Brockman
who was a guy who in some sense gave me my first break on a larger stage.
It is commonly believed at the moment by certain members of the media
that John Brockman was complicit in the underage behavior,
underage interest that Jeff Epstein showed in young girls.
The one thing I can add is that I met John Brockman and his wife, Katinka Matzin
at Stuart Brand's interval bar sometime in the last, I don't know, one to three years.
And when John and I sat down, I can tell you with certainty that John warned me
that he had had an interaction with Jeffrey that he had found very disturbing
and that John had been forced to walk out of his house
realizing that Jeffrey Epstein had had a problem.
Now John has not come forward and I don't know that there's anybody else in a position to tell this story.
But I can say with some certainty that John was not happy about this
and that if John was in fact tolerant of a Hugh Hefner style person,
the person I met had no reason to say this to me was certainly not okay with Jeffrey Epstein
and was in fact warning me away from him when I had no interest in seeing Jeffrey at that point.
So I do wish to say that I think that the conspiracy theorizing that I'm seeing
is of a lower quality and a lower level.
Of course, I could find out that the entire Edge network is somehow at risk and implicated,
but I can say as somebody on the very periphery, I wrote no books for John,
I didn't go to the billionaires' dinners, I never went to this island, I never flew on the plane,
I met him once and I had a phone call with him afterwards.
I can tell you that I don't personally believe that John Brockman was caught up in this
particularly level that is now being alleged by certain members of the press
who I feel are perhaps not as responsible as they might be.
Anyway, that's more or less what I have to say on the subject
and with this I intend to, to the extent possible, exit the Jeffrey Epstein conspiracy business.
You've been through the portal, thanks for joining us.
Thank you.
