incur some errors relative to others. So, it's not that they necessarily interpreted things wrong,
although they might have, but because their perspective is slightly off from somebody else,
there's necessarily a degree of incommunicability in this sense. So, here self-evidencing really
entails that you create a sort of identity here through the fact that you may have different
preferred states from somebody else based on your values, belief, your social conditioning.
But again, these beliefs and values and social conditioning have been shaped. And again, what
we're talking about, these trove of retractors by other people. And so, we try more and more to
challenge this notion of individualism by emphasizing the relational aspect of identity,
which means that identity is not pre-established, but continuously formed through the interaction
with other agents. And again, if we go back to information geometry, the geometry of the
information space influences how agents perceive their paths towards minimizing free energy and
affect their choices, which again, give you the possibility to understand how agents might be very
strongly pushed by other agents. Let's imagine an agent that has more power than you and is
trying to influence you to do something, someone that has very high charisma or someone who has
the power to say, destroy your life. You are more likely to shape your beliefs to align with
you. And therefore, we can understand individualism under a very, very different light here.
Agal, did you want to add something? Colin is waiting to speak since the moment.
Hi. Can you hear okay? I just wanted to pick on a couple of the things that Mahal was talking about
and just now and in her talk. It seems that you seem to be saying that for social conditioning
and the way in which we are socialized, the importance of social scripts appears to be greater
than the influence of individual upon individual. And that's interesting because it's not something
that we would tend to think as individuals that we are integrating with scripts. In fact,
the whole idea of seeing a script as something which is social was something that I found that
probably most people would find a rather strange idea off the top of their heads. So is that a
fair assessment of what you're trying to say? And the other thing I wanted to ask about was
a few times in talks recently and here today, I've heard people talking about identity and
the active inference view of identity. I'm not sure that I really understand what identity
means within an active inference framework as distinct from just our internal model of who we
are. Is there an other idea that we are thinking of here? And more particularly, the word identity
has a lot of baggage and usage in current contemporary society. Are we using it in a
different way? And if so, how is it different? And potentially, how does that give us insight
and the ability to engage with the ongoing discussions in society in a potentially fruitful way?
So I think I lost you for the last part of your question, which seemed to be about the difference
between our conception of identity and the conception generally used, if that's correct.
You're muted, Colin.
So yeah, I was referring to the concept of identity as used in society.
Right. So I mean, I'm not going to speak to every use of the term identity, because it's a very,
very useful term that's used in law, that's used in physics, it's used in sociology and
psychology. So it's used a lot. All I can do is explain roughly how we consider identity formation.
And then if you have a specific definition in mind for a specific field, we can maybe tackle that
one. Does that sound okay? Yeah, to be clear, I was thinking specifically about identity as
determined by group membership in sociology. Okay. Okay, so I'm going to tackle social scripts.
Yeah. I'm going to tackle social scripts first, and then I'm going to come back to identity because
I think it fits. I've worked on that as well. I know that Daniel and Avril have some work that
relates to this as well. So your first question was on the importance of social scripts and what
it means for cognition, if I understood correctly. So from an internalist perspective,
social scripts are cognitive structures. They guide behaviors. They're acting like
brackets. We use the word constraints a lot. It's not a perfect guide because no semantic
marker is a perfect guide. Everything is up for some degree of interpretation. It's just that
there are some interpretations. They're so strongly linked to some degree of embodiment
that they sort of anchor the rest of our semantics. So for instance, I can't stop breathing. If I
want it to, I can't. I will stop, but eventually my body will restart on its own. And so there's such
kinds of natural laws here that create these bottom layer guidelines that can then be sort of derived
to infer other things, and social scripts are just representational
social extensions of these constraints given a historical context. So they model and
did maldrop or did I drop?
I guess it's given to you. Like somebody will actually tell you what to do and show
it to you. And sometimes they won't be. Sometimes they're just things you observe. Sometimes there's
things you infer because you made a connection between a weak script and another weak script.
So if you see something that resembles a chair in a room, you infer that you have the affordance
to sit on it. So that's a form of script. And then you see other people doing the same in the script
sort of cements. And so now you associate this to another part of a sequence and this becomes
something that allows you to temporalize and basically leverage your B matrix in order to
exist in the world in a way that doesn't cause friction with other people. This also gives you
action triggers. There are things you see in the world that now tell you this is the thing you
should do now. So there's this sort of recursive loop that's very inactive that pulls you in a
direction. So the attractor isn't just a state. It's a path. You're going to go down a path.
So for now, does that answer the first question?
Yes, thanks. That's helpful.
Okay. Go ahead.
Thank you to get back on the like you talked about an active loop. And I think that's a critical
thing to analyze, which is that the engagement with the world is a circular process. It construct
its own conditions. And so there is no measure of power of structure versus power of agents
because the structure is embedded in the agents and the agents are embedded in the structure.
So I'd like to share my screen again to give some detail over what this entails.
Do I, can I? Yes, good window. You should see a PDF with a tiny man, a person, a mountain,
and loops. Is it okay? Is it okay? Yes, I see yes. So this is a presentation I did recently
about the Inification Church, which is like when you want to be published, you say new religious
movement, but you can say cult. It works. Which originated, I think, in Japan and is now spread
between Korea. Japan, it says mostly we don't have numbers, but it seems to be the places where it's
most implanted. And it was very, very, very remarked because of the personality cult around the
Rev. Moon, the founder, and the very overt, exhaustive practices of the cult, like asking you for the
equivalent of 10 years of salary at the time to take your ancestors from hell and put them in
paradise by getting money to Rev. Moon specifically. And they were the topic of a very, I'd say,
aggressive and excessive anti-cults movement in the 70s, 80s. And now they are becoming a bit
noticed again by vice, not only vice, but not only vice, because you have very strange, strange
things like mass, MAGA weddings with people waving rifles. And that is a very, very strange
organization. And at the time, you had a very moral panic, we say now, around the cult. You
had basically a model of influence that was that evil people would brainwash you, and then you
were commanded by the cult and or Soviet secret agents from afar, and they could like say to you,
horse, and this triggered homosidol mania in which you blah, blah, blah. So things that are
unnaturalistic, I will say, and not having reaction to the moral panic, you had the movement
by ideologies of religion that would try to understand how exactly the cult worked. And the
most famous sociologist to do that was Aileen Barker. If I remember well, she was, she warned
the money she was coming, so you can question her methodology. But she seems to have done the most
thorough and well received analysis of them. So it's an important thing. And she questions that
there is such a thing as brainwashing. There is a construction of a specific social context
that you have to comply to if you want to come. But they can force you, they do not have the
capability to torture you and make you into a RC radio commanding thing. That does not work.
And so I forgot the name of the, so David from Taylor explains the influence of the church in
terms of choreography of total participation. So basically you have a very huge, very emotionally
investing ritual that you just have to take part in to be a member of the community. And if you
are a member of the community, you will be helped, you will be loved, you will be supported, you will
be constantly encouraged in a slightly coercive way to invest more of your time and money in
whatever organization. And if you don't, then all the support just leaves because you know,
you're a traitor. You have done a treason of the true parents who were kindly out of this
own arse trying to save you like Jesus did, but better because Jesus failed by not having children.
That is very dramatic thing to say. And that is what they say. And because of the way the
organization is set up, there is, you cannot possibly question that. Your questioning is not
accepted. There is no private time in which you can privately question yourself. You are always
engaged with people who are either formally or informally, depending on your seniority,
watching you. And so you're basically a context that makes it very, very, very easy to align
with the cult values. And it just happens that those values, they, they entail self-sacrifice
for the organization, but also for new members and total deference to the cult and its leadership
and anything they tell you to do. So you, you know, it's not kidnapping, but it's also not
exactly free consent to a specific context. And from a purely, I don't know how to say,
mechanical perspective, they can, they can make you agree when you are there,
but they cannot make you go there. So a question is how precisely they can, you know,
elicit compliance away from the direct context of the choreography of participation. And there is
a, like, simple answer in my sense, which is that we have, we have a coherent sense of identity. We
can't, we can wholly think of ourselves as a good money, one minute, and then step out of the meeting
and not think of ourselves as a good money that doesn't make sense either we are or we are not.
At least most people tend to have one integrated sense of themselves as someone who is embedded
in a specific social context and has specific norms and bears in such, such way. And so the,
the coherence of self identity, it provides a key coupling between your public and your private
beliefs, what you are expected to do in social context and what you will effectively do and
perceive the world as privately. And this, I would say, an example of the moonies, but in other
historical examples, like the emergence of nationalism, it is a very straightforward
confirmation that, indeed, coherence of self identity, like the coherence between what you do
and what you think of yourself as doing, is a very important process in the, in the structure of
societies. Generally speaking, at least contemporary studies, maybe it was not the same before,
and so I do not think, like, the context in which it's mobilized, of course, it changes,
but the mechanism, I don't think it's new. And I'd like to get back on Alexis' point that,
sorry, A's point, that's the approach we have is individualistic. I do not think it is the case,
because if we are correct, there is a landscape of social cultural affordances, constraints,
things well out there, and we engage with it. And there are mechanisms that makes this landscape
not necessarily identical, but very coherent between individuals. And those mechanisms are
language, and the material symbolism, developing ritual, which is also symbolism, also meaningful,
but maybe less than language, I don't know. I just mean that the mechanism is the same. And the
inter-culturelly robust practice of role-taking and sharing functionalities of trying to do stuff
together, given a specific model of the attribution of tasks within the shared goal. And so these are
human invariance, and all would be pretty good candidate to force the integration of a common
model of material and cultural niche. And so I think that there is a pretty coherent social
material niche, and I think that we can, we all engage with it, and we all modify it, and we maybe
do not perceive it as the same, but there is still a strong enough constraints
on the coherence of this landscape between individuals for it to make sense as a specific
entity. And then the proper respiratory scale of what we do is not the individual minds. It is
landscape that we happen to experience because of our individual minds. So by the
plateau academia of Stanford on the Holism, basically Holism is a theory where you agree that
there are explanations that are not mediated by individual states. And I say there are
explanations that are not mediated by individual states. And not only that, but I can point to
organizations that control people while being absolutely not worried by individual states,
only creating a certain context and then allowing them to engage with it. And that
would be compelling, in my opinion, to say that the model we have is maybe not Holist,
maybe a secret third thing that is multi-scale, but certainly not individualist, at least in
the sense that you are mobilizing. So thank you. I talked more than I wanted. So Mao,
you were raising your hands. I am, but I think Lorena wants to go. I will go after Lorena.
Hey, guys. Yeah, I think that goes like directly into the idea that coming a little back, coming
back a little bit to the point that identity that we were talking before. And if you think about
the model that we have, we have external, the external states and different agents, they are
always actually very local when situated in the same local environment. So your external agent
is going to be part, the other agents are going to be part of your external states,
and you are part of theirs. So the idea of laying down a path and creating a specific type of dynamic
that reacts to the same type of input that you are receiving and driving these dynamics
will generate this sort of embeddedness, because you do have the same,
or no, it's not necessarily the same, but they are very, very close to each other,
they are very approximate. So the idea of dynamic here, if you think about
describing that in terms of a laplace and like in terms of the dynamics, you do have very different
like Lorena's butterflies, for instance, each one goes through the same type of route. However,
they are not identical, but they are very similar. They are doing something very similar.
And that similarity sort of constraints, again, the construction of that environment.
So if you think about symbols and roles and types of environment that you find,
they're going to be as concrete as something else that you find in your environment,
constraining and pushing you towards the same direction, or at least a very similar,
you can describe dynamically in a very similar type of geometry, if you like,
or a very similar, or with a tractor, we will drive the very similar type of path.
We'll describe the similar type of path. So which goes exactly to the,
Avail, can you go back to that other,
yeah, the other figure that you have, the one with the environment as well,
made by, yeah, that one. So exactly that creates like a dynamic that they can be then forgotten,
like in a way that will be described through a specific microflank that will develop
agents together. We'll push them, constraining, they're going to be constrained together and
they're going to have a constructive kind of role in this very embedded normativity.
But yeah, you go all.
Thanks. Yeah, so I think there's a nice way to tie all this as well to the internal nature that we
seem to be dispelling, but we're not. We have to talk about specifically in what ways
internality is cast here. And I like to think of that the effect of self esteem here.
Self esteem to me is the degree of fitness relative to your perception of how well you're
managing to exist within these constraints and interpret them in a way that gets other people
to validate and minimize the friction you're getting from other people. So
it aligns with the concept of sociometer theory. It taps into this notion of cultness.
So if you consider that there's effective states that enable an individual to track and respond
to discrepancies between self perception and social expectation through these effective states,
such as anxiety or positive affect, we can see that there's a dynamic nature and self
organization of self esteem, which is continually shaped and reshaped by experiences and interactions.
And so under active inference, we can formalize this by saying that a model that is more precise
effectively captures the hierarchical structure of the moment to moment variation of more stable
traits such as what we consider to be self esteem. And so basically we can see that identity and
group membership here are fundamentally related to the effective experience of
being fit for the group membership. And so once you're there, you can grow in social cohesion
