feel free to give in your marks and then we'll pass around the instructors.
It can be as long or as short as you like. Okay, May I go first? So I would like to say that
the key issue we are trying to grasp is that effective inference has social and political
implications due to its scale-free structure and how we can apply it to the social world.
Then there is the self-referential question that happens, which is what is the
structure of active inference as a social construction itself and a political construction
itself? And what is our own political power and social power in this social and political world?
And this is the fact-alike thing that is going on, because afterwards, what is my own social
and political implication in this thing? And the more you get your own agency and the agency of
active inference, the more it becomes like a lot to process. And the more you grasp your own
identity and the power you have and the responsibility you have. So I guess this is
one of the key points we are trying to get here. I guess that's the point I wanted to make.
And to finish with that, the game we are trying to play is to try to find our own blind spots
in this game. Like, what is the limit of the model and does it have a self-referential limit or not?
Yeah, I would endorse that. I feel the same way. I found that in my reading just in the last year
or so of active inference ideas, I found it very empowering. The ideas of active inference in
relation to the individual mind are quite well developed. And it's very empowering to be able
to look at yourself through the active inference paradigm and understand the thought processes
that is you. It's a very empowering thing. And as I was saying, just recently starting to look
at the idea that we can incorporate an active inference concept of the way the social world
around us is structured, which is part of that paradigm too. I think is potentially more empowering
but it's early days yet. But I look forward very much to a more developed world where people have
discussions with each other, not just about what I'm thinking and how I think, but how I think about
society and how we think about society together. And it's embedded within that paradigm. I feel
that's potentially something which is very empowering. And I look forward to it. And I
thank the speakers all for their contributions to this series of talks.
Thank you, Colin. So with the exception of Ben, whose lecture and contribution
kicked off this course, and we're excellent also, we have the others of the instructors here. So
how do each of you want to kind of conclude this chapter?
Yeah, Mao, then Lorena Ravel. Yes, I think
that's a good question.
Of entities which are the capability of interacting to maximize
the information they gather from the environment such that as a whole they can self evidence
to maintain the phenotypes they believe to be similar to their own and therefore themselves.
And how this leads to, over time, the sedimentation of norms and activities and eventually the
reference to these norms and activities through the semantics and the scripts and effectively how
this leads us to all the complexities of language and how we may now be at the point
where we have a simulacra that represents nothing. We just have these shells of representations
and these shells of semantics which potentially have lost their anchoring in reality.
So I think that was the through line of the course. I hope we made a good case for it and
how Active Inference allows us to model this entire path not only across scale but across time as well.
So yeah, that's how I think I'm going to close.
Yeah, I think this is me now. Yeah, I really like the story as well that we are building throughout
the whole course starting with a very general idea of what is Active Inference with Ben
and then trying to like build up this collective notion of how we contain information in a certain
way that it's always synchronized. So this is always sort of meaningful that can be described in
certain ways by the mathematics of Active Inference. And then understanding these questions,
the hard questions that are asking now like how we can bring new variables, how can bring
novelty into the system, which is something that we don't have an answer yet. But I find
that it's really cool that we don't like hold back in asking that because that I think that's
the next step for Active Inference, like understanding this, how complexification comes
about, how can we describe that process. And yeah, and thanks Savel and Daniel for putting
this together. It was pretty cool. And I hope you guys also have enjoyed it.
Thank you, Lorena. Athel?
So, thank you, Lorena. You are welcome. I think I put his finger on something quite deep,
as usual, which is that if we want to have a coherent theory of nature that is not based on
just here are the things that can be, and we will draw data mix on that, that is compatible
with operative evolution, we need to address self-affirmationality. We need to address,
like, what comes to reality, but recursion and the possibility for recursive individuation of
physical beings. And that's tough. And that's very tough because the basis of presentation is just a
list array of things I want to represent and I represent that. But if things can just happen
that are new and that are by definition not in the field of possibilities that pre-existed then,
we are fucked. There is no way we can represent that. And there is a
family of approach in quantum information theory that tries to tackle that, how to draw physics
without being rolling in a specific set space. And just I'd like to explain the story of that.
So, the math, it draws from algebraic topology. So, we study surfaces, but not by studying
surfaces, by studying transformation within those surfaces. But then we remove those surfaces and
we keep only the transformation over what I don't know. But somehow we can, I guess, reconstruct
coherent mathematical entity from that. And I'd like us to take a look at
how this look, what the math look like. So, can we see the screen? Okay. So, this is the structure
of the quantum information formulation of the FEP. These are dimensions of interaction between
system A and system B. What defines the scope and the model of this interaction, I don't know.
And this is a con-cocon diagram that represents an agent together with the representation that
develops. And I could tell you the words that correspond to a thing within this diagram,
but I do not know what they mean. So, it would be a hard thing to do. And the math that is capable
to tackle the self-facility, like maybe because I do not see any proof that it actually does, in fact.
It's not tractable for humans. And I exclude mathematical physicists from humans there
because of the sheer abstractness of what is going on. And because of the lack of any abuse
reference from anything we understand in this. And the work that we have to do if we want these
to move forward and to have a self-coherent theory of social evolution is to somehow entangle from
that concrete meaning, things that apply to the world, and conversely use the way that we
can think of it as concrete interaction in the world to further specify the mathematics and
prove that it is actually self-coherent and applies to stuff. And this is a big work, in
fact. And this is kind of exciting, I guess. What I wanted to say is active inference is
dead, long live active inference.
Wait, well, it was a fun course. And this closing section and slide kind of brought this unity
between Chris Fields' quantum work and this social science, which in the disciplinary paradigm
are seen as distant or with different systems of interest. And you can't get there from here.
But in a scale-free first principles paradigm, it's not even just that we can hold them side
by side. It's that they are more than juxtaposed. So it's been awesome and its own great experience
to work with all of the instructors who shared their amazing and youthful and energetic perspectives.
And we explore new format in a new way. We're going to process the proceedings of
the lectures and the discussions, plus any final submitted question and answers
through the syllabus website. Bring that together into a open access publication of some kind.
So for people who are interested in that kind of editorial or curatorial work,
the active inference journal is for them. And then in 2024 and beyond, let's see where
active inference is, see where social sciences are, and hopefully as people are interested in
taking it from there, we throw in many fun ideas, but I guess we'll leave it
until then to find out.
All right. Thank you, everybody. Bye.
