and this will lead you to potentially try to maintain the group. It will lead you to try to
justify the beliefs of the group such that you have a form of confirmation bias, but also you
maintain the epistemic reality of this group, the symbolic reality of this group, which would be
more costly to destroy than to actually support. It's also integrated into your self esteem,
therefore destroying the group would mean admitting that you are potentially not fit
for the environment, that you are potentially some degree of wrong. And so this leads us to the
possibility that if someone has low self esteem, what do they do? They can either stay in this group
and accept that they are unfit for the group. And they would try to remove themselves to some
extent from the group to avoid all that friction, or they can try to join a different group, one which
will support your beliefs about the world if your beliefs are too far from where the group you're
supposed to belong to currently is. And this is where we get to these subclusters forming these
little subgroups that potentially can even come sometimes violent and sometimes really not,
sometimes it's just some tumbler group. But it has power because it gives the individual this
feeling, this valence of now being fit to a group that supports their model.
So I wanted to give a space to talk.
Yes, thank you. So I would like to go back a bit on what I said about individualism.
So yeah, I agree that I was wrong about associating active inference with individualism because
what is interesting here is that there is an individuality through active inference,
which emerged from the collective. And you can justify or describe individual actions or else
through the landscape as you did just now and then go the other way around.
So here we seem to grasp the interaction between the individual and the group and vice versa,
which is what I found interesting here. And okay, more over, there is what the individual
adds to a group. I see that here it seems to be captured as we take the individual as a
how to say that a unique perspective. This is what you said before now that
each person is a perspective, a unique one. And yeah, it's not all what I wanted to say,
yeah, Lauren, you talked about the beliefs that exist. And I think this is one interesting
thing also in active inference is that we take belief as a material thing that influences us
and that we can also influence or create in a way. Even yeah, independently of if it's right,
wrong or whatever we judge it is, like what we talked about with the moon sect
and the unification church. So there are people with crowns and we say that they are the big
boss and we have to deal with it or to go away from the landscape. And yeah, it was like that in
the social world, indifferently of if the person is really the chief of the cults or not because
they said they were and people were just following them. So in the end, it happened to create a
landscape in which one person is the person who has power. So yeah, I don't know what to say more
about all of this. I guess I agree with what you said just before. So yeah, that's it.
So maybe we should move to like challenges and opportunities of active inference.
So
two points. I think, like I just put them out there, you can react. I think that one active
inference may give us computational models or even like thorough running the conceptual models
of social organization, specifically the like semantic dimension to social life.
And I also think that in its current formulation within the medical system theory,
it is inept to represent the evolution because the system entail the formulation of
set of states that do not change through time. And the chemical flow that does not either
change through time. So there are opportunities to apply the model to
the framework to ground the meaningful, semantically complete models of social evolution.
But this model, if they come from evolution, they will not really vibe well with the math
that we invoke to say our computational model are meaningful. And that's like rise and error
of questions, I guess. So does anyone want to react to these two statements?
Could I make a comment? More specifically, I'm interested in the ways in which
the ideas of active inference impact on the way we think about society and the way society works.
And I can see from my reading and from listening to the discussion that there's a very rich
new lexicon and vocabulary set of concepts for the thinking within active inference thought.
And as we just commented, it's quite heavily mathematical. So the barrier to entry for full
active inference worldview is for time, these ideas will permeate out into the mainstream
and they will change the way people think and talk about society. I'm interested in the ways
people who've studied a bit more than I have see potentially how this will change the way
society works or the way that we have discussions or envisage society more widely than just an
academic discussion, obviously. Maybe the question's a bit too big.
I think everyone is just waiting for the other to talk first. Mao, talk first.
So I think I want to tackle a little bit what you said about the open-ended nature,
the open-ended evolution of state spaces, basically. I think under the path formulation,
this open-endedness is actually just a perceived open-endedness. It's just a function of
the timescale being considered and the motion along that timescale.
I think we can go a little bit more into depth about this.
I think it's a very large topic. Effectively, if we go into quantum formulations, there's
some degree of irreducibility and anything above that is historically contingent. So
obviously some things will, some marker blankets will dissolve and reform and dissolve and
reform and through this dissolution and reformation, you get a new potential for mapping
of observation to states. So there's always that possibility. But I think some challenges
for active inference that are coming is, for instance, the complexity of social behavior.
We can extend active inference to capture the nuances of social interactions,
but effectively active inference is about abduction. So it's the best guess for now.
And it requires for us to put into the models what we think are useful variables,
what we think are the right variables. And it's possible that we're always going to follow
just a little bit short. We're always, we can either throw a bunch of data out of problem and
be like, okay, well, just remove the noise, only pick up the signal and figure out what's
happening, but that's no better than big data deep learning. So we have to figure out a way
to move forward and understand the variables of interest and do this
across scales. So identify the priors that take over at a given moment, but they won't take over,
even if they're higher in the hierarchy at another moment, because in this hierarchy,
you've actually switched states, like you've moved. And this is only predictable
once you've understood the effect of those priors. And you can't just consider that you
have the priors to begin with. So yeah, as far as integration with this existing theories,
I think we have a nice opportunity ahead of us. It's basically what you said. Colin,
I think we're going to be able to more and more through the alignment of certain kinds of language
and the formalism under that language, we're going to be able to pull more and more theories
and find what's at the core of the connection between these theories, active inference is
supposed to be scale free. So it describes or it is possible to help us describe the phenomena
basically from sociology and literature to biology. So if we understand this, we understand
that there's a possible touchpoint, a convergence of all these fields that are tapping into the
same ideas, or into some connecting points that allow us to understand how we maybe do away
with these different fields, remove the silos and come back together with something that feels
more integrative. But then again, we're back to the computational limits, obviously, like if I
want to compute the prediction for an entire country, what is the granularity level at which I
should compute the right variables. And if we understand that individuals are formed by the
group, etc, do I just do a mean field over the entire group, in which case am I losing out on
some of the variables that may actually impact the outcomes? I think these are the key questions
that remain to be answered to some extent. So I agree with what you said now.
I agree that we can't like represent things and not somehow not cut anything, even to the thing.
When we model or we represent, the point of it is to have a more compressed way to engage with
the thing with our knowledge of the thing than the actual thing. So we will just cut information.
That is the point of modeling or representing and maybe in a very simple system such like
such as say perfect gas model in physics, there is information we can cut and lose nothing.
We can cut information about which particle is where because the different particles of the same
atom as at this scale, the same properties. So we don't really care what atom does what.
But in the case of human societies, we have like patterns of engagement and the
like specific information that is accessed by a specific agent is important. And whatever we
choose to cut for a model, it will be relevant at some point. At least it will probably be if
like the information we cut is not specific to a bunch of agents that will die of carcassums or
something. If any kind of information, the type of information we may want to abstract out will
be relevant somewhere at some point. So yeah, we are dealing with complex systems. We are not going
to model everything. But it is a huge deal that actual inference is capable to fill in the semantic
contents from dynamics either from the dynamics of component systems, say neural dynamics and
biological dynamics or dynamics of a certain context with the modeling of actual inference
agent as things that navigate the world and make inference and stuff. And to my knowledge,
we do not have any other theory that makes the bridge between just dynamics and semantics.
We have other neurological, like cognitive neuroscience people who talk about dynamics a
lot and how we can bring back the activity of cognitive systems to dynamics. But usually it is
in a way that insists that we should just look at the dynamics. We do not really need to worry
about the semantics. If we need to worry about the semantics, they somehow reduce to the dynamics.
The dynamics is what exists and is important and what we should worry about. And so another
framework that is relevant to just study the evolution of norms or presentation or mental
content in a certain context, I cannot think of one. One that is thoroughly grounded in
at least that attempts to thoroughly ground itself in mathematical physics. There is the
reason for the one. And so that is a huge deal. But there is a very important problem, which is what
I said and you said and we're grown, which is that the openness in the path integral formulation
in early formulation in the FEP, it is illusory. It is about like it. So maybe to give a bit of
context, the path integral formulation of the FEP is just when you do the FEP, so the bit of math
we make a huge deal about. And we apply it not to like the dynamics of the particle per se,
like how it affects the particle at point T, but how it affects parties of a particle.
For mathematic reasons, reframing a problem in the path integral formulation is a huge deal.
It is what makes the difference between a Newtonian. You push something and it moves
and full-fledged quantum gauge theories that underwrite all of contemporary physics.
So yeah, path integral formulation is a huge deal. But to write it, you still need to write
an analytic space, like to make the list of all things that are possible. And like if you
think that there, this is a correct model of the world and a complete model of the world and this
is everything there is, you have to agree either that cause do not exist or that there is a place
in the primordial wave function that existed before universe did, before time did. There is
a place where conus lies. And I think cause exist and I do not think cause are basic properties
of quantum mechanics. So cause must have happened along the way somehow. And to represent that,
being to represent open-endedness. So we need open-endedness in math and the FEP is not one-ended
and it like structurally it's very hard to account for open-ended evolution. And at a more
prosaic level when we look at engagement with social dynamics, with the social world, we look
at open-endedness because there is always a integration of norms. There is always a loss of
information, but also that is constructive of new norms. There is no like writing happen at some
point. And then we did things differently, change the structure of societies. It's an able
administration to exist as a non-trivial causal power of society that's actually
mattered in civilization. And yeah, so new things happen. And if we want to look at social
engagement, it is critical to look at how new things happen. And currently the FEP doesn't do
that in active inference. I don't think it does that. Maybe it can at a computational level
without a grand formal pretension, maybe, but I did not see it. And that's a big challenge that
we have had of us. And by we, I mean everyone, not just active inference people. Everyone should
tackle that at some point. Daniel, we were in your hand. I'll add just a few notes to Colin's
question. Certainly it's something that we all ask ourselves and many viewers and participants in
the ecosystem ask like, so what, what then, what does it really mean for active inference to be
applied to or by or in the social sciences? So I think that's a big open question, certainly one
that's not only addressable by one perspective or even with words alone. But I think there's a few
key pieces, especially that differentiate it from just the broader or adjacent project of
quantitative social science or formal social science. The question we should seek after is
what does active inference bring in? And again, probably many ways to say it, but we know for
an active inference agent, as a scale free statement, free energy can be bounded by changing
the world or changing the mind. So having continuity of social systems with all other
systems, spatial, temporal, arbitrary material, and so on, gives a continuity and an interoperability
that without a scale free first principles approach is essentially not even on the radar.
So that's one massive piece. And then I think where that begins to bear or modify fruit is
essentially the scientific and professional development of cognitive engineering,
understanding that the cognitive constraints and scaffold scripts, all of these tasks,
implicitly, and then more recently explicitly and most recently, quantitatively and formally
are examples of cognitive engineering. So whether it's a stop sign and what that comes to mean in
different social locations or language as a complex phenomena, these are examples of cognitive
engineering in the same way that building a stack of rocks is both an example of material
engineering and cognitive engineering through semiotics. And now when the scientific process,
the professional process, enters into this reflexive and relational posture through active
inference, that is kind of a saddle point into a different dynamic, I believe. Lorena?
Lorena, then go for it.
Yeah, I'll just make one comment, what you said, like keeping in mind that active inference can
understand beliefs and signs and this kind of semiotics as material and concrete, because
constraints, they constrain the evolution of the system, like how the system complexifies, right?
And the constraints are material, has this material effect on the dynamics, right? You cannot really
believe that, of course, belief is materialized as a table, of course not. But for the system,
in terms of constraining and understanding how things scale up and how they complexify,
they have that kind of role. And that helps to understand a little bit what are the values
bringing about, how you can bring new values and parameters for the dynamics that are being
described by the mathematics of external and internal free energy principle updating, right?
And that is a way of tackling this novelty for this kind of thinking over time. But you don't
have a proper account on how to predict what is going to constrain the system next, right?
Yeah, Mao, go for it. And then we'll all kind of give a closing round slash thoughts.
Okay, well, there was a question in the chat at one point. So I just wanted to potentially
address the question if that's okay. So the question was, so would the generative process
of modeling the social system enclose multiple agents on one market blanket, or I assume inside
or under one market blanket? So we like to think of active inference as nested in hierarchical.
That's one thing that Maxwell Ramstead definitely pioneered, where each agent has its own market
blankets, but there is a higher level market blanket that encloses the social system and like
so individual agents can interact with each other and the environment, but the social system as a
whole also interacts with the broader environment. And this is where semantics and semiotics come
into play. And then the narratives around certain groups start shaping how they can interact with
the other groups, which have a perception of these narratives. So there's in-group and out-group
dynamics. So it's a little bit akin to how cells within an organism have their own boundaries,
but are also part of a larger organism. So yeah, I think that does that answer the question from
the person who asked that question? I think it does. Yeah, nice. So perhaps A. and Colin,
