Excellent, and we're away. Okay, so welcome everybody to the first episode of Active Inference
Insights, brought to you by the Active Inference Institute. I am your host, Darius Parvee Zwayne,
and today I have the privilege of speaking to Professor Carl Friston, one of the most
revolutionary thinkers in the fields of neuroscience, cognitive science, theoretical biology, and
dare I say, physics and philosophy. A leading authority in neuroimaging, he is the inventor
of statistical parametric modeling and voxel-based morphometry, I hope I pronounce that correctly.
More recently, he has posited the free energy principle, which is technically a normative
account of self-organization in terms of optimal Bayesian design, or in other words, a description
of how things continue to be things. As such, his groundbreaking ideas hold profound implications
not only for biology and psychology, but also the very nature of reality itself. Ladies
and gentlemen, it is my honor to introduce Professor Carl Friston. Professor Friston,
thank you so much for joining us.
Well, thank you. Thank you for that lovely introduction. But what you can say is I just
invented lots of three-letter acronyms. That's much simpler than you said.
And I sense a lot of three-letter acronyms have also spawned from a lot of your work.
Excellent. Well, this podcast, this is the first episode, as I was saying off camera, this is
very exciting for me, hopefully very exciting for everyone tuning in. The reason why it's come
about is that we wanted the Active Inference Institute, wanted a way to introduce the ideas
of active inference and the free energy principle, perhaps to an audience who were not PhD holders,
scholars in the area, but had a kind of latent interest in psychology, neuroscience, maths,
biology, whatever it is, and wanted to explore these ideas a little bit further. So it's a
non-specialized introduction to the ideas of active inference and the free energy principle.
And as the author, inventor, discoverer of the free energy principle, we can have an
interesting philosophical conversation about what that is. It's an absolute delight to have you.
So I guess my first question that I need to ask for everyone listening is,
could you give us a very brief, or not very brief, but a very accessible definition of
the free energy principle, what free energy is, and what this principle says about reality and
ourselves? Yes, I'm not very good at giving brief answers. We have a while, so go ahead.
So just to put things in context, the free energy principle is a principle as read by a
physicist or engineer. That means it's a method, much like Hamilton's principle of least action,
that you can apply. So I might ask, what are the most important applications of the free energy
principle? I guess that would be active inference. So I will answer your question, and I will say
what the free energy principle is, but that may have to be qualified by looking specifically
at the application, which is active inference, and what that means, teleologically, heuristically,
what it brings to the table when you do apply the free energy principle. But the free energy
principle itself is just a description of things that persist or exist, and it rests upon a careful
specification of what you mean by a thing. It starts with the exactly the same assumptions
that all of physics starts with basically a random dynamical system. Some people describe that in
terms of stochastic differential equations, if you're not familiar with that kind of description,
is just saying that you can describe the universe in terms of the way that states change as a
function of themselves. So it's a very generic description of any given universe that just
commits to the notion that there is a state of the universe, and it could be very high dimensional,
and that it has some dynamics. So that's where the free energy principle starts. But the special
thing about the free energy principle that distinguishes it from other formulations in physics,
for example, quantum thermodynamics, statistical and classical mechanics, all of which can be,
if you like, derived from this basic description of the world as a random dynamical system.
The thing that separates the free energy principle or gives it its particular flavor
is a careful distinction between the states of something and everything else. And the way that
we do that is by inducing a separation, you know, technically a partition of all possible states
into three kinds, the states of something that are internal to the thing, everything else external
to the thing, and then crucially a set of states that separate the internal from the external states
that allow and couple the inside to the outside, and that's referred to as the blanket states or
a Markov blanket or boundary. So a lot of this rests upon this notion of a boundary
that on the one hand separates the inside from the outside of something and by a thing, I mean,
anything from a small particle to a priest or a person, anything that can be individuated and
possesses characteristic states constitutes something. And with tongue in cheek, you therefore
have a theory of every space thing, not everything. So this Markov boundary or Markov blanket
is a sort of crucial device in the sense that it allows you to individuate something from
everything else, but at the same time, it couples the internal to the external states.
So we're now talking about a special kind of physics, probably a more ubiquitous kind of
physics, which is the physics of open systems, because the inside is now vocariously open to in
exchange with the outside across the Markov blanket. And just for interest, because this will be
relevant later on for active inference, we usually divide the blanket states into active and sensory
states that can be regarded very simply as the inputs and the outputs. Technically, the inputs
of the sensory states are defined in the sense that the internal states don't influence the sensory
states. And conversely, the active states are defined such that the external states don't influence
the active states. So, but more simply, what we're saying is that something can be defined in terms
of the influences upon it and the influences that it exerts through the blanket states on the outside
world. So just given that assumption that entails existence in the sense that to define this Markov
blanket, you need for the system to have some characteristic states, technically an attracting
set of states that you'd find the thing in, just by assuming the existence of this attracting set
of this random dynamical system that possesses this distinction between the inside and the outside,
everything else follows. And everything else, simply put, is you can read the internal and active
states, sometimes referred to as the autonomous states of a particle or a priest or a person,
as either if you're a physicist conforming to a particular principle of least action and that
principle of least action is that it minimizes the path integral of the variational free energy.
If you want to think of this more intuitively, because that free energy also stands in for,
or it's an approximation to a bound upon model evidence, you can also say that it must be the
case that the autonomous states of anything will look as if they are trying to maximize
the evidence for what we would now consider the internal states to be a model of what's going on
on the outside. So some people refer to that as self-evidencing. So if I just repeat that,
from the physicist's point of view, given the assumption that you've got this random dynamical
system with an attracting set that has this partition that allows you to individuate something
within this system, it has to be the case that the dynamics of the autonomous states of that system
perform a gradient flow on a quantity called variational free energy.
That's it. Is that interesting? Well, it becomes interesting if you realize that this variational
free energy has a particular meaning and a particular interpretation that gives you a
teleology for this kind of dynamic, and that teleology is often referred to in terms of
Bayesian mechanics. Why? Well, because the variational free energy is the same quantity
that measures the evidence for a generative model of the causes of some data, if you're a statistician.
And in this instance, the data that we're talking about are the impressions of the outside state
on the Markov blanket. So what you're now in a position, or you're now in a position,
you are now licensed to talk about anything that exists in some simple elemental sense,
performing inference and possessing this or evincing this kind of Bayesian mechanics.
And in philosophy, people like Jacob Howey nicely summarizes as self-evidencing. So you can imagine
that it looks as if anything that exists is basically moving in a way, sensing and acting
upon its world in a way that's garnering evidence for its own existence. So this is,
if you like, a slight cheat in the sense that what we're doing is describing the dynamics of
something that exists, and then we're saying, but it now looks as if, in virtue of its existence,
it is now, it can be described theologically as acting to gather evidence for its own existence,
its own structure, and that structure entails a generative model of what's going on on the outside.
So how does that help? Well, it doesn't really help in any fundamental way other
than it's very pretty, and it's nice to talk about Bayesian mechanics as being a sort of complement
or another kind of physics that comes from the same stable as quantum mechanics and statistical
mechanics and, I repeat, classical or Lagrangian mechanics. However, there is a nice application
at hand once you realize that this, once you interpret the variational free energy in terms of
a, technically, the logarithm of some model evidence, what that means is that you can now build
things. You can build things and you can simulate those things. Why? Well, because you know that
the dynamics must be conforming to this principle of least action, another way of thinking about this
is that it does a gradient descent or a hill climbing on a particular functional, which is
this variational free energy or the negative variational free energy, which is the log evidence.
So because this log evidence is a function of a model that just is a description of the
characteristic states things occupy or things are found in, you can now write down the generative
model, which is just a probability distribution over the characteristic states or defining the
characteristic states you want your thing to be attracted to. This is the attracting set.
And once you've written down your generative model, you can then work out the gradients
of the free energy functional of that generative model. And then you can simply
integrate or mathematically solve for the dynamics, the flow, the motion, the movement of
this thing. So I know this isn't terribly accessible, but it's a way I think of these
things that you are now in a position, it's always looking at something and saying, oh,
I wonder what generative model would be fit for purpose to describe this particular thing.
You can now turn that on its head and say, okay, I want this kind of thing and I'm going to describe
and define this kind of thing with a particular generative model. I just have to write down the
probability distribution over the causes and consequences from the point of view of the
thing in question, namely the external states and its impressions upon the Markov blanket.
And once I've written that down, I can now simulate the autonomous states. I can now
create a little autonomous article, a little autonomous particle that behaves in exactly the
same way as something that existed that had that kind of generative model. So it's a very practical,
if you like, it's a principle that can be applied in a very practical way to simulate things. And
if you can then simulate things, you can start to build things, you can start to
do computational neuroscience, you can start to sort of naturalize cognitive
neuroscience and possibly even sort of psychology in terms of the physics
that is inherent in this Bayesian mechanics that comes from the free energy principle.
You can also start to ask questions about the beliefs of another person. Why? Well,
part of this generative model or the generative model can always be sort of
split into two things, sort of priors before you see some data and the likelihood,
the likelihood of that data given the causes of that data. This would be the external state. So
you have a pri belief over the causes, the external states, and you have a likelihood that maps the
causes to the consequences, which are your observations or your sensations.
And therefore, you can now fiddle with and say a synthetic subject or person
who is being simulated in the computer until their behavior, their actions, possibly their
decisions matches that of any given cohort or any given subject or animal. And then having adjusted
the priors part of the generative model and possibly the likelihood, you've now basically
created a digital twin that emulates the same kind of belief updating the same kind of Bayesian
mechanics that you can now infer is possessed by the thinking question. So this is a sort of
quite a high end application, which is one of the motivations for developing the free energy
principle and active influences and application that enables you to essentially phenotype
another thing, another person, for example, in terms of this belief updating in terms of this
Bayesian mechanics. And that can be quite useful in contexts when you want to understand how people
work and particularly how their belief updating works. This becomes particularly interesting
in the context of computational psychiatry, where you want to be able to explain people's behavior
in terms of what do they believe about the world out there, how are they sense making,
how are they assimilating evidence for their world model, which you can read as the generative model,
and under what priors are they doing the sort of Bayesian assimilation or evidence accumulation
that underwrites their decisions. So that's one particular application. There will be other
applications. If you want to make intelligent artifacts or you want to understand the mechanisms
of belief updating at different temporal scales, belief sharing between two things that are in
communication or transacting across their shared Markov blanket or indeed looking at a shared world
and then one can start to get into the world of distributed cognition and federation inference.
There are all sorts of things you can do once you start to apply active inference.
Yeah, that was fantastic. I mean, we have a lot to get our teeth into. And probably
some concepts there that are new to our audience. So it might be worth sort of backtracking certain
things and trying to find a kind of, yeah, let's sort of dissect some of these concepts together.
The first thing I want to speak about is this notion that the internal states in some sense embody
the kind of desirable model given their attractor state, the desirable model of the world. I think
one of these, one of the questions that one has when one enters into the world of active
inference is whether an organism is a model or whether an organism has a model. And here we
sort of have a backtrack to cybernetics and the good regulator theorem that all good regulatory
systems have a model of their environment if we think about thermostats or anything alike. So
maybe it's worth unpacking that because I think a lot of people might have this
intuitive sense that there's a homunculus in the brain which has a model of the world and
it's very internalist, but maybe from a more physics perspective, we can adopt a more externalist
position where there isn't this little thing which has a sort of representative picture of the world,
but actually is just enacting some model of itself, which in many ways is just some
some version of its external dynamics. So let's start there because I think that will
feel nicely into maybe a conversation about internal and external dynamics and exactly what
that looks like in the free energy principle. That's a great question and you're some sort of
deep issues unearthed by that and it's nice you've introduced cybernetics and the notion of the
good regulator theorems. On one view, I think you can look at the free energy principle as just a
21st century version of that kind of cybernetic thinking. There are other things that the free
energy principle inherits from James' Max Mentor principle, lots of ideas in psychology
perception as hypothesis testing. There are lots of different roads that converge upon this
formulation that is on offer in terms of the free energy principle, but that particular question
is really interesting. I have to say that I usually try to elude that question by saying that the
internal states entail a gerative model. However, if one was pressed upon it, then
I would say very clearly that the internal states, the thing is a gerative model.
It's not, if you like, a picture that you painted in terms of that homunculus looking at its
virtual reality inside its head and trying to predict what's going on. It is instantiated,
is realized in its physics, in its existence, in its dynamics. The reason I use the word entailed
is that the generative model is technically just a probability distribution.
So you ask yourself, does a probability distribution exist in some physical sense?
And the answer is, well, no, a probability distribution is what it is. It's a mathematical
description. However, that probability distribution will have sufficient statistics
that could exist. So what I'm saying is that, for example, let's take a Gaussian distribution.
I can express mathematically and write down the notation for your Gaussian bell shaped
distribution over some variable that goes from plus to minus infinity. Or I can say,
I can characterize or specify this Gaussian distribution in terms of its mean and its
variance. And those are two numbers that are not random variables. They are sufficient statistics.
And it may be, and in fact, it is the case that the free energy principle associates the physical
internal states with the sufficient statistics of these Bayesian beliefs. And there's a lovely story
