Yes, and that's wisdom, right? That's a way to think about what the Sabbath is, right? We've
talked about this before. The Sabbath, amongst other things, I'm not reducing it to only this,
is a binding of a multipolar trap. It's a binding of a maximum power principle,
right? Which is if anybody works on Sunday, they can get enough differential advantage and get ahead
that they will end up beating everybody else, then everybody has to work on Sunday. So now we
have a world where everybody works all the time, nobody enjoys it, but everyone has to do that and
it's miserable. No one can connect with their families, restore, regenerate themselves, connect
with the divine or anything else. So you just force, nobody is allowed to do that. They made
it punishable by death, right? And Leviticus. But what it meant was it bound a multipolar trap
for everybody. It was actually using law to bind that thing. There's wisdom in that and that came
from a wisdom tradition. And the thing about the potlatch, and let's get rid of this surplus,
let's not keep this surplus and grow our population, let's not keep this surplus and have a reason for
another group to come war with us to take the stuff. Let's actually get rid of the surplus and come
back into depending upon nature and being in kind of that relationship. Similarly, with the,
we got better fishing hooks, we could catch a lot more fish and then we'll collapse the fishing,
the fish population and create problems for our social structure and etc. So let's just
spend less time fishing and now we have more time for art and love making and meditation and other
things, right? And so the technological advance didn't lead to a Jevons paradox because in the
same way that we talk about now with Jevons paradox, if you have more efficiency that could
lead to using less, only if you create law that binds that that's what it must be. Otherwise,
you just get return on investments of efficiency and maximum power principle, right?
Maybe we'll explain that briefly for anyone that is coming in this time who hasn't come in before.
Well, maximum power principle is that we
don't necessarily need energy, but energy per unit time is what we're trying to maximize. And
that in nature, organisms and ecosystems self-organize so as to better access energy because
energy is needed for movement, for anything, cellular metabolism, digestion, all things
relate to energy. So historically, those organisms and ecosystems that had more access to energy per
unit time had an adaptive advantage. But I have deep questions about the relationship of authentic
versus naive progress as it pertains to maximum power as this conversation unfolds. But is that
suffice for your question? The thing I want to add is that just if anyone's hearing about
Jevons Paradox for the first time and what maximum power principle at the level of civilization means.
Well, the more technology that we invent, like LED light bulbs, then they become so cheap and
ubiquitous that we actually use more lighting in the world. So there's a rebound effect as we
develop more technology that actually uses more energy globally. And this you see in so many
different ways. I'll just add for the people who kind of understandably think
couldn't technological advancement create more efficiency such that we could use less stuff
and still have economic quality in our life. The Jevons Paradox is a really key thing to
understand, which is if you make, if you figure out how to get copper more efficient today,
or you figure out how to get nitrogen more efficiently or energy more efficiently, it
also means that the cost of that thing goes down, which also means that now the
market input to a whole bunch of areas that weren't quite profitable open up. And so now
you get a whole bunch of new market areas and the net result is that when a thing becomes more
efficient rather than using less, you use more. Use more of that plus all the other things that
are industrially connected to it. And as a consumer, as an individual, if I save money on
some new technology, I'm going to spend that money at Home Depot or Walmart on something else
that requires energy and resources. So if we had the equivalent of the Indians in the Northwest
that you mentioned before, the Native Americans, that we had some wisdom, some Sabbath equivalent,
we can't fish more hours, if we had that in our system, then this technological innovation
that we have might not be a result in immature progress.
So let's talk about, you know, I think it's pretty clear that making the lead of gasoline
and making the DDT are definitions of progress that for a narrow purpose are, but are like
obviously pretty terrible. And the same is true when it comes to advances in weaponry and
making, I mean, there's so many examples like making food that isn't perishable,
great technological achievement. If you consider food perishing a problem to solve technologically
as opposed to a feature of life we're supposed to relate with that keeps us living close to the
living ecosystem and aware of biological things break down, which also keeps us aware of our own
death, which keeps us aware of the meaningfulness of life and, you know, so many things like that.
So if you look at the emergence of fast food and convenience store foods that have much more
addictiveness and much less micronutrients and are comprehensively bad for the population,
physiologically, psychologically, you know, et cetera, they're still progress. And so I think
that kind of progress everybody can probably get. All right, there's a problem with that.
But even let's say that we're talking about things that don't seem to be market driven,
but are even like trying to make progress on solving global problems.
So let's look at climate change for a minute.
So the first paper on climate change scientific paper was published in 1938.
UNEP was created, United Nations Environmental Program was created in 1972 to look at major
global environmental issues and have international coordination. Obviously climate change had a U.S.
vice president popularize it has had almost every kind of celebrity, you know, NASA and NOAA,
and the largest scientific databases and computational capabilities in the world are
backing it. There's a trillion dollars in climate finance per year, nuclear energy,
hydro energy, solar energy, et cetera. And the total amount of fossil fuel energy
that is used goes up every year that entire time.
And there's a place where we just have to pause a little bit if we take that in to say,
wait, wait. So everything we've done towards climate hasn't decreased fossil fuel energy.
It hasn't even slowed the increase in the amount that we use each year relative to the year before.
We're continuing to grow the total amount we use. Like, what? Okay, so if you think about that for
a minute. So because we want to get off fossil fuel energy, we're going to make a hydroelectric
dam. And it's going to destroy a whole ecosystem by, you know, flooding that whole area. It's going
to stop migratory pathways of fish and correspondingly birds. It's going to cause geopolitical conflict
between the countries that were involved. Maybe it's all those problems. Maybe all that would
be worth it if it was stopping the fossil fuels use. But if it's just like, oh, there's another
source of energy, awesome, we'll use that energy and the fossil fuels energy because there's still
positive returns on both. They're both profitable to continue to use. And think about all the nuclear
energy we've made, right? Like, all the risk of nuclear waste having to be managed forever,
all the risk of nuclear power plants being able to be things that can be targeted in war and become
nuclear volcanoes even by non nuclear powers, the increase in visible material, all that risk,
and it didn't even decrease fossil fuel use. And so you're like, okay, well, the way we've
been trying to solve the climate problem empirically is not working. And many of the solutions add new
harms without actually even addressing the existing ones effectively at all.
So this is also not a good definition of progress, right?
But how much of your critique or the paper critique of progress is a critique of GDP
as our cultural aspiration by a different name.
Okay, let's go back to Genghis Khan for a moment and friends because we were pre-GDP at that time,
right? And we were pre-carbon poles. So it is not true that all of the tribal populations
were as big as they could be throughout history, limited only by scarce food. That's part of the
rewrite of history that assumes that cities in bigger populations are better and that progress
has been linearly happening and et cetera. No, when I said that earlier, I meant like 100,000
years ago, not 10,000, 5,000 years ago, but go on. The archaeology gets less good the further back
you go, which means it becomes more subject to the projection of your narrative because you have
less data and so you read this stuff through your narrative. So if you have a Hobbesian narrative
that says their lives were British or nasty and mean, but that same narrative is why we had
manifest destiny. It is the manifest destiny of us colonialists to take over North America,
to take it away from being a vast wilderness for squalid savages and to civilize it so that it
can hold civilization. You read quotes from many of the chiefs of like, it was only considered a
wilderness to them. We filled with like terrible beasts and stuff. We considered it a beautiful
paradise and we were friends with all the animals and it was only them that considered it full of
squalid savages because they didn't have any interest in coming to understand the depth and
intricacy and beauty of our culture. But it was progress because the winners wrote the books.
Yes. And so if there was a culture that didn't orient to its maximum size and maximum colonialism
and empire expansion and whatever, because it wanted to not train the kids up to go die in war,
wanted to train the kids up to have a beautiful life, it wanted to not turn all of nature into
military equipment and stuff and agriculture land, but to have some deep appreciation of what
nature was, those cultures usually lost in war to the cultures that did the other thing.
Exactly. So what if there were 10 cultures, 10 tribes back in the day and nine of them were
peaceful in harmony with nature, music, community, love making inventions. If there was only one tribe
that was a Genghis Khan type thing, that's who won, won in quotes.
This is a really important part of the story of history in my opinion, is unless the person doing
the tribal warfare, unless the other 10 all noticed it and went and stopped them from even being able
to develop that capability, then yes, the person who starts in the group that starts investing in
offensive tribal warfare is going to win. And then what, and this played a role in the thing
that we call cities and the movement to larger civilizations, is once we're in the age of tribal
warfare, smaller numbers are going to do much less well than larger numbers are. And so if there is
any group that is now starting to do the offensive warfare thing, now a couple smaller groups need
to unify together, people will have less say and they'll have less liberty, but already more of them
will have to train in military than in the arts and other types of things, because that multipolar
trap is now in place. But there's a very important thing, we've talked about multipolar traps here
before, right? In arms race is a multipolar trap where everybody's racing to make faster
hypersonic weapons and multiple reentry vehicles and more effective autonomous weapons and whatever,
because we have to do that because what if the other guy gets it, even though we're making a
world that is our own risk of dying it, all those things goes way up and is a comprehensively worse
world. So the arms race is a multipolar trap, the market race, even if what it's doing is driving
massive externalities is a multipolar trap, the tragedy of the commons, we have to extract the
resources, even if we destroy the ecology before the other guy, because if we don't, it doesn't
protect the ecosystem, the other guy is going to destroy them all first and use that increased
resource has competitive advantage to beat us. So the multipolar trap is one of the reasons why
we can't do anything about climate change very effectively right now is nobody wants to price
carbon properly at a country level that has the rule of law to be able to bind its own economy,
because it would put them so radically behind everyone else who wasn't doing that economically,
and that economics has converted to military power and technological innovation and everything else.
No one wants to slow down their AI to try to do it safely, slow down their synthetic biology,
so it's just kind of a full race dynamics. Now, we've talked about this before, but there's
something even deeper that you just mentioned, which is the multipolar trap is usually initiated
by a psychopath. And in our tribal past subdued by numbers, there was strong social reciprocity
that would inhibit the potential power of a psychopath.
I want to build this out a little bit more and then I'll say that. Not everyone wants to go
initiate tribal war and have their children die in war so that they can have the glorious
large empire. That is not everybody's desire. The people who have won at doing that thing
can't imagine anyone not desiring that unless they are betas who just couldn't win at it,
because they can't imagine anything like fulfillment that is not oriented on conquest or
intimacy or things like that. So not everybody wants to do that thing, right? But if somebody
wants to do that thing, there's something wrong with them. There's something really deeply wrong
with them. But now everybody else has to do something that can deal with that or lose by
default. This is very much like the emergence of a cancer in the body, right? The cancer is not
just another cell having its own individual freedom to express itself in a slightly different way,
and it should be allowed to have its own individual expression. The other cells,
there's a difference between the liver cells and the blood cells and the kidney cells. They're
all different but they all have a shared genome and they're all working as parts of this larger
whole and they're constrained by that and that's okay because they would also die. A kidney outside
of a body is not that interesting. It doesn't sustain itself. So all of the cells are constrained
by being a part of a body to serve the good of the body. So they get to have individual expression
but they also have interconnectedness and with that an obligation. The cancer cell is like,
no, fuck the obligation. I'm going to do my thing and I'm going to actually consume resources faster
and replicate faster. And if it does that and metastasizes that idea, right, then the rest of
the body, the immune system has to kill that thing or that thing will kill the rest of the system.
Including itself.
Including itself, right? And that's the thing is that the cancer cell is having amazing progress
at consumption and replication. It's betterment for its own goals.
Yes, it's succeeding at its goals and then there are the most number of copies of itself right
before it kills the host and kills itself. Oh boy. So certainly in the deep ecology movement,
there are some people that view humanity as a cancer cell and based on the last five minutes,
you're suggesting that it's not humanity. It's some individuals that through some positive feedback
in tandem with energy surplus broke free of the wisdom and restraint of small groups.
And it's that multipolar trap that is created that has created a lot of these negative effects
on the planet. Nobody can argue that we, that there are a lot of cultures
that have no descendants today because Alexander or Caesar or Genghis Khan killed them all.
And their memes and their cultures and their genes didn't make it through
that particular selection process. And that does not mean that they didn't have higher
qualities of life or more sustainability with nature. It means they weren't good at war.
And they weren't good at, even if they were good at war individually, right? Because some people
might take objection, tribal warriors, they were not good at scaled violence, effective,
scaled, coordinate violence. And we are the descendants, unavoidably, of the people that
scaled empire with all of the ecological harm, warfare, genocide, et cetera,
we are genetically and memetically and culturally the descendants of those processes.
I think that's a profound insight, but I'll push back a little and say we're also the descendants
of those humans that killed off the Neanderthals.
Yes, there is. So I'm going to make some conjecture here that I don't have the data to support.
And I would really like to get the data.
Which I know you by now well enough these past few years is something you rarely do,
but go on. The data for this is not available that I have seen,
because it's ancient and our archaeology has too many conflicting things.
So our early toolmaking, call it stone tools, and then fire, like very early toolmaking,
was a radical change. And obviously that didn't start with sapiens,
that started with Homo habilis or something like that.
It was a pretty radical change in selection criteria from everything before.
And because now the selection criteria were not the result of a genetic mutation that was
corporeally built into our body, it was the result of us understanding how to extend what
our body does extra corporeally, where the ability to advance those technologies was much more rapid
than evolution's advancement of our body's predatory capabilities or whatever kind of
selection capabilities. And that was the beginning of a really significant asymmetry
that did not exist in the rest of the natural world and the rest of natural evolution.
