In natural evolution, the mutation forces that are acting on something that
produce a bunch of useless mutations, I'm using kind of standard evolutionary theory,
they produce a bunch of useless mutations, but a few of them are effective and they get selected for,
those mutations, pressures, whether we're talking about gamma rays or oxidative stress or whatever,
or just, you know, transcription errors, are operating across the entire ecosystem, all of the
beings. There's an even distribution of kind of the mutation pressures. And then there's also a
co-selection process. So the mutation that leads to a predator getting slightly sharper teeth or a
slightly stronger jaw or slightly faster running, it's only slightly, right? You don't get like
a massive jump like we get with AI systems from one generation to the next. So let's say there is
a mutation that leads to a capacity that makes them slightly more effective at their niche.
Let's say it's a predatory niche. Simultaneously, similar types of mutation pressures are happening
on the things that they eat that make them slightly faster, slightly better at camouflage,
have slightly sharper senses, you know, whatever it is, right? And so neither of them are getting
a massive asymmetrical jump relative to the other. They're having similar kinds of very,
very gradual increases. And then let's say the predator had one first. So it's going to start
doing slightly better at eating prey. It's of course going to be statistically eating the slower
ones more often than the faster ones. And as a result, the inbreeding of the faster genes also
leads to a change in selection dynamics. So both the distribution of mutation and co-selection
lead to a process where there is a symmetry of power that is maintained across the whole system.
And it's not just in a one-to-one relationship, right? It's the predator with the prey.
It's that prey animal with the plants, right? As it gets the ability to digest more stuff,
the plants start figuring out how to put out more volatile oils or spread seeds faster or
whatever it is. But your point here is that it was symmetric and it was really slow.
Yes. And as a result, you're actually not getting power asymmetries. You're not
getting concentrations of power. You're getting distributions of power. And the distribution
of power is what's allowing there to be a harmony across that whole space. And it's why you don't
get that what is good for lions as a whole is bad for gazelles as a whole, right? Of course,
this lion eating this gazelle, that might be the case, but lions as a whole and gazelles as a whole
are actually symbiotic species. If the lions went away, the gazelles would actually do less well,
right? They would have the weaker genes and breed more often and etc. If the gazelles went away,
lions would do less well. So at the micro level, it looks like competition and even zero sum,
but at the macro level, they're symbiotic. But the key reason does have to do with the
symmetry of power in the relationship. In the same way that like
fighting in your weight class is a thing, right? If you're competing and the kind of original
definition of competing means something like to strive together. If I'm competing with someone
where they get a little bit better and it like it inspires and teaches and forces me to get a
little bit better, you know, there is some kind of co-progress together. But if I am going to fight
with a guy that's just 10 times my capability and he just kills me, right? I don't get better
from that. There's not a, you know, similar kind of progress. The progress does involve a certain
kind of symmetry and the ability to navigate the situation. And so if you, the first question
with progress is progress for whom? Yeah. And then we would say progress of what, across what
metrics, across what way of assessing what is valuable. And progress that is progress for some
that is totally bad for others, but also bad for others that that sum depends upon is a very
narrow definition of progress. And even like the cancer cell that will eventually kill its own
host. It's a definition that is not actually long-term even viable for the interest of where
the progress seems to have been true. So I can begin to surmise why you and your team spent so
much time and effort writing this paper. This is a central chasm in our discourse that we need to
address. Yeah. So we've talked before that the metacrisis, you know, we have lots of different
global catastrophic risks just in the domain of ecology we're facing, right? We could really
mess the biosphere up just because of PFOS, just because of pesticide, just because of mining
waste, just because of biodiversity loss, just because of damage to oceans and dead zones and
coral, like we have lots of different from the extraction side and the pollution side,
catastrophic risks that are the result of our success at progress.
And by the way, all those things you mentioned are considered externalities that are currently
not priced in our decisions and our success metrics at all. And what is the cost of the
Great Barrier Reef? Like what should the value of it be? What should the value of healthy soil
microbes be? Well, everything dies without soil microbiology. But like everything dies without
air and the cost of air is nothing. And the reason the cost of air is nothing is because
everybody still has access to it. And I can't patent it. I can't have differential access to
it. So it's just no need to bother putting a price on it. But that also means that it gets
damaged through industrial process continuously through air pollution, through
burning things where you're using up the O2 and turning it into CO2, etc.
And there is a slight decline in oxygen globally because of the burning of fossil fuels and much
higher in the oceans. Ocean oxygen has declined 2% in the last 50 years.
Obviously, the O in the CO2 is there was carbon. There were hydrocarbons that were getting burned,
which means oxidized, right? So of course, you're going to have those things happen together.
It's very interesting. So not just the most important things like the soil microbiology and
the phytoplankton and the air that we are rapidly destroying that are the
most priceless, priceless things there could be, right? But if you look at people's deathbed
reflections at what they said was meaningful, and I was very fortunate when I was growing up,
my mom took me to old folks' homes to spend time with them. And I got to hear a lot of
deathbed reflections and it was very influential in my life. The highlights of what people say was
worth it had nothing ever to do with anything that the market ever gave them. And everything it had
to do with was only the things that could occur in the time that they were not an agent of the
market, where they were not working, producing, etc. It had to do with their time with their family,
their time with loved ones, their time in nature, their time in religious experience.
But the market can't supply those things very well, so it doesn't value them at all.
And it emphasizes reward circuits that it can monetize.
So I don't want to diverge too much from your paper, but if there were a billionaire, I mean,
there's multi-polar traps, but there's also social traps. And if there were a billionaire
listening to this agreeing with the logic that you're laying out, but saying, I'm powerless to
change my behaviors in trying to maximize my own Bitcoin fiat currency lead over my competitors,
because everyone else is doing it this way. So I see the world as being very messed up and getting
worse. Yet for me, in my position, I'm doing the thing that is best for my family, irrespective of
what the future is. How do we get beyond those, I call them the 1500 elites in the world, have to
recognize this trap that you're describing. So the idea of an externality, that we're building
a technology or a business or a law or a nonprofit or whatever to do something, we're building it to
try to usually solve some problem where we can assess that in a narrow metric, whatever that is,
or a small handful of metrics. But that technology and the supply chains that make it and the power
dynamics it confers, whatever do other stuff, they affect other stuff other than the stuff we
intended to affect. And a lot of it ends up being negative, we call those externalities.
There can be positive externalities too. And that's an important thing to consider.
So there's this story that it's impossible to forecast externalities because the world is so
complex and you couldn't possibly know in advance. So all we can do is make something that is
innovative and awesome. And then when we see the problem work to solve it, and the continuous
solving of problems is what humanity's here for and part of progress. This is gibberish.
Right? This is just total gibberish. But it is self-motivated gibberish for the people who did
not want to try to anticipate the externalities or didn't want to admit them because they were
going to privatize gains and socialize losses and then later say it's impossible to predict
what the externalities would be. So I think it was a Dow that just got a $10 billion
lawsuit settlement for PFOS remediation that they have to pay like $10.3 billion.
Which is significant. And it's because some of the investigative journalism showed that not
only is PFOS in every drop of rainwater in the entire world, in Antarctica and
on all the continents and is it on all the water surface areas and is it not just affecting human
health but it's affecting all biology down to the soil microbes in the phytoplankton in ways we
can't understand all of. And it doesn't break down. There are no biological processes because
it was built as an industrial product to be a thing that doesn't break down to resist corrosion
and to resist all of the various types of things. Okay. So just I think it might have
actually been Minnesota, your state. Just one state's PFOS remediation was estimated at costing
$20 billion if they were going to try to use known technological methods to get the PFOS out.
So this $10 billion from the primary producer globally is a joke. I can send the stats but
it was something like $16 trillion a year to do total PFOS remediation over the course of a decade.
So the entire global GDP to remediate one class of chemicals. It doesn't include
agricultural chemicals and mining chemicals and everything else.
Well, that explains why we're not doing it. Okay. So stay with me. I'm trying to construct
something and taking a circuitous route. So it turns out that
investigation showed that that company knew PFOS was a carcinogen before it was ever put
into the environment or put into any industrial application. They hid the science. It had caused
cancer in the lab rats. And so there was just like a direct cover up. And the same thing was true
with leaded gas, right? The people who were inventing leaded gas were all getting sick in the
laboratory. It was known to be toxic, et cetera. And there was just direct suppression of that.
And if that's true, and I believe you that it is, why were those people suppressing it? Because
of short-term gain for them and the winners write the history books sort of story?
Yeah. So the short-term gain is, hey, if I stop this engine knocking thing and engines are the
new thing, cars are everywhere, right? And I own the patent on this tetraethyl lead thing and I can
add it to all gas that's needed by everything. We're going to make a lot of money. And probably
it's not going to be that bad for people. It'll be an air. It'll be dispersed. It'll be the parts
per million will be low, whatever. So there are lots of times where we actually know the harm
something is going to cause, whoever it is, industry, whatever, ahead of time and do it anyways,
cover it up. That's a known thing. There are other times where we just don't try very hard
to do an analysis of externalities because if we put money and resource into looking at,
is this going to harm things? And the other competitor doesn't, they're going to get first
mover advantage. They're going to later be able to say, we couldn't have possibly known.
And the money that I put into seeing those harms might just tell me not to do the project. And now,
how do I get a return on that money that I put in? And if it does show me a safer way to do the
project, it's probably so much later and with less margins than the other thing. And so at minimum,
there's a kind of negligence of if we do do diligence, we do this box checking plausible
deniability version, because we know we're going to be able to privatize the gains and socialize
the losses, right? The Apple's a $3 trillion company that played a major role in smartphones
in everybody's pockets. And the fact that teen body dysmorphia and suicide and
porn addiction and mental health issues and everything went up, they don't have any liability
for that. And so they also have no incentive to really limit their privatized gains to
avoid causing those externalities.
Let me interrupt you one more time, which is en route to the billionaire question.
So like you said, in the day of unleaded gasoline, they were able to make a lot of money and they
thought, oh, well, this will be disperse, it won't be that big of a deal. But now, I think a lot of
people that work at corporations that are paying attention to the metacrisis and the human predicament
and climate and oceans and PFAS and social inequalities and addictions and everything else,
they have to be in these boardrooms wondering, this stuff is a little bit louder, the externalities
are more obvious than they used to be. This is a different question that I would love to answer,
but if I do it, I'll never get back to your first question. Keep going, keep going. Remember it.
It's exactly the next place to go. Okay. One is about
dark triad traits and sociopathy, the other is willingness to be complicit with it.
Okay. Please continue. Which are basically the two types of psychology that are conditioned for in
the system. Whoa. Can you briefly describe dark triad again? I've done it on a frankly, but maybe
you could describe it. Yeah. Dark triad is the three qualities of sociopathy, narcissism, and
Machiavellianism. And then sometimes it's referred to as the dark quad, where sadism is added as a
fourth. And these are like particularly dark aspects of human psychology that can co-occur. And
so we're not looking here at a DSM diagnosis of a narcissist, meaning narcissistic personality
disorder within cluster B or sociopathic personality disorder. It's sets of traits that
people can have higher or lower amounts of. And the same person in different environments can have
higher or lower amounts of, you put a really lovely person in a terrible prison and they're,
they better develop these traits, they're probably going to die, right? They're adaptive in some
environments. And so people can look this up more, but narcissism is roughly kind of an inflated
sense of their own entitlement, their own importance, their leadership worthiness, that kind of thing.
Sociopathy is a lack of empathy for other people. Not really caring to take their worldview, not
really asking, will this be progress for them? Not feeling remorse if they end up being where the
externalities land and harm is caused. And Machiavellianism is the ability to think strategically
through, you know, a complex play, right? So if that Machiavellianism is in service to
self-oriented goals, self-aggrandizing, expanding goals that are not that attuned to others,
you get problems with that thing, right? But those also make great leadership qualities
for the multi-polar trap version of progress. And there's some...
Especially in an institutional structure where we have corporations and things like that relative to
500 or 1,000 years ago. Well, the corporation, I mean, it's a great example, right? So
14th Amendment was really, everybody knows, to give personhood rights to Black people,
following the Emancipation Proclamation and the end of slavery. It was for personhood rights for
things that had not been considered persons. Black people were not considered persons during
slavery. And the loophole in what was so obviously to give personhood rights to
people who had been previously slaves was then used to give personhood rights to corporations,
by corporations, that saw the legal advantage of being able to have all of the due process and
everything the persons have. And I think in the first year after the ratification of the 14th
Amendment, the Supreme Court saw something like 15 cases associated with the 14th Amendment,
associated with Black people, and it saw something like 350 cases associated with businesses
and corporate personhoods. And the corporate person, the entity that is the public corporation,
is an obligate sociopath. It can't not...
So is a corporation an institutional equivalent of a human dark triad trait?
This is what I'm saying. A corporation is a... You can think of it as a cybernetic entity,
right? The operating agreement, the legal agreements of what it is plus its whole operational
machinery does not depend on any particular person because you have an org chart and if you lose
this assembly line worker or this cheap marketing officer, you replace them with a kind of market
equivalent all the way up to a CEO. And so the entity is controlled by... The cybernetic entity
kind of controls itself aligned with these legal operating agreements, not controlled by anybody
in particular, and recognized as a corporate person. So it protects the directors from legal
responsibility of what that corporate person does, even though of course it couldn't do it without
running on the people. And then you have a fiduciary responsibility to maximize profit,
which is a measure of extraction. And of course that corporate person doesn't have empathy.
It cannot. It's not a sentient thing, right? It is a cybernetic thing, but it's not a sentient
thing. So it doesn't have empathy. It does have planning, i.e. Machiavellianism. It does have
my own growth should continue forever and I should be the market dominator. That's narcissism.
And so yes, it is an obligate sociopath and it is actually legally required to maximize its
