have a language that doesn't see the world as a bunch of nouns that are all separate.
So changing how a lot more humans perceive their relationship to others to nature to the whole
is kind of a necessary prerequisite for authentic progress.
Yes because if I was just giving this example to someone I'm a little kid who's at the phase
when they say what is that what is that what is that right and they're trying to understand
they're trying to like learn what all of the things are the anatomy of universe
and that phase usually happens right before the phase where they say why why why why why
because they're they're trying to learn the the mechanics the the dynamics of universe.
The kid says what is that and they point to a thing we call a tree.
I don't say that's a tree or more specifically that's a spruce tree or whatever
because that's going to teach the kid a bunch of things it's going to teach them to just
accept a default worldview and not think for themselves it's going to have them confuse
the ground reality with a symbol it's going to have them think in generalizations of now
understand what are trees and what are not trees generalize all of them and stop perceiving uniqueness
it's going to have them you know like it does all that stuff to them right.
So the kid says what is that and I'm like let's go closer and we go closer and I'm like touch it
touch the leaves and then touch the flowers and touch the bark and you know touch all these parts
and like what does it feel like and then smell it and then notice the other little animals in it and
and then you know just have them engage in that way and then say do you think the tree stops there
do you think what about this moss that's growing on it is that part of it or is that not part of
it what about the the soil is that part of it or not part of it and
and and then I'm like what do you think it is to that squirrel what do you think it is to that
little bug what do you think it it is to itself and you know what do you what do you feel when
you're with it and eventually we'll come to in English we call this a tree in Spanish they call
it arbolé and in this language they call it this and they do different kinds of things but
this particular one notice that if we go look at this one they're different
and in fact this one there's not another one in the entire universe quite like it
and it's not even the same as it was yesterday it'll be different today so the only way to
know it is to be with it fully more presently in this moment and you know so imagine if kids
grew up that way rather than that's a tree memorize its Latin name understand the botany
associated with it blah blah blah like then they're using much more of their whole self to understand
reality in a much more full rich way that understands that that same thing is different
from every different perspective in so many different contexts and and so
if someone is perceiving if they are supported to perceive the uniqueness of everything and
the interconnectivity of everything that nothing is fungible and nothing is separable
nothing can be standardized without actually causing harm and nothing can be optimized at the
expense of others without causing harm and they get that uniqueness and our connectivity of
everything and they get I am because we are for a we that extends to the stars
and then what they want that comes from that first hungry ghost desire is not the main thing
that emerges this like awe and fulfillment and fascination and gratitude and it emerges from
that connection and it's actually the lack of that connection that leads to the hungry ghost place
that needs more and more hits in progress so the first thing is just not that much desire emerges
in the same the same way and then the desires that do emerge are in connection with everything
else that I'm connected with like is it it will it be good for the tree is it bad for the tree
what about the squirrels in the tree I just spent time communing with them I love them I wouldn't
it wouldn't be good for me if it hurt those squirrels now the desires that arise for people
who are in connectivity with their interconnect who are clear on their interconnectivity with
everything those desires can be pursued in a way that doesn't harm anything because their
own identity is not separate from everything because their perception is clear what percent
of humans alive today would have to have such a value and consciousness change to
effectively change the superstructure social structure infrastructure going forward
I don't want to critique too harshly
but if you look at what we said that since the climate movement started
all of the work that has happened has not actually empirically decreased the
fact that fossil fuel use goes up every year and emissions go up every year
yeah and the environmental movement has not changed the fact that more tons of pesticides
are used each year than the year before and that species extinction continues
even the the not market seeking best motive there's clearly something off with how we're
doing stuff right like clearly we don't just need more of that thing that not only is not
effective but then makes nuclear and dams and other things that don't get off fossil fuels
and cause other problems so there's the mind that was conditioned by this kind of system
can't avoid making more of this kind of system
it is part of an auto poetic process and there is a need to extract oneself from it and then
actually de-program the the nature of that kind of mind that started by a language of nouns and
perceiving everything is separable and separate and then in rivalry and from a place where I think
my fulfillment comes from status and getting things and just all the nonsense right to where
there is a mind that and the and a being whose motive is not what's in it for me
who actually feels a fulfillment that they get to exist at all who feels an awe that they have
already got to see sunsets and color and feels a fullness in that whose motive is actually
in service of future beings that they get to keep experiencing it and their desire to protect and
maintain and serve life and that can perceive the interconnectivity of things enough to not
over focus on one part in a way where the solution to that part will externalize harm elsewhere
without realizing it so if one wants to really not participate in causing more harm and maybe
really change something one does have to look at how this system has actually conditioned their own
mind and how they understand what problems are and what solutions are and how to figure those
things out and how to measure them and how to scale them and how to all all like that
and come to say like how does nature work and how do I understand how nature works that's that I
can work in a way that is aligned with that and uh yeah there's there's profound
deconditioning and re and new learning that has to happen.
It feels right to me because I've experienced it and I noticed it in you since I first met you
even just the change in your language and and some of your ideas. I have 12 questions that I had
prepared after reading your paper and we're already three hours in so I think we're going to have to
do a part one and part two but but let me ask you this and then get your your input on how you'd
like to proceed. Here's another quote from your your paper. Philosopher and psychologist Eric
Fromm wrote that optimism is an alienated alienated form of faith, pessimism, an alienated form of
despair. If one truly responds to man in his future in effect, concernedly and responsibly,
one can respond only by faith or by despair. Rational faith as well as rational despair
are based on the most thorough critical knowledge of all the factors that are relevant for the
survival of man. So with that quote Daniel, what what are your goals and the organization that you
work with with publishing papers such as this one on immature versus authentic progress?
What are you hoping to influence and achieve and lastly how can our viewers help in in those goals?
Yes, this is another open loop. We were talking about
about kind of how the progress narrative really accelerated post-modernity,
that if one has that story, that things are getting better and better because of tech which
also includes having written the history as an alternate realities as you know worse than they
were. And someone doesn't think about all the externalities, they think about the
hopperbosch without thinking about the dead zones and the ocean and the extinct species and the
everything else. The default assumption is that when new tech emerges, it'll cause some problems
until we figure out how to use it, then we'll rightly regulate it and it'll be good. That's
kind of the default assumption. And so then that default assumption, when we look at technologies
that have radically more powerful than anything power than anything we've ever touched that scale
faster, that have more complexity or more not understandable and more unregulatable like AI,
like synthetic biology. The default assumption will be, yeah, it'll probably be net positive,
it'll cause some problems, we'll figure out how to solve those problems. And I actually don't
think a right assessment of the history of technology warrants that nor do I think these
technologies currently warrant that as the right assumption. And so in the face of
exponentiating technology that is also exponentiating destructive capacity. And it's not just
destructive capacity through its militarized uses, it's even through its market uses doing a thing
that we want that is narrow progress, that's driving externalities more as we pass planetary
boundaries. If it is, I want more people to have a wider kind of clearer worldview through which
they can look at things that are being called progress and promising a better future to be
able to look at the issues that are emerging right now and have a different default assumption
and a different like, where should burden of proof be? Actually, some of these things are so
harmful burden of proof should have been proving led with safe before putting it in gasoline and
aerosolizing it to everybody as opposed to having irreparable harm that could never be addressed
and then regulating after the fact. And so where there is truly existential risk portended,
burden of proof shouldn't be that it is really dangerous, it should be we actually have to
prove adequate safety through doing a detailed enough analysis of what doesn't order facts
will be before we rapidly scale the stuff. So that was the reason that we wanted to put that
paper out now is because the rate of technological, I will not call it progress, I will call it
advancement because it is definitely increasing goal achieving with it with not the refining on
what is a good goal without changing the economic incentive that leads to externalities and all
like that. But the rate of technological advancement is definitely in the verticalizing part of the
exponential curve. No one can actually really understand the speed and the portent of it,
the fact that now, you know, that there was nothing like Moore's law, right? Historically,
and it kind of ate the world. And that was progressive doubling of compute power every
couple of years. And just the hardware on GPU based AI will 10x in the next six months.
You know, the power will 10x in six months, not 2x in two years, right? And then in six months,
it will do it again in less time than that. And the software and the parameters and the data are
also going to be up 100x in less than a year. Probably something like that.
And if you look at, I think it's a million x increase in the last 10 years. And so,
you know, and if you take something like AI where we're developing it for increasing
generality, it is basically a general purpose goal achieving tool. Do you want to beat people
at chess? Do you want to beat them at Go? Do you want to beat them at Starcraft? Do you want to
beat them at missile targeting? Do you want to beat them at protein folding? Do you want to
beat them at comprehensive war planning or high speed currency trading? Great. Let's increase
the ability to do all those things. The technology will be developed for one purpose. And we'll
focus on the upside of that. But when the cost of the technology becomes cheap for that purpose,
and then the affordance allows everybody to advance every kind of goal,
that has to be really thought about as part of the externality set.
But the AI is another conversation that I want to have with you, especially with respect to
climate change and the environment. But on this topic, isn't AI being trained with the old linear
model in English and with all the perceptions of what we just discussed of progress? And isn't
it like an exponential layer of the same on top? Like you said, as humans, we have to change our
perception of our relation to the whole. Isn't AI being fed zillions of times more the perception
of what we don't want? Yes, but worse than that, it has the ability to already do goal
achieving, obviously. It does not have the ability for empathy, which means that goal
achieving without empathy is sociopathic. I'm not saying sadistic, it doesn't have interiority.
So AI is only a dark triad, not a dark quad?
The whole conversation around will AI develop sentience or not is another thing. More importantly
is that AI doesn't operate by itself, it operates inside of companies and inside of militaries with
the people that are there as part of a cybernetic system. So it already doesn't have to be
completely general to be part of a cybernetic system that is general. Because what the AI does,
what other types of AI, so the whole cybernetic system has a hybrid of cognitive architectures,
plus what it predisposes the people to do, is actually the thing that's being selected for.
So as we're in a place where technological advancement is speeding up, it is being sold as
the solution to all these problems. They're problems that our previous technological success
has caused. The harms of these technologies are being downplayed. Everyone is racing as we're
crossing planetary boundaries. It would be better if more people understood what is wrong with the
progress narrative and understood what authentic progress actually entails and understood the
caution and restraint that it requires, understood the emphasis on maintaining, understood that
very often the best way to solve a problem is to remove its causes, which actually involves
reversing some stuff rather than always create new stuff. But obviously, market incentive is on
create new stuff. The history books incentive is on create new stuff. But as we think about,
how do we actually solve problems in a way that isn't a racket, that isn't solving a problem
that was caused by the result of our previous problem solving, and that will in turn create more
of that? First, we have to say, is this actually a problem? Is it bad that food perishes? And that's
a problem to solve through artificial preservatives and making Twinkies that can last 25 years,
as opposed to fresh vegetables that start to decay? Or is that not a problem? It's actually a feature
of reality we should interact with and embrace. There's that meme that shows a picture of a
rambunctious kid and it says riddle and easier than parenting. Is our children wanting our time
and our attention a problem that we need a technological solution like an iPad for?
Well, yes, because we have to work because of all the other parts of the system,
but like tribal life was the kids and the old people spending tremendous amounts of time together
as the center of civilization with everyone else spending time supporting that. And so
the first part of problem solving is, is this even a problem? Or is this actually a feature
of reality that yes, it requires, like, do I want to automate every single thing that requires
muscular engagement where then you have a society of obese people with brittle bones and like that?
Or do you actually want that, like, the dynamism of our bodies and the development of strength in
them is actually important? It's actually required that I don't want to automate all those things
away. Do I want to remove every kind of pain like, oh, your family member just died until
you feel depressed. Here's a psych med to take your emotions away. Is it a problem that you're
feeling emotions? And the answer is a technological solution like a psych med or is in the exploration
of those emotions, the possibility that you can have a meaningful life at all because you understand
that everyone you know and love is going to die, you're going to die. What is meaningful while you're
here? Why did what does it mean that you loved that person that you're in deep questions? Some of
the depression is like, I was a shithead to that person. I didn't express my love to them as much.
I was too busy working at my job to have a cost of living that has a bunch of stuff that doesn't
actually make me happy but that I think that I need. And I feel sad and I realize that maybe I'm
not going to stop and then I'm going to die and there aren't going to be that many people who are
that touched by me and like, fuck, maybe that depression is exactly what the fuck you need
to reflect and make a meaningful life change, not a psych med. So the first part of problem solving
is, is this a problem that needs a technological solution or is this a facet of life that I
actually need to embrace and be with? The next step is, if it really is a problem, what caused it?
Was this always the case and it's a feature of reality or was this caused by other things we
did where the first step is undo the causes as opposed to ameliorate at the symptom level,
those causes continue to express somewhere else. And, you know, so there are these kinds of steps
of what would it mean to engage in problem solving in a way that does not cause more problems
and it is possible and it does result in
the possibility of having us have what we add to the world be actual progress,
