it would be better if more people understood what is wrong with the progress narrative
and understood what authentic progress actually entails and understood the caution and restraint
that it requires, understood the emphasis on maintaining, understood that very often the best
way to solve a problem is to remove its causes which actually involves reversing some stuff rather
than always create new stuff but the obviously market incentive is on create new stuff, the history
books incentive is on create new stuff but as we think about how do we actually solve problems
in a way that isn't a racket right that isn't solving a problem that was caused by the result
of our previous problem solving and that will in turn create more of that.
Today I am rejoined by Daniel Schmockdenberger who is the director of the Consilience Project
and the co-founder of Civilization Research Institute where he and his colleagues have just
written a new paper called Development in Progress which is the topic of this long horizontally
and vertically deep conversation with Daniel. We talk about what is progress, the history of
progress, who gets to write the progress narrative and whether progress itself actually means
betterment for society, for the well-being of the human species and the natural world.
You might not be surprised to hear that this episode raised more questions than answers
and in fact I didn't even get to my questions because we were unpacking his paper.
Those are going to have to be discussed in a follow-up conversation.
I think we have to understand the problems, the generator functions, the dynamics and start
asking questions about where do we want to go and how do we get there from here and I think
these conversations with people like Daniel at least start to define the parameters of the
conversation and where we need to go. Please welcome Daniel Schmockdenberger.
Daniel Schmockdenberger, welcome back. Good to see you my friend. Good to see you,
holy crap, you look different. One part Gandalf, one part Zeus, one part Surfer dude.
You didn't mention Appalachia Mountain Guy, just stopped cutting it when I moved to the
mountains out here. All right, well you look happy and healthy. I am happy. The sun just came out
like just a minute ago from where it was raining and storming and there's a huge rainbow over the
mountains right out my window right as we're starting to talk. Wow, yeah the last podcast we
did we had a background of just bright verdant green outside your window and I know you have
a new set up there so we can't see it. Okay, welcome back. We believe it or not, it was a year ago
that we had our last podcast which was on artificial intelligence and the superorganism
and this is kind of the first follow-up to that conversation. One of the core themes we talked
about before we got to AI itself was the delineation between narrow boundary goals and wide
boundary and wisdom and that brought you to talk about what you called then naive progress versus
real progress and you have now written a paper which I've read on this concept, you're now referring
to it as immature versus authentic progress and that is going to be the theme of today's conversation.
How would you like to start? I played a role in writing this paper is our team wrote it so
multi-authored. Yeah, the relationship between what progress actually is, how we think about it
and what our goals are and how we go about achieving them.
If we are having narrowly defined goals as we discussed last time that can be achieved while
externalizing harm in other places and we do a lot of that and we look at all of the goal
achieving and not all the externalities, we can call that progress and for those that happen to
make it through that process that are not the losers of the war and not the species that go
extinct or not the animals that are in the factory farms or the cultures that are genocided or anything
else, there's a survivorship bias of being able to say those narrow definitions, those narrow goals,
we are the beneficiaries of the progress of those narrow goals kind of differentially and so you
can make a progress narrative associated with effective achieving of narrow goals even if they
are driving rivalry and driving externality and you know it's not a great definition of progress,
it's generously, it's a naive definition of progress, less generously it's propaganda
and apologism for winners and the way that humans think about what is progress,
what is actual betterment of the world, what are our lives in service to in that way is
pretty important because it's significant to how we orient ourselves individually and collectively
so that's why it's an interesting topic. Well, while I was waiting for you, I looked up progress
in the dictionary and it has different definitions pretending on the context but as a noun it's
described as gradual betterment and as a verb as to develop a higher better or more advanced stage
so why don't you unpack a little bit on why the concept of progress in our cultural goals,
our aspirations, our narratives, the stories of modern human culture, why it's so important?
I think most everybody watching your show, this is kind of obvious right, they don't think that
the totality of things that are technological advancement or that drive GDP or you know other
things aligned with primary civilizational metrics that we're optimizing that we consider the metrics
of progress are comprehensively good. I think that people listening to your show know that
what we consider progress by those definitions is not necessarily good for nature
and is something that is not good for nature that we depend upon a good definition of progress
is not equally distributed good for across wealth classes, across global south,
across you know so many things like that but we can just give a couple examples
so in your definition it mentioned both advancement and betterment which are different
things and it's kind of important to think about that because advancement could be purely a
technological thing with no definition of good right so we can say that this iteration of the
iPhone is more technologically advanced, has more computer processing, more capabilities,
etc than the previous one so it's definitely progress from the definition of advancement.
Is the world better as a result? Better is a question that science actually can't answer on
its own because it's a question of good right which is related to ought not just is and so now
we get into moral philosophy, we get into something that is connected to but outside of the domains
of the philosophy of science itself which is what is actually good and so let's say that we
look at the graphs that are very clear about how screen time associated with phones corresponds
to teen suicide, suicidal ideations and self-harm and you can watch that as cell phones started
to become ubiquitous and as people spend more hours per day on the cell phones and it's easier
to spend more hours on the ones that are more technologically advanced because they do more
things and end up being more addictive that body dysmorphia and suicide and mental illness go up
and so it's more advanced. Is it better for the people that are using it? No,
in a lot of metrics that really matter right and if you look at the total supply chain effects
of making those and you look at the conflict zones associated with those mines and supply chains
and everything that's all part of the story of is the world better as a result of doing this thing.
There's no question that better living through chemistry, leading up to the world that Rachel
Carlson wrote about in Silent Spring, like leaded gasoline did stop engine knocking,
so it was absolutely better from the perspective of the efficiency of engine
process not knocking. DDT killed mosquitoes. Yeah, very effectively. So from the narrow
definition of kills mosquitoes and provide some convenience, super effective and it was a great
act of technological progress to be able to figure out how to do this thing. Now, did the DDT
start killing everything and causing ecocide at scale and human health effects at scale and
pollinators and ecological collapse and did the leaded gasoline take a billion points off of global
IQ and make us something like 4x more violent? Yes, it did that too. And so this is the thing
is to think about and again, everybody knows from who's listening here that GDP goes up with war,
military spending for private contractors. So if market size is a measure of civilizational
progress, then war is awesome. GDP goes up with addiction because if someone is addicted to
McDonald's, addicted to their smartphone and purchasing, addicted to whatever leads to more
market activity, it goes up with diseases that are treated through for-profit processes.
And so there are a lot of ways and there are kids who do very well at the primary metrics
of school like SATs but who are suicidal or sociopathic. So from the narrow definition of did
this way of raising kids and educating them do well, SAT, sure. From did we raise
healthy human beings that can also contribute to a healthy society? It's a very different question.
The idea that humanity has been making kind of these strides of progress as we have had cumulative
knowledge and we've definitely had cumulative knowledge and there are definitely things about
it that are good. If someone was trying to figure out math from scratch on their own and there hadn't
been recorded knowledge, they'd never get as far as Roman numerals, right? They'd get like
maybe counting. But we can learn all of this knowledge and do things with it.
So there is progress of stored knowledge. There is progress of capability of achieving things.
Are the goals well-defined? Are they good goals is a really important question.
And the progress narrative, the idea that technology in particular is advancing rapidly
and is making everything better and better along with the market and democracy and science.
And that this is the best time to be alive and that the Hobbesian view that the state of man
in nature, their life is brutish, short, nasty and mean, we have civilized ourselves, everyone is
literate, et cetera. Nobody would want to go back to the days before Novocaine. We have so much more
wealth now, et cetera, et cetera. And we're right about to develop AIs that will usher in a phase
of so much more rapid exponential progress that it will bring about abundance and utopia for everybody.
That narrative really took off following kind of what we call modernity, the enlightenment,
the scientific revolution leading to the industrial revolution and the rapid changes
that have happened in the world. And that corresponds with what you talk about of the
carbon spike. And it changed everything radically and rapidly in a way that there was no precedent
for that much change that quickly, going from half a billion people to eight billion people
in 200 years where it had taken 200,000 years to get to half a billion people of humans being here.
I'm just wondering if the carbon pulse and the related economic growth enabled people to follow
this idea of progress? And if we wouldn't have had growth, they would have complained or we would
have thought of different ways. But as long as it was possible for them to be part of the winners,
then this was all accepted. But now things are becoming too obvious to deny what's happening
to the planetary ecological situation, inequality, lots of pollution and other things.
So has there always been a critique of progress? And it's just the last century or so it's been
diminished because everyone could ride this wave or historically, what do you think about that?
Okay, so I want to come back to how the progress narrative kind of formalized in modernity.
But let's go back before that, well before that, well before the carbon pulse.
It's a pretty simple thing to state that history is written by the winners of wars.
The losers of wars don't get to write history books. And the history that is written by the
continuously written by the next winner of war creates a progress narrative because the winner
typically says it was a good thing that they won. It wasn't a bad thing that they won.
And so they will say things like we are civilizing the savages with our colonialism. And it's
actually a great act of benevolence that these naked barbarous savages are getting taught English
and Christianity and literacy, they were all illiterate. And so we will
gruesomely straw man their civilization or culture if not totally villainize it.
And then paint a story of what we did that goes along with the power conferred by doing it.
And so if one view, kind of a real politic, a real view of history is just study conquerors for
a minute. Just study the history of conquerors. Genghis Khan killed roughly 50 million people in his
life. And the estimates vary 50 million is a pretty standard estimate. But like this was
well before industrial technology, there were no tanks, there was no air force, right? Like this
was cavalry. And he and his men killed 11% of the entire global population.
Mind blowingly brutally, unnecessarily. And to then also recognize this that
something like 10% of the population of Asia are all believed to be his descendants now,
because in addition to the amount of killing, the amount of raping that happened.
So then you look at Attila the Hun and then you look at Alexander the Great. You look at
Caesar, you look at Ivan the Terrible, you look at the progressive history of that. And
there were cultures that were way more peaceful, that lived in more harmony with nature, that were
not focused on growth of empire at all costs. If you actually look at indigenous culture,
it's a very interesting thing. The thing we call the beginning of civilization.
It's such a funny thing, right? Like typically somewhere around Babylonia, Mesopotamia, early
Egypt, we call the beginning of civilization. Maybe now we say gobleki tepi, but it's very
recent, like some 10,000-ish years. And it has to do with animal husbandry, agriculture,
and growing large populations and permanent settlements in the written word and a few things
like that. But humans have been here for a couple hundred thousand years before that. They had
worldviews and systems of medicine and systems of music and art and poetry and dance. And
like a lot of things, they had the same genetic brains we have and wisdom and they didn't live.
Old people didn't live to be 30 years old. That's just utter gibberish, right? Like,
yes, infant mortality was high. But old people were old people throughout history. And
you'll notice that there's a reason why all those cultures stayed pretty small,
right? They stayed within one of the Dunbar numbers. And it's not that they couldn't grow,
it's that they had very strong reasons not to. And we discussed last time a little bit that
pretty much any definition of wisdom that anybody offers usually has restraint as an embedded concept.
Wisdom involves what not to do, where you could have personal advantage, where you could have
some near term advantage. But it's actually not the right thing to do. And so, if you think about
the Dunbar numbers, right, kind of the first one.
What do you mean by first one? Well, the original Dunbar number proposed was roughly something
about 150, 150 to 220 somewhere in there. And then other people have done kind of progressive
Dunbar-like numbers, which are different numbers of people where different coordination systems
are possible up to that number. And there are some that are smaller than that and some that are
larger than that. But let's just take that one, because that was a very significant one.
Up to that number, everybody can fit around a tribal council and all be in a single conversation
without amplification, right? They can all hear each other and possibly all contribute to a really
significant choice that's going to affect everybody's life. Everybody can know everybody,
so if I'm making sacrifices for other people, they're not anonymous strangers that I think are
assholes. They're like people that have saved my life. They're people that helped raise me. They're
people who I helped raise there. And so, at the scale where everybody can know everybody, everybody
can love everybody, everybody has some connection with everyone, and where we can all have a say in
that which our life will be bound to, there's a lot of reason to not get bigger than that. If it
gets bigger than that and there's a decision to make and there's not time or capacity to hear
everyone's voice, some people will have to subordinate and now my life is subject to things
I don't have a choice. So, in some senses, there's a negative feedback to progress and because of
so much social reciprocity that potentially informs wisdom and restraint at that scale.
Well, it's that they had some insight that a larger number of people was not progress.
And it was not betterment and the definition that they were interested in because it meant
actually less having a say in your own life and less intimacy with everybody that you are
in engagement with, right? Well, for a lot of part, a lot of those millennia,
they were running up against limits like they couldn't support larger populations necessarily
because of the natural resources and food and such.
No, I think there were a lot of places where they could and you had multiple tribes in the same
place that ended up creating tribal relationships with each other. You can see this in the recent
parts that we have in writing with the Iroquois Confederacy and like that and yet rather than
all make one giant city, they actually stayed in these separate bands or tribes and had relationships
with each other. And they actually had things about restraint that were very clear and actually
kind of amazing. So for instance, when you look at the Indians of the Pacific Northwest where
the kind of caloric abundance was really high because of the salmon and other things like that,
when they made technological advances like in better fishing hooks and longer lines,
there were rules to use that efficiency to spend less time fishing, not catch more fish.
So it was like an embedded anti-Jevons paradox rule.
