they're dirty again and the but you're actually maintaining the sacred thing. And then true
progress is where I can add a new thing that really is factoring everything good for the whole.
Then yes, I will add those things and that's progress, but it has to really be good for the
whole factoring everything that's involved. And most of my attention is actually needed to maintain
all that's happening. So I both want to kind of like reclaim what progress is, which is important
and sacred, but also move it out of the center and that it's only in the center in the same way
that like when someone is more unfulfilled, they have more addictive tendencies because they're
looking for a hit of something. When someone is more fulfilled, they have less addictive tendencies.
There is a way that when someone is in appreciation of what is and they're in meaningful intimate
relationships, the so much of the impulse of progress that is actually coming from emptiness
and the desire to be somebody. I got that Nobel Prize, I got that PhD, I got that position,
I won, I whatever is a compensation for actual like trauma and emptiness.
And so it's not only that it's not authentic progress in the world, it's that where it's
even coming from in me is not aligned with the fullness of the world and adding fullness. It's
aligned with my own emptiness and the desire to do something that will fill that up that is not
the right thing. So it's the hungry ghosts are consuming alcohol and pizzas and building shopping
centers and getting stock options and all that to fill a trauma and a loneliness, not actually to
achieve something monumental that's great for society and the future.
Yes, but it will be sold as that.
So is there any evidence that the people that are in the dark triad or those people that are
riding high atop Moloch and the superorganism have a higher incidence of trauma and loneliness
and emptiness? I don't know stats on like ACEs, childhood trauma associated with those positions.
There are certainly plenty of very traumatized poor people and it's not like everyone responds
to trauma in the same way. The total nuances of how trauma ends up affecting someone are
not easy to put an algorithm together to predict. So someone is physically abused when they're
little and they grow up to physically abused children. Someone else is physically abused
when they're little and they grow up to be the most nonviolent person who doesn't ever want to be
like that. Maybe even to the place that as it's an overcompensation, they don't stand up enough.
Right? Someone else has the healthiest response and actually becomes a protector of children.
It is not necessarily saying that the people who are in the highest positions of power are most
traumatized, but they had types of trauma that oriented themselves to both power seeking and
types of education that oriented themselves to good insights about how to do power at scale
effectively. So I can tell you an n equals one experience. I was recently in India and I spent
a lot of time with 30 people every day chanting, singing, humming, eating, doing sports, doing
yoga, etc. And then I would go for bikes in the forest and record sounds of birds and I came back
and my addiction impulses were much lower because I had six weeks living on more of a
maintenance. I'm maintaining the thing. I don't need other things. And I was like, oh my gosh,
this is what we need to change the culture. But the other part was when I came back, it was a week
or two and I got sucked right back into the vortex of everything going on in this culture.
So we need both. We need the personal discipline and change in a community,
but we also need the infrastructure and the institutional change and that crucible.
Think about this. When you were in that environment with those people in India,
the reward circuits that you were experiencing on a day-to-day basis were
the type of pleasure, the type of reward that comes from intimate communion with other people,
that comes from listening to birds, that comes from people having authentic conversations that
don't have status climbing as part of them focused on meaningful and real things. It came from all
that, right? And so there's a fulfillment in that that is not oriented with how many likes
a thing got or how much we did this thing or whatever. Those things weren't available. I mean,
I had internet there, but there weren't all those other distractions except there were
parties with music and there were musical concerts every night of the week there. Those were the
options. Right. But someone's not craving the other thing because the reward circuits are full.
Exactly. Someone's actually in a state of fulfillment and they're in a state of fulfillment
for things that make them healthier, the relational network healthier,
and that can align with stewarding the world well. Now, if you go to an environment where
you go to a different environment where there's nobody around you and there's no real intimate
connections, and so again, we're social primates. This is such an important evolutionary thing is
that there wasn't a lone dude with stone tools in the Serengeti making it with the lions and the
hyenas. There were tribes of people that would make it and so the the idea of umbuntu, I am because
we are, that was this foundational concept of human beings before the thing we call civilization.
Right. I am because we are was like just at the most prosaic level, nature did not select for
individual sapiens. It only selected for groups of sapiens. Individual sapiens in evolutionary
environments were all dead. And so what's best for me that fucks the tribe is not a concept.
That's not a thing, right? What is best for the tribe that I can't exist without of? I am because
we are. I would not exist. I'd be dead without all of us. That's like the basic insight. So
I am because we are obviously just starts with I couldn't survive without us.
But then it's also deeper, which is I think in words that I didn't invent,
that all these other people invented. And but my own most intimate thing, my thoughts with myself
are in a language that I didn't make. I am my my thoughts were made by other people, right? The
language of my thoughts. My understanding of the world was transmitted to me largely by other
people. The tools that I use, the things that I benefit from the all of that, that I am almost
all the things I think of as I am because we are right because of things that were created.
Okay, now I have so many questions, but and then it goes deeper because the we was never
never just meant our tribe. It also meant nature to all our relationships and all our
relationships was all life and life didn't just mean biological, which is why they were
animistic. Those cultures were all animistic, the spirit of the sun, the spirit of the river,
the spirit of everything, because it was a very clear understanding. What would I be
without the tribe? I'd be dead. What would I be without the sun? I would have never existed.
What would I be without the galactic center around which the sun orbits? I wouldn't exist.
What would I be without the gravitational field? What would I be without the soil microbes? What
would I be without plants? What would I be without all of that? I wouldn't be. I, that is not the
emergent property of we, isn't even a thing. It's not even thinking well.
Fast forward to today and when I'm sitting around by myself lost in my thoughts, my thoughts are
in English, which is a language of the winners that I'm not even aware of everything that came
before that English was selected for in this progress, a story over the last few hundred years.
Is that also part of the, this story? Totally. So,
our Umwelt, our, the things that are in our awareness is the tiniest, tiniest sliver of a
fraction of what is real in universe. And so there's, you know, like within the progress narrative,
most people don't miss the being able to actually understand what the animals are saying
in the way that indigenous people have much more understanding what the animals are saying is
they're growing up in the environment listening to them, right? Most people don't miss that because
they never had it and they don't even realize they don't have it and they don't realize how
much more communicative and alive the forest is to someone who knows how to listen. And so
they are impoverished but they don't know it. And they don't miss having a bunch of people that they
can be completely authentic with because they've never experienced that. They've never been completely
authentic with any human being. They are always fucking withholding and lying to some degree
and always paying attention to appearance so they don't miss a thing they don't know exists.
And they don't miss what it feels like to have a body that doesn't have 300 petrochemicals in it
because they have never had a body that didn't have 300 petrochemicals in it and what real
vibrancy feels like they have no idea. This has rhymes and analogies to the movie The Matrix.
Yes. And so some people take the blue pill, right, because the reward circuits, even once they see
it. And so one, people have a hard time imagining that there was a life that was awesome full of
things that they have no experience of or even awareness that was a thing. There's a cool
documentary. I think it's called Everything is Rhythm that shows how in African tribes what,
when the way somebody was weaving and the way someone was cutting something and the
were actually all making music and dancing together, right? They were actually all in this
experience of nearly continuous rhythm and whatever they were doing and part of the
communication process that was not mediated through words and semantics. Like what does it
feel like to be part of a culture where everything you're doing is song and dance in coordination
with everyone and that you feel this kind of rhythm with each other and the rhythm with nature?
Most people have no idea that's a thing. And so many things like that. So it's hard to value
things that you don't even know exist. And it's hard to let go of the only hits of pleasure you've
ever had. And so even though when you look at the graph of the reported amount of suicide,
I mean, the amount, the recorded amount of suicide for teens proportional to the number
of hours per day they use their cell phone. And that as the number of hours goes from a half hour
up with each hour up, the rate of suicide goes up. The teen doesn't want to give up their phone.
They will completely fight to keep their phone and don't want to give up the pleasure hits they
get associated with the likes they get from the beauty filter on Instagram that is what drives
their body dysmorphia. Well, that right there is another microcosm of our entire GDP focused
super economic super organism culture. Yes, advancement is not better meant.
And if you have, if you, if you go back to Descartes, so I said I'd come back to modernity at some
point. So there has always been this story all that I wouldn't say always for a very long time
there's been this histories written by the winner and the winner usually says them winning was a good
thing. And, you know, Genghis Khan united the disparate Mongol tribes and Alexander the Great
and Caesar, you know, united and expanded their great kingdom and etc. So there was always that
element of progress, but it was also kind of bound with appreciation of certain types of tradition
associated with religion and whatever. Associated with modernity and kind of mostly getting like a
decreasing the role of religion and the then kind of rapid increase in scientific and technological
progress. The progress part became almost the entire story and the idea of progress through
these new institutions science, technology, industry, market, democracy, etc. became
like the dominant narrative. And if you go to Descartes and the separation of
the objective world that you can measure, we can all measure, we can get repeatable measurements
and we can apply science, the philosophy and the methodology of science. And that's the domain of
is, right? But that science can't say anything about the domain of ought because I can't measure
ought, right? I can't measure, we can't all independently measure, is that beautiful? Is
that good? I can independently measure how fast it is or how heavy it is or, you know, how much
kinetic energy it has or whatever. So where does the ought come in? So, you know, Descartes is like,
well, that's the domain of religion. And it can deal with that stuff. But science can't. And so
science is only going to deal with the is. Well, but the is is focused on
being able to reduce a domain of reality to a model that emphasizes mechanisms that both
allows me to predict things and then create the applied side of science, which is technology
that can control things. And so it's learn how leverage works to be able to apply levers to
build megalithic construction, right? It's learn how genetics work to be able to do genetic
engineering. It's learn how chemistry and thermodynamics and mechanics work to make internal
combustion engines. But if the applied side of is of science is engineering, what is a good
technology? Well, no, no, no, we can't do anything with that, right? So which thing gets built
is, well, where did the money for the research come from?
Somebody that has money that is seeking ROI on that money. And so you don't really get science,
you get the R&D arm of the market. Because the research money is going to be pursuing something
that generally has some goal that's associated with it. And so the profitable, extractive,
you know, whatever thing. And, you know, because science can't say what ought with its
methods, because of that division of the subjective universe and the objective universe,
which not all philosophies had, even the Greeks didn't divide those, right? And as far as westerns,
and definitely the Vedic system and the Taoist system and indigenous systems didn't divide
subject and object and make object that is measurable, repeatedly real with some methods and
the other either not real or, you know, whatever. So because when you're just focused on the objects,
there is no meaning. And I can't measure those things, right? I can try to measure a neural
correlate when someone says they're in an experience of intimacy, but that's not the experience of
intimacy. So when von Neumann wrote economics and game theory, it's important that it was those
two things in the book, von Neumann and Morgenstern, right? It was game theory, the formalization
of the mathematics of how to win at win-lose strategy games under uncertainty and the theory
of the market, which was, you know, application of that same principle. So what is a good choice?
Science can't answer, but game theory ended up becoming the best, closest thing to what a
scientifically congruent thing could say is the best answer or a good choice is the choice that
doesn't lose. And so under uncertainty, assume the other guy has more malicious intent, more
military and prepared to not lose under that scenario and, you know, on and on. And so that
definition of which has nothing to do with good, right? It just has to do with not a particular
kind of bad to me, you know, under that uncertainty. So if you can study the world down to the level
of mechanism where you can then engineer to the degree that you can land a rover on Mars,
and you can split the nucleus of an atom, and you can make AIs that can beat humans at war games,
and you can scale up industrial technology to planetary scales and extinct species at scale
and make new species with genetic engineering. That level of technological power in the domain
of is applied is not bound by what is actually good in some deeper understanding, where the only
good is that which wins game theoretically. That choice making system on that level of tech will
self terminate in the same way the cancer does in the same way so many earlier civilizations did.
And so the fact that we have such a powerful system of the study of is that can lead to all
that technology, we do have implicit within us the ability to have a comparably abstract and deep
and profound system of ethics or wisdom about the nature of odd to bind that other thing. I know
you've had Ian McGill Creston and the framework of the master in the emissary that the goal achieving
has to be bound by picking good goals. And it is not the analytical break all the parts into
pieces come up with the metric part that can figure out good goals. It's the field of I am
because we are. So is this a good goal for the totality of we? Am I perspective seeking and
feeling and then being engaged with the reality for everybody? Are they all at the table such
that it could be? So if we get incredibly powerful at goal achieving with shitty goals,
very narrow goals that are beneficial and then increasingly narrow metrics with increasing
harm externalization as we're passing thresholds of harm externalization capacity for the planet,
that thing terminates. So to steward that much goal achieving power, we must
meet it with what are good goals? What is actually progress? What is worth maintaining? What is
worth for sure protecting and maintaining? What do what should be reversed that already harmed
things where the actual progress would come from reversing some of the stuff not just making more
new stuff? So what if we had the ability to take a hundred or a thousand billionaires,
but not just billionaires, but the the social power equivalent modern day of Kissinger,
as you said earlier, and like in Clockwork Orange, like force their eyes open and watch this entire
episode, what would such a group of people and beyond be able to do from the moment we are in
2024 and you know the the meta crisis at its current state? What could we do to step more
towards authentic progress and the maintenance of just the good things that make our planet and our
civilization viable and and get rid of the the bad goals? So there's this quote from
General Smedley Butler and he called war as a racket. It's very famous. I'll read just the
beginning. It's long and people can go check it out. And you know I'm assuming people know what
a racket is. A racket is like a classic example is a protection racket where a gang will come
rough up a store so the store thinks that they need protection and the police aren't protecting
