agency, but they're good at it. And if you look at the distribution of traits that humans have
in a population like empathy, they'll usually follow a Gaussian distribution, right? You'll
have most people are here, they have some level of empathy for some circle of people,
you know, kind of average. There are Bodhisattvas on one side that are hyper empathetic, and there
are sociopaths on the other side, no empathy. And we could also take say Machiavellianism,
how good someone is at like long gaming chess. And there will be most people are kind of here,
you have some that are really amazing strategists, and some that really suck at it. And
there is a kind of naive sociology that looks at the Gaussian distribution of human traits and
tries to explain the world by that distribution of traits, and it doesn't work. And it's because if
you look at the distribution of power, which is what's influencing the world, it doesn't have a
Gaussian distribution, it has a power law distribution. The power law distribution means a
few people over here have almost all the influence. That's true in money. It's true in the stats of,
you know, the differential between the top wealthiest and the bottom poorest people continue
to get more and more extreme. And the graphs that look at the power law distribution of money
from 1960 to 2000 to now are amazing how much deeper that curve gets. But I think it's something
like the top eight wealthiest people have more money than the bottom 4 billion people currently.
Right. But does that power law also work within the top 1%? There's another power law within that
top 1% where 20% have 80% of the wealth? Yeah, obviously 1% is a lot of people,
8 people having more wealth than 4 billion people is pretty significant. And so this is true in
terms of military power. Not that many people can push nuclear buttons. This is true in terms of
media power. This is true in terms of financial power. This is true in terms of technological
innovation capabilities is that there's these kind of power law distributions. And so the people
at the top of the power law distribution explain the shape of civilization much more than everybody
does. And those people don't come from the center of the bell curve of almost any psychological trait.
And in ancestral times, we still had the same Gaussian curves, but we didn't have the energy
surplus and the scale because power, you know, 10,000 years ago with 150 people or whatever,
and power in nature, there is only so much endosomatic energy that an organism or a human,
pre-modern human could use. And so it's the scale of size of people and the civilization
coupled with this giant dollop of historical magic dumped in our economy a couple of hundred
years ago that allows this accordion to spread upwards. They didn't have the same Gaussian
distribution. Okay, why? Okay, so going back to this idea that the people who are at the top
of the power law distributions that have the most influence are not at the center of the bell curve
of psychological and behavioral traits. They're usually like two standard deviations to one side.
More sociopathic, less empathetic, more driven and motivated towards narrow goals,
better at technology and propaganda and long range strategic thinking and whatever, right?
And just to interject there, did those people design our structures or did our structures
self-select for those? Recursively both, right? Someone is born into structures. Someone who
wants to be at the top of the power law is a desire. It's a particular type of desire that
really, really wants that and that is good at it and can win enough win-lose games to ladder climb
to the very top of it and can drive enough externalities and rivalry and whatever to get there.
So they are, the current systems are selecting for the people that can win at the current systems,
but then those people in turn change the systems in a way that continues to optimize their winning,
which is just like evolution. Is the animal created by its environment or does it niche
create to make more of an environment that's good for it? So we are both being shaped by the
niche and the niche creating in turn. But the other thing is that it doesn't just mean that
they're making, so that looks like somebody gets to a high position in finance and law
in the current system and then they change laws. They do, they remove Glass-Steagall,
they do financial deregulation, they interpret the 14th Amendment as corporate personhood rights,
they interpret the L'Oreal case or whatever as to do fiduciary responsibility for profit
maximization. So the people who can change the system to continuously be better, they decide that
bailouts for the banks that failed and too big to fail and golden parachutes made sense.
So it's simultaneously or like someone is good at war and then they innovate at war.
Right? So it is this recursion. Now the people who are in those top positions are not only
changing the system to be better for them, they also are obviously invested in that success. So
anyone else who would be very successfully doing something that would mess that strategy up,
they have a maximum incentive to make sure don't succeed.
I did it frankly a few months ago. I forgot what the main topic was, but I talked about
dark triad and in my research it said that around 10% of our modern population is dark triad,
but that that is probably an underestimate because of someone that's Machiavellian is not going to
answer those surveys in the way that would show that they're a dark triad. But are you saying that
10,000 years ago, 50,000 years ago, 10% of our population were not that combination of traits?
It's something modern?
Look at the story of how the Spartans raised their kids.
The, you know, they're kind of famous stories that if when the infant came out, if it looked like
it had any deformities or was small or a run kind of thing that it was killed right away,
infanticide of ones that didn't look like they would be kind of maximally dominant.
And then how early they were being trained in warfare and, you know, the process that happened
when they were six where they had to kill adult slaves with tools. And if the adult slaves killed
them, great, they're dead. But only the ones that make it through are the ones that have this much,
you know, kind of vicious capability. So is that conditioning the gout? If you're in Spartan
society, is that conditioning the Gaussian distribution of everybody?
Of course it is. If you are in a, and this is why looking at the kind of extreme outliers of
the things that we think of as human nature under different conditioning is so important,
is you can have the Jains who across the whole population, nobody hurts bugs.
I met some Jains when I was in India. They were just wonderful, wonderful human beings.
Yes. And so it's clearly not just a Gaussian distribution or a genetic thing because you
can have an entire culture where everybody who gets raised there doesn't hurt bugs.
And then you can have the child soldiers in Darfur, Liberia or whatever where if you
make it to adulthood, you have killed people. You have packed people apart with machetes.
So our culture is recursively building out the percentage of our population that exhibit
dark triad because of incentives and self-selection and other things, yes?
Yes and no. I would say that there are not, there's not the kind of data that I would
feel was meaningful to try to make really strong statistical claims. But I'll say some
things about trends that I think will feel intuitively resonant to most people.
The digital universe as a native universe generationally has narcissistic conditioning
pretty built in, meaning that if I'm in the woods, the woods don't rearrange themselves for
me. I can fall out of a tree and get hurt. I actually learned that there is this unforgiving
nature, Eric likes to call it, of reality that I have to actually respect it and interact with it
in a respectful way and it doesn't conform itself to me. If I have a digital universe where the
newsfeed is literally conforming itself to maximally entertain and engage me and I have an
infinite amount of options and I can just, all I have to do is this and the whole universe changes.
Now I'm in this universe, now I'm in this universe and it's maximized for my kind of dopamine
optimization. Do I have a world in which my conditioning is the whole world is supposed
to conform itself to what I'm interested in and I'm supposed to do very little and be able to
get lots of reward. So you're saying that what we assume is the good life and our own choice,
our own volition is actually manufactured demand by the winners in our current society?
Again, if we go to the old people on their deathbed reflecting on what was meaningful,
most of what the people spent their whole life pursuing is what they wish in reflection that
they had not spent their whole time pursuing. And most of the things that they called successes
and progress are not part of what is in their mind as they're dying that they wish they had
spent more time with. Well, that begs the question, at what point in their life could they have
realized that and made different decisions? And we will see times where someone decides to
leave the rat race and keeping up with the Joneses where every time they get a raise,
they increase their cost of living so they have to keep working more and paying someone else to
raise their kids because the other person charges less than they can make and on and on.
And where they're like, oh, fuck it, I'm out, I'm going to lower my cost of living and I'm going
to try to do something where I can spend time with my kids and I can spend time in nature
and I can reflect on why I exist at all before I die. And the sense of meaningfulness and
fulfillment almost always goes up when people do that, as does the harm footprint they cause on
the world to go down, as does the intimacy and meaningfulness of their relationships and the
quality of life of the people they touch. And where do those people fall on the behavioral
Gaussian distribution or who knows? Well, there, so like I said, the selection criteria selects for
people that lead things that end up winning at power and other people that are willing to
follow and participate with that thing. So, very famously in the Nuremberg trials of Nazis
after World War II, when the Nazis were being tried for the war crimes and they were all asked,
did you believe that everything you were doing was good? About 90% of the Nazis said
only at first. At first, we were, you know, we had been in terrible poverty in the Weimar Republic,
our kids couldn't eat and you know, etc. The Jews had all this wealth. And, you know, we believed
that we were getting supported to be able to, you know, do well for our people and whatever.
But as time went on, like no, we did not feel good about putting kids in gas chambers. And we
didn't feel good about seeing them starving, like we felt really bad about it. Like 90% of the Nazis
said no, I did not feel good about it. And then when they were asked, did you try to stop it,
they all said no. And then they quoted the same German phrase that translates to officer's orders,
I didn't have a choice. And yet of course, if 90% of them had all said that simultaneously,
which is a coordination failure here on their part, there would have been no holocaust. But
anyone on their own is like, if I try to defect, I'll get thrown in the gas chamber too. So it's
best for me and my family to just go along with it. It's kind of a gruesome microcosm of what we
face on so many levels today. Yes. And so the Ash conformity studies and the Milgram studies were
so important. And I think actually under represent how deep those principles are, right? The idea
that when the authority was telling the person, the scientific authority, hey, you're in a study,
do this thing, and we're doing electroshock therapy, whatever, that the person following
authority would shock the other guy to death. Because of I don't have a choice, the authority's
telling me. Or in the other one, in the Ash ones, that if 10 people in the room were all saying,
this line is longer than that line, the person would defect on their own understanding to go
along with that. These are very powerful insights. And the smoke filled room. If there's smoke coming
under the door and other people don't notice it or don't care about it, I don't speak up.
We are social creatures, social conformity as a core driver.
If there was, so imagine that you have that tin tribes and kind of harmony world. And for
whatever reason, somebody hits his head, gets traumatic brain injury that knocks his empathy
out. And now he's an asshole and wants tribal warfare where it was not necessary before and
figures out how to try to make a story that it'll be in everybody's interest because the other
tribes are really plotting against us even though they aren't or whatever. You could imagine a
scenario where the other people were like, dude, you're crazy, like, no, we're not going to do
that thing. And you need to chill out or you're going to get banished. And that happened, right?
That happened a lot. But if that guy succeeds, because he scares people enough, right? Let's
say he's really big or whatever it is or kind of brutal, that nobody wants to stand up because
even though if everyone stood up together, they could deal with him individually, nobody wants
to stand up to him, you can start to have a situation where everyone else has their survival
strategy being not like getting the goods that guy is going to deliver. He's going to deliver
safety and he's going to deliver economic growth and he's going to deliver whatever and you don't
want to piss that guy off. And so you get a kind of fealty that Stockholm syndrome
with that kind of leadership and also a recognition that if you go against it,
it's not going to go well for you and still won't change the scenario. So then again,
you have this plausible deniability best for me and my family is just go along with it.
But that combination of distortion, like profound ethical distortion and leaders
and complicity in others and the environments that were already created in power conditioning
those psychologies and then the psychologies to get to the top of the power stack conditioning
more of systems that continue to do that, the recursion on all of that is the thing that we
call mo-lock or whatever it is the set of system dispositions that continue to orient in a particular
direction. And this is why they have continued to orient in the direction of more extraction,
more technological power, more military capability, more money, more and its advancement
technologically. Is it progress in terms of good? Well, obviously none of the species we made extinct
through doing it thinks so. And obviously none of the animals and factory farms think so.
And obviously none of the, you know, some odd 50 million people that are in conditions of slavery
today doing forced labor to make that system work thinks so. No Native Americans in North America
think that the U.S. progress story was awesome. American descendants of slaves don't think the
progress story was awesome. And not only that, you know, like even the people who are winning,
so even the billionaire, his body is being exposed to the carcinogens that the industries have caused
that the medicine cannot solve. And
even if you look at the quality of life there, it is actually with decreasing actual fulfillment
and the replacement of fulfillment with mostly addictive flashes, right? Reward circuits that
provide kind of addictive flashes, whether that's, you know, food, drug or new yacht or new position
of market dominance. Now, this is actually another part that's so important. I want real progress.
I think it's a very important thing to see that we can grow and that we can add our life energy
to the world in a meaningful way. And
this is why really thinking about what would constitute actual progress, that the world is
better as a result of us having done this, better the world, not my tiny world, not better in this
metric, but the world long term, thinking seven generations ahead, thinking about all the other
species we inhabit it with, thinking about all of the different aspects of self, like does my,
did my cell phone enhance a lot of things? Yes, did it diminish a lot of other things, even for me?
Yes. So what does better mean if I really kind of think and feel through that well?
And so I want us to pursue real progress. I want us to rescue it from the kind of bullshit progress.
But also in a healthy life, progress is not as important. It's not as central because if life
is fulfilling now, if life is a gift now, I'm not exclusively focused on making it better in the future
and making it better that corresponds to winning usually. Or, and I'm not even focused on changing
it as much as I am also maintaining it and appreciating it. So progress gets a
undue emphasis when there is a disconnection from being where now is miserable, so good has to be
in the future by me doing some new thing. And if you, if you think about the unlikely miracle
of our existence, right, and you think about the billions of years of stuff that had to happen
to make a biosphere with the complexity that we could exist,
and you think about the miracle that we get to see colors and we get to hear birds and we get to
exist and that we get to love children and we get to like all the things and
and appreciating what already is that is so profoundly unlikely that took billions of
years to make and so much activity, like there should be most of our life should actually just
be an odd appreciation at what is and then the desire to maintain and protect it because it is
so unlikely and so much work went into bringing this about. But nobody makes the history books
for maintaining things. They make the history books for making new stuff or destroying stuff.
Or you put the two together, creative destruction, which is the creed of society right now. But
like 99% of life should actually be maintenance. 99% of life is you feed the kids and the meal
that you made then is gone and then you make another meal and you wash the plates and then
