meaning actual betterment. But it is different in process and different, different in process
and different in motive in almost every way. Is there a third step?
There's some papers we're going to publish on the processes that you can walk through and they're
not formal, they're not algorithmic, they're principled kinds of reasoning, like is this
really a problem that needs a technological solution or is this a facet of reality to be with?
Is this what were the causes? Have I traced it back to the causes? Do I understand them? Do I
understand the cause of those kinds? You know, like those kinds of things, one of them is yellow
teaming. Yellow teaming is once we decide there is a thing that we want to create, whether it's a
law or a business or a technology, because there is some thing where we've addressed the upstream
causes, etc., and there's still something to develop, then I really want to think through
if this thing succeeds and solves the narrowly defined definition of a problem, what is the
totality of the effects of it succeeding on all the other areas? And where is it going to externalize
effects? Because it's going to have effects other than that one area, and if it externalizes more
positives, awesome, that's a good sign that it's in the right direction. And if you look at like a
tree, a tree does a million positive things for a million entities over a million timescales,
right? The tree is causing benefit to squirrels and to butterflies and to birds and to insects and
to soil microbes. It's stabilizing topsoil and holding moisture in the ecosystem and causing
transpiration and keeping the river clean in the banks of the river. So like positive externalities
are actually the results of good design based on understanding the interconnectedness of things.
Negative external is where you don't understand the interconnectedness. You optimize it for a
narrow thing and externalize it everywhere else. So the yellow teaming is the thinking through the
network of relationships and causal dynamics such that you look at the externalities, both physical
and psychosocial, see where there are possibly harmful ones, and say either we don't do the thing
or how do we design such that that's not the case, that the externalize effects are positive.
And that is actually possible, not perfectly but progressively better.
It's sometimes with increasing frequency seems to me that we're waking up as a
species at the exact time the clock is running out.
That's the hope. That's the possibility.
Yeah. So isn't the paper in the public domain at a podcast about naive versus authentic progress
a tiny sign of authentic progress?
There are signs of authentic progress in the world. There are more people that kind of care about deep
ecology. There are more people that are interested in thinking about long-term futures well.
There are more people interested in approaches to healthcare that are not exclusively
allopathic healthcare. Currently, the rates of growth of the things that are moving in the
authentic progress direction versus the narrow progress harm externalizing direction are not
adequate, right? And like I said, many of the things and everybody that is contributing to
the meta crisis thinks that they are contributing to real progress, right?
I'm providing a product or service that the market wants, which means there's demand for it,
which means it's increasing, it's solving some problem for someone that makes their life better.
And I'm employing the tools of science and technology, which is this awesome system that
allows us to understand the world in a unified way and improve things. And that's the story.
And that's why people can come out in such defensive fossil fuels of look at all the
things they give us and of the market. And they do. And they give all of these externalities.
And while that has benefited some and sucked for others, it also benefits some
dimensions of self and sucks for the dimensions of self, even for those most being benefited.
And it is in the process of self-terminating where it will be a benefit to no one.
In which case, the damn, I really don't want to be complicit with that thing. Damn, I really don't
want to just, what's best for me and my family is continue to have optionality tokens.
And damn, I don't want to try to make things better where I end up making them worse because
I am coming from the same type of mind that engages in rivalry and does a movement in a way
that creates counter movements and that optimizes for one thing in a way that ends up causing harm
elsewhere. So I want that the activism, the protection impulse in me reconnects to the
source of reality deeply enough that I know how to participate, that I'm guided and how to
participate in a way that is actually meaningful. So I would actually like to see a slightly slower
movement into action, a deeper movement into withdrawal, and a deeper understanding of the
history of well-intended failed actions more rigorously. It's very painful.
And a deeper being with the emotions about the whole thing and really taking it all in
and noticing how much of our desire to make it better is still ego, is still
an avoidance mechanism for not wanting to feel it, is still a problem solving mode that is
reductionistic, that will end up contributing to it and like letting that stuff settle.
To get to a place where one can engage in how to shift the system dynamics of the world
in a way that are actually what's needed. Here, here. Once again, you have surprised me.
I read your paper. I understood it and this conversation went in a different way than I
expected. What would you like from our viewers? How would you like to wrap this up and what are
next steps? You mentioned 12 questions that we didn't get to and some viewers may have questions
thoughts. So if there are interesting questions, then maybe we can do a session two, particularly
if once we publish some of these papers, people have questions on them because we don't
have where we're publishing them, the ability to answer them there.
I think the thing that I would hope people leave with is deepening appreciation of the
tremendous amount of non-human activity that it took to make the world that you exist in.
The incredible preciousness and miracle of it and the desire that
the thing that makes your life and the life of everyone you love possible,
you want to have occupy more of your attention than it does now.
The places where your attention and your time and your energy are occupied by the result of a
system that resulted from selection of coordinated violence and like that,
that you really want to root that out of your own self and psyche.
And you want to just appreciate the universe and world that gives rise to the possibility at all
and then seek to explore how do I... There's something like a vow, like a Hippocratic oath,
that's like, I'm not willing in pursuing a narrow definition of advancement for me or
whatever or in being complicit to cause harm to this miraculous world, not willing.
And I'm going to look really carefully at what does that and rather than jump so quickly to,
well, yeah, but I can because I have to work whatever, try a little harder to say,
do you have any other possibilities? Don't jump to your own lack of agency so quickly.
Like we said about the billionaires that would say, oh, I don't have agency,
we also do the thing, well, how long did you spend thinking about it?
Like how many options did you really pursue? And
I think the combination of the removal of some of the energy from this world system,
the increasing appreciation of the natural world and the commitment to both not cause harm,
the study of what does, and then the commitment to be part of what can actually protect against harm
can result in like, that is the movement or the set of cultural shifts that I really like to see.
That's a hell of a start, my friend. For my part, it's about a half hour away from being dark here
in Minnesota and I'm going to bid you good night and I'm going to go sit by a tree
and reflect on it's not just a tree and all the processes and parts and relationships
and just do a little bit of a pre-dusk sitting.
Gorgeous.
This was a lot. It was beautiful and wise and has given me much to think about.
Thank you for all your work, all your thought and all your efforts on behalf of
our planet, the future and all of us striving to play a role. Thank you, my friend.
Likewise, my friend. It was a delight to be with you today.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please follow us on your favorite podcast platform and visit TheGreatSimplification.com
for more information on future releases. This show is hosted by Nate Hagens, edited by No
Troublemakers Media and curated by Leslie Batloots and Lizzie Siriani.
