Today's conversation is with my friend and colleague Daniel Schmockdenberger.
Daniel and I met a couple years ago. Turns out he's working on what he refers to as the meta
crisis, how climate and geopolitics and artificial intelligence and everything fit together
into this collective of risks. I had never heard of him and he had never heard of me or my work
or my network looking at energy, money, growth, ecology. We talked on the phone and the first
time I talked to him, I'll never forget it, we talked for three hours and at one time in the
conversation I got goosebumps on my left arm because he connected ideas that were in my head
that I had never connected. Those of you that know Daniel and listen to his podcast know that he
often does someone's thinking for them. He's that sort of an intellect.
Daniel's current main focus is on the risks that social media and artificial intelligence
pose as this exponentially growing function that's hijacking our minds as individuals
and at a cultural level is impeding or even negating our collective ability to orient and
adapt to our current challenges. Daniel and I always talk for hours. I wish I would have recorded
our previous long phone conversations but we decided to start recording with this one.
Our intent was to lay the foundation of what I refer to as the energy blindness of our culture
and how many people miss the relationship between technology, energy, money and growth
and what that means for our future constraints. What we intended on doing is merging my story on
the macro superorganism that we self-organize towards profits. The profits are tethered to energy
which are tethered to carbon and there's a growth imperative in there and merge that
with his story of an AI-induced profit seeking, call it micro-organism, capturing our attention
into a grand synthesis of the human predicament and how we can steer society in the future
towards bending instead of breaking in the coming decade. In an unexpected way,
Daniel ended up interviewing me in this podcast so it was a bit weird but I hope you find it helpful
and interesting background to the part two in the series in the near future which is going to be
taking a deeper dive of how these things fit together and part three will be the bend versus
break, how we should think about this, what we should do as individuals and as a culture. I
hope you enjoy the conversation. Daniel, good to see you my friend. Good to see you my friend.
Happy to be in this discussion with you today. We scheduled this like three weeks ago and I've
had three weeks to think about creative ways to shape my beard to compete with yours and I decided
I'm just going to settle for some beard compersion and be in awe of your beard and compersion is a
word that you taught me which is instead of being jealous you can be happy for other people's
magnificence, well-being, etc. So welcome. I shaved off my giant COVID beard before we did
our podcast. Is that right? Okay. Daniel, you and I have known each other on two years now.
I found you because many of my friends were sending links to your talks saying you guys have to
join forces and have a conversation. We've now spent a couple weeks in person working on
various projects dealing with technology, social media risks to governance and sense making, etc.
And I just feel a deep bond with the fact that you are living your life in a similar way to I am.
I'm not knowing all the answers but striving for some pro-social cultural transition
and educating and inspiring people so I'm very happy that you're on the program.
Yeah, I was really happy that you were starting this podcast and I'm excited about the
things we get to talk about today. So real briefly, for people in my network that don't know about
you could you briefly describe your work a little bit of conciliants project and what you're trying
to do? Yeah, roughly I have been as a kid was interested in environmental topics, social
justice topics, animal rights topics, all different kinds of activism and also then
had a deep interest in kind of system science and looking at how all of those problems had
certain interconnections where you could solve one problem but display some of the problems
somewhere else or had common drivers like perverse economic incentive and collective
action issues and started forecasting and seeing that many of those problems were reaching critical
tipping points of global catastrophic risk and that just kind of got me thinking about how do we
make a mature civilization that can be a safe steward of exponential tech, the power that
exponential tech gives and what is a civilization that makes it through its technological adolescence
look like and so that looked like catastrophic risk, existential risk, kind of assessment and
rethinking our social systems, governance, economics, law, rethinking our kind of cultural
and value systems, educational process and obviously also rethinking our technological
systems, how do we make a techno sphere and a social sphere that are in harmony with the biosphere
long-term and so what we're focused on with Consilience Project right now towards those
kind of big picture goals is how to frame up the actual state of the world, the metacrisis that
so many different environmental issues and exponential tech mediated x-risk issues and
economic and supply chain issues are all part of, right, that there's a profound interconnection
of these things, there's some core underlying stuff that has to get addressed, how do we frame
up the metacrisis well enough and what the design criteria of its solution, it's not one solution,
there'll be lots of different things that have to happen, but what the right design criteria are
that a lot more of the world can start innovating in the, you know, in a well-informed direction
and that's through papers, through kind of strategic education of people in specific
institutions and verticals and, you know, discussions like this and obviously this is
how we got connected from my side was a friend connecting us because of you having a big picture
story on what the kind of metacrisis and overview of the state of the world is, what some specific
near term catastrophic risks that are pretty fundamental are that are being really under
addressed, which I'm excited to actually dive into today even though it's a subset of the whole
topic, the energy blindness topic, because it really is something that you emphasize well and
clearly that it is so underrepresented in the overall assessment of the state of the world,
so yeah, that's a bit. I was happy that you, to discover that you and I both use the same
anthropological reference to frame some of our work. The work of cultural anthropologist
Marvin Harris called cultural materialism. He frames all historical human cultures have
something in common. They have a superstructure, which is the ideologies, the beliefs, the memes,
the stories that the culture tells. In the middle is the structure, which is the institutions and
the rules and the laws and the economic system, but underpinning it all is the infrastructure,
which is the energy and the throughput and the waste streams and how the system functions.
You and I both agree that what's coming in the coming decades is we're going to have to solve
all three of those. We're going to have to move them together. I think that's what we're going
to talk about today, is a lot of people work on just one of those areas, and we're going to need
all synthesized. The energy, materials, growth, money, technology, story, when we talk about
cultural transitions, that is not as fluent and as frequently dove into as social cultural change.
So, I thought today you and I could take our version of a deep dive into that.
Though it is a bit of a strange thing to do, this being one of the early shows in your new podcast,
I like the idea of me getting to ask you some questions regarding your core
frames in this area, since we've dialogued a lot and I happen to know them. I think they're
important and it's always tricky when you have expertise in a topic and you host the podcast,
you're holding context for other people's content. This might be a nice way to get some of the core
content through so that your listeners and maybe future people coming on the show will have that
as some of the context to speak into. So, I would like to talk with you specifically about
the bend not break model as you propose it and energy blindness and why that is both near-term
and central. Though that is obviously a subset of all the things for us to talk about and hopefully
we'll do more of these. Does that sound good? Yeah, great. So, I have a elevator pitch about the human
predicament and how we got here and then there's a lot of components there but maybe I'll just
start with that and then you just dive in and interject and push back and ask questions.
So, energy is fundamental to nature. Energy is the currency of life. In natural systems,
organisms and ecosystems that self-organize around any energy capture have an evolutionary
advantage. If you don't have surplus energy as an animal, you can't reproduce and have misses and
have homeostasis and everything. So, the ratio of energy return to the energy invested as caloric
pursuit in nature is a huge driver and that also applies to human systems and we've been a species
for 300,000 years and for 290,000 of those years we were hunter-gatherers. We worked 20 hours a
week and the rest of the time rested and told stories and everything and then when the climate
changed around 10,000 years ago, it warmed and stabilized in no fewer than seven places on earth.
Did we stop our hunter-gatherer ways and start more agricultural ways and what we were doing there
is spending, we were time minimizing, we were accessing more energy surplus and we were able
to store it. It wasn't just meat that would go bad after a week, it was grain which we could store
and that would even out the feast or famine in coming months and what that allowed to happen
is we had access so we could have more higher population, we could trade with other areas,
we could devote other people to be warriors or priests or accountants or guards or whatever
and so the agricultural revolution changed everything about humans and you fast forward
to nation states and beyond and we started to expand around the world and then we happened upon
a vast bounty of energy surplus that was stored underneath the earth and since the 1800s or so
we have been drawing down this energy battery which is the stored carbon and hydrocarbons in
the form of oil, coal and natural gas 10 million times faster than it was sequestered by the daily
trickle charge of photosynthesis in the deep past of earth and our economic system is treating
this as if it were interest when it actually is our principle. This fossil hydrocarbons are
unbelievably powerful relative to what humans did with muscle and animal labor before them.
One barrel of oil Daniel and I'm sure you know this has 5.7 million British thermal units worth
of energy which translates to 1700 kilowatt hours of work potential. You or I digging ditches or
hauling hay bales or planting potatoes generate around six tenths of a watt of power in a workday
versus 1700 and 60 kilowatt hours so one barrel of oil does around five years of our work
and all we have to do is pay for the cost of extraction from getting it out of the earth so
if it costs $50 for us to get it out of the earth we sell it to the market at 60 and our
economic system treats that as if it were just the same as any other $60 an expensive haircut or
some food or some earmuffs or whatever it is and energy is needed for absolutely everything in
our economies. There is no substitute for energy other than another form of energy.
Basically we have now we need energy for everything that results in a good or service in our GDP so
right now it doesn't have to be this way in the future but right now GDP is cannot decouple from
energy because it's a measure of how much stuff we burn it's goods and services and there's energy
that is required to refine deliver maintain run and dispose of every product on earth
and we can get into that a little bit but let me finish the the the thesis so we now are in a
culture that optimizes for growth and we as individuals as families as small businesses
as corporations as nation states we are trying to maximize financial surplus money profits which
are tethered to energy which are tethered to hydrocarbons and we can't stop or slow down because
the system requires growth to continue and to pay off the financial claims from the past
and so what we're doing is we're kicking the can with various rule changes with debt etc
and we have to continue to grow but the growth is tethered to energy and the only way that we're
continuing this right now is by central banks and governments blowing up their balance sheets in order
to keep goods and services flowing to large populations so what has happened is the market
or the downward causation of a higher level system than human individuals
is imposing rules on our behavior that are out of our control and so we are de facto the human
species right now is functioning as an energy hungry superorganism it's not like a hive mind
like the Borg it's that we as individuals are individual cells of a larger entity that is
compelled to grow and you brought up the word energy blind most people think that technology
is what drives the human progress machine and it's really the combination of technology and energy
that has brought us to this point but technology is dependent on energy so one day when we don't
have this amount of cheap energy at scale technology is going to play a much different role
yeah I think all of the really important points are touched on there and I just want to take this
time and unpack them I'll kind of start from the beginning we could say that this is a kind of
thermodynamic perspective that is focused on the fact that for an evolutionary perspective to exist
the traits that are going to get selected for involve an animal moving
involve you know some kind of metabolic process in the core to all of that is the
ability to harvest energy from the environment one of the deepest definitions of life is actually
an entropy pump something that can take more energy from the environment and externalize its
entropy and so then you're looking at the way that human technology starting with stone tools
and then agricultural tech and then industrial tech allowed us to harvest more energy from our
environment than other animals to be able to do future surplus stuff and then to be able to compete
with others over the future surplus and grow populations faster and how how fundamental of
a kind of defining characteristic this thermodynamic combined with competitive or like it's a
thermodynamic and then evolutionary theory together where the tech ends up evolving
our capacity to extract energy and use energy for more stuff which increases our kind of
ability to win at wars and economic wars and whatever else driving an arms race of the ability
to extract externalize etc faster driving ultimately fragility of the planet writ large
i don't think we've ever talked about this but have you heard of the fourth law of thermodynamics
loosely defined called the maximum power principle please explain it so in nature organisms
and ecosystems that self organize around capturing energy surplus as i said earlier
have an evolutionary advantage so if you if they've taken aerial views over a forest transect
and the hottest place is the the road where nothing's growing the coolest place is where
an old growth redwood tree is growing because it's dissipating more energy so in nature those
those ecosystems that are able to capture more energy have an advantage and it it ends up resulting
in a scaling law called cleaver's law which is that animals energy use scales to the three
quarter power of their size and this works for mice all the way up to blue whales and so the
size of the organism show dictates how much energy it uses well lo and behold if you aggregate all
the countries in the earth the the slope of global gdp is right around the the size of the gdp to
the two-thirds power it's not exactly the same but the relationship holds even as a biological
organism the whole human economy yeah so you mentioned initially two types of surplus and
extraction both of which were hydrocarbon the first one being grain with the advent of the plow
and baskets kind of early agriculture revolution the second being um oil and coal hydrocarbons
that time i think it is kind of interesting that they are both calories they're both measures of
energy they're both hydrocarbons they're both uh sun impounded by plants turned into hydrocarbons
as stores of energy um and one of them is being generated every season oh or kind of in real time
the agricultural one the other one is from you know tins or hundreds of millions of years of
storage um but they're both about developing more technology one case the plow the second case like
the oil drill and refinery to be able to extract stored sunlight yeah i can i call it current
sunlight which is crops old sunlight which is trees maybe you'll chop down a hundred-year tree
and then ancient sunlight which is tends to hundreds of millions of years ago and you're right
you can use technology to to access those pools of of potential energy so to go back to the agriculture
revolution going from hunter gatherer to an agrarian culture in the plow uh you were mentioning
the key thing being that grains were more storable than say what you could hunt and gather
meats and berries and stuff more storable means you can make it through the famine and grow the
population faster and then if you grow the population faster you can win a tribal warfare and now
you also have more stuff that is worth invading for another tribe so now you have to do defense and
military and all the things that go along with having that surplus and now for the first time
the economics of needing to deal with surplus come about so private property ownership and
inheritance and all those things was like it was a big deal that particular transition that was when
that was when our species ate the apple in the Garden of Eden it's interesting you know just if
it's not clear that was also kind of in one way the beginning of the Anthropocene yep because before
that you want nature to be pretty much the way it is to hunt and gather from this is the first
time you want to start clear cutting an area to turn it into agriculture land for lots of grain
