But, all right, good, excellent.
But are they long enough to actually become a functional RNA?
I put up an example of a ribose switch here and it turns out, sadly, no.
All right, well, what else can we do here?
People have also looked at peptide-catalyzed RNA polymerization.
So you start with RNA nucleotides.
As before, you add peptides.
So what is a peptide?
We've talked about proteins, enzymes, et cetera.
Proteins are made up, are themselves, polymers.
In the case of proteins, the building block, the monomer, are amino acids.
So you take amino acids, you link them in a chain, that's called a peptide.
You link them in a big chain, that's called a protein.
So you start with a peptide, which is an amino acid polymer.
This catalyzes these nucleotide monomers to form an oligomer.
So this has been done, also very cool.
Again, is it actually possible to make these RNA oligomers long enough for functionality and, sadly, no?
I missed this.
Glenn, there is still one red object.
I had beautiful red font in my slides, and I was told I have to remove them.
All right, so now what to do?
People believe that RNA may have played both genetic and metabolic roles.
Wonderful.
However, has RNA actually been replicated without enzymes today?
What do you think?
Another red line.
Has monomer polymerization actually yielded enzymes?
No.
So being a geochemist, I'm actually trained as a geochemist, have no biochemistry background.
As I said, when you get a PhD, you can do all sorts of things, legally.
So what was there in early Earth before RNA and what not?
Minerals, right?
What could minerals have done?
So to summarize this section, we talked about what are the minimal components of a cell, of all living organisms.
You have the genetic molecule, you have the molecules needed for metabolism, and you have the lipids that make up the membrane.
The big question is which came first, the genetic molecule or the catalytic molecule?
Because of the complexity of making DNA, people believe that RNA preceded DNA, and also many RNAs are known to have catalytic functions,
so that supports the idea.
But again, neither self-replicating nor catalytic RNAs have been synthesized in the lab.
So this is where we propose maybe that minerals might have played a role in catalyzing RNA nucleotide polymerization to form actual functional RNAs.
With DNA, they've been able to backtrack humanity to various parts of the world.
Can they do that with smaller DNA to backtrack on bacteria where it kind of ended up or started?
I mean, they can figure that out with human DNA.
Obviously, they can do it with smaller sections.
Right, so that's where that phylogenetic tree I put up there.
It's actually based on ribosomal RNA rather than DNA, but that's exactly how they get to that.
And deciding where, you know, at what point in time these different bacteria and archaea and whatnot branched off, that's a bit tricky.
There's some guesswork there as to how much time passes for a certain amount of evolution to happen, and based on that, it's a relative scale.
So why I like geology is you have isotopes and you get absolute ages.
But yes, essentially, that's what they're doing to figure out how old the bacteria are.
I remember reading Robert Hazen's, I think it was called Genesis from the mid-2000s.
He was pretty enthusiastic about clays as being kind of a substrate to create RNA.
Is that idea kind of not popular anymore?
No, no, it's popular. And actually, it was Ferris at Ron Salaire who first showed this.
He showed polymerization of RNA nucleotides on clays in 1992.
All right, great.
And so they've repeated these experiments multiple times, improved upon them.
Leslie Orgo has shown polymerization of amino acids into peptides on specific clays on certain calcium phosphate mineral hydroxyapatite, the mineral in our teeth and bones.
On pyrite, iron sulfide, which is that black mineral that comes out of hydrothermal vents.
So yeah, I mean, those ideas, in fact, that's where we're going next.
Thank you.
Yeah, so Bob Hazen also has this idea of mineral evolution.
Bob Hazen is a mineralogist at the GWIS lab in D.C., the geophysical lab.
Everybody's, every paper gets into nature and science there.
So my old post-doctoral advisor used to call it the GWIS lab.
So he has this idea that as the earth was evolving, different kinds of minerals could be formed under those conditions.
And so when you look at, if you look at a planet like Mars, say, and you see certain types of minerals, you might then interpret under what conditions those minerals were formed and kind of back figure out the evolution of that planet.
So he calls that mineral evolution and it's gotten a bit of mileage.
I hope you've been enjoying the Origin Science Scholars Program with Dr. Nitha Sahai of the University of Akron and a fellow of the Institute for the Science of Origins.
Dr. Sahai was the 2013-14 distinguished lecturer of the Mineralogical Society of America.
In the second part of our talk, we learned about the chicken and egg problem of the origin of life, which came first, replication or metabolism.
In our final segment, Dr. Sahai will discuss the central role that minerals may have played in the origins of life.
Now, back to our talk.
What good minerals have done to help this whole process?
Good minerals have acted as not only prebiotic enzymes to catalyze reactions, but to potentially even as reactants.
So remember we talked about synthesizing a protocell where you had an enzyme playing catalyzing RNA,
oligomerization, other enzymes catalyzing metabolic reactions.
So here we have a mineral.
There's minerals everywhere, presumably these molecule self-assembled at the water-mineral interface.
Most bacteria live at the mineral-water interface.
So could contact of these lipid membranes with minerals have somehow the mineral surface chemistry?
Could it have affected the stability of the membrane, either promoted it or disrupted it?
Before enzymes, before biology-created enzymes, could specific minerals have promoted the polymerization of RNA nucleotides into a proper functional RNA molecule?
So this is where the work of Ferris comes in.
Could minerals like iron sulfide have played the role of enzymes that promote catalysis in these redox reactions across the membrane, such as photosynthesis?
Why iron sulfide?
Well, for one thing, when you look at the enzyme, just as an example, that's used in photosynthesis, it's in the membrane,
and the very active core of that enzyme contains an iron sulfide cluster.
And so this harkens back to early Earth where iron sulfide was one of the most common minerals.
Remember the hydrothermal vent putting out all those black iron sulfide minerals?
Early Earth was hot and volcanic, and there was no oxygen in the atmosphere.
So the sulfide couldn't get oxidized to sulfate. It stuck around the sulfide.
So that's one good reason.
So it's in the core of enzymes.
It was present on early Earth, and when you shine light on it at a certain wavelength, an electron is ejected and a hole,
so-called hole, is created in that structure.
That's called a photocatalytic mineral.
Titania, TiO2, is a similar mineral.
If you've heard of quantum dots, they're similar.
So when you shine light on a mineral, same thing with the enzymes, and you get a separation of an electron and a hole,
which is a positively charged entity, then those, the enzyme and the hole, can participate in this redox reaction.
They're the ones that drive that redox reaction.
So this is a good candidate for this sort of prebiotic catalytic mineral.
Okay, so before I show how minerals might have been involved in this RNA oligomerization,
let me give a quick recap of what we talked about in the previous section.
Without the minerals in the previous section, we spoke about RNA polymerization of nucleotide monomers being catalyzed by lipids,
by little amino acid peptides, and now we're going to talk about what about minerals.
So indeed, RNA nucleotides have been polymerized using clay, particularly a clay mineral called Montmorillonite.
And eventually the idea is for this RNA oligomer to be polymerized into a long enough polymer that it can fold and become a functional RNA such as a ribose switch.
Exactly the same cartoon as we saw where we had a lip, we had a lipid or a peptide in here instead of a clay.
So here are our data from Ferris's work published in Nature in 96, I believe.
Really bad image, I'm sorry, but basically, how to put this?
These are bands of molecules that have been separated on a vertical column filled with a gel.
And so based on how big the molecule is, what its molecular weight is, it's going to settle out like this.
The heaviest ones will elute the last.
And so you've got the longest ones here that are about 30 nucleotides in length.
And you can see that the shorter the oligomer, the more of it it's formed, it's a darker band.
And as you get longer and longer oligomers, the bands become lighter and lighter, which means that there's less and less of them.
So it is possible to get up to 50 or 80 of these oligonucleotides polymerized on clay,
but as you go beyond even a dimer, a trimer, a pentamer, the concentrations become vanishingly small.
So even though you might get 50 edemers, very small concentrations, that's one problem.
And secondly, these are not really that large enough to give you functional activity.
So there is potential here to explore this reaction.
Why is it only Montmorillonite clay? What other clays? What is the structure of that Montmorillonite that might be helping this oligomerization reaction?
What other minerals can we study that may have the similar sort of reactivity?
There are tens of hundreds of thousands of minerals.
So from the geochemist's mineralogist point of view, maybe you can bring an educated guesstimate of how the structure is affecting this reaction,
rather than, you know, playing with 100 million, not 100 million, but several thousand minerals.
What about mineral catalyzed peptide polymerization?
Again, the amino acids of the monomers, they have been shown to be polymerized into small oligomers that are called peptides,
on both, on clay, on hydroxyapatite, and on iron-sulfide minerals.
But again, long enough to have enzymatic activity? No.
So this leads us, this is sad, but lipids can polymerize or oligomerize RNA, peptides can oligomerize RNA, clays can oligomerize RNA.
So how about if you just put them all in one big pot?
So one of the limitations of these studies is that they're done under very clean conditions.
You have two components interacting with each other, and you see what effect they have, and somebody else does two other components.
Well, we know how messy the environment is, right?
So how about if you have a multi-component soup, the actual Darwinian soup, rather than a little clean experiment?
So this idea is synergism between the three different catalysts that have been shown to promote RNA oligomerization,
those three catalysts being minerals, amino acids, and lipids.
So interestingly, lipids are what make up the membrane, amino acids are what make up the peptides.
So here you've got the building blocks of what eventually become the three components of life are all interacting with each other and the clay.
So a lot of this thinking and this entire figure was made by my postdoc, Hussein Qadur, here, so it's all his glory.
So this is prebiotic chemistry.
This is where Stanley Miller kind of experiments would have come about when you start with ammonia and carbon dioxide
and very simple inorganic molecules go through some heavy organic chemistry
and make these simple organic molecules such as lipids and nucleotide monomers and amino acids.
And of course the clays are around in the environment.
So this is called prebiotic chemistry.
Then we're proposing that you have this synergism in the three catalytic parts,
the clays, the lipids, and the amino acids, and they're helping to oligomerize the nucleotides of RNA
and form these short RNA oligomers as well as they're helping each other.
So you also start forming these short peptides.
These lipids are self-assembling into vesicles.
I'll come to that in a couple of minutes.
What is a vesicle?
Further synergism between these, these are, what is synergism?
So when you have one catalyst, let's say you only have the clay catalyzing RNA polymerization,
or you only have the lipid catalyzing RNA polymerization.
When you put the lipid and the clay together, the net catalytic effect should be greater than the sum of the two alone.
So that's synergism.
Of course there's no guarantee that's what's going to happen.
They might actually have antagonistic interactions or no interactions at all.
So Sain is very optimistic.
He's an optimistic man.
And I support optimism, so therefore.
All right, so, okay, so now we've got these oligomers.
You know, up to here, people have done different things already.
Now we envisage this lipid vesicle forming and enclosing these short RNAs and short peptides and clays.
And you end up interacting all of these inside.
So here's a, here's a, is this a, yeah, this is an RNA oligomer interacting with the clay.
These clays, by the way, are layered structures.
I'll show you that in a second.
That's why they're shown like this.
You also have little peptides interacting here with the clay, etc.
So the idea of encapsulating them in the cell membrane is that you're bringing about a concentration effect.
So there's more possibility of these interactions to happen.
And of course it needs to be semi-permeable, as we said, mass in and mass out.
So this is where these short oligomers and both RNA and peptides are now helping each other in a mutual way
to form the more complex functional molecules such as ribosomes.
So what is, what is this mutualism here?
So we all know about symbiosis, right?
Mutualism is a kind of symbiosis where both the partners actually benefit from the interaction.
There are other kinds of symbiosis like parasitism, where only one organism is benefiting at the expense of another.
So in this idea of mutualism, by having these guys interacting with each other closely,
they're able to actually help each other in becoming longer, more complex, having folding and function.
So that they're then able to recognize one molecule can recognize another
and form these sorts of complex RNA ligand molecules that have catalytic activity.
So that's called molecular recognition.
So this is about 20 years of worth of work that is in this image that we still need to start on.
Okay, this is the concept we're putting forward in our lab.
We've just submitted a paper, invited paper in this journal called Life.
So, but this is the pie in the sky, you know.
I'll win the Nobel Prize if I can do this, or Hussain will.
We have an experimental setup that we think can start to explore some of these hypothetical things, you know.
There's this, I'm sure you all know the story about the Greeks, right?
They were great philosophers and also mathematicians.
So they're sitting around wondering how many teeth are in a horse's mouth, right?
So some guy figures out the geometry of a horse's mouth and what's the volume and, you know,
what's the size of one tooth and how many can you fit in there.
