And the other guy says, no, this species of horse is a different geometry.
And besides that, you consider the ass and the, you know, the donkey.
And so this kid comes along, this little four or five year old kid.
And he says, well, how about we just open the mouth of the horse and count them, right?
So it had more than 32 teeth.
So, you know, it's nice to put up these images and we can hypothesize as much as we want,
but we need to do this in the lab.
And this is a huge task.
There are four nucleotides.
There are 20 amino acids.
There could be a few lipids that we could involve, several clays and other minerals.
So it's a combinatorial nightmare.
And we need to use intelligent, not intelligent design.
We need to use our knowledge.
Sorry?
We need to carefully select which nucleotides to start with,
which amino acids and minerals based on our knowledge of the structure
and reactivity of these components.
And we will also screen a large, still have a large number of interactions to screen.
So just to give you an idea of what these minerals look like,
how much time do I have left?
Two minutes.
Brilliant.
All right.
So I've been talking about clays and sulfides and whatnot.
In hand sample, this is what a clay looks like.
Actually, clays are pretty cruddy looking.
I picked one which has a nice pretty pink sheet on it.
So this is a hand sample.
Here's a one centimeter scale bar.
When you look at it in the scanning electron microscope,
here you have a 6.67 micron scale bar.
Don't ask me why that number, but okay.
This is six and a half microns.
You can see this plate-like or sheet-like structure that this clay has.
All right.
So that's where we were showing those clays with those horizontal sheets.
This is Montmorillonite.
I want to ask, when I was a student, a geochemistry student,
undergrad in India, I needed to learn the stoichiometry,
the chemical composition of all the minerals.
So it's an alumino-silicate mineral.
It's structure, you know, just like organic molecules.
You have a carbon backbone.
And then all the other is details.
So most of the minerals on the earth are alumino-silicates.
They're made of aluminum and silicate.
And you have, these are negatively charged ions,
and then they're balanced by positively charged ions.
And it has waters of hydration.
And it's found in all environments, continents, oceans, everywhere.
Here's the iron sulfide we've been talking about.
This would have been abundant on early earth.
This beautiful structure here has been formed
at a high temperature and pressure deep inside the earth,
where nucleation and growth of a crystal is slow
and you can get big, beautiful crystals.
When you grow it at room temperature,
you get these much smaller crystals.
Here's a 10-micron scale bar.
But still, still, still, the amazing thing.
You can see the facets, the little, little crystalline facets here,
little crystals making up these big framboids.
And here is silica, you know, the aero gel,
whatever the stuff you put in your shoes so they don't stink.
That's silica, SiO2, sand grains.
That's all silica.
So to quickly have maybe two minutes more, or a minute.
So where do these, some of these organic pre-starting monomers come from?
So as I was saying, there are specific types of meteorites
called carbonaceous chondrites.
They're rich in organic molecules, not all meteorites are like this.
And people have extracted amino acids, complex poly-aromatic hydrocarbons,
and the lipid molecules, which when you put them in water,
they form these vesicles that start looking like cell membranes.
So what are these lipid molecules that self-assemble into a vesicle?
Each molecule, just like we have monomers of nucleotides and amino acids,
you have these so-called monomers of lipids.
They have a hydrophobic CH2-CH2 long carbon chain, which doesn't dissolve in water,
and a head group consisting of carboxylic acid, which is negatively charged with likes water.
So this is called an amphiphilic molecule.
Part of it likes water, part of it doesn't like water.
When you stick it in water, the tails, which are hydrophobic,
would rather interact with each other than with the water,
and the head groups would rather interact with water.
So they self-assemble into this sort of a bilayer.
This is a slice through a sphere that would actually form a sphere.
Inside here is what would be the intracellular region,
and out here is what would be the extracellular region.
So just like we got lipids from meteorites to self-assemble into these vesicles,
like this is amazing.
You can buy lipids from Sigma Aldrich,
and they will also self-assemble into these vesicles.
And you can see the scale bar here is 10 micron as well as here.
So they're very similar in size. Bacteria are around the same size.
All right, so what? All right. Can minerals,
you remember we talked about the mineral in contact with the membrane,
does it help make the membrane or disrupt the membrane?
So we've looked at it with two of these common mineral silica and montmorillonite.
When you put 50 milligrams per ml of silica in contact with lipids,
here you can see these vesicles that have formed from the lipids,
and I don't know if you can see the little black dots in there,
those are the silica.
So you do see vesicles in the presence of silica.
You do the same thing in the presence of montmorillonite.
You form these big fat hunking aggregates of the clay,
and you don't see these beautiful vesicles in this case.
So silica is helping the vesicles form,
at least it's not destabilizing the vesicles.
The montmorillonite is not quite so friendly.
Here's a movie, you might be interested to see,
these vesicles are, again, here are the black dots,
which are the silica particles,
and here you can see all these lipid vesicles,
cell-like entities moving along.
And, if we can advance it a bit,
we can also, you can see that it appears that there are a few layers of these vesicles.
Basically you're looking at different planes of focus under the microscope,
and here Hussein has changed the focus, the plane of focus,
and you can see that at different levels you still have these vesicles
and the minerals, and things look pretty happy.
All right?
All right, so the last slide.
These lipid molecules self-assemble into these vesicles,
only when the number of these lipid molecules reaches a critical value.
When there's a high enough concentration of them at some critical value,
these individual molecules form this vesicle.
That's called a critical vesicle concentration.
So, when you have this particular lipid, it doesn't matter, some kind of lipid,
and you increase its concentration from 0 to 60 millimolar,
and you look at, you look at what's the absorbance of light in that suspension.
So, when you have a single molecule, it's, the solution is pretty clear.
Once you form these self-assembled vesicles,
then it's going to start looking murky,
and the absorption of light is going to be different in that system.
So, we're looking at the absorbance of light here as a function of concentration of the lipid.
When there's no mineral, you can see that there's a sudden increase in this absorbance
at around 12 millimolar.
So, this is the critical vesicle concentration in the absence of mineral.
Now, when you put the silica in here,
you can see that these vesicles are forming at a much lower concentration of 5 millimolar.
Supporting the video, we just saw that the vesicles are present
when you have silica in the system,
and conversely with the montmorillonite clay,
the sudden jump in the absorbance reflecting the formation of vesicles
occurs at a higher concentration, 20 millimolar,
compared to the control system where there was no mineral.
So, that's also consistent with the video.
So, just to wrap up then,
we've just looked at the potential effects of minerals on the stability of the membrane.
We've talked about synergism and mutualism between different minerals,
informing both the genetic molecule as well as the enzymes.
And I'll wrap up here.
Life evolved early in Earth history.
To date, neither the RNA nor the enzymes have been shown to form one without the other.
Minerals can catalyze the formation of peptides and RNA to short ones,
just as lipids can and other things can.
Why don't we put them all together in a multi-component pot
and see whether there is mutualistic and synergistic interactions between them
to yield actual functional molecules?
So, you know, here's the Hadean Earth, just minerals, rocks, gases,
meteorites hitting it, a big moon right next to the Earth,
completely abiotic.
And here's a picture of Earth rise taken from the moon, looking back at Earth.
There's water there and a completely biotic world.
So, just want to acknowledge my collaborators and my amazing group of students.
Hussein here, Dr. Poonam Dalai there in the audience here.
Denise was an undergrad from Puerto Rico this summer.
She's no longer in our group.
The other people in my group are Dr. Jujun Xu, Zichu Wang, Wei Long Zhao,
he's here in the audience, Dr. Sean Feng Zhao and Steve Mancosi.
These other folks are working on how mineral hydroxyapatite interacts with protein to form bone.
So, that's the other part of my research.
Funding from NSF, amazing organization,
and a private foundation called the Simons Foundation.
Thank you.
This lecture is part of the Origins Science Scholars Program
of the Institute for the Science of Origins.
The institute is a partnership of Case Western Reserve University,
the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, and Idea Stream.
The fall 2014 Origins Science Scholars Lectures are presented with the assistance
of the Segal Lifelong Learning Program, the College of Arts and Sciences, and MediaVision.
For more information on the Origins Science Scholars Program, including a full video archive,
please visit the institute's website at www.case.edu.org.
