Welcome to the Origin Science Scholars Program of the Institute for the Science of Origins.
The Institute is a partnership of Case Western Reserve University,
the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, and Idea Stream.
The Fall 2014 Origin Science Scholars Lectures are presented with the assistance
of the Segal Lifelong Learning Program, the College of Arts and Sciences, and MediaVision.
Tonight, we are very pleased to be here at the Tinkham-Ville University Center
on the campus of Case Western Reserve University
for our third lecture in this Fall 2014 series,
The Origins of Life from Geochemistry to Biochemistry, with Dr. Nita Sahai.
Dr. Sahai is Ohio Research Scholar and Professor
in the Department of Polymer Science at the University of Akron.
She is a fellow of the Maneurological Society of America
and was the distinguished lecturer of that society for 2013-2014.
Her research on the origins of life, which is a small part of what she does,
is supported by the Simons Foundation, and we are very pleased to have her joining us here tonight.
One of the most fundamental and profound questions that all human societies have asked,
from prehistory to now, is where did we come from?
What is our relationship to nature, to the earth and stars and animals and plants?
And in many mythologies, in fact, various creatures are represented as part animal,
part human, and sometimes even part plant.
So somehow this is reflecting the human mind's intuitive understanding
that really there's no difference between all these living creatures
and that they are interconnected to the different earth, etc.
There are other approaches that have obviously been taken to try and address this question of our origins.
Metaphysical, philosophical, and scientific approaches.
So today what I'd like to do is present one of the scientific approaches to this question
about the origins of life and the relationship to how life began on earth from a planet
that was primarily or only rocks and minerals, atmospheric gases.
How that came to become a planet completely inhabited by all forms of life
found in every possible ecological niche that has been looked at to date.
In other words, the transition from geochemistry to biochemistry.
So the presentation is divided into three parts.
In the first part, what I'd like to address is habitability
What are the environmental conditions under which life can actually emerge and evolve?
What is the geological history of the earth from the time it was formed?
How did these environments evolve over time and support the origin of life?
And are there other places beyond earth where life might at least have the possibility of originating?
After that, we'll get into what one might call life.
What is the basic definition? What's the minimal definition, the minimal characteristics of all living cells?
Wouldn't it be amazing if you could actually self-assemble from the bottom up one of these basic cell-like entities?
So this would be called a proto-cell, a minimal proto-cell.
You start with simple organic compounds that are known to have been present.
They've found in meteorites, they've found in the spectra of stars.
They were presumably present on early earth.
How do you go from these simple compounds to the more complex polymers,
longer versions of these compounds, which then self-assemble into a unit that we would call a cell?
People have been trying to do this in the lab for 40, 50 years or more.
And some progress has been made, but this is still obviously an outstanding question,
which is why I'm outstanding here.
So then we pose the central question of what is the main problem of getting life started,
whether in reality or in the lab.
And this is where the issue of whether genes came first,
that is to reproduce and pass your genetic information to the next generation.
Did that appear first? Or did metabolism appear first?
That is to say the energy reactions you need to create energy to keep your cells alive.
So it's this chicken and egg issue.
At the end, at the third part of the talk, what I'll say is,
try to introduce the idea of could minerals have possibly played a role
in these different steps that would lead up to the assembly of this minimal protocell?
Could minerals have actually played a role of enzymes before enzymes existed, before life existed?
And we'll go even one step further and say,
could these different portions, different parts of these origins of life molecules
have actually worked together synergistically to help each other polymerize,
become more complex and self-assemble?
So that's the layout of the presentation.
Before getting started, there are two points I'd like to make.
In terms of understanding early Earth history,
we actually have a record in the isotopic and elemental compositions
of the minerals and rocks that are found on Earth, the very ancient ones.
So we can interpret those from a geochemical standpoint
and actually have a feel for what the conditions were on early Earth.
We can't, however, go back in time and figure out actually
what the organic chemistry reactions were that led to the first cells.
We can't really go back in or we can't, in the lab, with any complete certainty,
do these reactions and say, this is how life began.
All we can do is come up with plausible reactions under early Earth conditions
that would lead to something like a protocell.
So everything is taken with a grain of salt.
It's just so that, so long as it follows logic and is plausible under early Earth conditions,
then we say this is a potential root to a protocell.
And there might have been many, which is why, one of the reasons why it's called the origins in plural of life,
rather than the origin of life.
Okay, so with that introduction, let's get started on the first part.
What kind of environments existed on early Earth and could support the emergence of life?
So a quick timeline of early Earth history.
The Earth is 4.56 billion years old, giga-anum GA.
So along with the solar system and other planets, this is where the Earth began.
Very early in Earth history, you had the formation of the core and the moon.
And by around 4.4 billion years ago, liquid water had already started to be stable on the surface of the Earth.
Before that, it was too hot.
But the Earth had cooled down enough that liquid water existed by 4.4 billion years ago.
And we know this because of the oxygen isotopic composition of a particular single crystal of zircon.
This is a few micron in size found in Western Australia.
It's the oldest piece of rock or mineral ever known.
This is very important because it means that very early in Earth history, organisms could have at least the molecules that are stable.
The organic molecules have started evolving.
Further on, at about 4 billion years, we have the evidence of the oldest rock rather than just a piece of a mineral.
And this is consistent with continental crust.
This is important because before this, we only had oceanic crust.
At about 3.8 billion years ago, you have the first isotopic evidence, again, in the rocks, the carbon isotope evidence,
and sulfur isotope evidence telling you that life may have originated by then.
And then by 3.5 billion years ago, you have full-blown bacterial fossils in the rock.
And they look just like modern bacteria.
So the period of interest really is from about 4.4 billion years ago to, say, about 3.5, by which time modern life has already evolved.
So really, it's even earlier. It's like in this area.
And then the rest of it is just details, right?
So there was no oxygen on early Earth.
The cyanobacteria produced oxygen, and there was an increase in oxygen at about 2 billion years ago.
That was the first time when there was enough energy for eukaryotes to evolve.
These are multicellular organisms, which is what we are.
And after that, the first fossils, all of the trilobites, everything from the Cambrian, et cetera, the dinosaurs,
all of that is only in the last half a billion years of Earth history.
So we only really have hand fossils in the last half a billion years before that there are only microscope bacterial fossils.
All right, so this is a picture of the Hadean Earth.
This is the first 200 million years when it was hot meteorites were still impacting from the early formation of the solar system.
A lot of energy being delivered, completely inhospitable, no oxygen in the atmosphere.
By about 4.4 billion years, the Earth had cooled enough that liquid water could exist on the Earth.
But even then, it was about 80, 90 degrees Celsius.
Hot, but okay, it's liquid water.
So there would have been different sorts of environments, as you can see here.
There's still volcanic gases being put out, pretty noxious ones.
There's hot waters. There's some land, some crust.
But you could imagine life starting.
It's called cool early Earth because compared to the Hadean, it's cool.
But if you compare it to today, 30 degrees Celsius, you would say it's hot.
So bacteria, if they could evolve here, would be called thermophiles, what like high temperature.
Further down in the Archaean era, from 4.1 to 3.9 billion years,
this is where that continental crustal rock has evolved.
Important because now you can start having fresh water rather than only oceanic crust and ocean water.
This is a picture from Iceland.
And by 3.5 billion years, here's the first bacterial fossil found by Bill Schopp also in western Australia.
And you can see how similar it is to a modern cyanobacterium.
All of this is an atmosphere that has no oxygen.
Oxygen, as I showed you before, only arose at about 2.5 billion years
when the cyanobacteria had produced enough oxygen that it accumulated in the atmosphere.
Okay, so we've looked at different potential geochemical environments, the evolution of the Earth.
Now let's talk about what could life have evolved in any or all of these environments.
So this is a phylogenetic tree of life as we know it today.
There are three main branches.
There are bacteria, which are unicellular organisms.
There are archaea, which are also unicellular organisms, but they have some features.
Most features like bacteria, some features like the other organisms called eukarya.
Eukarya are multicellular, we're all eukaryotes.
Sorry for the small font, but it doesn't really matter.
The point here is that among all these branches, or at least the earliest branches of life, bacteria and archaea,
there are these organisms like thermotoga, aquafex.
These are bacteria that are thermophiles.
They love living in warm waters.
Similarly, the archaea have a lot of, in general, called extremophiles.
They like extreme environmental conditions.
They live in acidic environments.
They live in high temperature, high pressure.
You core into the earth and you can bring them up.
They live in ice, psychrophiles.
So they live in salt conditions, helophiles.
So basically these are the earliest rooted near the origin of life.
These are the earliest organisms, so you can see that they do like extreme conditions.
What we're interested in is way before even these branches developed,
the earliest minimal cell-like creature called a protocell.
So let's look at some of these actual geochemical environments we've been talking about.
Maybe you've all heard of deep sea hydrothermal vents.
These are putting out sulphidic, highly reduced oxygen-free water, very hot, like 375 degrees Celsius, very acidic.
And immediately it mixes with the bottom waters of the ocean, which are at 4 degrees Celsius, oxygenated, neutral pH.
So there's a beautiful gradient of chemistry as well as temperature.
And all kinds of organisms from bacteria up to muscles have been found living in these completely light-free, right?
There's no light in there.
And these are iron-sulfide minerals, these dark minerals.
There would have been plenty of iron-sulfides on early earth.
We know this from various geochemical evidence.
Okay, here are some bacteria cultured from these deep sea vents.
It doesn't matter what they are.
The main point is that there are different kinds that have been cultured.
Done by NOAA, funded by NOAA, always put up national funding agencies, your tax dollars at work.
All right, that's one kind of cultured bacteria.
Here's another.
So the one bacterium says, I must say I prefer Verdi's Don Carlos to La Traviata.
The other says, I concur, but what of Aida?
So clearly they have been cultured from La Scala.
And they have wine, most excellent.
Here are some modern, continuing with the journey of modern geochemical environments.
Here's a volcanic lake in Java.
Highly sulfurous gases are being put out.
It's acidic.
Acidophiles would live there.
This is Spotted Lake in Canada, alkaline pH, all kinds of sulfate minerals.
Here is an ice core from the Arctic.
Zero degrees.
You would find psychrophiles living in here.
Plus you have to dig core in deep so there might be pH of files, bacteria that like temperature.
I mean pressure.
Sorry, so there are multiple environments where bacteria live today and that we have seen existed on early Earth.
Well, what about other worlds then?
Here's an image of Mars.
You can see that at the South Pole, there's ice present.
And here are some images taken by the landers on Mars.
You can see alluvial fans.
This is where water running down a steep slope then enters the plane and it deposits all its sediment in a wide area.
There are also these circular, spherical iron oxide minerals that are found on Mars.
And they look very similar on Mars and on Earth.
So can you tell me which one is Mars and which one is Earth?
