Any guess?
You have a 50% chance, you know.
Left is Earth, right is Mars.
All right, good guy.
So what does it mean?
Basically it means that there was liquid water on Mars at some point.
Even now there are some images that show potential seasonal changes in perhaps formation of ice and melting of ice.
I'm out of town, I'll take you about three more minutes to finish this segment.
So potentially there were environments on early Martian history,
capable of supporting the origin of life.
How about a few other solid worlds away from the Earth and Mars?
Europa, which is the moon of Jupiter, was discovered by Galileo Galilei.
And here are images again taken from a beautiful national agency, NASA.
What it sees is an icy world.
You see the surface of the crust of Europa and it basically has huge ice rocks, water ice.
And some of these rafts are as much as 13 kilometers across.
Those are the crevasses you're seeing in the ice just like you would see on a glacier.
The spectroscopy from the spacecraft also tells us that there is water, liquid water below this icy crust,
and that it is a briny, salty water.
And this is the artist's rendition of the information.
So here is a potential environment for life.
Similarly, Titan, which is a moon of Saturn, discovered by Christiane Huygens,
shows it orbiting Saturn.
It has an atmosphere that is rich in organic compounds and nitrogen.
This is important because then you can start synthesizing potentially longer, more complex organic molecules.
And here's the surface of Titan. It also looks very Earth-like, right?
So from this little survey, what I want to say is that there are many environments on which Earth is found today.
So there's no reason to doubt that life may have originated in many different environments on early Earth
and potentially elsewhere on the planet.
It's also important to recognize that life evolved, potentially evolved very early in Earth history.
So there was a lot of time available to become a protocell, to become a full bacterium
by the time 3.5 gigaannum showed up.
Okay, so I'll stop with that and welcome questions.
I'm confused.
What you're suggesting is that there was a spontaneous type of growth of bacterium because of the water, the warmth.
What have we found for meteorites?
Is there any evidence of bacterial growth in those?
Right. So what I'm suggesting is that on early Earth,
if you look at, in fact, meteorites have been studied and there's a great question that anticipates part 3 of the presentation.
So a ton of organic molecules have been isolated from meteorites.
Simple ones like amino acids, single-chain amphiphiles, up to things that are so big that they're essentially like tar.
When you put them in water, they form insoluble aggregates. They don't even dissolve.
And interestingly, the amino acids are even chiral.
The left-handed are enriched over the right-handed.
So yes, organic molecules exist.
When you look at the spectra of stars out there, there are organic molecules in the spectra.
So organic molecules exist in space.
They might even have been delivered on early Earth by all this meteorite bombardment.
And you might say, well, at such high temperatures as it's passing through the atmosphere and getting frictionally heated, how do they survive?
Well, the surface gets altered, but the inside core of the meteorite remains at low temperature, so these organic molecules can survive.
I don't know whether you could have life on meteorites or on other stars.
The only example we have is of Earth.
So what we have to go on when we're, at least what I feel comfortable going on, is the one example that we know about.
And the point I was trying to make is that you don't necessarily have to have low temperature, like 25 degrees Celsius water,
to make these organic molecules stable, to self-assemble them into a cell-like entity.
They might even have happened. Some of the reactions are favored at high temperature or at low pH or whatever.
On the slide you showed with the tree, the three domains of life and the protocell at the bottom.
It looked as if there were kind of roots leading to that protocell.
Was that intentional? Is that to reflect the origins of life?
Yeah, all of the above.
So if you look for, you know, go on Google and say phylogenetic tree of life,
the most commonly accepted one is, you know, there's this one last universal common ancestor, Luca,
and then everything else sprouts out from there.
But then people have found a lot of lateral gene transfer among bacteria.
And so, you know, what came first, what came second is hard to really pin down to a root.
So one of the ways to represent it is multiple roots.
And we don't really know which organism came earliest, hence origins.
The other way people, some people don't even want to put a tree up.
You know, they just put the phylogenetic thing in sort of a circle where there's no beginning and really no ending.
So, yeah. Thank you.
Thank you for joining us.
You've been watching Dr. Nitha Sahai of the University of Akron discussing the habitability of the Earth from a geochemical perspective.
For more information on the Origin Science Scholars Program, including a full video archive,
please visit the institute's website at www.case.edu.org.
In the next part of the talk, Dr. Sahai will discuss the central problem of understanding the origin of life,
the coordinated emergence of metabolism, replication, and the cell membrane.
Now, back to the talk.
All right. So now what is this life that we're talking about and what's the problem that we're trying to address?
So these basic components that I spoke about that you need for a minimal cell that all life forms we know about share
is that you have a membrane, obviously, to define what is a unit cell.
You have to have heritable, mutable genes.
So this comes back to your question, sir, about whether the units you described are the life or not.
It's not enough to have genetic information transferred from one generation to another.
It has to have an ability to make an error in that copying.
So you have mutations that can ultimately lead to evolution.
Otherwise, it's just like you keep making multiple copies from one generation to the other.
It's kind of boring.
All right. Then you have to have metabolic cycles.
These are the proteins and other kinds of enzymes.
Enzymes are subclassive proteins that make up your body collagen,
the most common protein in your body in skin and in cartilage and everywhere pretty much in your body.
That's a non-enzymatic protein.
It's a structural protein.
There are enzymatic proteins that are basically catalysts.
They help speed up reactions to make complex polymers out of single monomers.
Monomers are small molecular units that when connected together, linked,
it becomes like a daisy chain and it makes a longer version that's called a polymer.
And those polymers can then fold and get into all kinds of structures
that then allow these proteins with structure to interact with other proteins
or other kinds of molecules and create a reaction,
building more complex molecules that is called anabolism when we're building molecules to support our body
and catabolism, which is the opposite when we burn these complex molecules to release energy.
So that's what we're doing, metabolism, we're constantly doing.
So for photosynthesis, for example, the plants are taking carbon dioxide and water from the atmosphere,
converting it into carbohydrates and releasing oxygen in the process.
And then when they respire, it's the opposite.
So if one could build a synthetic protocell, how cool would that be, right?
Now, it's hard enough to build one under awkward conditions,
but one needs to be able to build this under actual environmental conditions.
So you need the membrane boundary, you need to get material in and out of it,
you need to have a molecule like DNA shown in that double helix there,
which is capable of replication and mutation.
And in all forms of life, the formation of DNA is catalyzed by enzyme proteins.
These monomers called nucleotides have to be enzymatically converted into the long polymer of DNA.
Enzyme is important.
And you have to have enzymes, again, to catalyze the reactions that drive metabolism.
So metabolism is nothing but catalyzed, enzyme-catalyzed energy transfer reactions that go in cycles.
So put up the example of photosynthesis and respiration there.
Assuming that you're a photosynthetic bacterium, for example,
you would have this enzyme embedded in the membrane.
It requires light, which I've shown with that lightning bolt.
And there's a redox reaction, a reduction-oxidation reaction,
which basically is what metabolism leads to.
But in each case, you need to have proteins.
Even this mass transport in and out requires specific proteins in the membrane
that allow these things to go in and out to get in the food that you need and to put out the waste products.
So in each case, you need proteins, you need enzymes, which are a subclass of proteins,
and you need the genetic material.
How to get all of this assembled from simple monomeric starting compounds?
I don't know if you can see this, but these are other reasons to study fluids inside cells.
A Connecticut man was recently arrested for carrying a stick of dynamite in his checked baggage on a flight back from Brazil.
Here are some other items that have passed through airport security recently.
July 24th, Houston to New York.
Unauthorized liquids cleverly hidden within the passengers' cell membranes.
July 28th, I love this one.
Portland, Oregon to Topeka, Kansas.
16 pounds of science textbooks.
Kansas, right?
Washington, D.C. to Darfur, Hope.
Sydney, Australia to Los Angeles to Russell Crow.
And last but not least, London to New York.
A few Muslim people may have slipped through with intact dignity.
Yeah, this is from The Onion, 2006, which is published out of Madison, Wisconsin.
It's a satirical newspaper in case you didn't know.
I think it was somewhere in the Middle East some years ago,
read one of these headlines and actually thought it was real.
And there was some major demonstration or something in that country.
All right, so getting back to the main problem, as I talked about before,
you have the genetic molecule, DNA, and it produces enzymes.
Again, the enzymes are needed to produce the DNA.
Okay, so you need one to produce the other.
And so you have this issue of which came first, replication or metabolism,
the enzymes being what catalyze metabolism.
He doesn't look too happy this chicken, he's like concerned.
Actually, assembling a proto-cell is even more complicated than that
because biology doesn't just go from DNA to protein.
There's an intermediate step.
All right, so DNA actually first transcribes to RNA.
It involves the use of enzymes.
And then RNA translates that genetic code to the proteins, including enzymes.
And again, that step involves enzymes.
So there's this very complex process in modern life, DNA to RNA to protein.
These proteins, again, as I said, could be involved in regenerating DNA,
or they could be enzymatic proteins which are then involved in metabolic cycles.
So it would be nice to make a cell that has all these functions,
but it turns out that DNA is actually too complex a molecule to imagine
that it got started from scratch on its own.
First of all, it has a double helix, a specific nucleotide that is in its structure
is very complex or synthesized without enzymes.
And so there is this hypothesis that RNA may have preceded DNA as the genetic material.
It has exactly the same, it has the helix structure, but it's a single helix.
It's not double, so it's easier to replicate.
It carries information, it can carry genetic information the same as DNA
because three out of the four nucleotides are the same,
and the fourth one is almost identical.
So RNA surely has the ability to carry genetic information,
but a couple of decades ago it was also found, a big revelation,
that RNA can also, some RNAs can also play catalytic roles, so they can behave like enzymes.
So it's possible then that RNA might have played both roles as a genetic molecule
as well as a catalytic molecule, and this is called the RNA world hypothesis.
This is an example of one of these enzymes or catalytic RNAs, it's called a ribozyme.
It's called a hammerhead because in its structure,
you can see that there is this fold here, and people imagine the hammerhead shark
when they saw the structure.
So people have tried to make these RNA polymers,
starting with the nucleotide monomers, oligomerize them, make them a little longer chain,
ultimately get them long enough to be able to fold and have functionality.
So what they've done is they've started with these nucleotides of RNA,
changed the pH, changed the temperature, added salt, removed salt,
all kinds of environmental conditions to try and form RNAs that are long enough to have functionality.
So they've been successful up to a point, you get oligomers that are a few tens of 20 to 40 to 50 nucleotides long,
but these don't really fold well enough to give you any real catalytic functionality.
So then people have then looked at, okay, forget about the pH and the temperature and blah blah,
let's look at other molecules that are involved in life and see if they can catalyze RNA formation.
So remember we talked about lipids that make the membrane of the cell.
How about, couldn't lipids have potentially catalyzed the polymerization of RNA?
So in the last, is it five, six years or so?
Then people have found that if you start with these RNA nucleotide monomers shown here schematically
and add lipids, lipid molecules, they actually catalyze the formation of RNA into oligomers.
As I said before, these are just long chains of these monomers linked together.
