this is this happens to be a free living cell, but all of our cells used to be free living
organisms at one point. This is called the lacrimaria. Notice a few things, there's no brain,
there's no nervous system, the control over the morphology, this is real time, the control over
morphology is unbelievable. If you're into soft body robotics, you should be drooling right now,
this is an incredible level of control. All of it is handled in one cell. So all of its local
physiological anatomical and metabolic needs are handled here at the level of a single cell as it
feeds in its environment. If you cut off this little portion of the cell this head, it will simply
reform. And so what we have in biology is this idea that we are not just structurally nested that
is made of organs, tissues, cells and molecular networks, but actually each of these layers
is competent to solve various problems in its own space. So this is a multi-scale competency
architecture. The molecular networks, the cellular networks, the organs, the whole bodies
and swarms all solve problems in various spaces, the space of morphogenesis, the transcriptional
space, physiological space, and then in our case linguistic and social spaces as well.
And so because all of the parts of the body have their own competencies, their own abilities to
solve problems, you can think of the brain-body kind of connection as an agential prosthetic.
The idea is that we not only have various effectors that we can use in the anti-Clarke sense of the
expanded mind and so other types of sensors and effectors that your mind can use,
but actually these are agential prosthetics. They are ones that have agendas of their own and so
together they form kind of a more global integrated high-level system. Now that allows for some
amazing types of robust problem solving. I'll show you a few examples. One is this. So this is
a tappel of the same frog that we were talking about before. Here's the mouth, here are the nostrils,
here's the brain, the spinal cord, and here's the gut. What you'll notice is that there are no eyes
here, but there is an eye on its tail because what Doug Blackiston did here is to take some cells
from the early embryo that are going to make eye, remove them from their primary location so there
are no eyes here in the head, and stick them in the tail. Not only do they form a perfectly good eye,
even though they're in a weird location next to a bunch of muscle instead of
being next to the brain where they belong, they put out one optic nerve. That optic nerve comes
out and it synapses here. You can see where it ends. It synapses on the spinal cord. It does not go
all the way up to the brain, but what we found by building a machine that automates the training
and testing of visual learning behavior in these animals, these eyes can see perfectly well.
Without any additional evolutionary adjustment, this radically different sensory motor architecture,
now the brain for millions of years was used to having visual input from these locations,
now you've got this weird itchy patch of tissue on the back that provides
some kind of stimulation onto the spinal cord. How does the animal even know that's visual data,
but they do perfectly well in visual learning tasks. This has many interesting consequences.
For example, this kind of robust ability to deal with large scale changes to the structure of
the organism, the fact that these cells are perfectly happy to build an eye wherever they
will find some interesting place to connect to and so on. During evolution, this massively
buffers the negative consequences of mutations because if your eye happens to be moved somewhere
else, no problem. Your fitness is not zero after that. You still have quite a degree of behavioral
success, so this allows evolution to explore positive pleotropic effects of various mutations
in effect, a kind of creativity. It also means that this kind of evolutionary process doesn't
need to solve a huge dimensional micromanagement problem of how to direct every cell. What it
actually could search and navigate is the space of hacking signals, signals that get
various cells to do various things. We think that that's a much more tractable space.
In this case, what we've done is something quite different. We in my group study bioelectrical
signaling. This is voltage-based signals between all cells, not just neurons, but all cells actually
exchange these electrical signals. One of the things we've learned is a kind of bioelectric
subroutine call that says, build an eye at this location. We can make many different
organs. We can make brains and limbs and hearts and inner ear organs and so on, but I'm going to
show you an example of an eye. What we do is early on in embryogenesis, we inject here a kind of
ion channel RNA. There are no electrodes, there's no waves or fields or anything like that. We inject
RNA to control the interface that these cells are actually using to communicate with each other,
which is voltage across the membrane. When we put the appropriate potassium channel RNAs,
that sets a voltage pattern that causes any cells in the body to make an eye. In this case,
the gut is making this eye. Here are all the layers that they have, so retina, optic nerve,
everything's fine. There's a couple of interesting things here. First of all, what we see here is the
incredible high-level control. We don't provide all the information needed to make an eye.
Eyes are incredibly complex. We provide actually a very simple piece of information that's basically
a high-level subroutine call that says, build an eye here. Everything else is folded within that,
and the system takes care of all of it, the size control, the different structures relative to
each other and so on. All of this is discovered. We didn't program this really. The system does
most of the heavy lifting here. There are many remarkable competencies to be discovered in
these multi-scale systems. For example, this round thing is a lens sitting out in the tail of a
tadpole somewhere. The blue cells are the ones that we actually injected with this ion channel RNA,
so the blue cells are the ones that we tell, you should make an eye, but there's not enough of them,
and so what they do is they actually recruit their neighbors. All the brown and clear cells
were never, in fact, targeted by us at all, but what these cells do is recruit their neighbors
to participate in this morphogenetic event because they can tell there's not enough of them to do
it by themselves. This is a common property of these distributed intelligences like ants and
termites and so on. When there's a task to be done, they recruit their buddies to scale up to the task
at hand, and that's what happened here. There are two levels of instruction. Here's us instructing
these cells that there should be an eye here, and then these cells take care of everything else,
including redirecting and behavior shaping a bunch of their neighbors so that they will go and help,
and instead of making skin and everything else that belongs in the tail will help them to make
this eye. So these kind of competencies are there to be discovered in these multi-scale systems.
I want to show you another example in this animal. This is called a planarian. It's a flatworm.
It has a true brain, central nervous system, lots of different organs, quite an interesting creature,
fairly complex, and it has a number of remarkable properties. First of all, it's highly regenerative.
So you can cut this guy into pieces. The record is something like 276. Every piece will grow
exactly what's needed, no more, no less, and give you a perfect tiny little worm. Because of this
regenerability, they are also immortal. There's no such thing as an old planarian. They regenerate
any senescent cells, and so they just continue to rebuild themselves as far as we can tell forever.
They're also very cancer-resistant, but all of this takes place in the presence of an extremely
messy genome, because the way these guys often reproduce is they just tear themselves in half,
and each side regenerates, and now you've got two worms. This means that unlike for the rest of us,
who do not pass on any mutations that we get in our body, we don't pass them on to our children.
In these guys, they keep every mutation that doesn't kill the cell, and in fact it's propagated
into the new body after they regenerate, and have to rebuild larger bodies. So they accumulate
mutations, and what happens in these guys is that they've basically perfected the algorithm that
evolution isn't expecting the hardware to be robust. The hardware is assumed to be
highly variable and faulty. Every cell in these guys can have a different number of chromosomes.
They're mix-aploid, so you really can't count on the hardware very much. What you have to have is
an algorithm that builds a perfect worm no matter what's underneath, and that's why they're resistant
to disorders of aging, of cancer. In fact, of transgenesis, they don't even have transgenic
planaria or lines of mutant worms that don't exist, because these guys will build a perfect
worm under a huge range of various conditions. But one thing you can do is you can target
that morphogenetic machinery. In fact, how do they know how many heads, how many tails they're
supposed to have? If all of this is happening, all this unreliable hardware is underneath,
how do they remember what's going on here? So we studied this process, and we're able to
track using voltage-sensitive fluorescent dyes. We were able to do a kind of imaging. It's a
sort of akin to neural decoding, except it's not for neurons, it's for the rest of the body.
We're interested in decoding the memories of the collective intelligence that makes up this
morphogenetic process of rebuilding and so on. And so what we found is that there's a voltage
pattern that literally tells the animal how many heads to have. This is the wild type pattern that
says one head, one tail. And so when you cut an animal like this, in fact, you get one head,
one tail. What we were able to do is to take this animal, perfectly normal one-headed worm,
with a gene expression just like the normal one, meaning the anterior genes are on and the head,
they're off in the tail. And what we've been able to do is using ion channel targeting drugs is to
rewrite this pattern so that instead of one head, it says two heads. It's actually kind of messy,
but the technology is still being worked out. And so what you have here is this idea that a
single planarian body can store at least, probably much more, but at least one of two different
representations of what a correct planarian will look like. That representation is used as
the set point of a homeostatic remodeling process so that when you do cut this animal,
this is what it builds. Again, not Photoshop, these are real two-headed animals. Again,
this bioelectric pattern is a map of this one-headed body, not of this one. So it's actually even a
counterfactual memory. It doesn't do anything until you go, until you cut off the head and the tail.
And then that information is used to drive morphogenesis. So we now, much like neuroscientists,
are able to do some neural decoding and try to understand what the electrical patterns in a
living brain entail about the memories, the preferences, the goal states and so on of the
human or animal subject. We can do this with the collective intelligence of the body,
read out the pattern memories, understand what it's going to build if it gets injured,
and in fact rewrite them. And so when you do rewrite them, the reason I call this a pattern
memory is because once you do this, if we change it to a two-headed state, that electric circuit
that sets up that pattern actually has a memory to it. When you change it, it holds. And so these
two-headed animals, if you keep cutting them, keep cutting off the heads, they will continue to rebuild
as two-headed forever. Here's what they look like, these two-headed animals you can see.
So this has all the properties of memory. It's long-term stable, it's rewriteable,
it has conditional recall, I just showed you that, and it has two discrete possible behaviors.
Now notice that in planaria, there are no mutant lines, there are no
transgenic worms, people have been trying for many decades. When you change the genetics,
nothing happens because these animals are already built. The algorithm assumes that the
structural genome is unreliable, but what you can do is you can produce permanent lines of
aberrant two-headed worms, so this is a permanent line, but it's not genetic. It's done by rewriting
at the software level. Now, not only can we make worms with the wrong number of heads,
we can make worms with the wrong species shape of head. So you can take this triangular kind of
species, Dugizia derata cephala, cut off the head, treat them with a drug that
confuses the bioelectrical circuit, and as a result, they will make flat heads like this
Pifelina, round heads like this S. Mediterranean, or of course, they're normal heads. Not only the
shape of the head, but actually the shape of the brain and the distribution of stem cells
becomes just like these other species, about 100 to 150 million years of evolutionary distance.
So what you see is that the exact same hardware can visit attractors in this anatomical morpheus
base that normally belongs to other species. Normally, this other genetically specified
hardware is what lives there, but you can prompt this group of cells to visit them as well
if the appropriate information is there in the physiological control circuits. So head shape,
head number, you can go well beyond that, and actually we can make planaria with shapes that
don't look like flat worms at all. You can explore really diverse regions of this latent
morpheus base. So you can make these spiky worms, you can make this kind of cylindrical thing,
and you can make these hybrid forms. So again, the idea is that you can get cells to visit
really far regions of that anatomical morpheus base, given the right set of signals.
And by the way, the DNA here, in all of these examples, there's nothing altered about the
hardware. The DNA is exactly the same. We haven't changed it. Similar to here, the DNA in these
geysers is exactly the same as in the rest of the leaf. If anybody, the next slide is a little
gory. It's a picture of a surgery. If you're a squeamish, you might want to not look at the
next slide. I want to talk about this idea of hacking and how we and how other creatures
manipulate each other as part of this relationship. And so this is an example of a surgery where you
can see people talk about all the time whether living things are machines or not. I mean,
there are a number of approaches. This is a very machine-like approach. This is something, here's
what it ends up being, the surgery. There's an integration of living material and a very
kind of low agency passive material, which is all it does is hold its shape. But this is, of
course, not the only game in town as far as manipulating living matter, because after we do
this, we rely on the body to, quote, unquote, heal. All of the things that happen after this are
things that we really don't have much control over. In fact, in molecular medicine, really the
only successful interventions, permanent interventions, are things that work against
the low agency invaders of the body, such as microbes, cancer, things like that. So antibiotics,
chemotherapy, those things work well. But actually, in biomedicine, we have very few things
that treat the body itself in a permanent way, being able to fix it, not just target symptoms,
but actually fix it in a permanent way. There are very few things that actually do that.
And that's because we are still groping for ways to interact with truly agential materials,
which living bodies are. So we've been engineering with passive materials for
thousands of years. And now we're coming into some active materials and even active matter
and some computational materials. But bodies are all the way to the right of this kind of
continuum of, I call it an axis of persuadability, as far as different types of technologies that
you need to optimally relate to these different systems. Even molecular networks have six different
kinds of learning that they can do. And so all up and down this kind of scale of different levels
of sophistication by Wiener et al. We start to find different ways to relate to these systems to
try to change their function. Individual cells here, these are the individual cells of which
xenobots are made. So you can see here this little, we call it the little tiny horse here.
These are, all of these are just loose skin cells. And you can see they move as a collective.
There's all kinds of interesting behaviors. The lightning flash, by the way, is calcium
that you're going to see here. This is a calcium signaling when it connects.
Those cells have individual behaviors. They have collective behaviors on a scale much smaller
than even a xenobots at a larger scale. Again, here's our planarian. One of the things that
you don't see in this planarian is the pharynx. The pharynx is this muscular tube that it uses to
pick up food. And the pharynx is normally not seen. It's sitting quietly, passively inside the animal.
But much like with the xenobot, where we released the skin cells from the instructive influence
of the other cells, when you remove the pharynx from the rest of the body,
here is what happens. These are individual pharynxes. They're actually very active. They
have a life of their own. This one is going to try to eat. This is liver. This is going to try
to eat a piece of liver. Of course, it's just a tube. So the liver comes out the other end.
So all it ends up doing is borrowing through. They have their own independent life and they live
for quite some time, if very differently than what they do inside. And Wilhelm Ruh called it
the struggle of the parts back in the early days of developmental biology. The idea that
because we are multi-scale competent systems, all the parts have to be controlling each other
all the time in order for our emergent cells to appear. And so when we think about, when we go
going back to this idea of xenobots, when we think about what did evolution actually learn
in producing the Xenopus lavas frog? So here's the genome. Most of the time, what it does is this.
It makes these embryos with a standard developmental sequence that they end up being
tapels with a standard set of behaviors. And if one just looks at the natural course of things,
this is what you think evolution has learned. It has evolved a frog, which is a solution to
