a kind of a froggy environment as a problem. And it's highly, highly adapted, very fit, very nice.
But it turns out that in a different scenario, these exact same cells with this exact same genome
can make a xenobot. These xenobots have different shapes. They have different developmental
sequence. So this is about a month old. It's turned from this into something like this.
And they have a completely different set of behaviors. So this provides us with an interesting
challenge. Typically, for any given animal, when you ask where does its shape and behavior come
from, the answer is evolutionary selection. And for eons, it's been sculpted by evolutionary
forces and selection to have certain properties. But there's never been any xenobots. There's
never been any selection to be a good xenobot. All of this is completely emerging. So the cells,
of course, evolved in the frog lineage, but the evolutionary pressures on them were completely
different. So everything, including this kinematic self-replication, this idea of the ability to
make copies of themselves when all of the normal frog kind of reproductive machinery is removed,
this is just skin. They don't have the ability to reproduce the normal way. They come up with a
different way. That's, to our knowledge, never existed in evolution before. So what's happening
here is a kind of really engineering by subtraction. What we did was we removed the other cells that
normally basically bully these skin cells into having a boring two dimensional life on the
surface of the animal. In the absence of those signals, you get to see what the cells really
want to do, which is this is the default behavior of those cells when they're not being
hacked and influenced by their neighbors. This is what they're actually going to do.
And all of these competencies are incredibly non-obvious, and they allow us to have these
model systems with which we can start to develop a science of predicting the goals, the behavioral
repertoire, and so on of complex, multi-scale systems from knowing the properties of the parts,
which we still really don't know very well. So I'm going to just to kind of summarize what we
have here. And this is a sort of obvious homage to Doug Hofstadter's classic book. The idea that
what you have in the Xenopus genome is the ability to, under various circumstances, to produce
different kinds of creatures. And in fact, we don't know what else it's capable of doing. This
hardware, I want to float the idea that a biological evolution doesn't just produce
solutions to specific problems, but it actually makes problem-solving machines.
It makes very versatile hardware that can solve problems in multiple spaces and has different,
very surprising behavior, and that actually collaboration with AI and with human scientists
is what's allowing us to start to catch a glimpse of what else is possible. So the main points
that I tried to transmit today are that all biological life is a kind of collective intelligence
of multi-scale competent agents. And the implications of this, and this is, I call this the TAME
Framework TAME for technological approach to mind everywhere, has many applications from regenerative
medicine to understanding evolution, to novel robotics and AI to really start to take on board
the deep lessons of biology in terms of how the hardware and the software relate to each other
and how they implement ability to solve novel problems. And that these biological robots are
really an exploration tool. They're a kind of device, really, that we can use to explore new
spaces, to explore morpho space, to find these unexpected capabilities. And that it's really
now on us to learn to recognize, predict, control, understand, participate in, because I think,
for example, Josh and Doug and Sam and I are actually part of this novel about creation,
to create and to ethically relate to radically different composite beings.
And I also think that when Darwin had this famous phrase, endless forms, most beautiful,
you know, he was kind of really impressed at the wide variety of living forms that he saw.
Everything that he saw, that end of one example of the tree of life on earth,
is a tiny corner of this massive option space of possible beings, possible bodies and possible
minds, because, because biology is so highly interoperable, because biological systems will
find a coherent way to exist, even when mixed at every level with foreign DNA and nano materials.
And so every combination of evolved material, designed material and software is some kind of
plausible agent. So we have cyborgs and hybrids and chimeras and all kinds of hybrids. Many of
these already exist, they will increasingly exist. And this has huge implications for ethics, because
the old way of figuring out how you're going to relate to something, which is where did it come
from? Meaning, was it evolved or designed? And what does it look like? What's inside? Is it a
human brain? Is it soft and squishy? Is it made of metal? Those kinds of criteria are basic. I
mean, they were never any good really, but they served okay in prior ages. They're not going to
survive the next couple of decades. It's a completely different game looking into the future, where
we're going to have to find ways to relate to beings that are nowhere on the tree of life relative
to us, and that are completely different in terms of their providence and their structure and behavior.
And so we're going to have to figure out a way to relate to them. So I'll stop here and just
say that all of this, if you want to see more, there are a couple of interesting
papers here. This one with Josh, some stuff on machines, some stuff on engineering with
agential materials. And so I want to thank the people who did all the work. So this is the
Zenabot team, Doug Blackiston, Sam Kriegman, and Josh Bongard. I have to do a disclosure because
Fauna Systems is a spin-off company that was formed around the whole Zenabot technology.
Payan and Sherry did the eye work that I showed you. This was our worm team, and our various
collaborators, our funders. Jeremy Gaye did all the amazing diagrams, and always the animals.
They do all the heavy lifting. They teach us everything of importance. So yeah, thank you
for listening, and I'll take questions.
