Okay, good morning, everyone. I think we can start. Our fourth and plenary talk will be
given this morning by Michael Levin. Michael Levin is a professor of biology and biomedical
engineering at Tofts University in the US. Like many of you, perhaps, I first got to
know of Michael's work through his papers on the Xenobots, a very interesting collaboration
with Josh Borngard. But it was actually after I managed to catch his interview in Lex Fritzman's
podcast that I really became very intrigued on the possibility of his work. Michael is
a very accomplished academic. He has the Vannevar Bush Distinguished Professorship and he is
the founding director of the Allen Discovery Center at Tofts and the co-director of the
Institute for Computer Design Robotics. His work is at the intersection of developmental
biophysics, cognitive science, and computer science. I am very excited about this talk.
So without further ado, let's welcome Michael.
Thank you so much. I'm really pleased to be able to share some ideas with you today.
I appreciate the invitation. I will try a completely new way of giving this talk today.
So let's see how it goes. This is a very different way to tell these stories than I've ever done
in the past. And it goes along with John Searle's comment that you have to allow yourself to
be astounded by things that any sane person takes for granted. And we're going to go over
some of these things today. I want to start by asking what this is. So it's a small biological
that seems to traverse an aqueous path. So this is filled with water. It moves down the
path on its own. It's completely self-driven. It moves down the path. It takes the corner
without bumping into the opposite wall. So it takes this corner. And then spontaneously,
it turns around and goes back where it came from. So what is this? Well, one thing you might think
is that this is a kind of a ciliated organism that you might have found in a pond somewhere and
it would have an invertebrate genome. And that's definitely not correct. You might say that it's
a xenobot. This is a biological proto-organism and a kind of biorebotics platform that's made of
frog epidermal cells. And this is true. You might also say that this is a vehicle for exploring
anatomical morphospace and actually a visualization tool for a kind of diverse intelligence
research. And I think that would be deeper and closer to the truth. But today, I'm going to talk
about another way of thinking about this, which is that it's just one part of a very heterogeneous
composite entity, which consists of biological cells, artificial intelligence in a computer,
and also for human scientists. And so in order to try to understand this kind of composite entity,
I want to first show you a few unconventional examples of biology. And we're going to talk about
a kind of multi-scale competency architecture, which is related to a concept of polycomputing
that Josh Bongard and I have been working on. I'm going to show you that functionality in living
systems is often cryptic, and it's often hidden by reliable, robust outcomes. And it has to be
uncovered. I'm going to tell you that in biology, every part is constantly hacking all of the other
parts. And I'll show you some examples of this. And we'll talk about plasticity, we'll talk about
virtualization, and we'll talk about using a sort of hardware-software lens to understand what these
biological systems are doing. The first thing I want to point out is that while we're very comfortable
detecting intelligence of medium-sized objects moving at medium speeds in three-dimensional
space, such as birds, primates, and so on, biological intelligence actually exists in many
diverse spaces that are very hard for us to recognize. So for example, living systems routinely
solve problems in navigating gene expression spaces, in navigating the state of physiological,
the space of physiological states, and also the space of possible anatomical configurations or
anatomical morphous space. And there are some remarkable examples of which I'll only have
time to show you a few of problem-solving in all of these spaces. One of the things that we want
to talk about is how organisms hack each other or control each other's behavior. So you've probably
all heard of this zombie ant fungus, which infects these ants and causes them to do a
certain behavior, which is to crawl up on these leaves and freeze and later be eaten. There's
another parasite, which has this kind of quite complex life cycle, where it spends part of its
time in certain animals, part of its time in other animals that eat the former animals and so on.
And one of the things that this parasite does in order to make sure that the host gets eaten by
by the next one is that it reduces its risk aversion. So if it finds itself in a rodent,
for example, these rodents will lose fear of cats and they will come out in the open,
they'll get eaten by the cat and the parasite goes there. So what happens in humans who spend
time hanging out with cats when they get infected is that it makes you more entrepreneurial and it
also makes you drive your motorcycle too fast for conditions. Basically what it does is it lowers
risk aversion and it's been found that people who have crashes, for example, motorcycle crashes,
also various captains of industry and things like this tend to have high rates of being
infected by this parasite. It literally hacks high-level behaviors. And what's interesting
is that in order to understand this creature, it is not enough to just study the creature itself,
you really have to understand the whole cycle, you have to understand what else it's doing,
what is affecting the creature's behavior and it might be an entirely different living organism
and so on. And so this theme that it's not enough to just look at the organism to understand what
it's doing, either here or here, you have to understand all of the aspects of its environment,
some of which are agential organisms themselves. And not only do creatures hack each other's
policies for navigating three-dimensional space of conventional behavior, but they also do it in
anatomical and physiological spaces. So here, for example, and this is not Photoshop, this is real,
there's this insect called gonurella tritans and what it has is it has an image of ants
on its wings. And when threatened, it flaps its wings in a particular pattern that looks
to predators as ants scurrying around and then nobody wants to mess with these ants. And so
it uses them to scare off predators. Now, this is fairly remarkable. This creature is running a
kind of stripped-down morphogenetic program, a sort of two-dimensional low-resolution morphogenetic
program of these ant shapes. And it's pretty amazing. The first time I saw this, I was just
floored until I realized that, yes, this is amazing, but of course, not more so than the actual fly
anatomy, the fact that these cells, yes, these cells can make something that looks like this,
but even more impressively, they actually make something that looks like this. This is a much
more, the actual host is a much more complex creature. But this is a kind of virtualization.
These cells are able to make various different shapes. Now, we are generally not drawn to these
kind of ideas because we think of reliable development. Development is very reliable and
robust. After all, acorns always give rise to oak trees. And we think that this sort of thing
is what a genome does. It makes the oak genome that comes from the acorn is able to make this
nice flat green structure. But what you might never guess is that actually it can also make
these kind of structures. These structures, which are called galls, are made of the plant cells themselves.
They are induced by a parasite, in this case, a particular wasp, hacking these plant cells,
releasing certain signals that get these cells to build this kind of very unconventional structure.
So by looking at something like this, you would actually have no idea. I mean, this is incredibly
reliable and robust. You would actually have no idea that these cells are, in fact, capable of
making something completely different instead of a flat green leaf. They make this round,
spiky, colorful structure. There's a very wide range of these gall structures.
And so what we're getting is a couple of concepts. One being that these cells are
actually capable of much more diversity than what they normally do when they're impacted by other
agents. And the other thing is that because of this, you really have to understand more broadly
the outer world in which these things live in order to understand what they are capable of.
And so we can ask ourselves, we look at this frog and it has a certain kind of body and it has a
certain kind of cognitive structure with behavior. And so we say, okay, here is the organism. This
frog is an organism. But I'm going to argue that we think this is an organism because we have really
fairly tiny spatiotemporal portals through which we see the world. We don't see the whole evolutionary
cycle. And I think that's something like a xenobot is an amazing device that collapses this much
bigger picture into a scale that we can actually appreciate. So whereas this is kind of the simplistic
view, what really is an organism is the physical body, but also its relationships with various
aspects of the environment, all of the affordances which may be high or low agency. So there may be
other creatures ranging from scientists to microbes that are there to manipulate this thing.
There are physical chemical features of the environment. There's an evolutionary cycle that's
wrapped around all of this. There are parasites, there are exploiters, there are conspecifics.
All of this is actually what we need to understand to understand this organism because we need to
know what all of these things can do and how the hardware responds to this in order to be able
to predict, control, understand, really rebuild and create and relate to these kind of complex
structures. So as we think about a xenobot, then this is the story I want to tell in the first
half of the talk. What really is a xenobot? What does the expanded ecology of the xenobot
really look like? So what is a xenobot? Well, this is a project done in collaboration with
Josh Bongard's lab. As you'll see, the other people involved are Douglas Blackiston, who's a
scientist in my group, and Sam Kriegman, who did all the programming, did all the biology.
So what we decided to do was to ask this question of what would somatic cells, so perfectly normal,
genetically normal cells, do in a different context, would they be able to reboot their
multicellularity? So this is the embryo of the frog, Xenopus lavis. In about eight hours,
the cross-section looks like this. These cells up here are fated to be epidermal or skin cells.
So what Doug does is take off these cells, dissociate them, and put them in a separate
environment away from all these other cells. Now, they could have done many things. They
could have died. They could have spread out and moved away from each other. They could have made
a two-dimensional monolayer like cell culture. Instead, this is what they do. Now, when you
dissociate the cells and plate them in this little hole, overnight, they coalesce together
like this. And they make this round little structure. And what the structure does is it begins to swim
because it has little hairs. The skin, the tadpole skin has little hairs called cilia on it. The
hairs rotate. And the normal function is to move the mucus down the body of the frog to keep the
pathogens and everything else flowing away and preventing it from grabbing hold. But in this
configuration, what it can do is use those same cilia. It can repurpose that hardware for a different
functionality. It can use them to swim. And so what you can see here is a single one swimming.
Here is some collective behavior. This one is kind of going on a long journey. Some of them
are doing nothing, just sitting there. These two are interacting with each other. And there's all
kinds of shapes that you can make. Here, Doug made this donut kind of shape, which swims along.
There are others that have this kind of motion. This one was made by Pi and my group. And they
have all sorts of different shapes and motions. Remember, this is just skin. There's nothing
there other than skin cells. In fact, if you do some calcium imaging, this is the same kind of
imaging that one would do on a brain for looking at the physiological activity of signaling in
brains, what you'll see in these Xenobots is something kind of similar. You see lots of
activity. And of course, you can imagine all of the tools of information theory being applied to
ask how much integration is there within the bot, how much communication might there be between
bots and so on. Actually, the cognitive capacities are being studied now. So I'm not going to talk
much about that. So stay tuned for that. We have all kinds of experiments on asking what can they
learn? What do they sense? What are their preferences? All of that is to come. They can also
regenerate after damage. So if you cut them almost in half, look at this basically right here. Look
at that hinge and how much force it takes to squeeze the whole thing through that 180 degree hinge
back up into the new Xenobot shape. So they have many really unexpected behaviors for a
bunch of skin cells. But one of the most amazing behaviors was discovered by AI. So what Josh's
lab did was to create a simulation environment where they could test out different shapes of
these bots and different activities and also look at what the predicted kind of behaviors
would be if they were put in an environment where there was loose material in the vicinity. Now this
material can be passive particles such as this or it can be other cells. And if you provide them
with cells, it turns out that what happens is that they basically implement Von Neumann's dream of
a robot that goes around and builds copies of itself from materials it finds in the environment.
So these white flecks here are individual cells and what the bots do is they run around
and they collect the material into little piles. They sort of, both collectively and individually,
they shape the cells into smooth little piles. And because they're working with an
agential material, meaning these are cells that actually have competencies and tendencies for
certain kinds of behaviors, what ends up happening is that these kind of balls that they make
mature into the next generation of xenobots. So you have the first generation, the second,
the third, and so on. And now what you'll notice is that the first one has this interesting pacman
shape. What the AI discovered through simulated evolution is that this kind of shape would be
very efficient at building these things. And so Doug was able to actually make them and so you
can see them here. And so much like us as bioengineers, the reason this worked in the first
place is because we are working with an agential material, these cells, they're not passive particles.
And so I'd like to propose the idea that what the xenobot really is, is not just this thing,
the xenobot is actually all of this. There are multiple components to what actually makes up
a xenobot. It's a composite system consisting of Doug, who physically manipulates the cells
and myself and Josh and Sam, who implement the evolutionary cycle, set up the particular
environment that allows this thing to explore morphospace, the space of possible anatomical
and behavioral configurations, and do things that these skin cells otherwise would never do. The
cells, of course, themselves have an evolutionary history down to our last common ancestor,
but the proto organism that they make is completely different than what normally happens.
And so there's this composite entity of the AI that actually did the evolutionary simulations to
figure out what the manipulations should be to get the cells to do this. And then the other
features of the environment, so particularly the four of us, are features of the xenobots environment
that are hacking it in exactly the same way that I showed you the other biology hacks each other.
And one of the key parts of this is that we are not hacking it by putting in any kind of synthetic
biology circuits. There is no genetic change here. There are no novel transcriptional circuits.
There's no nanomaterials. What we're doing is providing signals that take advantage of the
competencies of the creature, just like in those gals that I showed you and in the various other
examples. Now, this here is a really strange kind of entity that's a sort of distributed
being that consists of kind of biological parts and then some fairly high agency kinds of manipulators
and some AI and so on. But the reality is, and so this is all together, this kind of thing is a
really kind of strange unconventional collective intelligence. But actually, so are we, because
it's important to remember that not just ants and termites and beehives and things like this,
not just they are collective intelligences, but so are we. In fact, in fact, all intelligence
is collective intelligence. There is no such thing as some sort of indivisible, unified
diamond of intelligence that doesn't have any parts. In fact, you know, René Descartes was
really interested in where in the brain one could sort of attach this unified kind of intelligence
that we feel, the unified experience of humans. And he really liked the pineal gland because he
said that there was only one of them in the brain. So that fit this idea that there should be one
place where the unified cognition of the human resides. But if he had access to good microscopy,
what he would have seen is that there isn't one of anything. And inside that pineal gland is this.
So lots and lots of little cells. And inside each one of those cells is this stuff. Look at this,
look at this amazing structure. All of this is what works together to result in the competencies
of single cells, and all of them together in the, for example, in the brain, but also in the body,
working together result in emergent competencies and cognitive systems of higher types of
creatures. Now, this is, so we are all made of cells. We all take this amazing journey across
the Cartesian cut, starting off as just physics, a little pile of chemicals in an unfertilized
OSI. And then slowly and gradually through this process of embryonic development, we become
something like this, or maybe even something like that. And this is really key. This process is very
slow and gradual. There is no specific special point in embryonic development where you go from
physics to mind, it's all kind of a gradual thing. And this is what our components are made of. Now,
