on Facebook, which I don't know, I still use Facebook because I am one of the olds, even
though it is social media, and I probably shouldn't use it as much, but I cannot help myself. I still
stay away from Twitter. So, you know, I am not the worst monster in the world. At least Twitter,
you can just filter by following exclusively comedians and scientists or whatever. I got on
Facebook to set up the meetup that we're going to try and do this month. And like not only was it
a cesspool for the five seconds that I had to look at the whatever dashboard, but like the UI
was terrible. I was on like the beta for the new UI and I eventually just finally figured out how to
switch it back to the old one before finishing what I was trying to do. But I mean, if the content
of Facebook didn't turn you off, the user experience of it should. It's gotten a lot worse
over the years. I've been using Facebook since 2004 when it required a .edu email address.
And the user experience has gotten a lot worse and the people who have gotten on to Facebook have
greatly reduced its utility. Plus, there's a lot of advertising, a lot of people getting into the
game and ruining what was actually pretty decent when, you know, when I was in college and it was
just other college kids, then it was mostly decent. But it's gotten so much worse over the years. I
mostly use it for to share updates about, you know, fatherhood and my kid and and just lighthearted
stuff. I don't typically do, you know, political stuff. I filter out most people who do and most
new sources. So it's like a heavily curated thing. But I am honored that I did not hit your
filter list. Not yet. No, right. That's coming tomorrow. Well, it's it's it's sort of a matter of
how much I think there is to add. If you know, because you can't fully filter or you shouldn't
fully filter by, by, you know, by what you're seeing, I guess, but I had someone who the turn of
phrase was living in accordance with the Constitution. And I was like, it was like, wow,
like, what do you even mean? Like the Constitution? Do you mean like in the spirit of the preamble or
in like the spirit of what the founding fathers meant? Or it sounds like a religious phrase being
borrowed to what's a document that details the limitations of the federal government against
the states, right? So what was and oh, it was, it was one of those people who has not thought very
deeply about things and did not know very much history. Because I'm like, the argument was in
terms of freedom of expression, right, specifically with regards to whether or not she should be
mandated to wear a mask. And it's just like, you know, the Constitution says that you're free
your free expression should not be infringed. And I'm like, okay. But like, first of all,
that was only for the federal government when it was originally written, right? That that was not
the Bill of Rights was not applied to the states for, I don't know, like 100, 100 some years.
Second, like, if you read the federalist papers, they make that argument that it is necessary to
give up liberty in order to have safety. Right. And third, if you go to look at the Supreme Court
cases that have been decided, there are limitations to liberty in order to ensure the public safety.
And that's always been kind of an essential American debate, because Americans play so much
emphasis on liberty. But, you know, it you can go through and you can read Supreme Court cases,
it's been established law for quite a while that there are concerns of public safety where your
basically the bounds of liberty are not absolute from the government, which should be obvious
because the government collects taxes, right? Among among many other things that the government
does that infringe upon your liberty. The court case I cited specifically was a vaccination one.
It was a 19, 1905 one where they're basically like, yeah, a state can enforce vaccination orders
for the public good. And your your liberty does not extend so far that you can just
endanger other people by not getting vaccinated. And she did not like that. And then I blocked her.
I mean, the vaccination that is the story of that drama, but well, I mean, it sounds like I the
vaccination one was a much better example than the facetion one I was going to come up with,
which is like, it's it constrains my liberty to say to tell me which side of the road I can drive
on. And yet if you catch me driving on the left side of the road, I should be pulled over and
given a ticket if not have my license taken away. And like, I think that's right and proper because
I'm a good, I don't know what you call it, who's the person who wants to roll over and give up
deliveries? Yeah, I'm a great I'm a good bootlicker of the government. And I think that if they catch
me driving on the wrong side of the street, they should give me a ticket, or at least tell me not
to. And I mean, my, my again, my other facetious point is that like, the founding fathers didn't
know what a germ was. So like, they didn't have an opinion on wearing masks to prevent the spreading
of disease. Now, obviously, that's not the case they were making they were your your interlocutor on
Facebook. But yeah, actually, George Washington did mandate vaccines for the Continental Army.
Hmm, just because because sickness killed so many people and they had, they had a really crappy
smallpox vaccine that was like, you take, you take scabs from someone who has smallpox and you
like crush them up into a powder, and then you dip a wet needle in that powder, and you poke a
healthy person with it. That was what they did for vaccines back in back during the Revolutionary
War. Yeah, I mean, and that sounds crazy now, but that's actually, you know, given the technology
available, a really innovative solution. Yeah. And that that it gives you a very mild form. I think
it was smallpox, but it gives you a very, very mild form of it. They're still, man, it's still
there's still a fatality rate associated with it even. Yeah, I think it was two or three percent.
Yeah, and they chose to do it anyway. Yeah, because war conditions, especially
a disease can just rip through the barracks so quickly. But yeah, so it's, that's another point
in favor of giving up a little liberty, right? I don't know. I think that there's debate to be
had about the balance of liberty and safety, right? But to say that it, you know, there's an
absolute liberty that comes from the Constitution, especially that that part where it's like, this
this is about the Constitution. It's not about like natural rights, right? It's an appeal to the
Constitution rather than anything that I don't know. That's just like it gets to me. And then I
spend too much time on like Facebook posts that that are just like, I made the mistake of going to
my local news, their Facebook thing, because I think showed up. And then I expanded the comments.
And that was my, that was my, that was my problem. You read the comments. Yeah, well, and I, it's my
natural inclination to try to correct people when they are, when there's misinformation, you know?
Like I'll go track down source and, you know, say what I believe to be the truth. And that's not,
it's not gotten me too great of results, I don't think in terms of like changing anyone's mind,
but I would rather that I do that. It just, it eats up time for, for no real purpose, I guess.
That's just a, well, and as a personal flaw, and that's collateral damage, you might end up helping
somebody, you know, get a better picture of stuff. So that's not a bad thing. And I should mention
too, since you don't know me as well as Enya and maybe our listeners have heard me make this joke
enough, like, I'm not this merging Facebook, like users that they shouldn't be doing it. I'm more
talking about my own dispositions and that I, I don't have the, the gumption to face it.
It's not like I think anyone who uses Facebook is doing something stupid.
I realized a few minutes ago that what I'd said may have come up that way and I didn't mean it that
way. So. No, no, I think that there are a lot of good arguments for getting off social media in
general. Twitter especially, I think Facebook is a little more amenable to curation. And then Reddit
is, um, you can sequester yourself into a community in, and that community has like actual
control in a way that, that is better than the absolute free for all of Twitter, especially
it's just. And Twitter, I mean, it's just made up of small out of context bullets that are flung
around. Whereas with Reddit, especially God, I love Reddit, you can have long conversations
that are threaded or you can quote and reply people. It's, it's really ideal. I wish Reddit was
more popular. But I mean, I guess that's the whole thing. Social media is optimized to spread
itself and the best way to spread itself is to enrage and trigger people and just inflame things
as much as possible. So the more reasonable and, and rational, if I dare say a forum is the less
popular it will be overall, because that's just not how these things multiply. Yeah. And I
think speed is another big factor that really hurts Twitter is that a lot of it is, is near
real time. And so I have this problem with discord is that you like, let's say you're having a
conversation with someone and they say something and you're like, is that true? And then you go
try to find a source and that can take some time. And by the time you come back, the conversation's
over. Oh yeah. And, and if you like, finally print, it's like, no, you're misquoting this source
or you misunderstood this or whatever, if they did, you know, sometimes, sometimes I go to
look things up and it turns out I'm wrong. But you come back and conversations moved on, no one
cares anymore. It's just you left to go educate yourself. And I think it gives a real disincentive
for doing any like homework investigation or deep thought on anything. It's just whoever
can type the fastest. That's not, you know, the full of it. But that's a lot of my problem with
discord and a lot of other chat applications is it being in real time really hurts fact checking
and deeper thought and trying to unravel things. Because you can just hit an avalanche of, of
conversation and every everyone moves on. And Twitter, in my experience, has been a lot like
that too. Because the average outrage on Twitter lasts, you know, a day, maybe, like a handful of
days for the bigger stuff. But there's a there's a great mark between quote,
the like halfway around the world before the truth can put on its pants.
Yeah, it's something to that effect. But yeah, it's, I think about that a lot in the context of
social media, because it's much more true now than it was in in Mark Twain's time.
Well, that that brings us basically exactly to what I wanted to talk to you about, because
the so the uncharitable, uncharitable way to put this is that it seemed to me like you said the
best you were thinking the best way to combat lies is with stricter censorship. And I thought that
was really a very bad idea. I guess the the the quote, I'm not going to read the whole thing,
but my idea was or was the standard liberal philosophy of you defeat bad ideas by exposure
and argument and persuasion. And all censorship does is decide who has the most power, and they
can silence their opposition. Whereas having this open argument and and debate will let people who
are actually correct rise to the top. So in that in that effect, the pressure in one regime is to
be as powerful as possible, regardless of the cost. Whereas the pressure in the other regime
is to have the thing that is closest to the truth. And the way you said to me is that
this this idea that the way to defeat bad ideas is by exposure argument and persuasion
is absolutely not the lesson of the last few decades of public discourse.
Yeah, okay. So, do you know the subreddit who would win? I do not. I love it. Okay,
what am I there's a subreddit called who would win and you just almost all the posts are of
some variety of you know, who would win the Hulk or Superman, right? And before you can answer
that question, and then this case, the question is who would win truth or lies, right? Before you
can answer that question, you have to set some boundaries on like what version of the Hulk are
you talking about what version of Superman. And it's my belief that depending on the circumstances,
and I personally think the circumstances right now are very ripe for it, lies will win over truth.
I think, especially with social media, being one of the dominant methods of discourse,
lies will win over the truth just because people don't do their fact checking,
because a lot of open discourse is not actually open discourse, a lot of how people get their
information is selective. And we don't actually have that that open discourse and that like
charitable dialogue that that it would be great if we did have. And so my belief in
the power of truth to prevail over the power of lies is basically that truth does not have
what it takes at the moment. Well, I so I agree with you that social media is currently an
absolutely terrible place for this and maybe forever systematically a terrible place for this.
But I don't think that the way to win that is to give in and follow their rules and,
you know, find out who can form the largest screaming Twitter mob. It's to stick by the
principles of you guys are just a screaming Twitter mob. And once you can have a recent
debate, come back and talk with us. And in the meantime, we will continue putting forward these
recent positions and evidence and whatever. And we won't censor you guys and you don't censor us.
Well, okay. So I don't think it's just social media. And I don't think it's just Twitter mobs.
I think a lot of the problem comes from people who have platforms and
how they how they choose to use those platforms, right? So the anti-vax stuff started in
like 1998. There's a guy named Andrew Wakefield, who was a British physician and he put out this
paper that got into the Lancet, which was about a link between the MMR vaccine and autism. And
over the next few years, it didn't replicate. It was found out that he had some really pretty
serious conflicts of interest. He had taken 400,000 pounds from a legal group that was attempting to
litigate against the MMR vaccine. He took that money like two years before he published a study
and never disclosed it. It came out, it came out after some investigation and he had filed a libel
lawsuit and it came out during discovery, I think. And he was thoroughly discredited and
there were co-authors that pulled their names from it. He was claiming it was, you know,
silencing of science or whatever. He lost his libel lawsuit and had to pay for legal fees
of the defendants. It was basically never replicated, was strongly repudiated by every
medical institution, right? It's straight up fraud. Yeah, and also a lot of the data was fraud. A lot
of the people selected for the study were brought to him by the same legal team that was going to
do this litigation on MMR, right? It was probably one of the closest, one of the biggest examples
of academic fraud and misconduct, like probably in the last 30 years. Anyway,
yeah, so 2007, Jenny McCarthy comes on Oprah and starts talking about how vaccines cause autism,
right? And Oprah never talks back about that. Oprah never said, hey, I don't think any of this
is true. I don't know if Oprah like didn't have fact checkers or didn't know Jenny McCarthy was
going to talk about whatever. Anyway, 2007 is basically the birth of the anti-vax movement,
right? Jenny McCarthy has said that, you know, she got her degree in the College of Google.
So anti-vax movement starts and now we have fairly regular outbreaks of these diseases that were,
you know, basically eradicated because Jenny, because Oprah, you know, it's for a lot of reasons,
but you can kind of look at these chains of people saying things that are clearly false
and these false things they get their foothold in and then they cause real damage in the real world,
right? That is when I'm looking at the failures of the truth to beat the lies,
that's what I'm looking at. I'm looking at things that are like that. That's one example out of
a lot, but sometimes people are motivated in their deceit and sometimes it's just
biases, I guess, that the things that are not the truth. There's something you said that was
basically that the truth has one big advantage, which is that it's true, right? And you can go
out and you can verify in the real world. The problem with that is that sometimes you can't go
out and verify it, right? Like for myself, I can't go out and personally verify whether
MMR causes autism. I don't have children that I can inject with an MMR vaccine.
You don't have to do this for a randomized controlled trial?
Right. I can't do that trial on my own. I would never get permission to do it. I don't have access
to the data. I might be able to get the data, but even then I'm not, you know, I'm not a scientist.
I don't know enough that I could write my own study and trust it. I know enough about myself to
know that I can't do those things. There's some people who disagree, who think that if they have
access to the data, they can just make their own conclusions from it. I'm skeptical of that
for a number of reasons, because it's failed for a lot of people in the past trying to do that.
But that's the kind of thing that I can't empirically verify a lot of facts.
Most facts, almost, right? And so I want to interject here to say that I agree with you
first that the anti-vaxxers are horribly misinformed, to put it very charitably,
and are responsible for a lot of misery and death. But on the other hand, like,
what would you have done that was different from how things were done? Because almost any
intervention I can see that that would limit people's ability to speak would have even worse
consequences than what we have right now. Well, it depends. It depends on where you made your
intervention, right? What Google does now for a couple different things, but for certain things,
if you Google them, you'll get instead of the normal top result, or instead of an ad or something,
they'll direct you to pages of information. There's also the Landsat publishing that they
were like, oh, we never would publish it if we'd known about these conflicts of interest that
weren't disclosed, like these multiple, multiple different conflicts of interest. And I think the
replication crisis in a lot of scientific fields is an indication that a lot of people just have
not been doing their work as far as peer review goes, right? And there are a lot of systemic
