soft underbelly in the US that you can't live without someone providing your healthcare through
your job. They target his employers. Now he doesn't have a job. Now he's possibly unemployable. And
there was no decision made by any CEO at Twitter or any sort of decision making process at all. It
was just an angry mob on Twitter pushing pressure on a guy's employer. And now he's fucked. And
like the Harper's letter is the sort of thing that says this is bad. We should stop doing it. And
we should be angry at people who do do it rather than a direct statement on government censorship
or things along those lines. Okay. I was thinking along the lines of like what comes back when you
Google stuff. Well I think I think there are different aspects to it. And I think that yes
Twitter mobs suck. I just don't think the Harper's letter is going to do anything. I think people
have been talking about the evils of cancel culture far before it was you know a recognized thing.
Right. And I don't think it's part of what irks me about the Harper's letter is that it's like
pretending that that's a thing that the left does. Right. Is is cancel culture is a a problem
of the left and in no other way does anyone else do it. Right. That's not the case.
That is not the impression I got because I think both sides do it. I personally think it's more
egregious when the left does it because we used to be the side that was standing up against that
sort of thing. But but I don't think it's just a problem on the left. Yeah. All of their examples
were were on the left. Right. All the all their examples that were in the Harper's letter. They
were not. They were examples of the left doing it. That's why I point out there were no actual
examples in the Harper's letter. It was intentionally vague. It was intentionally vague and trying to
allude to certain things that had happened. Would you agree that it was alluding to things that
had happened even if it didn't specifically cite those things. I would definitely say there were
some illusions but the illusions were broad enough that you could apply them to things that happened
on the right as well. It's just that the ones that have happened on the left recently are more
salient to to recent memory. Well the other thing that hurt me about it was I thought they were
very weasley in doing that. Oh I think I thought that was a weasel's way of of just being like hey
we could be talking about anyone and that's in a way that wasn't helpful because if you know if
we're looking at specific examples I think we can make better judgments and I think we can have
arguments about them but if if those are not specific examples if those are just illusions
that you can use to like slip out of any concrete discussion I just found that really annoying
just when reading it. Okay. But yeah it's a problem everywhere basically. I don't know how
involved you were in Gamergate. I was strongly aware of Gamergate but I did not partake.
It was a it was a huge thing and that's like that's to me that the thing that that is now
called cancel culture. Oh yeah. These these harassment campaigns these like dredging up
sometimes hacked emails. It was it was disgusting from the very beginning. It was like someone had
a shitty breakup and all of a sudden the entire world has to be in on it. I'm happy to go on the
record of saying that I somehow completely missed all of it when it was happening and yeah only
have the vaguest outline. In fact if you'd asked me what is Gamergate I would say it was something
that happened in the mid 2010s I think that involved video games. I know literally nothing
beyond that and I'm kind of okay with that. The super short cleaned up version is that there was
a game developer who was dating a game journalist and they had a bad breakup and the developer
brought it to Twitter and basically just shat on their ex-partner and it turned into a whole oh
there's no truth in gaming journalism. They're all like sleeping with people for the clicks or
such. It was it was crazy misogynistic bullshit over something that completely irrelevant to
actual gaming like gaming journalism has never at all been anything that is objective. It's all
about giving AAA ratings to the AAA games and maybe every now and then you'll see an indie game
mentioned but like if it came from Bungie you know they're going to give it a 10 out of 10 and drool
all over it. Yeah well the point being that a lot of that stuff was my first real exposure to
not to the Twitter mob. Okay yeah I don't even think Twitter was yeah Twitter was not as big then
as it is now but but I just don't see something like the Harper's letter actually helping or being
a good approach because I don't think that this is like I don't think that individual first of all
I don't think individual members of the mob are probably even going to read it. I think most people
don't read articles they just read headlines or tweets um that's that's a problem over our time
is that people just oh my god one of the things I hate the most about Reddit is that if you go to
any of the big subreddits you get all these comments and then people are like did you not read the
articles? It's like oh it's Reddit we didn't read the article. Yeah your question was answered
in the article that you did not read or your comment was explicitly refuted in the article
that you did not read. So yeah first of all I don't think anyone's going to read the Harper's
letter that you know is in control of this mob because no one is in control of the mob right
yeah and the mob is the mob because it's just it's just birds engaging in this flocking behavior
and I don't think that during Gamergate it would have helped be like hey this is shitty
behavior please don't do it you know it'd be better for all of us if you did if you weren't
shitty to these people. No I agree you're not gonna stop the mob from being shitty to people
but the point of the Harper's letter is to um put more pressure on elites and employers to
not cave into the mob. I think that's also it's very hard to get someone to take a principled
stand when it costs them which is usually why the people cave in right it's uh or a lot of these
institutions just the way capitalism works where people are running really really close to the line
of profitability and they can't take losing a whole bunch of subscribers or losing advertisers
like that if it's a choice between having to lay a bunch of people off to take a principled
stand in favor of like due process or something it's just not something most organizations are
gonna do yeah but um especially especially because of the all the work that has been done over the
past however many decades of trying to get states to do um like no fault of not yeah it's uh at
will employment right uh that's that's another big problem with it is you know your work can fire
you for whatever reason it wants and as soon as you start losing your work money um I mean that
they kind of have to fire you but I think that's the the purpose of the Harper letter and other
similar movements that are starting now is to uh first of all give people the impression that
if you do stand up for your principles there are good people who are you know well known enough
to be asked to sign an open letter large public figures that are on your side and that maybe you
will not lose as much business and we're trying to turn this thing around like it's yeah it's not
going to make a huge difference overnight and it's certainly not going to stop the twitter mob but
if a lot of employers see that a lot of other employers are also taking the stand together
they can over time create a united front like that's that's the purpose this is building towards
and to in my opinion to like tear it down at the very start and saying oh it's never gonna happen
well I mean yeah of course it's not gonna happen if you tear it down right at the start but if you
can build up this movement of solidarity some people will be able to hold to their principles
and the more people that can do that the more we can push back against the twitter mob losing
people their livelihoods all right well maybe I just have no faith in capitalism but a lot of these
companies are pitted against each other right they're explicitly rivals and one company losing
means another company gains and a lot of the performative wokeness that you see from these
companies which includes like firings and stuff is strictly a matter of trying to extract the most
money from people and getting companies that are in the business of extracting the most money out of
their customers and giving the least amount of money to their workers getting those companies
who are already doing that to to make a principled stand that is not going to make them money
and in fact might lose them money I don't know I am part of the reason that I favor
in some cases censorship is I just I see these structural problems that have created all this
stuff and I want to fix the structural problems right if I could fix the structural problems
and not have to do any censorship right that would be great um failing that there is real harm
being done by some of this minston information um that I just I want it to be stopped yeah I mean
I would also like that harm to be stopped I just fear the long-term consequences more yeah I guess
what I will say to that is that we have had limitations on free speech in America for our
entire existence right there there's stuff that brought in from English common law that
you know you do not have a an absolute right to free speech and I think that we have done
a roughly okay most of the time job in not in finding the balance between liberty and safety
or liberty and the well-being of the people right I I mean I I value liberty but I'm a
consequentialist and if liberty is not providing the best outcomes in all circumstances then
then in some cases it needs to be curtailed by some amount yeah I agree and I think that
we have for the most part done a really good job of it I just think there was a very large shock
to the system uh when social media came out and the old the old regime is struggling to keep up
it feels a lot like when the printing press was invented and what that did to Europe and
I I don't want to forget the things that history taught us in the past to tie it back to the
lesser on posts from earlier by going back to a censorship model when there should be other
ways to deal with the technology that will not will not lead us back to killing each other
yeah can you explain the analogy I'm sorry I don't want to interject no go ahead go ahead
I was going to say can you expand on the analogy between the introduction of the printing press
and social media like I get part of it but it's not clear to me uh exactly what the implications
are or what one should do to combat misinformation like does that make sense uh like what was done
when the printing press came out to combat misinformation I'm guessing nothing right well
it took a while so um my understanding of history and I will admit first of all that this is not
an era that I have spent a huge amount of time in uh but from my understanding uh when the
printing press came out it became cheap and easy to distribute uh distribute ideas far and wide
where before uh ideas didn't travel all that much uh they went with traders and merchants
and there was some ability to prevent those things from contaminating a society too badly
whereas once the printing press came out knowledge just exploded everywhere and a lot of people uh
started having a lot of new ideas which were threatening to other people and they did not
want these ideas to spread go ahead do you want my alternate reading history um sure because this
is this is the way I see it is that these people these people discovered that there is an intellectual
contagion coming of things that are very wrong and will destroy society and even worse will
damn your neighbor souls to eternal torment forever and this could not be allowed to happen and that
led to a lot of strife and we eventually fixed that but uh what is your alternate reading okay um it
is basically the printing press enabled the reformation uh which was not it was to some extent
you know new ideas coming in but to a greater extent it was a challenge to the existing
institutions right it was giving voice to people who previously wouldn't have had a voice
and who now were able to challenge the institutions that that were around them
which in large part was the catholic church and the historical parallel then is these
existing institutions of old media right are being challenged by new media who can now
through social media call them out on their shit um that that is how a lot of the people who are
no one's defending the twitter mobs some people are defending the concept of cancellation um in
different forms right most people won't defend like I don't know well what they're doxxing someone
but yeah but but it's it's basically like you know someone is sexist right and in the past they
would have just gotten away with that right the existing power structures were sufficient to allow
all that behavior to happen right um but then this this freedom of information comes along
and suddenly a lot more people are able to have a voice they're able to start talking and they
can start fighting back against these institutions that have victimized them or have been like the
cause of their problems like if there's a sexist workplace now all that stuff can can kind of come
out into the open and that's the analog to the reformation and the invention of the printing
well I think that's my alternate no that's my alternate I think that's actually a very good
take but I think it's compatible because a lot of the killing after the initial reformation
was uh sects fighting each other over who has the correct interpretation who has the right dogma
and it wasn't I mean the church was also a big part of it they had their inquisitions and all
but much of the murder in Europe was between uh smaller local groups and that is also analogous
to how much of the fighting nowadays is between smaller groups who are more alike with each other
than they are with the old media and they often work more on tearing each other down than on
fighting against the old media dinosaurs oh yeah yeah it's uh I definitely believe the left will
eat itself uh especially I mean it it happens on the right um especially with the rise of of Trump
because just I don't know they cannot keep together an administration I mean on the pen
people people just get thrown under the bus at a moment's notice I don't know but I definitely
do see it a lot and um with cancellation specifically the people most affected by it
are people on the left right I I mean I don't know my most notable examples are on the left
because that is the side I'm on and the people I'm familiar with I don't know maybe it happens on
the right too when I just am not in those circles well structurally I mean uh there are a lot of
people um who are like internet personalities or new media personalities and they make their money
through patreon or youtube or whatever other monetization schemes there are and if the left
is going to cancel someone the only people they have the power to cancel are the people who they
are funding to some extent right now they can attack anyone's employer too they well they can
attack your employer too but how much your employer you know knows or cares about that is
is kind of contingent on you like actually being in their camp to some extent it depends it depends
on what the specific accusations are or you know what behavior is right companies on the left aren't
going to care if the mob on the right attacks them and companies on the right aren't going to care
if the mob on the left attacks them it's only when your actual demographic attacks you that it's an
issue yeah and I mean most companies aren't you know on the left or right at all they just they
just want to make money yeah there are very few companies that are there that have such a strong
ideological bent that they'll let that get in the way of of their market um I mean that your market
to to an extent dictates what you have to do as a company but um yeah it it has been it's one of
the things that a lot of people say especially on the left about cancel culture is that it it
primarily will affect people who like you are a consumer of right so so the only people that you
can have any impact on like I'm the only people you can have any impact on are people who you are
supporting in some way um unless you want to go specifically after their employer and that's
kind of sketchy history of actually working because a lot of employers just a lot of employers
just don't care and like if they're public facing it's a lot different than if they're you know
I think I think like that used to be the case and that's why I wasn't worried and didn't really
say anything before but over the past few years it seems to be more and more the case that employers
will uh drop someone for any sort of mob that comes for them and that is one of the reasons that
I am more worried now and I actually do support things like the Harper letter yeah it depends on
what the mob is coming for you for um and yeah there's a strong pressure on companies to not do
their own in due process yeah I think that's definitely a problem right the companies they
just love money and uh if they're it's gonna lose the money to hold on to an employee they'll drop
the employee and it won't matter if the accusations turn out to be baseless and that's a bad thing and
we should take a stand against that well I mean I I want to take a stand against it to me taking a
stand against it means going after Twitter itself right okay yeah I mean I agree Twitter must be
destroyed well it's not even that Twitter needs to be destroyed I think that Twitter could do
more in terms of like algorithms in terms of like trying to track trends and and like the mob can
form so quickly and it does this little telephone game of of information and spreading information
misinformation I don't know it's it's it's a structural problem not just for Twitter for
you know most social media um and to some extent even you know the so-called old media you know
though old media has always sucked at it like they've always gone for things that are a little
more inflammatory right they've always wanted to get people to buy their papers and in order to
stoke the flames the only thing that has kept old media at bay for the most part is defamation
and the risk of having a suit brought against you um but we you know we have strong uh strong
laws in terms of defamation and it's usually pretty hard to go after the press which is not the case
in some other countries it's not really clear to me what your guys' crux is like I mean the
the Twitter mob example is too easy to be like the like a core intuition pump here
