problems there that you could solve that would also solve some of these things. There are things
that could have been done differently and that were, you know, these are problems that were known
about for for quite a while. And then there's structural issues and no one really has the
incentive to fix them. And so yeah, but the only way, yeah, I don't know that that intervention
helps. Oh, okay. Well, I was about to say that's just Google pointing people at the truth. But
okay, you're saying that doesn't help. No, no, Google, Google pointing out people to the truth,
I think does help. Oh, I think that that having, you know, Google return, Google also will hide
results that I don't know if you want to call that censorship. I don't know that I would call
that censorship censorship. I certainly don't know what what you think about it. But I don't know
that I would call that censorship because it's it is in a sense because people go to Google and
they ask Google for results back and they maybe foolishly expect those results to be unbiased
or yeah, Google has, I mean, Google has lost a lot of credibility in my eyes over the past year
because of how they implement their algorithm and how they massage what what you see. Lots of
times if I'm not lots of times, usually if I'm Googling something, I am searching for the same
thing everyone else is searching for when they Google those words. And so Google assuming that
is a thing that saves me some time. But I don't want it to make that assumption because there's
other times when what I'm searching for is actually what I really wanted to search for.
And Google assuming that like, oh, 99% of everyone else who searched for these terms
found this and went wanted to see this, he must want the same thing is not accurate and
like screw you guys for trying to make that decision for me. So I am I'm trying to switch
over to duck. Go more and more. But the thing the thing with Google is like if it's intentionally
hiding results for someone that specifically searched for something, then yes, I would consider
that censorship. If it's more like putting the truth at the top of the list, then that's more
of like a nudge than a censorship. And I wouldn't have a problem with that. Yeah, a lot of what they
do they put they have like their own custom cards that they make that aren't like, yeah,
that aren't like a source that they're pointing to. I know they do that for or did that recently
for COVID where they don't they don't actually even point you at a at a source as the first thing
they just give you the information that you want. They do that for a lot of things. But that is one
of those things that probably helps the spread prevent the spread of misinformation. If you just
have the full accurate information at the top. I know they started doing that recently for
for climate change on YouTube, where if you go to any video that's flagged as talking about climate
change below the video, they'll have their own like, Hey, here's what you actually need to know.
Interesting. They don't they don't remove the videos, but they do put their own,
you know, counter art, like basically the stock counter argument for anything that's that you're
going to find. They put that below the video, which I think is also helpful and more in the direction
of like open debate, right? Well, I mean, because the I want to backtrack just a little bit like
with the anti vaxxers, would you have recommended that a Jenny McCarthy be silenced somehow or
Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Well, in in one of the ways that you can do it is to not silence,
like you don't, you know, put a muzzle on her, but you make it so that they're disincentives for
people to spread misinformation, right? You also don't think fighter on Oprah, like, right?
Skeptoid's top number one place in the top 10 list of harmful promoters of pseudoscience.
Yeah, but Oprah is is Oprah, like, are we going to make a law that says the government has to vet
all Oprah guests first? No, I mean, you do you do post facto, you do you do it after the fact if
if there's something that gets brought to the attention of, you know, whoever that it I mean,
that's that's how a lot of our laws for that are we have a lot of laws that are against free speech,
right? Or that are against some defined things that are not covered under free speech. And I'm
not even necessarily talking about I mean, okay, so there's the government and then there are private
entities. Like, those are different forms of censorship. But Twitter does have the power to
enact censorship, right? Outside of any legal framework, right, it can just it can just silence
people if it wants to. The only thing preventing it from doing that is our market considerations.
And possibly legal considerations, if they're suddenly classified as a, a publisher instead
of a platform, which would have legal consequences and stuff. But legally speaking, like, you
aren't allowed to yell, fire in a crowded theater. You are not allowed to incite violence. You
aren't allowed to defame people. I know there's four of them. But we have we have existing laws
preventing people from speech, which goes too far in whatever regard, right? So I don't think that,
you know, most of them are post facto, though, right, you're allowed to defame someone, you
just have consequences for that. It's not that I guess you can get an injunction against something
that's defamatory. But usually it's it's after the fact instead of before the fact, which is
a lesser form of censorship in my eyes, because you're not, you're not silencing someone.
But there's some sort of due process where we decide if something is so damaging to the public
good that it has to be prevented from being said, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah, there is due process. And
well, I mean, that's the thing, though, there isn't due process in a lot of the public discourse.
There is just wild accusations and mobs. And that is what I'm against. If there was due process,
like someone having to actually take someone to court, maybe Jenny McCarthy, maybe whoever it is
that they want to get canceled and show some evidence, I would not have nearly the same problem
with the way things have been going. It's much more the fact that a passionate accusation of harm
can get almost anything silenced, if the person making the accusation is popular enough.
Yeah, that's well, it's not even necessarily popular enough, because a lot of the calls for
cancellation don't come from like, hugely influential people, they just kind of snowballed
through Twitter, and then smack into someone. Sure. The problem with that is that that's a
consequence of free speech, right? Like, I mean, to some extent, that's covered under
like defamation, but trying to try to put out a defamation lawsuit against
some rando on Twitter, I don't think you're going to get very far with that.
No, right. I mean, that is a consequence of free speech, which is why I prefer to fight it with
more free speech, such as what initially started all this was the Harper's letter saying that there's
too much of this shit going around, and people should take a greater stronger stand against it.
And that that is the kind of fighting back to it that I am in favor of, as opposed to like,
literally trying to stop people through the force of law from from forming these mobs.
Well, I just don't think you're gonna, I mean, you're not going to be able to stop them through
the force of law because the law has a hard time reaching through the internet, right?
Most of these people are not in the same state or even the same country. And trying to like,
you're not going to be able to do it through force of law, you might be able to do it through the
force of Twitter, Twitter corporate. Well, then shouldn't you maybe be on my side with the whole,
you know, we should fight back using our own social pressure and standing by the principles of
stop trying to shut down discourse and cancel it depends on what you mean by shutting down
discourse. There are, I mean, like anti backs, right? I would love if you could argue with those
people, get them to change their mind, make them, not make them convince them that it was correct
to vaccinate their kids, and then have them vaccinate their kids. And then there's less
illness and death, right? I just don't think that's realistic. I mean, I don't think it's
worked so far. I know a lot of people have, have tried. So at some point, you need to
either have algorithmic interventions to, to, you know, make sure that stuff is at least not
being promoted by these dumb algorithms that are in place that are just trying to drive engagement,
right? Or you do the thing that YouTube does, you do automatic title cards or automatic information
that at least will will maybe try to drive people at the right source and automate the process of
arguing, which is honestly, if you've ever argued with an anti-vaxxer, the big problem is it just
takes so much time for so little gain, you know, the one of my problems with open discourse is that
first of all, I don't know, people are big balls of bias, right? And it is very hard. You have to
approach them with, with empathy, and like try to see it from their point of view, try to like model
their world and present what evidence you can, but evidence is not really that powerful of a
thing for a lot of people, you know? But, but so, you know, when we're talking about things that
like Twitter could do, as opposed to things that the law could do, Twitter could do more than it's
doing to, you know, I mean, people are literally dying because of the anti-vaxx stuff. That's not,
I mean, there are a number of scientific studies about the impact of the anti-vaxx movement,
right? In terms of like, how many fewer people have been vaccinated since certain events have
happened, like the track, trying to track vaccination rates, and then trying to track
actual outbreaks, and stuff like that. That's, that's a real thing that happens. And to just say
that, you know, Twitter should, should let those people speak that should, should try to make sure
that this algorithm is unbiased. Like, I would love if Twitter were biased in the direction of the
truth. I'd love if all our social media were biased in the direction of, of open debate and
clear communication and authoritative sources. I don't know. It's just not, it's not where it is,
it's not where we're at right now, which is why I don't think, I don't have a lot of faith in the
truth to win, to win out, right? Well, it seems to me that you, I mean, you're obviously very
fixated on the anti-vaxx thing. And I know you have a young child, so probably rightly so. But
well, actually, I don't even know if your child's young anymore. God knows how many years it's
been. Yep, he's, he's four years old. He's right in the, he's right in the age range where
measles, rivella and mumps would be really bad. Okay. But it's not even necessarily the anti-vaxx
things. I mean, we could talk about other stuff that's just relatively politically neutral, right?
There is a lot of, there's a lot of misinformation, a lot of it very motivated by-
No, I mean, the thing is, like, I, I agree with you that anti-vaxx is bad. And you have,
you have more of a personal stake than I do. So I don't want to come off sounding
callous about this. And I apologize beforehand if I do. But I am worried that the
proposed solution is in the long term worse than the cure would be. Because while right now you
may be only censoring the anti-vaxx people and saving lives because of it. Once you've implemented
this policy of people who have decided they know the truth and have the power to censor people,
not only can but should do so for society's own good, right now that's fine. Give it a hundred years
and you might be back into the position of the church who knew what was actually good for people
and was censoring things like whether the earth traveled around the sun or not.
Yeah. Well, that's, that's a slippery slope. The question is whether the slope is actually
slippery, right? I am in favor of certain instances of Twitter just
and to Twitter and to a lesser extent, the government, right? Because Twitter is a corporate
entity and well, but do you think if people don't want to use Twitter, they can just not use Twitter?
Yeah. You know, but do you think it would literally apply only to the anti-vaxx case
and nothing else ever? No, no, no, I think I think it applies to other things. I think that it is
a matter of degree, right? I'm okay with certain examples of it, of censoring things that cause
direct harm. It's just a question of what the litmus test is and it's a question of
to what degree it's allowed. Now, I think that is a reasonable concern to think that
you start allowing it for one thing, you're going to start allowing it for other things,
the rules going to start creeping up, there'll be like pressure to just censor all dissenting
voices. I think that's a reasonable concern. I just don't think that's necessarily the outcome.
I think it's also realistic to like expect censorship to have like, and I've been mostly
silent just because I'm enjoying the conversation. So like a while ago,
Inyash mentioned about how Google won't return results sometimes. Now that counts as censorship,
but that doesn't strike me as like a necessarily bad thing. I wouldn't want it to be googleable.
Okay, Google, how do I build a chemical bomb out of stuff I can buy it safe way?
I want that to come up with nothing because I don't want people who would use that information
to have it, right? What if you need that information to fight off the Nazis?
That's a risk I'm seriously willing to take. Okay. Given that I can still buy a gun,
and I think that'd probably be more effective than throwing a whatever chlorine gas bomb at
Nazis. You know, maybe we could have a caveat that in the event of a, you know, a full on
invasion, whether it be from, you know, zombie Nazis or aliens, all the search engine firewalls
come down, and anyone can Google whatever they want. But like, I, is that something that you
would find like, A, is that kind of censorship? And B, is that objectionable? Or do you think
that no, as a, as a, as an American, I have a right or as a human or whatever, I have a right
to Google, whatever dangerous knowledge I want, and Google to deliver that to me.
Is the same to me?
Yeah, I think you were the one who was coming off as anti censorship.
Yes. When it comes to things like the ability to make weapons, obviously, at some point, we need
to draw some sort of line, like, it's not that difficult to gather the materials you need
over a course of a year to make a dirty bomb. The the quote unquote radioactive Boy Scout
started doing that sort of thing. And I'm not sure that's the best idea to have that knowledge
easily available. And the more extreme and dangerous these things get, the more likely it
is that we should make it hard to get this information. But it's, it's not like the knowledge
to make basic fertilizer bombs isn't already out there. It's, it's relatively easy to find.
Yeah, I mean, just like it's relatively easy to find, whatever. And I like the anti backs
example, not not just because it's might be, you know, salient for one of the speakers, but it's
it's a it's a good nice example. It has history and has trackable data.
You know, COVID would be another really good example. But we have we don't have 15 years of
data on where all the bullshit around that is going to take us. Like, in fact, you mentioned
like the badges on YouTube and on Google, Twitter is doing that for some stuff. I'm not on Twitter.
I was on there briefly for like, the summer of 2012. And just didn't find the platform useful. But
like, it came to my attention that, you know, if, say, somebody like the president tweets,
mail in ballots will destroy democracy, and there's tons of fraud, there will be a little
badge underneath every reply, or rather, beneath the tweet above every reply that says, here are the
facts or click here to get the facts on mail in ballots. If he says that, you know, COVID's made
up, or whatever, kung flu is a democratic hoax, then there'll be a badge that shows up underneath
that that says click here to get the straight business on COVID. Wait, is kung is kung flu
another term for COVID now? Oh, you don't watch rallies? It's one that Trump uses. Yeah, holy
shit. That's that's a term uses for it. Yeah, if you want to, if you want an aneurysm, watch
his rally in Oklahoma that he did last month. I'd rather no man. I've watched so many Trump
rallies, they are just they're they're mildly tolerable in some sense, if he's working off
teleprompter, but he's usually not. If there was some sort of due process to decide what to get
censored, I would be much more okay with that. Like if we decide that by we I mean, you know,
the government society in general, that decides that the knowledge of how to build a tonic bomb
should be a state secret, then at least that's a policy that is out in the open and everyone
knows about like Germany has a strong censorship policy about Nazi stuff. And we would consider
that impinging on our rights because it is very much censorship of free speech. But I think that
they have a special case in their country why they want to do that. And since it's a matter of
known public policy, it's much more reasonable than if if it was just being randomly determined by
whoever happened to hold their brains of power in in some arbitrary position.
Don't get me wrong. I like I like Twitter mobs as much as the next person. But I'm skeptical of
the hope that a due process judgment on what gets censored would be at all desirable. I'd
rather have it be the mob rather have it be the CEO of Twitter. Because I mean, just imagine if
you know, you get enough of the House enough of Congress and the president to all sign off on say,
no, you know what, we're going to say that windmills cause cancer. And that is the new truth.
Anyone who tries to correct that they get silence like that could pass the due process
because they have the votes. Right. Yes. But what I mean, the point that I'm trying to get to is that
I think we might be slightly talking past each other because it never even gets up to the position
of the CEO of Twitter is what I'm saying. It's someone like what was the latest example. So
Navy guy from 1983 wrote something about women shouldn't be in combat. And someone discovered
it online and they target his employers because people have discovered that employment is the
