Welcome to Deep Transformation, Self-Society Spirit.
I'm Roger Walsh, and our co-host is John DePuy.
And with us today is a guest that I'm just delighted to be in dialogue with.
This is Daniel Schmacktenberger, one of the most incisive, integrative, and brilliant
thinkers about the great issues of our time.
Daniel's a polymath who has ranged across a wide variety of disciplines and has a prodigious
amount of information about multiple areas, topics, issues, concerns, and intellectual
disciplines, but not only a wide array of information, a remarkable degree of information
and integration, pulling topics together, synthesizing them in novel ways, and coming
up with creative innovations and ideas and synthesis.
He is able to and has been giving us a wide array of insights into the great issues of
our time.
And if you've searched the internet, you've probably run across Daniel and the many dialogues
he's had about the metacrisis, the term that's currently used for some total of our social
and global issues.
But what you haven't seen or heard of, Daniel, is his spiritual dimensions and the ways in
which those have touched his understanding of life and our current temporary concerns.
So we were really delighted, given that Deep Transformation is about transformation not
only of self and society, but also of spirit, when Daniel suggested that in our discussion
of the metacrisis, we focused specifically on the spiritual dimensions, which he said
he doesn't often get a chance to talk about.
And so we are just very happy to have this opportunity.
Daniel, so many people know you as someone, as a brilliant intellectual who has thought
deep and hard and synthetically and novelly about these great issues.
But you also have a deep commitment to self exploration, self actualization, spiritual
practice.
What would you like to share about that side of yourself?
First, thanks for having me here, it's good to be with you both and all the people engaging
in the podcast.
When it comes to the spiritual dimensions, and we'll probably want to unpack what we
even mean by spiritual sense, it is a pretty unprecise term often.
But the psychological, interior, sacred, whatever dimensions of the state of our world, I would
love to be in that conversation together.
I don't have a preset set of things to talk about on it, because as you mentioned, it's
not the thing I talk about all the time, but obviously very interesting.
I was fortunate in my growing up to get to study a lot of the people that might be called
great polymaths throughout history, so I have a heap of respect for them and I've tried
to learn what I can, I would not describe myself that way.
I think the connection is I would describe myself as being deeply interested in lots of
things, and I find that what people are interested in and what they find meaningful, and at the
heart of that what they find sacred are usually connected, though they might not be explicitly
aware, and the things that people are interested in and enough, they often develop some capacity
at, and if someone has some sense of the wholeness of reality, as opposed to when we think in
different disciplines, here's where biology starts and chemistry stops or physics or whatever,
those are ways we take the complexity of the world and try to divide it to make subjects
and make it easier to study, but those divisions don't exist in reality in that way.
So if we have some sense of just the integrated wholeness of reality and we're kind of interested in it,
there's some sense that reality itself is sacred, then there would be nothing that isn't interesting.
It's like, if you're really in love with your partner, what aspect of their being is uninteresting to you?
It's a weird proposition to say, oh, I don't give a shit what she thinks about, or her
talk books on fashion or whatever it is, and it's such a superficial place to be, because even if you
didn't think you cared about that topic on your own, if you really care about this being and this
being cares about it, work to understand why they care about it, because there's some part of their
being you're missing, if the fascination they have, if the care, if the love doesn't translate to,
and so if you get that, you're like, well, whatever, every aspect of them I'm interested in,
because part of love is the desire to know, because what does it mean that I love somebody if I don't
really know who they are? And if I have some love for reality, then wanting to know it more is
one of the things, right, wanting to appreciate it more wanting to be in more service to it,
and those are all just kind of natural byproducts. And so relatively young,
I had the insight that everything was interesting, that the things that I thought weren't interesting,
because at first I didn't think that, but the things I thought weren't interesting was just
because I didn't get them, I didn't understand why anyone else found it interesting, and if I
tuned in empathetically enough to them, and I could see it, I'm like, oh, there's a whole
dimension of meaningfulness and beauty and parts of the nature of reality that I'm just missing,
and when Gibran said it's in, it was in meditation upon the dew drop that I discovered the mysteries
of the ocean, right, the kind of poetic way to speak to the fractal nature or the as without so
within, when there is some understanding of the integratedness of reality, a deep insight about
anything also gives you some insight about everything else. And one of the places that I
most insight was taking some principle in thermodynamics and applying it to gardening,
or some principle in evolutionary theory and applying it to relationships or whatever,
getting that like those theories were ways of understanding the universe, but all of them
gave different insights, looking at the world through a thermodynamics lens versus an evolutionary
psych lens versus a complexity theory lens gave different insights on the same reality.
So if I could take those insights and apply them to lots of things and apply lots of different
ones, just got to see more multi-dimensionally. I mean, one of the projects we launched called
the conciliance project, and that's what the word conciliance means is the more
perspectives one can take on the thing, the more depth and richness of information they can get
about it. So, and I think, you know, the the metacrisis, this area of study of like,
what are all the problems of the world is really like came from a childhood inquiry of
what is worth doing. And there were so many things that were worth doing. And I became
kind of clear that when you focus on one, one, I just couldn't leave some of the areas out,
right? Like, it was just, I don't know how many people have this experience, some for sure.
But when I would think about really focusing on factory farms or really focusing on
the issue of how many dogs and cats are getting put to sleep every year or clear cutting or whatever
it was, the idea that I was not focusing on the other things just wrecked me. And then getting
to see that there were so many groups focusing on those things, and yet so many of those things
collectively were getting worse, not better. And I was wondering, do we just need more effort in
these areas? Or is there something about the nature of the effort that is that is off?
And the answer is both. But there was definitely something about, and people have heard me talk
other places, the way we solve problems causes other problems almost all the time, because we
define the problem too narrowly, we create a first order solution that the technology or a law or
business or whatever to solve it. But that's connected to a complex set of things, and it
produces second and third order effects somewhere else. So the dam to bring electricity to poor
people to solve the poverty issue might extinct a bunch of species downriver from the dam that
just got flooded or whatever in this, a million examples of this. So there's a, it actually became
clear that the study of the issues in the world and the siloing of the issues in the world was
a part of the problem itself, why we weren't solving them in a way that Bohm talked about very
well, David Bohm. And so the, like what is worth caring about everything, you know, how it fits
together, what is worth studying is kind of everything. The study is for itself, it's pure
knowledge of just the intimacy with universes intrinsically interesting. And it's also has
utility, it can increase the capacity to be of service to. Those are some initial thoughts.
And Daniel, did you, was there a point as a young man or a teenager, you began as you were
kind of chewing on all this and seeing it was that starting to emerge as a calling
for you that maybe that was your path to start connecting the dots and seeing how these things
mattered? I think
I think most people when they're young are enculturated in a particular way about who they are
and what life is about and what they should pursue. And then some of them continue on that path,
some of them recognize that their parents idea of what they're calling should be or their culture's
idea is not their own and then they have kind of this path change. I've had lots of path
refinements. I have had times of deep study in esoteric metaphysics and hardcore reductionist
atheism, you know, like any young person who's trying to be intellectually congruent and make
sense of stuff and not miss stuff. But they had the same spirit to them, which is funny, right?
They had the same spirit, which was like, and you can't even put words to it because you can
say it's what is true, but it's also kind of what is good, what is meaningful, what is beautiful,
and you know, something like that. But I think I was pretty fortunate in a way that some other,
but not lots of other people were in terms of early childhood exposure to the topic of what is my
path is that I had parents that were putting that question as the forefront of my education
since I was born. And so that's a pretty fortunate thing. And I went to school a few times mostly
my parents were interested in me getting some socialization, but I was mostly home school.
And they were interested in running a kind of educational experiment. And they were not
educational philosophers in any formally trained sense, they hadn't read Dewey and Montessori and
Steiner, they just had their own kind of intuitions about it. But some really good intuitions.
But the sense was rather than have a curriculum based thing have some sense of trust that the
kids innate curiosities if facilitated will orient them in the right direction. So it's kind
of constructivist. And so we had a homeschool that had no curriculum at all. And there are a few
places where this was significantly disadvantageous because like it wasn't till I was an adult and
paying attention to spell checker that I learned how to spell. It's very fortunate. I didn't do enough
of the like writing letters penmanship to actually have refined the fine motor skills enough to have
legible handwriting. I didn't get it and then let it devolve because of busyness like some doctors,
I just never even got decent penmanship. It was a good thing I can type. There were whole areas of
like American history and things that were actually important that I just didn't know were
important and I just had none of them. But then there were some areas that I got to study way
more deeply than people normally would have at those times. But because I was studying things
I was interested in, I doubled down on interest, right? And I think one of the things that happens
for a kid is when you don't facilitate their interests because you don't know how, which
so often the kids are asking questions and the parents just don't know the answers. I give these
examples a lot because they come up all the time when a kid asks why is the sky blue or why is fire
hot. You have to understand many layers of physics but then also neuroscience and then also the
philosophy of mind to be able to translate the subjective experience of hotness from sensations
that happen on the skin and what is communicated between cells and in the nervous system to what
is the thermodynamics of fire or the nature of the molecules in the upper atmosphere that create
blueness in the visual optical spectrum. Those questions, if every kid asks stuff like that
and if you know how to facilitate the interest, they end up learning everything from theory of
mind to philosophy of science to, you know, atmospherics and neurobiology. But if you don't
facilitate the things they're interested in and you force them to do shit that they're not interested
in, it can break their interest and then they become a little bit more focused on quick hits of
dopaminergic interest rather than deep learning. So I had that fortune but the other fortune other
than just kind of just hiding my own curriculum is because a kid will largely be interested in
things based on what they're exposed to and how they're exposed. I don't find that there are any
kids who aren't interested in math who had amazing math teachers or who weren't interested in art who
had amazing art teachers or history. So how they're exposed, what they're exposed to. And so
what my parents were interested in had a lot to do with what I was interested in, of course,
right? This is one of the limits of constructivism is, you know, what the reality of what the
kid is exposed to. But again, I feel like I lucked out in terms of their interest being things were
a pretty good set of things. So my, my parents were reading Buckminster Fuller and kind of design
science and they were reading David Bowman, Krishnamurti, they were reading kind of Vedanta
and Eastern philosophy for Choff Capra and the kind of emerging systems theory in the early 80s and
and they also the thought that there's no reason bedtime kids bedtime stories for kids when their
infants need to be Dr. Seuss as opposed to synergetics by Bucking Fuller because kids learning
language no matter what. And so those were like my primitive concepts and included in those were
the core existential questions of what are we, what are we here for? What is this all about?
And then the people using kind of the most advanced frameworks of the time like systems theory and
design science to think about how do we go about making a better world and like that. So I never
really had to find my way to that. That was kind of the default setting. I had to find and upon
further inquiry of like, was that a wrong default setting? Should I just
just make money or make art or something else? Like no, that didn't, that ended up continuing to be
roughly right direction, but trying to more competently answer how to understand the issues
of the world and how to be of service to them. It's a lot of content refinement.
Daniel, so you had an unusually broad self-directed education, but there's also
something else that's quite distinctive about your thinking and that is a rare degree of integration.
And how did you develop that?
I have friends who are developmental theorists who, Zach Stein, who I work with closely and
many others, who will talk about how there is an increase in the type of
complexity of what someone can process, the way they notice changes in context for processing
the same content the way they can seek and shift perspectives and then integrate them. And I think
there's a lot true and important there. I have other friends who are critics of developmental
theory because they say there's a lot of societal normative assumptions based on how people are
kind of ubiquitously trained that in a different society with different childhood development
would go differently. So for instance, if kids are being taught in school, this is math, this is
social studies, this is history, this is biology, and they're being taught a compartmentalized
universe where they're never asked how the social science is being influenced by the biology or
vice versa or how the principles co-apply, they're getting a non-integrated fragmented world
given to them and actually behaviorally trained up on thinking that way. They're not being given
any kind of integrated framework, so then we get excited when someone becomes an integrative thinker
later because it was trained out of everybody. I don't think it is actually necessary that people
learn that way. I think it's not even the case in say, pre-industrialized education, it just wasn't
even the case in the same way. And so because my education was self-directed, it also didn't have
clear delineations of topics. I was never doing math or social studies. I was doing an inquiry
about something that was interesting that might have involved some math and some, you know,
quite a few things. So if you're trying to understand integrative things like how does a
body self-organize? How does a fetus actually develop? How does that? Then you're having to
intrinsically be radically interdisciplinary. What is worth doing in the world and how do we know?
So I think the most interesting questions are at a high enough level of abstraction that to address
them well, there's the taxonomy of questions beneath them is very interdisciplinary and you
actually have to bridge across them. So I do think a totally different educational paradigm
could have analysis and synthesis or integration on a knowledge that happening simultaneously
at each level of complexity. Yeah. And pulling together some of the things you've said,
you've spoken to your education, you've spoken to the natural integrative thinking that emerges
from a problem-solving approach to education as opposed to a compartmentalized scholastic
disciplinary approach. But also underlying this was sounds like a real desire for an
