Welcome to the Basing Conspiracy.
I'm Steven Super.
And we have a topic, but before we get into that,
I kind of wanted to pick your brain on something.
Oh boy, this is a surprise.
Well, I mean, I guess it is kind of a surprise.
It's just been something I've been thinking about for the past.
I guess basically since we had David on,
but like really sort of hit,
hit home the past few days.
Remember back when religion was bullshit?
Yes.
Like what, what the fuck happened?
I don't know if you were there from the very beginning
for the rationalist stuff,
but being able to see that religion is BS is like,
it's not even rationalism 101.
It's like skepticism 101, you know?
Yeah.
I think we might have talked about that in one of the very,
very early episodes that like,
and I think Yudkowski put it really well on somewhere
on less wrong.
I saw that it was like,
there, there isn't a lot of self,
self congratulation about getting the God question right.
Cause it's all like getting the werewolf question right.
Right.
And it's like, yeah, okay, cool.
Very elementary question.
Right.
This isn't like a big achievement.
I still think there's something to be gained of like,
you know, if you, if you learn some rationality stuff
and then apply that to your religion and left your faith,
that's pretty big move cause that's a big life change.
Yeah.
But, you know, I, I wasn't really just when I found this community
and I don't, there's, there's not a lot of circle jerky.
We're happy to be atheists in this group.
Right.
No, I mean that was,
that was one of the things about rationality that like
struck me as different from most of the other online spaces
where like, yeah, religion's not real.
Let's move on because that is such a simple question.
Why are we even bothering to discuss it?
You know, it's, I, God, I think it was Eliezer,
who said something that, uh, if you're,
there's scientists out there who actually go out
and believe in the Trinity and shit.
And if these are people who are in the lab
and see the way that the physical world works
and are able to test it and apply all those,
you know, methods of rationality as they say
to the, to the world in their laboratory,
but then they leave the laboratory and they're like,
yep, Jesus, this is my personal savior.
Um, the, is obviously something very wrong with their heads.
They're compartmentalizing to an insane degree
and it doesn't make any sense to do so.
And so for a long time, I mean,
we've never really talked about religion that much, right?
Every now and then we mention it.
And we've had like some things on the show.
We had, um, Cannonball Jenkins on to talk about spirituality,
but that was mainly as a drugs, you know, as spirituality kind of thing,
which I can at least get behind in the fact that drugs are a thing
that exists, you know, and actually have physical effects on brains.
And, and we've talked a bit about finding a sense of spirituality
and wonder through science and exploration,
which I'm totally behind too.
And then we had, um, Vivian on and she is like a witch
and sort of believes in magic or something,
but she's not a rationalist.
You know, she's never been a rationalist.
Things out with some of us sometimes,
but that's not the same as actually being a aspiring rationalist.
But then we talked with David and he was like, I do spells.
Like he said that he believed someone called him for a job
because he drew a sigil and it influenced the probability of people calling him.
I'm like, what the fuck just happened?
Why, what is our community degenerating?
Because we don't have a strong enough gate on the, you know,
a religion and mysticism is bullshit thing.
Like I thought we were post all that and I guess we're not.
Is that the open-ended question?
That's my open-ended question.
What the fuck?
Do we need to be more anti-religious just to keep those things going?
Um, I can think of two things related to that.
One, I don't think that David,
and feel free to tell me if I'm wrong,
would say that what he's doing is religious in any traditional sense.
Okay, that's very true.
So like, and I don't know if we can taboo religious
and say like if it's magic,
because magic is religious and religious is magic.
Yeah, I was using the wrong word there,
but yeah, I do mean specifically things that are supernatural.
Yeah, because he's not talking about the creator of the universe
carrying if you masturbate, right?
No, no.
He's saying that...
He can influence probability by drawing signs.
Right, so that's the thing and I,
maybe we can get him to non-Jordan Peterson Lee answer this question.
He made the sounds that someone could say,
that someone would say,
I can manipulate probability with my thoughts
or with my energies or whatever.
I got the impression throughout the entire episode
that he didn't really think he was doing that.
He did say he was going to test it scientifically.
Maybe that's just good rationality.
But I...
Like I didn't even want to touch that because I was like,
we only got an hour.
I wanted to talk about things that are actually interesting
instead of going back to the religion debate,
but now I regret it because now that's out there
without me having like strongly come on challenged it immediately.
Yeah, I...
Maybe it's worth getting a write-in to...
or a sound clip if he's down to do that to give a full answer to this,
but it's my impression that he doesn't think he's doing magic
with a capital M as per Harry Potter canon, right?
Or per...
I brought up the secret,
which is the closest thing that he was talking about.
And he said that was, you know,
people in the community hate that.
And I didn't read a lot of the...
I didn't read a lot of the Rune soup links that he sent.
I read the one on debt,
which to me, that was what captured me about it.
That's what I thought was really fun.
The quote about summoning debt like it's a demon
and borrowing from a probabilistic future,
that was really cool.
That was a really fun way to think about it.
And I was like, that is a really fun twist.
And it struck me as kind of like an original seeing
through a kaleidoscope, right?
I've often considered our modern economy
to be a form of like just ritual magic.
You get a bunch of humans together in the room,
they all perform certain prescribed actions
with these material components.
And at the end you get incalculable wealth out of it, you know?
Right.
Or, you know, we talked about like super organisms.
They're not organisms in any traditional sense,
other than the actions that they do, right?
I kind of got it like that.
I don't think that he would ever say,
if I think hard enough,
I could move this pencil off the table or something, right?
No, but that's not an influencing probability thing.
There's something influencing probability
without actually going out and doing something is it's magic.
Yeah, but I mean, I think if,
maybe this would be better to have him on for
because now I'm putting words in his mouth or just guessing
and I'm probably steel-manning too much,
maybe I'm steel-manning too much.
I think that there's a non-zero chance that like
your water bottle could just flip
because there's a non-zero chance that
the water and it could boil and it could
freak out and fall off the couch, right?
It's statistically not impossible.
It's so close to impossible as that
I would bet my life that it'll never happen.
Right.
As long as we're talking about manipulating probabilities,
I would say that David would say
that I would never think that I could try and ever do that.
There's no law of physics that says it couldn't happen,
but there's laws of statistics that say it won't ever happen.
So it is statistically impossible.
Fair enough. Well, David has a day job.
He doesn't win his money at the casinos, right?
Or buying lottery tickets.
Maybe not power balls, but you could do scratch-offs
and you could look at the seven in the
whatever gas station glass tank there
and pick all the winners because you know which ones it was going to be.
Or you could hit the blackjack tables.
If you really believe you're manipulating probabilities,
that's what you're doing.
I got the impression that this was like a self-help technique.
Like, I'm going to focus.
I'm going to put positive energies out there.
And when I said I would do a sigil, which I haven't done yet,
I thought it was like, all right, I'm going to do some positive vibes.
This is going to be like a meditation,
kind of more in the wishy-washy way that Vivian talked about it.
And I know some people do that,
but they all know it's just psychological tricks
