somewhat easy thing that I've tried doing is like actually befriending people that I work with.
And it happens to be that I work with people that are capable, that I'm capable of befriending.
You know, like my, whoever it was, I knew somebody who worked at a bank and their only
three co-workers were women in their 50s and they were a 20-something guy. And it's like,
we have nothing in common. You know, what am I going to go to your grandson's graduation with you?
Like, you know, oh yeah, I went to my graduation a few years ago. We can share that in common,
but you can't, you know, so you can't befriend people too distant from you, right?
I don't know. I'm good friends with a number of older people like my book club.
Because you have something in common.
That's true. Yeah, we both like the same kind of books.
Yeah, you're not forced there by proximity because you have a similar job.
Right.
So the other thing I guess would be like finding something that you can contribute to
that you can conspicuously contribute to that you don't have to be physically present for.
For example, at my work, my team was reassigned to a bunch of old boring shit that none of us
like doing and it's not fun for anybody. So on the side, we're not doing it at work because
we've all seen Silicon Valley, but we're building an app that one of our co-workers came up with.
So we're in the planning stages of that now. We're going to start actually putting,
you know, fingers in our keyboards for this in a couple of weeks.
But then we'll all be contributing in a way that is super obvious. Did you do this yet?
We're going to have, you know, a Kanban board where, you know,
I'll pull this story down and I'll have my name on it. People will see that I did it and it'll be
done. It seems doable to do things like that that aren't necessarily coding related as far as other
stuff. Maybe that's something that we could dedicate our local community to, to thinking of things that,
you know, you could gamify some sort of charity thing. You could, you could, I can't think of
ideas right off, but it seems like the kind of thing our community be good at thinking of
solutions to. How do you do something? Community building, where you get a sense of community
with the people that you're hanging out with in the room when they're not in the room.
The other way to take the, one of the things that I, one of the other things that that,
that post mentioned was that this, this, this social intelligence web forces you into roles.
One way to like notice that for yourself, if you haven't yet is just think about many people
acts differently when they visit home, if they don't live at home. This is super apparent for me,
even in ways where I didn't think it was, like I had a friend that I haven't seen in a few years
come visit. We went out to dinner and my partner pointed out that, Hey, you acted like a younger
version of yourself hanging out with that guy. And I was like, I did. I didn't even notice and I
couldn't put my finger in any of the behaviors. I don't think she could either, but it was just
the, I was, I was playing the person I knew four years ago that he knew four years ago.
So it was not to violate his expectations, right? So part of what I've been doing the last year or
two, and that's probably because I have more slack in life and et cetera. There's all kinds
of fun ways. This all ties together. It's great is I've stopped doing that for the most part.
Oh, I've tried. I've made an effort to stop doing that to stop doing which playing, putting on
masks, putting on for different, for different places. Okay, I'm more or less the exact same
person at home in my parents kitchen. I'm visiting them as I am at my house or at work.
So like I've brought my real self to work. Mine has a couple of the parts that, you know,
don't fit in. Like I can't be, you know, super cute at work, like I'm at home because you know,
Rachel and I will, you know, say super adorable things that would really turn off my co-workers.
No, it would make everyone's eyes turn into hearts.
Well, we'll see. So part of that, you know, just wouldn't, would, would be so unexpected as,
and this, this is part of like why roles are important, but I think also why they,
like, I'm making it, I'm kind of making opposite cases here. I'm saying that I think at least for
me, I like having less variance between the roles that I put on. I find it's more relaxing.
And I am, it is still different, you know, if, if, if Rachel visits at work and
It can be a little uncomfortable having those two worlds collide.
Well, it's, it's at the point now where it's not uncomfortable, but it's interesting and it's fun
in a way that is, but there are ways, you know, some people are very different and that would
make it uncomfortable. And then that, that, I think that's the stress that I'm trying to do away
with by, by being more of myself all the time, but I don't hold anyone's hand at work. You know,
I don't, I don't say cute things, right? Or something like that. I'm trying to think of
other things, but you know, you get the gist. Oh, you meant literally hold hands.
Yeah. Oh, okay. Right. So, you know, if Rachel comes to visit and she comes to lunch with me
and the team or something, I'll hold her hands during that because I like doing that because
I'm with her, but they don't know me as, you know, the kind of like, you know, the person who does
that, right? Right. I'm not sure. I felt like I did this probably with every other thought that
I have. I feel like I was onto something and then I forgot it. That's okay.
But no, I think, I think you made a good point about it's better to not have as many roles
that you have to switch between. I think when possible, I mean, obviously, like,
if I was the kind of guy who went to nightclubs, I couldn't bring nightclubs even to work.
Right. Right. You don't also want to like kill nightclubs even because he doesn't fit in with
the rest of your life. Right. So some parts of that are really, are really valuable. But maybe
have as much cohesion as possible. Like there's a good case for this in a completely different
context. But in Sam Harris's book on lying, he talks about, you know, he's going against all
the, he raises all the cash examples of like why people say it's okay to lie sometimes.
And he brought up like the example of like a used car salesman who gives good deals to friends
and family, but not to strangers because they're how to make a buck. And, you know, that's part
of the job. But then that puts you in this weird position where it's like, oh, oh, you're Karen's
sister. Oh, you don't want this car. You know, let me give you one of the good ones or let me
give you an actual deal. I told you I was giving you a deal, but I wasn't. So like,
that person doesn't have the slack in their life to like, you know, not try and make money when
they can. They can't, they can't treat every customer like family because they wouldn't walk
away with any money. But it's that kind of disjointed connection, right? So I guess when
possible, reduce that variance. But the other thing for me was to, to notice when you're doing
things, uh, I had it, it was like a week long incident in, it would have been in like November,
December, where for a week at work, I was acting, I had just been, we had just changed teams and
started a new project. And I was acting, I think I mentioned this on the show before, I was acting
like a co-worker that I really emulate, that I was, I was emulating a co-worker that I really
admire rather. And I was pulled aside by one of my teammates and he's like, you're not fun right
now. This wasn't you two weeks ago. What the fuck? Like this, you're, you're kind of making,
working with you a huge drag at the minute, at the time I was like, well, that's just because,
you know, reasons. And then when I thought about it that night and I kind of realized what I was
doing, I was playing another version of Steven that turned out to be less me, less what they were
expecting. If I was always like that, then, um, and the guy that I was emulating isn't an asshole,
but he was more dedicated than I was, than I am typically and more than my team was.
And that's what I was going for. Okay. And so we managed to nudge you back into the role they
wanted. Well, and into the role that I wanted. Yeah, yeah. So it more just pointed out to me that
like, I think because they, to run of the metaphor, saw me pick up the script and start reading from
it. And they're like, those aren't your lines, right? Nice. These are your lines. That it was,
it was an obvious example for me to, to notice an update from that. And then moving back was a
lot less drawing work was more fun and working with them was more fun. That's awesome. So
is there a takeaway here? I guess hopefully someone can lean something from that. I was trying to go
somewhere and I, I never wrap up, but there's something to get there. We, yeah, we got to
work on sticking the landing somehow, but I'll start the journey is fun though. Yeah. I did want
to say that the post did have one thing that I thought it was going a bit too far with where it
said that most people will never come to change their mind unless their network is either pushing
them or pulling them in that direction. The reason it's so hard to get people out of religion is
because everyone that they know is in their religion and pulling them that way. And I think
that takes away too much agency from people. I don't know about you, but I left my religion
despite basically my most of my life being, you know, in that religion and being taught about how
it was. And I was married to a fundamentalist Christian for a good six years and I never was
even slightly tempted to slide back into religion. There's, there's a lot of things where I think
you can just stick strong against the network. And sure, there's pressure on you to, to backslide.
I don't think people are quite so at the mercy of Omega as, as he was pointing out in there.
So did you have no other community that you joined by leaving your faith, whether it be
one person that you really admired or one really compelling argument that
you wanted to be seen as the kind of person that could be persuaded by arguments or.
Well, I guess by the time I was leaving, many of my friends were leaning in that direction as well,
but I think you could have been, I had sought that out, you know.
I think I, I might have a problem with how little agency I signed to most people much of the time.
Not, not, not most people much of the time with many people. Some of the time has the way to put
this. Yeah, the, the post says it looks like one of the greatest challenges of rationality is that
people change their minds about meaningful things, mostly only when the web tugs them into a new
role. Actually thinking in a way that for real changes your mind in ways that defy your web
given role is socially deviant and therefore personally dangerous and something you're motivated
not to learn how to do. I find just to play devil's advocate to you. I think that I find that's
somewhat compelling. We happen to be in a niche community that, that does endorse that unless
they're believing in magic, in which case we're going to shit on them for 10 minutes on the podcast.
So, but like, no, no, I mean, and I brought that up as tongue in cheek, but like, I was
pulled into cryonics by the web as trying to move into when I was first discovered rationality
and this, this community and all these geniuses were into it. I'm like, okay,
I'd heard of this mostly from places like Futurama. So this is something that some people actually
believe. And there was this couple of years of disconnect where I wanted to be into it, but I
wasn't convinced yet, but I really wanted to be there. Maybe that's what it's like to like
want to believe in a religion or something because I think I signed up before I fully bought it.
I signed up because I was convinced enough to and enough to even proselytize for it,
but kind of shyly. I wonder if that's what gets a lot of people into EA too,
is that their friends are into EA. That's probably a lot of veganism seems to be contagious.
Yeah, maybe similar kind of thing. It could be. And if you're, if you're the only vegan in your
group of 100 friends, there's probably some part of your web that rewards you being that brave
outlier, right? If it really was just you being the one person and literally no support, you'd
probably drop it. Most of the times there are some, you know, some, some heroes who would,
who would be able to pull through. But like, I think that, you know, using the veganism example,
if you're getting, if you're getting joked up by your coworkers in a way that's not funny to you,
it's, it's enough. You have somebody to go complain to and they're not complaining to go,
to go report this too. And they'll be like, you're being so brave. That's awesome. And you're like,
I knew it. I'm validated. I would like to think that people can pull away from their social
pressures, but I can see, I can see both. I think, I think people do it more often than the post
gives them credit for that. Yeah, it is hard to fight the web and maybe in a lot of things,
you go along with it, but I think there's certain things that people are just willing to fight for
and believe like, no. Well, also, we have a weird web is kind of my other point. Right. So like,
I'm trying to think of an example from my life where I've stood up against the crowd
in a place that didn't reward setting up against the crowd. And nothing's coming to mind right away.
If I did, like I said, if I did, and I was the one weird person at school talking about Crownix,
well, I don't think I ever went back and told my Crownix friends about the jokes that people made
or something, but I knew that I had like the vindication. I don't know what to make of that.
At the very least, we can aspire to be the kind of people that could stand up against,
you know, or that can, because again, you don't want to take random stances against the web either,
right? Right. Because the web is pretty useful. The web is super useful. It also gives you that
role that gives you a sense of fulfillment in life, which is neat. Yeah, that. And like,
that's part of the reason that I wanted to work to cultivate like a local physical community
of rationalists was, you know, you could go to this group of people and meet them in meat space
like this, and then say, this is this thing like, oh, cool. And you get some real life feedback
from that. And like when we met Robin Hansen, he asked a couple of times, like, what does your
meetup do? You know, I've gotten some less wrong meetups where they, you know, their community
is doing this and this one's doing that. And I was like, we just hang out. But that wasn't a
really good answer. The good answer would have been like, this is a local community of people
that hold us hold us to norms that we all want to have. Oh, that's a much better answer. Well,
didn't come to me until a couple weeks later. But that's the goal, right? I want to have a group
of people and having the scheduled meat space meetups helps keep that community alive. Whereas
if it was just an email exchange list, then, you know, you stop reading them. But if you feel
compelled to go meet them once every month or two, then you're more in this community. And, you
know, I want a community that holds me to the norms of being able to change your mind or being
confident enough to stand up to bad positions or bad opinions or something, right? So it wouldn't
seem totally out of the blue and like, please validate me, Robin Hansen, I'd write him that
answer. But we can trust trust that he listens to the podcasts. Oh, he probably does not.
I'm joking. There's no way. You may want to write him, actually. That was interesting. You may
find that of use. Yeah, maybe. I feel like I'm just looking for him to validate it. But you can.
Or maybe next time he's in town. Ooh, that's a good idea. Yeah, we got to get him back in Denver.
Totally. I did have listener feedback, but we've been going on for an hour and a half. So we should
probably wrap it up. I did have a rat chat for this episode. Oh, yeah. That would be fun. Do it.
So I read an article on a fun rationalist blog that you guys should all check out called
death is death is bad. And it was called the tyranny of biology. And the author's position
seems to be that they said that they're now a single issue voter on the issue of reproductive
freedom, that if the candidate is anti-abortion, they're anti-that candidate. And they drew a
long historical case from somewhere, I want to ask them about that, that reproductive freedom was
really what broke us from the shackles of a shitty society, the short, brutish life that
Hobbs described. So I agree that reproductive freedom is super important. And I could see it
being a great limits test for being a single issue voter, because it's unlikely that I'm going to
want to endorse anti-candidate who's anti-abortion. So I could see it for those reasons. What I
remained unconvinced of was that was really what I felt like were the strong claims that
the latter that dragged us out of our shitty, no one has enough resources, everyone's miserable,
everyone's scraping by life was the ability to control when you had kids. Luckily, I've got the
author in the room. And I wanted to ask you to explain that maybe I misunderstood something,
or maybe you can convince me. Well, as someone who has spoken to this author before, I think I can
maybe speculate on his thinking when writing this post. So no one's confused, Ian Yashor,
this article. I did write this article, and I should not plan this at all. I didn't know
that Stephen was going to bring this up. So I am taken by surprise here. Oh, good. I got a gotcha
you too. Yes. But I don't want to say that it is the only thing that is responsible for dragging
us out of the misery of deprivation that we had as a species for so long. I think that there is a
lot to be said for the scientific method, and agriculture and industrial revolution, and all
those things that have made us a better species. But I think that that is a absolute reproductive
control is a not sufficient thing to get us out of the misery we're in. But it is a necessary thing.
