Great. So, so what's the Intelligent Social Web?
The Intelligent Social Web starts off by talking about improv real quickly.
You're familiar with improv comedy, right?
Yes. And I actually keep coming up, keep coming across it in different avenues of,
like from different, from more than one rationalist,
from other places that aren't like just people who want to get good at acting.
I'm like, I should definitely go to an improv class at some point.
Five years ago, Stephen would never have had the confidence to do this.
Ten years ago, I wouldn't have had the confidence to have this conversation with you.
So I want, I think that there's no, no harm in trying something that's cheap.
I want to give this a shot.
Excellent. Let me know if you do. I might go too.
All right. I'll Google it. I'll make a note to Google it.
Yeah. So improv, as most people are aware, but we'll cover real quick,
is when a bunch of comedians get together and have random prompts thrown at them
from an audience or something, and they have to use those to entertain the audience.
And it's, it's really just stuff that you can't prepare for this beforehand,
which is what makes it both impressive and fun to watch.
You like yell out something from the audience, you're in a garden,
you find a stuffed teddy bear, go. And, and then they have to work with that.
I'm sorry. I was going to say one thing that makes improv so uniquely fun here for the person,
you know, probably getting around to this, but that really struck out me when reading this
was that you as the person in the, that is improving, you, you, your character that you're
playing knows what's happening because they have to because that's, that's part of what makes it
a show, right? But you as the actor, you as the actor don't, right?
So you're playing somebody who knows what they're doing, but the person, you,
the person playing them don't, don't know what's happening. Yeah.
It puts you in this really weird state where you're playing somebody who knows what's happening.
I, I keep saying this over and over, it's like, it's making it more clear, but
it was really interesting. Yeah. Yeah. It was a great, his example was that like,
the first actor says, oh, there it is. I found it. And so now you know, okay,
someone has found the bear and that it was lost before. And then someone else says about time,
we're almost late. And now everybody knows, oh, they, they apparently have somewhere to go and
they are running behind on time. And then another person says, what do you care? You're always late
to everything. And then like, oh, so now we know the specific character is a really late, tardy
person. And this other character is annoying at them for it. And so things keep building like this.
And it just sounds really fun to do. We do got to get together and do this at some point deal.
But the point is that everyone is working together to build a scene. Everyone is in this sort of
network. It's, it's, they're a node in a network that's making the scene. And they all have these
constraints on what they can do. And they're trying to figure out what they can do. But
all working together, they get to make the scene without there being any director even any real
director, any real script, they're just working off each other to get to a goal.
And they have to do it in a way that coheres with the other players.
Yes, right. Yeah, they have to work together. They have these roles that are emerging.
This is sounding more and more like real life.
Right. So the post goes on to think that this web can sort of be thought of as,
as a distributed system that computes the relationship and guides everyone within the
node, even though there's no specific director, the interaction of them working together works
sort of as a director to move them in a direction as long as they are all
cooperating and working within it. And non cooperation in improv is
jarring and uncomfortable for everybody involved. Yeah. And doing it in real life is just the same.
Yeah. So I mean, I can cite an example of bad improv from what's that show that every
rationalist really likes. There's a number of big bang theory. Oh my god.
I see all the hate mail coming in. That was a joke. But you know, I like to
unironically, but the first few years it got worse and I get like it was complete.
Like the best term I heard for it was nerd blackface. Yes, but it, you know,
it was comedy with a laugh track. Like that's how it was going to be. That's true. But there's
a part where I can't remember what the point was, but Penny, the one of them that wasn't a complete
socially attached nerd and the one who was trying to be an actress
was trying to teach Sheldon to like fake confidence or something. So he tried to
give him an improv lesson and she, she opens the scene and she's like running a shoe store.
And he's like, can I get a chocolate frozen yogurt or something? And she's just like,
right, we're a shoe store that also sells frozen yogurt. It was that like you could see her,
you know, he's ruining it. And I don't want to keep cutting you off your,
you seem like you're on a roll, but this, this post was like the best exploration of what
Yudkowski talks about in the sequences and in the methods of rationality as of roles.
This is what you're supposed to do. They use the phrase at least a couple of times in methods
reading from a script. And that's because, well, as the stern administrator, you're supposed to
say this, you're supposed to feel this and you're supposed, this is the role that you're playing.
This is what everyone's expecting of you. And therefore what you're expecting of yourself.
And going off script is uncomfortable and weird. And the point, and the post points out that this
is actually, or Valentine says specifically that this is just sort of a guess and not actually
borne out by any research, but that in the ancestral environment and not really even to this day,
any individual survival depends on them being part of a group. Like humans on their own,
generally don't live very long. It's the fact that we are in a group and can work together
towards goals that makes us able to live. And you know, that's also true as long as you are in a
community, generally individual people don't starve, they aren't put out to starve. If, if the
community is starving, everyone is starving equally, because there's no one person holding,
hoarding all the food while someone else dies. It's, I mean, some people might die sooner because
they're more susceptible to disease and the other stuff that happens during a famine. But as long
as you're in a community, you know, you're not going to be the guy that dies of starvation if you
have a bad few days out in the field. Going with the script reading and the roles and stuff to
imagine being the one farmer who had an adequate yield that season or something, right? And you're
like, I have exactly enough for my family. And everyone in the community would get together and
lynch you to, you know, lynch you and your family. If you had said, no, we're going to lock our doors,
we're going to be fine. Sorry guys, y'all had bad luck. And to an extent, many people would feel
pressured to say, you know what, we'll all suffer, but none of us will die if I share. But my family
would get by great if we had kept what I have. But this is sounding more political than I'm
meaning for it to. But what I'm getting at is that this is a two-way street. And no one has to
articulate the role that the starving community has and that the lucky person had, right?
Yeah. But if we take a step back and instead of looking at it as individual people, looking at
it as a person interacting with the network of all people, like the quote unquote director that
we were talking about earlier, the person needs to be accepted within the group. So they need to
fit in in order to survive. And the group needs to know what to expect from each person within
this network. So they know what they can do with them. They know what roles that person will fill.
And as you're saying, it's a great distillation of the concept of roles and why they work and why,
for example, people keep getting into abusive relationships over and over and over again,
because that is the role they know how to play. They know how to play the abused husband or wife.
And so once they get out of that relationship, unless they have learned another way to
interact with the network, they'll just fall right back into that again. Because some roles
really are shitty. I can think of one from real life. And this isn't too personal. I think my
dad would probably just own this. He has hated his job since he started there 35 years ago. Maybe
he liked it in the beginning. Maybe he just liked it less. But he works as a maintenance and
I don't know what you call it, an engineer at the Water Treatment Center in Fort Collins.
They treat wastewater. The stuff that comes out of your toilets goes down the pipes and lands
at his work. And he builds the machines, he maintains them, he deals with all the other stuff.
But he hates his job. And he's hated it, I think forever, because it's a crappy job and it's
physically demanding. It doesn't pay as much as it should. The only benefit is that it's a state
job or a city or whatever government job and it has good benefits from that. But it's his role
as the provider, the man of the house, that part of his script says, you hate your life.
And I think it's only been the last few years that he's given himself permission to have fun
and enjoy things. Because otherwise, it's part of my position. I've got to be part of my position
is misery. And this might be a tad uncharitable, but I don't think it's entirely, I think most
of it's right. It took kind of a catalyzing event in his life for him to realize, you know,
shit, I should be having fun. And that that was such a weird shift because he had spent
decades saying fun isn't my place. You know, it's my job to go to work, hate every minute of it,
and then come home and, you know, deal with kids and not get enough sleep and this and that. And,
you know, I remember even like as a kid, my mom would, you know, she went out to visit her friend
in California, she's gone for a week. And rather than him like enjoy the week off and do
something he wanted to do, he like redid the kitchen floor and put down tiles and stuff.
And he like didn't enjoy his time. And he like he took the week off of work. But
how am I not paying this picture correctly? Because it sounds like this is something he
wanted to do. He would say things like, no, that's what I think, you know, my wife would want me
to do was, you know, do something like this. Not like, hey, I should take the week off and go do
something fun. You know, he didn't have hobbies. Now he's got hobbies and he does fun stuff. But
I'm trying to make this a well rounded point. I feel like I'm going to just taper off because I
can't remember where I was going with this. So an example of a role in real life that was obvious
to me before I knew what the word role meant in this context. Okay. Sorry. No, no, no, no, no,
it's okay. That was that was a cool tangent. I just lost my place. Oh, okay. And so taking this
back to Omega, the post likens the intel, the social web that you are within that is guiding you
and that needs to know what you're doing to Omega. Omega is always trying to predict what you will
do. And actually spends a lot of computational resources trying to predict you the network does
in ways like, you know, gossip, small talk, speculation about you, also just, you know,
observing your body language, that kind of thing. There's a lot of work that the network puts into
being able to predict you and to tug you into the roles that it wants you to be in. And it will
reward you oftentimes for playing your role. And I think that was that was the thing that
I'm putting my notes aside now. That was the thing that I most got out of this particular,
this particular post is that humans in general, as far as I know, and certainly me specifically,
I need to feel like I am useful. And I think most people need to feel like they're useful. And I
think it's it's a deep human need, which has been put into us through the process of evolution,
specifically, in order to fulfill these roles in order to keep our community going,
in order to keep, you know, our genes procreating and the human race moving along,
because when we all work together, as as a larger network, we can survive and thrive and do amazing
things. And the way that we can motivate humans to do that is by having this instinct that you
have to feel useful. And that's what roles gives us, it gives you a way to feel like you are
contributing and you are valued by your community. And I think that is one of the things that is
most missing from the modern world. It's like, my community is spread out among three cities right
now, we get together once a month, really, to see each other. And the rest of the time, I'm kind of
alone, like the physical community I live in, are all strangers, I don't know any of my neighbors.
I guess the guys next door, I've talked with once or twice, but they're not my community,
they're not the network that models me and relies on me. And the modern world seems to have tried to
replace the approval of your peers and the feeling that you are fitting into the the network by,
by giving you money instead, it's like, okay, you're doing a good job. The network is using
you, here's money. And I mean, money is great, it gives you comfort, it gives you food and air
conditioning and stuff, but it doesn't fulfill that need to feel like you are valued in a community.
And I think that's why life seems so empty for so many people right now, is because we are,
we don't have these roles. And I kind of want to, at some point, work out some way to have an actual
rationalist community built up where we kind of can have both a community that needs everyone and
has some way for everyone to contribute and feel like they're useful. And I just don't know how
the fuck to get that without all living in close proximity. Because I really am starting to get
the feeling that being able to see people on a at least weekly basis, if not every few days, and
be like, Hey, I see you, you're a cool person, I read your body language, I'm giving you a
smile because I remember the thing you did for me last week or yesterday or whatever. And
we are all in this together, I think is kind of psychologically important. And we can get by without
it as you know, the past century of America suburban living has proven, but it doesn't
necessarily make us happy. And I think this post kind of clarified why because we have that
need to fulfill roles deeply ingrained in us. That's an interesting take. And I see a lot of
the points you're making. I didn't draw that point. I took well, it's not explicitly in the
post. No, no, yeah, no, yeah, for sure. It's the way you took it. And I like that. It's interesting.
I took I took it in other ways. But I guess just find that there's a couple of things like,
on one hand, this ties into, you know, Hansonian signaling, it's not enough to
just be helpful. It's, it's, it helps you feel good. And Plato might say that's enough,
Aristotle might say that's enough, but it might make you feel good, but not as good as you would
feel if you, if you helped conspicuously. You know, if you were, if you were secretly
funding some important project, you might be like, huh, that's happening because of me.
And that might help you a bit. But if somehow accidentally everybody found out that you were
the one behind it, oh no, now you've got all the social capital and everybody knows that you've
been helping. That's much more important. That's my, that gives this bigger rush.
I think that's why it feels so much better to volunteer within your community than it does
to send a thousand dollars to AMF. Cause you don't see the, the people that are being helped by
the malaria nets, they don't come up to you and say thank you, you know, and you're like, yes,
I know objectively I just saved half of a life or whatever it was, but that's not the same as
giving a sandwich to, to your buddy who forgot his lunch and need some food.
Totally. And it's, it sucks because, you know, Peter Singer, I think is, is absolutely right.
The person, you know, think of, think of the good you're doing the life you've saved versus,
you know, even if you spent a thousand dollars and went around, you know, and bought,
I've been thinking of doing this just, I don't, this isn't a good use of charity money
to everything that I preach, you know, putting together like gallon ziploc bags of like
supplies to hand out to homeless people, you know, things like change, toothbrushes,
tampons, condoms, you know, socks, hand warmers, all that stuff, right?
And spend 500 bucks or whatever, get a bunch of these and start handing them out, right?
Because you, you know, you get a lot of thanks and all that.
And those people are marginally better off for having those and sometimes way better off for a
little while. It's not going to solve all their problems, but, you know, warmer for a night,
whatever, a more comfortable period. But, oh, my point about Singer,
Singer to point out that they aren't dying, right? They're suffering and that sucks,
but their suffering is less than the people that you can't see. And just because you can't see them
doesn't make them matter less. And yes, on a life to life basis from a God's eye view, totally not.
But from you as an evolved primate, a social primate, it just does and it's kind of just a
drag of our psychology. I mean, so as far as ways to solve that problem, I mean,
