impossible, but it is so statistically unlikely based on everything we know that it is as
unlikely as my water bottle spontaneously boiling off all the water and jumping across
the room.
Right.
And the, which is to say impossible and I reject it out of hand.
And that's fair.
I think it's like there's, there's the problem of a privileging any hypothesis, you know,
even if you just say, ah, intelligent design, but nobody, nobody just stops there unless
they're not in bailing, right?
And in which case they're not stopping.
They're just pretending to stop.
They'll say, look, I beat Richard Dawkins in this evolution debate.
Therefore, you're, you're, you're damn right.
We've, we've got to stop abortions and, you know, this and that because the creator of
the universe wrote this book.
Well, I actually was talking with someone who did more or less kind of stopped there
or at least as far as we, when we were talking.
Yeah.
Cause what's the point of believing that unless you're attaching a bunch of other shit to
it, right?
He just wanted to believe it as far as I can tell.
He was like, I because it, because it meant something, maybe it meant that there's more
chance of an afterlife or that somebody in the universe cared about or something, that
the universe itself cared about him or something or, um, but it wasn't just a random, you know,
it's not like they just, they put a random more generator together, formed a completely
arbitrary belief and said, you can explain it.
Therefore, um, this, this insane random thing I believe is true.
Right.
Um, what was the question?
How do we filter out nonsense?
Yeah.
Basically, do we need to have a slightly stronger, not just filter out nonsense, not how do we
filter out nonsense?
Do we need to have a slightly stronger taboo on, on religious mysticism creeping in?
It's hard for me to see how that would hurt.
Um, anything that I can think of and granted, I don't know that much, but that would pass.
That would get extra scrutiny would still pass because, you know, again, I maybe mindfulness
is too easy of an example.
Maybe it's a, you know, the opposite of a, you know, cow pot or what was the, uh, so
you want to, uh, let's use an example from our personal lives.
Uh, remember the, uh, solstice party that we had, I think like two years ago?
Yes.
And there was, you know, some talk of, uh, Cannonball Jenkins wanted to do like sort
of a ritual like they had over in New York where, uh, people light candles and talk about,
uh, I don't know, things that humanity has done and why it's meaningful and sort of,
you know, like having a sort of community ritual thing.
And the person who was hosting the party said, I am not comfortable having any sort of mysticism,
mysticism like that in my house because they had come from a, uh, very fundamentalist religion
and had managed to finally get themselves excommunicated, uh, which apparently took some work.
But, uh, but no, they were very anti, uh, religion and said, no.
And, you know, I kind of respected that because while I thought it would be neat to try a
kind of ritual like that, and I've heard a lot of good things from people who like them,
I too get really skieved out and like just, I thought, I think we talk about this when
we had the Jenkins on the episode, right?
Where it was like really, I still have a sort of allergic emotional reaction and he talked
me out of it a little bit.
And I think I recall by the end of that episode, I was like, okay, yeah, I'm willing to try
this thing that you've said, that sounds interesting.
But still when I think about it, it feels weird and, and so there's the trade off that
we would be missing out on things like that, which some people genuinely do find valuable.
Maybe it's that I've done things in the last year that's increased my openness to experience.
Um, but much like I've agreed to go to you, to go with you to a club.
I'm inclined to believe that there are aspects of life that I'm missing out on because I've
decided that there aren't fun already.
I'd be willing to give it a shot.
I suspect I won't have a good time, you know, holding hands and uttering a prayer to
Elias Yudkowski.
Um, but, uh, which is what we do now just before we sacrifice the, the babies.
I think it's something more rationalist to sacrifice as we sacrifice our, our bad beliefs.
I don't know.
Okay.
As we, as we evict our beliefs that aren't paying rent.
Um, God, we could make this into a real sermon.
Um, uh, in this particular case, I think it's easy enough to say, you know, the, the host
of the party at whose place at the person's house we're doing it at didn't want to.
It's that easy for me.
Yeah.
Like I'm not going to, you know, say, well, I don't care.
This place also didn't want us to bring meat.
Yeah.
And I'm like, well, I'm not going to bring meat because I think it's okay.
Right.
Like, uh, if you don't want it, it's your house.
That's fine.
You know, if they want to come over outside to do it or something, you know, whatever
it does, that doesn't strike me.
They're not doing anything magic there.
No, they're not.
They're not claiming.
They're not claiming to.
I don't think that's a good example.
Well, no, I mean, it's, it's explicitly not magic.
It's just a celebration.
We draw the line there and say, this, this, this, this is what gets it on the slope to
doing real mad, doing quote, real mad.
That's what I'm saying.
If, if you start introducing the more ritual kind of that stuff, then that kind of cracks
the door open a little bit for the magical thinking to come back in, right?
Hmm.
Or does it?
It certainly could.
Um, I don't want to be making a slippery slope argument because those are kind of bullshitty
too, but.
Well, some slopes are actually slippery.
Yeah.
And sometimes it's not a bad thing.
Sometimes it's okay to slide all the way to the bottom.
And other times, uh.
You can make a compelling point from fantasy.
Right.
Yes.
So that there's a joke there.
Um, neither of us necessarily talk about killing babies, but long story.
Um, the only during our solstice rituals, right?
I don't know.
That strikes me close to the meditation example.
I mean, closing your eyes and thinking positive thoughts or just meditating on the emotion
of love is that sounds about as hipster as they can get, right?
Um, and as we all know, hipsterism is equivalent to religion, you know, if we're going to be
super slanderous and yet I would say that's a valuable way to spend 10 minutes a day, probably
not six hours a day for a month, but banning that sort of mild thing or not banning, but
shunning it, um, or whatever, uh, or not condoning in our personal communities or whatever.
Yeah.
Not, not partaking.
Kind of, kind of looking at it funny and being like, hmm.
I wonder, is this a bad example to say like using drugs that alter your psychologist, like
that alter your state of mind for a day?
You know, like, I know that people, I know people, well, I've met people who don't drink
or, you know, have ever tried pot or, you know, like I said, a shot because they want to be
lucid all the time.
That's, that's the way they want to do it because that's how they can be the best thinkers that
they can be.
I think they're missing out on something.
Yeah.
And, you know, you don't, you don't have to believe in, they do, but they can change you.
Um, you know, they make you a little, sometimes you're more open to experience, you're less
stressed.
I mean, I certainly got much better at the social stuff after I started drinking a lot.
I mean, I think everybody gets that, you know, just cause they, but eventually it became
like a more permanent skill or now I could be social even when I wasn't drinking.
Because now you maybe you'll realize that, oh yeah, nothing bad happens when I'm social.
Or maybe it burned out the antisocial neurons in my brain.
I don't know, man.
Yeah.
But, uh, one way or another, you stopped caring about it and that's probably a positive
change.
Yeah.
So I wonder what, you know, someone like Penn Gillette would say of, you know, like, look,
Ivan's been shown to help treat pretty major depressive disorder.
Do you think that it's a good trade-off?
You know, do you think it's better to lucidly view the world through the, the heavy haze
of depression or do you think it's better to be tripped out for a few weeks, you know,
once a weekend for a few weeks or something to, um, to overcome that.
And then you can be that much better at perceiving everything.
Certainly I think it'd be a waste to spend the rest of my life tripping, right?
Um, and I don't think anyone would want to spend, you know, a long time doing anything
like that, but the goal of what I'm trying to say is that I don't know if I could draw
the line at anything, a priori, um, at least without having given, giving it some thought
first.
You know what?
I think I will draw this analogy and this is probably the last thing I have to say on
the subject.
Um, I am a, in most things, a rather left of center person and basically everyone I knew
was also, so when we would, uh, when I would share things on Facebook, it would be, I wouldn't
share the, the same stuff of everyone else is just repeating the party line.
Right.
I was like, that's boring.
That's echo chambery.
I don't care about that.
But like when I found some cool little article, like on the edge of things, kind of like being
like, and look at this edge case, isn't that interesting?
It kind of challenges some of our assumptions.
Where should, what should we do with this?
I would share those because I thought those were really interesting and, uh, I realized
that for a not insignificant number of people, their primary interactions with me is through
the stuff that I share online, right?
And so some people start saying like, are you like alt right or, or secretly conservative
or something?
I'm like, no.
And they're like, well, you sound a lot like one.
You, I don't know if I want to hang out with you anymore.
And, um, I finally got the advice that says, you know what?
Every now and then do that echo chambery thing, just bust out the old abortion is great flag
and wave it around or whatever flag you, you know, happen to be, uh, really on the left
side of, uh, not too often, but, you know, maybe once a month, maybe twice a month, just
to reaffirm that.
Signature allegiance.
Exactly.
Signature allegiance.
Reaffirm that you are part of this tribe and that they, that you believe the same things
they believe.
And so now, even though I find it a little tedious, I do do that, uh, probably a couple
of times a month and I've, I've noticed positive results.
I think it might be good every now and then just to wave the flag of, Hey, mysticism and
paranormal supernatural stuff is bullshit.
So let's all keep that in mind, guys.
I can see the point you're making.
I think it's a good one, um, for the purposes of getting along with people in social settings
that aren't, you know, one of the, I don't know how you define aspiring rationalist
other than people who, you know, say they identify that way or whatever, but part of
