We can't have that without the reproductive control, because until that point, we are still
shackled to women cannot be full and equal participants unless they choose to be celibate,
because they could at any time be, I don't want to say afflicted. But if it's not something that you
wanted and we're planning for, it can be kind of an affliction with this burden that first
distorts your body and has huge ramifications for your biology for the next nine years, but also
permanent effects on your body thereafter. And on top of that, now saddles you with a human that
you are responsible for. And yes, obviously, they give you meaning and love and all that too. But
your life is drastically changed once you have the responsibility of another life. And that is
a lot of fucking labor to take care of a small human. So getting the ability to choose when you
want to do that, as opposed to being forced into it is, I think necessary for human flourishing
to get us past the point where every woman has to pair up with a person that can help with that whole
child rearing process. Can you explain the last part? First of all, you said nine years before
you met nine months, I think. I did nine months. Sorry. So that's fine, just in case anyone had
picked. The second part is that you are extremely vulnerable, both when you are pregnant and during
the first several years of a child's life, where it's usually good to have someone else with you,
both providing resources and providing childcare and possibly protection. And that doesn't
necessarily have to be a father or even a male, but it does make you, it entails your ability
to be an independent human. You need somebody else who's not also pregnant to be able to fight off
saber-toothed tigers while you're holding this baby. I don't think you used anything
like necessary, but not sufficient in the post. No, I didn't. So you made it sound like it was
the only thing. That was my nitpick. I was trying to put forth a very strong argument, but I also,
I admit it is, and know and acknowledge it is not the only thing, and trust that my readers
probably knew that as well, I hope. This reader thought that you were making, that that was your
thing, that like, no, this is it. It wasn't anything else. So I'm an idiot. Well, I mean,
I don't think it's, you're an idiot. I think I was also particularly passionate about that,
because we aren't in danger of losing agriculture or the benefits of dust realization. And yet,
there's still some asshole idiots out there who want to remove the benefits of reproductive
freedom. So that's a really good point. Yeah, we're not in danger of sliding back into not
having enough food, probably in the United States, but we're not unless the fucking homage take over.
I don't think we got enough of them right now. Right. So, but we are in danger of
modern civilized people advocating against something that can involuntarily, you know,
shackle your life and people and not just shackle one person's life, but it restructures all of
society around these considerations. It makes society less free because there is a social
infrastructure that has to be in place to address these problems. You mean like
adoption centers or something? No, no, no, no, not adoption centers. I mean,
for lack of a better word, this society becomes more like a patriarchy specifically to address
these issues. And the ability to break out of the old patriarchal system is predicated on
there being this reproductive control. Okay, I think I'm, I think I see that. I mean, I do see
that. But I think that that answers my confusion. I'm just checking to see if there's any confusion
left. I think it's much easier to have a free and open democracy when you have a possible full
participation of all citizens as opposed to a society where you treat women more like baby
factories, which I know that's not the entirety of patriarchy. And that is painting it in a very
grim light, but that is part of it. And that sort of society is much more ripe for things like tyranny
or general dictatorship-ish qualities. I can see that, yeah. And, you know, we talked about at the
last meetup that, you know, having kids isn't something that like you add to your life,
like getting a new house. You know, it's not something that like, I have my old life
and this new house. It's like, nope, my old life, I've taken this way. Now I'm on the life
where I'm carrying a kid for the rest of it. And, you know, people say for 18 years, it's not. It's
for the whole life. You know, my mom still calls her mom, you know, probably not as much as she did
50 years ago, but it's, or 40, I don't know how old people are. And it happens to be a fact of our
biology that like, you know, you and I could theoretically sire hundreds of kids if we were
just totally pimping. Sorry, it's getting late. But we could do it without ever knowing. Whereas,
you can't mother 10 children without being aware of it. You're, you're, you're, you're impossibly
aware of all of them, right? Like I said, since it is a, not just a life addition, but a life
refactor completely. If it's the kind of thing that this can happen to half of you over and
out the others, then yeah, it makes things unfair.
Right. Has massive ramifications. Yeah.
No, but thank you for bringing it up. That was, that was interesting. I've, I don't think I've
discussed one of my own posts before like this, or at least I've had someone question me on it on
the podcast. I'll see if I can surprise you again in a few months out of the blue. Well, first I
have to write a post that's worth talking about again. Well, I just kind of started actually
trying to make a point of reading sources that I like again. So plus I have like the free time
at work to do it. So not like I don't have free time out of work. I'm just, you know, not very
productive at home. Was there a line in there, something along like this might make women even
supportive of the patriarchy because it gives something or whatever?
Yeah. Well, I mean, the patriarchy did have some benefits for women too.
You should probably caveat that.
Okay. Going back to the whole roles thing, as long as you were
not always the case obviously, but for the most part, if you played the role of the,
the mother and the home maker, baby producer kind of person, you could expect to be provided for
and taken care of. The man had a lot more power obviously, and you could get some really shitty
deals if you have a bad person, man that you didn't know was bad, or if someone just changes later
on in life, you know, or decides, you know, I want to abandon you. But given the fact that you are
forced by biology to take these risks with your body and have these obligations put upon you,
it is of some benefit to have a society that is structured in a way that makes,
that the default and makes some provisions for you to be able to do that with your life,
to be able to live while that is a thing that you do.
Gotcha. In a world without reproductive freedom, you're better, you're often better off allowing
yourself to be shackled because it meant more chance of success for you and your offspring.
Right.
Okay, yeah.
Even though it's shitty, it can often, it's usually better than the alternative.
It was the only game in town, yeah. I mean, so imagine, you know, a single mother trying to,
you know, hunt and gather on her own while cradling a baby in one arm, right?
And that just, just because of the, you know, situations, both technological and social,
the way they were, I believe it was, I think it was Scott Alexander, but I don't remember exactly.
I said something along the lines of, if you take 10,000 modern day enlightened liberal people
and dump them back in the Nile Delta, 3000 BC, with the technology they had 3000 BC,
within one generation, they'd be back to worshiping god emperors and building them pyramids,
because that is the social structure that works for surviving in that environment with that technology.
Seriously?
Democracy would not work there, they would all die.
So put another way, the patriarchy couldn't be, can't be shattered in a world where there's
no reproductive freedom.
Yes, patriarchy is, is necessary for survival.
In a world without, in a world without reproductive freedom.
Yes, yes, yes.
And I knew that was implied, but I was-
Both without reproductive freedom and with the technological levels we had before.
I knew that was there, but I always kind of joke about like grabbing a soundbite and like,
you know, the patriarch is necessary for survival or something.
And I was like, yeah, that's gonna be, that's gonna be the, you know,
it's just text message noise when you text it.
Do you know what, what can you do?
Some people want to quote mine you, it's, you can't copy out every single sentence.
Even if you did, they could snip out that part.
So, yeah.
All right.
Really?
Well, I think, thanks for, thanks for indulging me on that.
No problem.
All right.
Well, thank you for to our Patreon supporter, Jesse Butterfield.
Whoever you-
I think we know exactly who that is.
Whoever you are, we really appreciate it.
All right.
It means a lot.
So other than that, thanks to Kyle who, who makes this,
that makes the sound quality more palatable for human ears.
Thanks also to David Gruyer and Sumerci Project for providing music for the podcast.
And, you know, anybody who wants to, you know, if you've just came across this somewhere,
you can subscribe on iTunes or other RSS feeds.
You can leave a review there.
You can leave reviews on the website, TheBasinConspiracy.com.
I don't think you leave reviews there.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Comments per episode.
Yeah.
Um, also at the time this episode goes live, I want to put together a, um-
And you can come in on the subreddit as well.
Yes.
The subreddit.
That's why I'm going to put this together on r slash TheBasinConspiracy.
I'm going to put together like a ask us anything sticky thread at the top.
I don't need-
To where like, if there's a random question you have that you don't want to go through
the trouble of digging up our email and, you know, doing it that way, you're on Reddit already.
And it doesn't pertain to an individual episode, so it doesn't fit for that thread.
Be like, what's your thought on this?
You guys, we'll put those together and get a good round of those.
That's a good round of them.
That's a damn good idea.
So that'll be available.
And, uh, yeah, that's it.
Feel free to find us on Patreon or, you know, share this episode with your friends.
