it is the joy of entertaining new ideas and challenging ones.
Yeah.
I mean, like I found, um, you know, Sam Harris, uh, had a, had a blog post back before he's
doing his podcast on, um, profiling at airports that I thought was super compelling.
Um, I didn't, compelling in the sense that I don't know if I thought that I necessarily
agreed with it, but I thought it was a really fun and interesting idea, um, that I remember
that article.
Yeah.
I mean, the idea that we're spending, that we're wasting time making Betty White take
her shoes off, um, when it's almost certain, you know, or better yet, I think we talked
about this in the show, Al Gore got patted down.
We got extra security randomly.
Right.
Did the person doing it really think Al Gore had switched sides?
I mean, if so, then we're, none of us are safe, right?
And there's no point in, there's no point in not checking literally everybody, um, including
you know, the pilots and everybody because anyone, anyone could be switched, you know,
so that seems like a waste.
So like that, if using our resources more appropriately made sense.
And I, if I shared that and I had shared, you know, how I'm more pro gun than my friends
on the left, or if I'm a more anti religion, um, probably than the average person on the
left, there, a lot of people on the left, I think it'd be anti Christianity.
But if you say are anti Islam, then you're, uh, then you're suddenly some conservative
nut job.
And I'm like, even if you're just anti religion as a blanket, there are more Muslims than
there are Christians.
Right.
So therefore I'm, even if I'm distributing it exactly evenly, um, I'm, however many
more Muslims that there are than Christians, I'm that much more anti Islam because there's
that more of them.
Yeah.
So if there are more Christians, I'd be more anti Christian, maybe, uh, if, if all I did
was share those, I, I could see how people would, you know, think it's whatever dog whistling
or secretly conservative endorsement or something.
So I can see the social benefit of doing that.
So like I said, I think it'd be really boring if at every third meetup, we all go around
in a circle and mention how much, so that's, that's what I'm thinking, right?
So that's, that's, that's kind of culted by itself, you know, yeah, we still don't believe
God exists guys.
Yeah.
Right.
So that sounds super boring.
And I'm wondering on what for, uh, on what form another anti religion post would take
place.
Maybe it could be part of a larger topic.
You know, if they're talking about anything remotely spirituality, just to say, by the
way, religion and magic are bullshit, but you know, this, I can't think of another example
of meditation thing.
Here's something that we can glean from that.
And this is a useful, um, example, I could see someone more eloquent than me writing
a, uh, less wrong post about how meditation made it through the filter of skepticism, of
rationality to become something that's actually useful, even though it came from this weird
hokey box.
Um, so if someone wants to make that point, while in it stressing that the rest of the,
that there is a lot of hokey nonsense in that box that should stay in there, is that the
kind of thing you're talking about?
Yeah.
I can, I can see that.
And maybe there should be something like that because yeah, we don't want to become the
group that, oh yeah, rationalists, even those people who think that they can do magic.
Um, I don't think we're ever going to get rid of the people who can compartmentalize,
you know, Yudhikasi talks about it, Dawkins talks about it.
Everybody who talks, you know, Harris talks about, um, Francis Collins.
He was the director of the NIH.
I don't know if he still is or not, but he's apparently a younger, well, at least a, yeah,
I think he's a young earth creationist.
No, no, not young earth.
Not younger.
No, he was the one that, uh, he was possibly intelligent designer.
He was the one that, uh, converted to, to Christianity after seeing the waterfall.
Yeah.
I, I think Dennett came at him hard for the intelligent design part because it was,
I think it was explicit.
Yeah.
No, he's, he's definitely, he used like guided by, guided by God or something in a
PowerPoint slide.
Which is like, how can you possibly disprove that?
Well, here's the mutation and here's what happened.
By the way, God wanted it to happen this way.
Well, getting into the whole thing of like, why would God make things happen through what
looks like random chance that results in tons of misery and suffering for thousands of years,
for basically everything on earth, throwing all that aside.
Like how, how do you get off doing that while doing real science that requires actual thinking?
The answer is some people are capable of, of that kind of compartmentalization.
And another thing that, that I think distinguishes rationalists from, from people like Francis
Collins would be like, if someone pointed that to me, that that's compartmentalizing,
I would give it some thought, hopefully in a few seconds and be like,
shit, I think you're onto something.
I need to figure this out and figure out what I'm actually believing here.
Cause those two things don't make any sense to believe in, to believe in tandem.
So nothing else you'd have to come up with a darn good excuse.
Yeah, for sure.
And it, and it would have to be darn good, right?
It couldn't just be, well, we don't know everything yet.
There might be something to this.
So there might be something to, you know, holding three emeralds in your left hand
and an magic eight ball on your right and, you know, wishing as hard as you can.
Who knows?
So like, you can't privilege one hypothesis over, over any other of the
quadrillion you could think of.
So certainly, if someone's saying you wrote that rune wrong, it won't work,
or that you wrote that sigil wrong, this won't work now.
Then I think that there's, that they've crossed the line into, into pseudo, into, into magic.
Well, into, we can't, if magic is, is, you know, the, the same version,
it's crossed, it's crossed the bridge into insane, what was the word used before, hokey?
Hokey, yes.
Yeah.
If the, if the act of drawing a shape and thinking a positive thought,
and it acts a positive change on your psychology, that could be,
there could be something to that, like there's something to meditation.
I'm totally open to that idea.
If you're saying you drew the shape wrong, so now it's not going to work, there's no way.
Yeah.
Unless you know something about my brain.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Unless it's proven that, you know, counterclockwise circles actually, you know,
with your left hand to do this.
Okay.
Well, if there's a paper that seems compelling there, go for it.
Right.
Probably won't hold up to a repetition, replication.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, I'm for that.
We should be politely, not even politely, like there's, it's not polite.
You know, at the beginning of this, I had said that, you know,
getting the God questions right.
I quoted Yuckaski saying that getting the God question right is like getting the
real world question right.
That's super offensive to somebody who's religious.
Yeah.
Well, you know, when religion came with my new team at work,
we'd talked about some other stuff, or it's just comfortable saying,
hey, they'd ask like, are you religious?
And I, you know, I always should think of how to say it.
Because if I say no, that's not enough.
So I say, I'm as convinced of the truth claims of the Bible as I am that unicorns are real.
That's to say, certain, or almost certainly not, right?
Enough that I'm willing to bet everything, you know.
But it, and by putting it in the same bucket as literal unicorns,
if one of them was really, really just, that could be offensive.
So I'm not saying we should be inoffensive,
but I don't think we should waste a lot of time.
But a bit more time, I think does sound useful.
I'm convinced.
Okay.
Huzzah!
Huzzah!
See how we got onto our actual topic?
I'm down.
Cool.
And then I did have a good pick for this episode
that I wanted to spend at least a few minutes on.
Okay.
Or a rat chat, excuse me.
Not a, not a rationally speaking pick.
Everyone listened to Julia Gales podcast.
All I will say while we're killing time, I'm listening to some,
I've had a hard time getting through like the last few months or the worth of episodes.
I find them less rationally speaking and more just her talking to cool people.
Okay.
Which is great.
But it was, I kind of, I told Julia Gale if this at a conference once that I was like,
Hey, I just wanted to say I agree with you on almost everything and disagree with Massimon
almost everything.
And she's like, Oh, you read my Facebook post.
And I was like, what Facebook post?
And she looked like me like as an idiot.
And she's like, I made a joke like verbatim that someone come up to me at TAM and say this.
And I was like, Oh, I didn't see it.
And then I spent the rest of the elevator ride awkwardly trying to find out on Facebook
while we're sitting there together.
And it was just, it was, it was kind of uncomfortable.
But what I'm getting at is I miss his input.
You know, he, I don't think we agree.
Me and Massimo agree on many on really anything maybe on some,
like the basic times of like the virtue of science and this and that,
but like any, anything that like rationalists believe he doesn't believe it seems like.
But I found him fun and I found his counter positions to things and his way of approaching
things that brought a bit more dynamicism to the podcast.
Now it's more like an interview show.
Although Julia holds her ground a lot in like asking great questions.
I think I'm just finding them less about exploring the borderlands between reason
and nonsense.
I guess the tag of the show and more just talking about really cool stuff
with Julia asking fun questions.
Okay.
Like the one I was listening to on the way over.
Episode two, two 11 Sabine Haasenfelder on the case against beauty in physics.
Oh yeah.
I remember hearing, did I actually hear someone interviewed her?
Maybe I heard Julia's interview with her.
Yeah, it might have been that one.
It was so far it's good.
I'm half, I'm three quarters through it, but like it's not so much on like,
is this nonsense or not?
It was just, but Julia's asking great questions.
Like, how is, I can't even think of how it is.
I don't know how she thinks of these things on the fly.
