I'm pretty sure that he thought it out beforehand,
just because he was a very, you know, think-y guy.
Well, I thought he was a...
I guess I only learned about Calvin in high school.
I thought he was a crank and like a lot of religious people and that this was...
Well, he was a crank and that he was a religious.
Well, but he was a smart religious dude.
So it was really written out like in the way that, you know,
like people like Darwin would anticipate people who disagree with them and say,
well, then this is why.
Then what's the fucking point?
I mean, that's the exact same argument of what's the fucking point of taking one box?
Well, because it's the same problem, right?
But why would you believe that?
Why would you believe what?
The predestination thing in the first place?
Or is that too far afield?
No, that's just...
Why would you believe it is more along the lines of because God knows everything
and it is part of the dogma?
But in this case, Omega told me this, right?
And so, I don't know...
But God has also said that he is all-knowing,
which must mean that he knows the future,
which must mean that he knows if you're going to heaven or hell, right?
And he knows whether or not you can do the right thing when he made you.
Yeah.
I used to joke when I was de-converting as a teenager,
my mom...
My parents are vaguely religious.
I think I mentioned once that my mom articulated Pascal's wager to me
without knowing what it was called.
She had said something once about just like,
I'm just worried about your soul.
And I quipped that I'm as God made me, mom.
If I'm an unbeliever, that's because that's the way God wanted me to be.
I don't know...
It would be bizarre...
This is just my problem with theology.
It'd be bizarre to be punished for something you had no control over.
Yeah.
So, anyway, I feel like I'm going to hung up on the wrong part of this problem.
Well, I mean, that is entirely a tangent and not at all related to what we're going to talk about.
But I really like the fact that Calvinism is basically another version of Newcombe's problem
that God knows your decision algorithms and knows what you're going to do.
And I'm giving a skeptical look.
I think that's why you drifted off.
I think it's a much less compelling case.
Really?
Totally.
Okay.
I mean, there are other reasons...
Well, you asked me if Omega was all-knowing, right?
But God is the Omega that is all-knowing.
But in the Calvinism case, no one actually talked to God.
People just said they did, right?
Well, you have to give the thought experiment a little bit of leeway.
There's no actual Omega either.
We're just assuming that there's an Omega for the person of this experiment.
But I'm also not picking a real box, right?
Right.
So, but in the...
I mean, we're also not Calvinists, but I still find this interesting.
But in the heaven health thing, if I'm a Calvinist, I am picking a box by deciding what kind of life to live.
Yeah. Well, I mean, if you're a Calvinist, you're kind of fucked anyway because you're Catholic.
The other thing I'd say to that is there are benefits to living a good life outside of going to heaven.
Yes.
And I guess there are benefits to one boxing in that you get $1,000, which maybe is the point
because $1,000 is small pennies compared to an afterlife of eternal bliss or whatever.
But I would think that why do you not murder and rape people?
Because you're not a happy person if you do that.
I go to the Play-Doh answer, right?
Yeah.
It's...
The non-virtuous person isn't happy.
They're conniving and they're miserable and they're confused and scared or whatever, right?
A lot of that's armchair philosophy, but I'm sure some of that pans out in actual experiments.
Well, I'm confident enough to assert that without having actually looked.
I'd bet that in more...
Well, I know this. I've met people who...
People on the wrong side of the law are people who have done terrible things and are racked with guilt.
They're not happy. They're not flourishing.
So that's why you do the good thing.
And if God's going to send you to hell forever, then fuck that dude.
So anyway, yes.
Newcombe's problem, I'm a one-boxer and I'll choose to have a good life whether or not I'm going to hell.
Okay.
All right.
The...
Where was I?
Oh, okay.
So Newcombe's problem is considered usually by most people as sort of a esoteric thought problem
that doesn't really have any effects on the real world.
Like this ultimate Omega predictor person comes up and offers you this random opportunity
that you have no control over the outcome aside from the sort of person you already were, right?
It's kind of not fair, but it doesn't matter because it's just some stupid thought process,
thought experiment.
There's this wonderful post that says, oh, Newcombe-like problems are commonplace.
And I was like, that's interesting.
I would like to read this.
And it makes the argument that we are in fact surrounded by predictors.
Anytime we interact with another human, we are interacting with someone who not only has
usually a lot of motivation to predict what kind of person we are,
but also has a lot of experience in predicting what other people do just through a life lived
and has, you know, many, many eons of evolution behind them also helping with the predicting
of the humans that they interact with the most.
And so actually we run into Newcombe-like problems very frequently where people are trying
to judge you based on what they think that you are going to do.
I think the example given in the article was a job interview.
If you go into a job interview, all very bold and confident, people will pick up on that
and will assume that you probably have some idea of what you're doing.
Whereas if you go in as a shy person who is very unsure of their skills,
they'll pick up on that as well and are less likely to offer you the job.
And the thing is, if you are someone who is very unsure of their skills
and not at all confident in yourself, it's really hard to fake the boldness and confidence.
And if you're a bold, confident person, it's less likely that you have no idea what you're doing.
Every confident person will act confident.
Most every, almost every confident person will act confident.
Yes.
But not every shy person, most shy people can't act confident.
Yes.
Okay.
And so I was going to say, because I've performed well in interviews that I did not feel well equipped
for, but that might be an outlier.
And everyone who is well equipped will perform like that or better.
Yeah.
Okay, gotcha.
Yeah.
And also, I mean, you may have performed well enough for them to offer you the job and
they could still tell, well, he doesn't entirely know exactly what he's saying,
but we need someone to do this and he looks good enough.
That sounds like about right.
They're willing to settle for a little less.
Right.
Perfect.
Yeah, another example also in the post was that this person, the post author specifically knows
two people who are really unpleasant and untrustworthy people.
And whenever they are in situations out in the real world, they always think they're
picking the best option of what they have at the time.
They, like in a standard sort of defect or cooperate scenario, they're like,
I don't want to be a sucker.
This would make me a sucker.
This is the best option at the time.
So they pick the thing which is not the most cooperative thing.
And as a result, even though they're picking what is the best option at the moment,
they are not presented with better opportunities.
Their lives would be far better if they were the kind of person who cooperates,
but they can't fake the ability, they can't fake being a cooperative person.
They, the only way to actually give off the vibe of being someone who is cooperative and who
helps is to be that kind of person.
If you are the sort of unpleasant person who defects whenever you think it would be to your
advantage, that comes through and people pick up on it and you just don't have as good of a life.
I found that very interesting that we do have those sort of newcomer problems all the time,
and it put the whole thing into greater perspective for me.
I liked it.
We're talking about Valentine on less wrong, the post.
Actually, that was a precursor to the post of Valentine's.
Which precursor was that?
Because I only read the other one.
It was the newcomer-like problems are the norm.
Oh, okay.
Right.
So is that the one we're talking?
Or is that the lead up to?
Yeah, that was just another precursor that I had to talk about first.
Oh, no.
That's great.
And that is really interesting.
And now I can totally see how it leads into this.
Because having just heard that, I'm not convinced of the fact,
like what do you mean we're a newcomer, I needed more explanation.
And that's what, that's the one that I read.
The follow-up that dove more into that.
The other, the only precursor I read to that was the one called Kencho,
which Kencho is spelled like Kenshin, but oh, instead of in at the end.
And it's a Japanese word that, what was it, three episodes ago,
two episodes ago, where I went on that random tangent about like meaning and,
or not meaning, but like my outlook on life.
And I had like this kind of perspective.
I think that's what Kencho is.
It's the thing that's hard to articulate that I can say,
but it doesn't, the sounds don't really encompass it.
You can hear it, but you can't understand it.
That post was really fun.
So I strongly recommend that.
And I finally have a word to describe that intangible thing.
I was trying to explain.
So I recommend that.
And I'm going to read, I think everything that Valentine wrote,
unless wrong, because I really liked that post.
And I really loved the, the post we're talking about today,
which the name just lit my brain again.
The Intelligent Social Web.
That's the one. Thank you.
Yeah. So now we're on to.
The Intelligent Social Web.
Yes. Okay.
So the Intelligent Social Web, if I'm following the lead-up,
is the Omega in our Newcombe-like problems in our day-to-day lives.
That is exactly it. Yeah.
