and doesn't actually affect the physical world.
All right, David, if you're affecting the physical world,
let me know. I'm curious.
All right.
So as far as whether or not we need higher gatekeeping for religion.
Well, because I've also heard that, you know,
there seems to be just in general more mysticism
starting to flow into the rationalist community
and there's some people that have converted to various religions.
Okay.
So I've heard of one person that converted to Mormonism
and two people that converted to Catholicism.
So extremely small numbers, right?
That could happen to anyone just out of any group.
Are these rationalists you know in real life?
No.
These are people I've heard of.
So yeah, extremely small numbers out of a larger community
that just statistically will happen with any community
where a few people lose their heads.
But it's weird.
It is weird.
Was it Carl Sagan who said we should be open-minded
but not so open-minded that our brains fall out?
Someone said that.
That was more aggressive than Sagan.
Maybe that was James Randi or something.
Okay.
One of those.
So yeah, like we have a pretty open dialogue.
I think that many of us won't waste our time
talking about werewolves and Jesus and Zoroaster or you know whatever
but we'll spend some time thinking,
I don't know, like there's a slippery slope.
Maybe we'll just talk about spirituality in general
because the skeptic community I think is more resistant to that kind of talk.
That's why it's such a hard sell to do a meditation speech
at a skeptics conference, right?
And be like, this can really ground you.
This is great because it sounds like a complete shill.
Man, just spend 20 minutes a day for the next year doing this
and I promise you'll probably notice a bit of an effect, right?
And many of them charge subscription services for like apps or something, right?
That said, there's some good ones out there that you can get for free
or you can do demos for free or something
and that's guided meditations on YouTube, try them.
And then the other thing too is that meditation is this whole blanket
kind of like religion is, right?
Right.
It covers a lot of ground in that one word.
Right.
And so the stainless version is just,
at least in my limited understanding of it, is something just like mindfulness.
Where really just noticing that you're thinking
and taking a step back from that
and you'll notice as thoughts arise, you'll notice that their thoughts.
You're not just swept away in the current
like that sometimes, but I think I finally figured out
how I got to be naturally kind of okay at mindfulness.
It's a bit of a long story.
It's all skippet, but it was easy enough for me to,
once I noticed that that was a technique
to actually start implementing it fairly quickly.
The other hard part is remembering to do it.
That's why a lot of people set schedules to do it.
But like if I'm having trouble falling asleep,
rather than sit there and just, you know, often it's because I'm chasing a thought
and not realizing that I'm sprinting after it, right?
That's what helps me fall asleep a lot too.
And so I fall asleep fairly easily.
This was a historic problem.
I fall asleep quickly now, partly because I'm super tired all the time,
but the other part is just I noticed when that's happening more or less immediately.
Well, never more than a few minutes.
Like I don't find myself swept away in long thoughts for more than a few minutes.
And that doesn't mean that I can't carry a thought.
It just means that I'm not...
Do you know what I'm talking about?
I totally don't know what you're talking about.
Is there a way to articulate it?
Is the same way that that first helped me finally start getting some, you know,
decent falling asleep skills?
Yeah. And so, you know, I'll just take a minute and check into my body and be like,
hey, I can feel the sheets on my toes.
I can feel my weight against the bed and just, you know,
focusing on something other than your thoughts is another...
is part of the trick or part of the way to get good at it.
That's why people often like focus on the breath because it's, you know,
quote, you always... it's always with you.
It's just it's something that you can actually center your attention on.
That's not a thought in your head.
You know, you can do it at a color.
You know, I've been to a couple of meditation centers where they do it,
you know, with their eyes open rather than eyes closed
because you're focusing on like the swatch of ground in front of you.
Right?
I find that more distracting than closing my eyes,
but I never stuck around for the whole time because doing it for 90 minutes is
super, super boring.
But doing it for 10 seconds every five minutes is great.
That's also one of the reasons to help me fall asleep.
It is really super boring and just drift off sometimes.
There you go. Yeah.
And, you know, if it gets you to sleep, it gets you to sleep.
So I guess what I'm getting at there though is that we're entertaining
something that I think has definite validity and is now showing,
I think there's clinical studies where people are,
it can help alleviate mild depression.
It can, you know, certainly things like cognitive behavioral therapy
incorporate aspects of mindfulness, noticing the kinds of thoughts you're having.
We took something that sounds wishy-washy and, you know, ignore that.
That's bullshit pseudoscience, whatever.
That's missus is a magic.
And so no, no, no, there's a kernel of something super valuable here
that we can all actually use and you don't have to believe anything stupid to do it.
Yeah.
So I think we just, I totally agree.
I think we just got to be careful not to let the stupidness seep in
because it seems to want to get in around the edges if you have the useful thing.
And I think that's, I mean, it's especially harmful for people who don't have
the sort of built up, rationalist immunity already.
Yeah.
And you could totally mutton Bailey it too and just say, you know,
oh yeah, no, when I do spells, I'm just meditating.
It's just for, you know, my personal energies.
But then you can, in the next sentence, retreat and say something like,
and now I can manipulate the world.
Watch this.
And now I will do a spell to help my, you know, my Democratic brothers,
who are trying to get elected against the Republican incumbent.
You know, I'm pretty sure that they've even done large, like this is probably
definitely sort of scientific meditators, but where they'll all get together
and like hope on one thing or think constant one thing,
whether it's influencing random number of generators or trying to make plants grow
or something random, right?
So those things don't work.
But so I guess what I was getting at though is that, yes, we let in what looks
like bullshit and it looks, and it turns out to be pretty cool.
So we have a, maybe we need more than one filter, right?
So we, we're willing to entertain any idea.
Whereas your hard line skeptic might be like, no, I've got my box of real stuff
and bullshit and that's got, that's got a bullshit tag on it.
It's going in the bullshit box.
Right.
So I think it's good to be able to let ideas.
It's like too rigid.
It does.
And because with any miss out on things like meditation or, you know,
there are some, maybe who, maybe some skeptics who haven't read Feynman
that would, you know, shy away from words like spirituality.
You know, or Richard Dawkins can be powerful in that too.
If you read Unweaving the Rainbow or the last,
the greatest show on earth is a evolution book.
There's got to be another, another catch.
You know, we, we let things through once, once they're, there is still a bullshit box.
I mean, unless someone comes to me with a dead werewolf,
I'm not going to start believing werewolves, right?
And even if they do, I'm going to, I'm not going to just look at the body and be like,
that's a fucking werewolf.
I've changed my mind.
Some, some of us turn into dog people every, every month.
I'm going to say, okay, that's super weird.
Let's get some scientists in here to poke at this thing.
And I think that even a skeptic would do that.
So where's the other barrier to be drawn?
It's got to be, I want to say consistent with our understanding of the laws of physics,
but a good humble rationalist will admit that our understanding of the laws of physics is strong,
but imperfect.
Right.
Every now and then when I'm talking with someone who, who believes some sort of, you know,
supernatural stuff, they'll be like, well, you don't know everything about physics.
It's like, no, obviously I don't know everything about physics, but I do know that what you're
saying reeks of all the bullshit that we have found to be not true throughout the past.
Yeah.
I don't know everything about, I don't know everything about this subject that we're talking
about, but I'll buy you $1,000 that you don't either.
Right.
Just because I don't know all of physics doesn't mean I have to entertain your, your assertion
that God had created the universe or something.
Yeah.
That was actually literally a conversation I had a few weeks ago.
And this, that's the standard thing, right?
Every evolution, every anti-evolution debate is somebody saying, oh, can you explain the
elbow joint of the, you know, lesser spotted weasel frog or something?
And it's like, oh, I didn't, I haven't looked into their elbows yet.
You know, maybe I can have a grad student do it.
Aha.
You don't know.
Therefore it's, it's intelligent design and Jesus cares about, you know, who gets married
and who masturbates.
And so it doesn't have to be one or the other, right?
There's, and there's rationalist techniques to avoid that.
There's privileging the hypothesis.
There's being aware of false dichotomies.
If, if I can't explain it, that doesn't mean that your explanation is any more likely.
Certainly if I can't explain it, because I'm an idiot, but if, even if the scientific
enterprise doesn't know yet, that doesn't mean that your pet theory is very, it doesn't
mean that it makes, it doesn't mean that it's rational to believe it just because none
of us, whether it's me, people in the room or humanity as a whole knows, right?
The idea that it could be a God that created the universe is, I guess, not physically
