The following is a conversation with Carl Friston, one of the greatest neuroscientists in history,
cited over 245,000 times, known for many influential ideas in brain imaging,
neuroscience, and theoretical neurobiology, including especially the fascinating idea
of the free energy principle for action and perception. Carl's mix of humor,
brilliance, and kindness, to me, are inspiring and captivating. This was a huge honor and a pleasure.
This is the Artificial Intelligence Podcast. If you enjoy it, subscribe on YouTube,
review it with 5 stars on Apple Podcasts, support on Patreon, or simply connect with me on Twitter.
Alex Friedman, spelled F-R-I-D-M-A-N. As usual, I'll do a few minutes of ads now
and never any ads in the middle that can break the flow of the conversation.
I hope that works for you and doesn't hurt the listening experience.
This show is presented by Cash App, the number one finance app in the app store.
When you get it, use code LEX Podcast. Cash App lets you send money to friends
by Bitcoin and invest in the stock market with as little as $1. Since Cash App allows you to send
and receive money digitally, let me mention a surprising fact related to physical money.
Of all the currency in the world, roughly 8% of it is actual physical money. The other 92%
of money only exists digitally. So again, if you get Cash App from the app store,
Google Play, and use the code LEX Podcast, you get $10, and Cash App will also donate $10 the
first, an organization that is helping to advance robotics and STEM education for young people around
the world. And now, here's my conversation with Carl Friston. How much of the human brain do we
understand from the low level of neuronal communication to the functional level to the
highest level, maybe the psychiatric disorder level?
Well, we're certainly in a better position than we were last century. How far we've got to go,
I think, is almost an answerable question. So you'd have to set the parameters,
what constitutes understanding, what level of understanding do you want. I think we've made
enormous progress in terms of broad brush principles, whether that affords a detailed
cartography of the functional anatomy of the brain and what it does and write down to the
microcircuitry and the neurons, that's probably out of reach at the present time.
So the cartography, so mapping the brain, do you think mapping of the brain, the detailed,
perfect imaging of it, does that get us closer to understanding of the mind of the brain? So
how far does it get us if we have that perfect cartography of the brain?
I think there are lower bounds on that. It's a really interesting question.
And it would determine the sort of scientific career you'd pursue if you believe that knowing
every dendritic connection, every sort of microscopic synaptic structure right down to the
molecular level was going to give you the right kind of information to understand
the computational anatomy, then you'd choose to be a microscopist and you would
study little cubic millimeters of brain for the rest of your life. If, on the other hand,
you were interested in holistic functions and a sort of functional anatomy of the sort that
a neuropsychologist would understand, you'd study brain lesions and strokes, just looking at the
whole person. So again, it comes back to at what level do you want understanding. I think there
are principled reasons not to go too far. If you commit to a view of the brain as a machine that's
performing a form of inference and representing things, there are that understanding, that level
of understanding is necessarily cast in terms of probability densities and ensemble densities,
distributions. And what that tells you is that you don't really want to look at the atoms to
understand the thermodynamics of probabilistic descriptions of how the brain works. So I personally
wouldn't look at the molecules or indeed the single neurons in the same way if I wanted to
understand the thermodynamics of some non-equilibrium steady state of a gas or an active material,
I wouldn't spend my life looking at the individual molecules that constitute that ensemble. I'd look
at their collective behavior. On the other hand, if you go to coarse grain, you're going to miss
some basic canonical principles of connectivity and architectures. I'm thinking here,
this bit colloquial, but there's current excitement about high field magnetic resonance imaging
at Southern Tesla. Why? Well, it gives us for the first time the opportunity to look at the brain
in action at the level of a few millimeters that distinguish between different layers of the cortex
that may be very important in terms of evincing generic principles of conical microcircuitry
that are replicated throughout the brain that may tell us something fundamental about
message passing in the brain and these density dynamics or neuronal ensemble population dynamics
that underwrite our brain function. So somewhere between a millimeter and a meter.
Lingering for a bit on the big questions, if you allow me. What to use the most beautiful or
surprising characteristic of the human brain? I think its hierarchical and recursive aspect,
its recurrent aspect. Of the structure or of the actual representation of power of the brain?
Well, I think one speaks to the other. I was actually answering in a del-minded way from
the point of view of purely its anatomy and its structural aspects. I mean, there are many marvelous
organs in the body. Let's take your liver, for example. Without it, you wouldn't be around
for very long and it does some beautiful and delicate biochemistry and homeostasis and evolved
with a finesse that would easily parallel the brain, but it doesn't have a beautiful anatomy.
It has a simple anatomy, which is attractive in a minimalist sense, but it doesn't have that
crafted structure of sparse connectivity and that recurrence and that specialization that the brain
has. So you said a lot of interesting terms here. So the recurrence, the sparsity, but you also
started by saying hierarchical. So I've never thought of our brain as hierarchical. I always
thought it was just like a giant, interconnected mess where it's very difficult to figure anything
out. But in what sense do you see the brain as hierarchical? Well, I see it as not a magic soup.
Yeah. Of course, is what I used to think when I was before I studied medicine and the like.
So a lot of those terms imply each other. So hierarchies, if you just think about the nature
of a hierarchy, how would you actually build one? And what you would have to do is basically carefully
remove the right connections that destroy the completely connected soups that you might have
in mind. So a hierarchy is in and of itself defined by a sparse and particular connectivity
structure. I'm not committing to any particular form of hierarchy. But your sense says there is some.
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. In virtue of the fact that there is a sparsity of connectivity,
not necessarily of a qualitative sort, but certainly of a quantitative sort. So it is
demonstrably so and that the further apart two parts of the brain are, the less likely that
they are to be wired to possess axonal processes, neuronal processes that directly
communicate one message or messages from one part of that brain to the other part of the brain.
So we know there's a sparse connectivity. And furthermore, on the basis of anatomical
connectivity and tracer studies, we know that sparsity underwrites a hierarchal and very structured
sort of connectivity that might be best understood like a little bit like an onion. There is
a concentric, sometimes referred to as centripetal by people like Marcel Mezulum,
hierarchal organization to the brain. So you can think of the brain as in a rough sense,
like an onion, and all the sensory information and all the afferent outgoing messages that supply
commands to your muscles or to your secretory organs come from the surface. So there's a massive
exchange interface with the world out there on the surface. And then underneath, there's a little
layer that sits and looks at the exchange on the surface. And then underneath that, there's a layer
right the way down to the very center through the deepest part of the onion.
That's what I mean by a hierarchal organization. There's a discernible structure
defined by the sparsity of connections that lends the architecture, a hierarchal structure that
tells one a lot about the kinds of representations and messages. So coming back to your earlier
question, is this about the representational capacity? Or is it about the anatomy? Well,
one underwrites the other. If one simply thinks of the brain as a message passing machine,
a process that is in the service of doing something, then the circuitry and the connectivity
that shape that message passing also dictate its function.
So you've done a lot of amazing work in a lot of directions. So let's look at one aspect of that,
of looking into the brain and trying to study this onion structure. What can we learn about
the brain by imaging it? Which is one way to look at the anatomy of it, broadly speaking.
What are the methods of imaging, but even bigger? What can we learn about it?
Right. So most human neuroimaging that you might see in science journals
that speaks to the way the brain works, measures brain activity over time. So that's the first thing
to say that we're effectively looking at fluctuations in neuronal responses, usually in
response to some sensory input or some instruction, some task. Not necessarily, there's a lot of
interest in just looking at the brain in terms of resting state and dodgeness or intrinsic
activity. But crucially, at every point, looking at these fluctuations either induced or intrinsic
in neural activity and understanding them at two levels. So normally, people would recourse to two
principles of brain organization that are complementary. One, functional specialization
or segregation. So what does that mean? It simply means that there are certain parts of the brain
that may be specialized for certain kinds of processing. For example, visual motion,
our ability to recognize or to perceive movement in the visual world.
And furthermore, that specialized processing may be spatially or anatomically segregated,
leading to functional segregation, which means that if I were to compare your brain activity
during a period of viewing a static image, and then compare that to the responses of
fluctuations in the brain when you were exposed to a moving image, so a flying bird,
we would expect to see restricted, segregated differences in activity. And those are basically
the hotspots that you see in the in statistical parametric maps that test for the significance
of the responses that are circumscribed. So now basically, we're talking about
some people of perhaps unkindly called a neocartography. This is a phrenology
augmented by modern-day neuroimaging, basically finding blobs or bumps on the brain
that do this or do that, and trying to understand the cartography of that functional specialization.
How much is there such a beautiful sort of ideal to strive for? We humans scientists would like
this to hope that there's a beautiful structure to this, whereas like you said, there are segregated
regions that are responsible for the different function. How much hope is there to find such
regions in terms of looking at the progress of studying the brain?
Oh, I think enormous progress has been made in the past 20 or 30 years.
So this is beyond incremental. At the advent of brain imaging, the very notion of functional
segregation was just a hypothesis based upon a century, if not more, of careful neuropsychology,
looking at people who had lost via insult or traumatic brain injury, particular parts of
the brain, and then saying, well, they can't do this or they can't do that. For example,
losing the visual cortex and not being able to see or losing particular parts of the visual cortex
or regions known as V5 or the middle temporal region, MT, and noticing that they selectively
could not see moving things. And so that created the hypothesis that perhaps movement
processing, visual movement processing, was located in this functionally segregated area,
and you could then go and put invasive electrodes in animal models and say, yes,
indeed, we can excite activity here, we can form receptive fields that are sensitive to or defined
in terms of visual motion. But at no point could you exclude the possibility that everywhere else
in the brain was also very interested in visual motion. By the way, I apologize to interrupt
a tiny little tangent. You said animal models, just out of curiosity from your perspective,
how different is the human brain versus the other animals in terms of our ability to study the brain?
Well, clearly, the further away you go from a human brain, the greater the differences,
but not as remarkable as you might think. So people will choose their level of
approximation to the human brain, depending upon the kinds of questions that they want to answer.
So if you're talking about canonical principles of microcircuitry, it might be perfectly okay to
look at a mouse, indeed, you could even look at flies, worms. If on the other hand, you wanted
to look at the finer details of organization of visual cortex and V1, V2, these are designated
patches of cortex that may do different things, indeed do. You probably want to use a primate
that looked a little bit more like a human because there are lots of ethical issues in terms of the
use of non-human primates to transfer questions about human anatomy. But I think most people assume
most of the important principles are conserved in a continuous way,
right from worms right through to you and me.
So now returning to this, that was the early ideas of studying the functional regions of the brain
bias. If there's some damage to it to try to infer that that part of the brain might be somewhat
responsible for this type of function, so where does that lead us? What are the next steps beyond
that? Right. Well, this actually is a reverse a bit, come back to your sort of notion that the
brain is a magic soup. But that was actually a very prominent idea at one point, notions such as
Lashley's law of mass action inherited from the observation that for certain animals,
if you just took out spoonfuls of the brain, it didn't matter where you took these spoonfuls out,
they always showed the same kinds of deficits. So it was very difficult to infer functional
specialization, pure on the basis of lesion deficit studies. But once we had the opportunity to look
at the brain lighting up in its literally its sort of excitement, neuronal excitement, when
looking at this versus that, one was able to say, yes, indeed, these functionally specialized
responses are very restricted, and they're here or they're over there. If I do this, then this part
of the brain lights up. And that became doable in the early 90s. In fact, you know, shortly before
with the advent of positon emission tomography, and then functional magnetic resonance imaging
came along in the early 90s. And since that time, there has been an explosion of discovery,
refinement, confirmation. There are people who believe that it's all in the anatomy. If you
understand the anatomy, then you understand the function at some level. And many, many hypotheses
were predicated on a deep understanding of the anatomy and the connectivity. But they were all
confirmed and taken much further with neuroimaging. So that's what I meant by we've made an enormous
amount of progress in this century, indeed, and in relation to the previous century,
by looking at these functionally selective responses. But that wasn't the whole story.
So there's this sort of near phrenology, but finding bumps and hops spots in the brain that
did this or that. The bigger question was, of course, the functional integration,
how all of these regionally specific responses were orchestrated, how they were distributed,
how did they relate to distributed processing and indeed, representations in the brain.
So then you turn to the more challenging issue of the integration, the connectivity.
And then we come back to this beautiful sparse, recurrent hierarchical connectivity
that seems characteristic of the brain and probably not many other organs.
But nevertheless, we come back to this challenge of trying to figure out how everything is
integrated. But what's your feeling? What's the general consensus? Have we moved away from the
magic soup view of the brain? So there is a deep structure to it. And then maybe
further question, you said some people believe that the structure is most of it, that you can
really get at the core of the function by just deeply understanding the structure. Where do you
sit on that? I think it's got some mileage to it. So it's a worthy pursuit of going,
of studying, of through imaging and all the different methods to actually study the structure.
Sorry, I'm just noting you were accusing me of using lots of long words and then you introduced
one there, which is deep, which is interesting. Because deep is the sort of millennial
equivalent of hierarchical. So if you put deep in front of anything,
not only are you very millennial and very trending, but you're also implying a hierarchical
architecture. So it is a depth, which is, for me, the beautiful thing.
That's right. The word deep kind of, yeah, exactly. It implies hierarchy. I didn't even think about
that. That indeed the implicit meaning of the word deep is a hierarchy. So deep inside the
onion is the center of your soul. That's it. Beautifully put. Maybe briefly, if you could
paint a picture of the kind of methods of neuroimaging, maybe the history, which you were
a part of from statistical parametric mapping, what's out there that's interesting for people
maybe outside the field to understand of what are the actual methodologies of looking inside
the human brain? Right. Well, you can answer that question from two perspectives. Basically,
