it's the modality. What kind of signal are you measuring? Let's limit ourselves to imaging-based,
non-invasive techniques. So you've essentially got brain scanners. Brain scanners can either
measure the structural attributes, the amount of water, the amount of fat, or the amount of iron
in different parts of the brain. You can make lots of inferences about the structure of the organ
sort that you might have abduced from an x-ray, but a very nuanced x-ray that is looking at this
kind of property and that kind of property. So looking at the anatomy non-invasively would be
the first sort of neuroimaging that people might want to employ. Then you move on to the kinds
of measurements that reflect dynamic function. The most prevalent of those fall into two camps,
you've got these metabolic, sometimes hemodynamic, blood-related signals. So these metabolic
and or hemodynamic signals are basically proxies for elevated activity and message passing and
neuronal dynamics in particular parts of the brain. Characteristically though, the time constants of
these hemodynamic or metabolic responses to neural activity are much longer than the neural
activity itself. And this is referring, forgive me for the dumb questions, but this would be
referring to blood, like the flow of blood. Absolutely. So there's a ton of, it seems like
there's a ton of blood vessels in the brain. So what's the interaction between the flow of blood
and the function of the neurons? Is there an interplay there?
Yeah. And that interplay accounts for several careers of world-renowned scientists.
Yes, absolutely. So this is known as neurovascular coupling. It's exactly what you said. It's how
does the neural activity, the neural infrastructure, the actual message passing that we think
underlies our capacity to perceive and act? How is that coupled to the vascular responses
that supply the energy for that neural processing? So there's a delicate web of large vessels,
arteries and veins, that gets progressively finer and finer in detail until it perfuses
at a microscopic level, the machinery where little neurons lie. So coming back to this sort of
onion perspective, we were talking before using the onion as a metaphor for a deep hierarchical
structure, but also I think it's just an anatomical, anatomically quite a useful metaphor.
All the action, all the heavy lifting in terms of neural computation is done on the surface of the
brain. And then the interior of the brain is constituted by fatty wires, essentially,
external processes that are enshrouded by myelin sheaths. And these give the, when you dissect
them, they look fatty and white. And so it's called white matter, as opposed to the actual
neuro pill, which does the computation constituted largely by neurons. And that's known as gray
matter. So the gray matter is a surface or a skin that sits on top of this big ball,
now we are talking magic soup, but a big ball of connections like spaghetti, very carefully
structured with sparse connectivity that preserve this deep hierarchical structure. But all the
action takes place on the surface on the cortex of the onion. And that means that you have to supply
the right amount of blood flow, the right amount of nutrient, which is rapidly absorbed
and used by neural cells that don't have the same capacity that your leg muscles would have to
basically spend their energy budget and then claim it back later. So one peculiar thing about
cerebral metabolism, brain metabolism, is it really needs to be driven in the moment, which means
you basically have to turn on the taps. So if there's lots of neural activity in one part of
the brain, a little patch of a few millimeters, even less possibly, you really do have to water
that piece of the garden now and quickly. And that by quickly, I mean within a couple of seconds.
So that contains a lot of info that that hence the imaging could tell you a story of what's
happening. Absolutely. But it is slightly compromised in terms of the resolution. So
the deployment of these little micro vessels that water the garden to enable the activity to
the neural activity to play out, the spatial resolution is in order of a few millimeters.
And crucially, the temporal resolution is the order of a few seconds. So you can't get right
down and dirty into the actual spatial and temporal scale of neural activity in and of itself.
To do that, you'd have to turn to the other big imaging modality, which is the recording of
electromagnetic signals as they're generated in real time. So here the temporal bandwidth,
if you like, or the temp, the low limit on the temporal resolution is incredibly small.
Talking about, you know, nanoseconds, milliseconds, and then you can get into
the phasic fast responses that is in and of itself the neural activity and
start to see the succession or cascade of hierarchal recurrent message passing evoked
by a particular stimulus. But the problem is you're looking at electromagnetic signals
that have passed through an enormous amount of magic soup or spaghetti of collectivity
and through the scalp and the skull. And it's become spatially very diffused. So it's very
difficult to know where you are. So you've got this sort of catch 22, you can either use an
imaging modality, it tells you within millimeters, which part of the brain is activated, we don't
know when, or you've got these electromagnetic EEG MEG setups that tell you to within a few
milliseconds when something has responded, but you're not aware. So you've got these two
complementary measures either indirect via the blood flow or direct via the electromagnetic
signals caused by neural activity. These are the two big imaging devices. And then
the second level of responding to your question, what are the, from the outside, what are the
big ways of using this technology. So once you've chosen the kind of neuroimaging
they want to use to answer your set questions, and sometimes it would have to be both.
Then you've got a whole raft of analyses, time series analyses, usually that you can
bring to bear in order to answer your questions or address your hypotheses about those data.
And interestingly, they've both fallen to the same two camps we're talking about before,
this dialectic between specialization and integration, differentiation and integration.
So it's the cartography, the blobology analyses.
I apologize, I probably shouldn't interrupt so much, but just heard a fun word.
It's a neologism, which means the study of blobs.
Are you being a woody and humorous or is there an actual, does the word blobology ever appear in
a textbook somewhere? It would appear in a popular book. It would not appear in a worthy
specialist journal. But it's the fond word for the study of literally little blobs on
brain maps showing activations, the kind of thing that you'd see in the newspapers on
ABC or BBC reporting the latest finding from brain imaging. Interestingly though, the maths
involved in that stream of analysis does actually call upon the mathematics of blobs.
So seriously, they're actually called Euler characteristics and
they have a lot of fancy names in mathematics.
We'll talk about it, but your ideas in free energy principle, I mean, there's
echoes of blobs there when you consider sort of entities, so mathematically speaking.
Yes, absolutely. Well, circumscribed, well defined, you entities of,
well, from the free energy point of view, entities of anything, but from the point of view of
the analysis, the cartography of the brain, these are the entities that constitute
the evidence for this functional segregation. You have segregated this function in this blob
and it is not outside of the blob. And that's basically the, if you were a map maker of America
and you did not know its structure, the first thing you're doing constituting or creating a map
would be to identify the cities, for example, or the mountains or the rivers. All of these
uniquely spatially localizable features, possibly topological features, have to be placed somewhere
because that requires a mathematics of identifying what does a city look like on a satellite image
or what does a river look like or what does a mountain look like? What would it,
what data features would evidence that particular thing that you wanted to put on the map?
And they normally are characterised in terms of literally these blobs or these sort of,
now the way looking at this is that a certain statistical measure of the degree of activation
crosses a threshold and in crossing that threshold in the spatially restricted part of the brain,
it creates a blob and that's basically what statistical parametric mapping does. It's basically
mathematically finessed blobology. Okay, so those, you kind of describe these two methodologies for
one is temporally noisy, one is spatially noisy and you kind of have to play and figure out what
can be useful. It'd be great if you can sort of comment, I got a chance recently to spend a day at
a company called Neuralink that uses brain-computer interfaces and their dream is to, well, there's
a bunch of sort of dreams, but one of them is to understand the brain by sort of, you know,
getting in there past the so-called sort of factory while getting in there, be able to listen,
communicate both directions. What are your thoughts about the future of this kind of
technology of brain-computer interfaces to be able to now have a window or direct contact
within the brain to be able to measure some of the signals, to be able to send signals to understand
some of the functionality of the brain? Ambivalent. My sense is ambivalent. So it's a mixture of good
and bad and I acknowledge that freely. So the good bits, if you just look at the legacy of that
kind of reciprocal but invasive brain stimulation, I didn't paint a complete picture when I was
talking about the ways we understand the brain prior to neuroimaging. It wasn't just lesion
deficit studies. Some of the early work, in fact, literally 100 years from where we're sitting at
the institution of neurology, was done by stimulating the brain of, say, dogs and looking
at how they responded with their muscles or with their salivation. And imputing what that part of
the brain must be doing, that if I stimulate it, then I vote this kind of response, then that
tells me quite a lot about the functional specialization. So there's a long history of brain
stimulation, which continues to enjoy a lot of attention nowadays. Positive attention.
Oh, yes, absolutely. Deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease is now a standard treatment
and also a wonderful vehicle to try and understand the neuronal dynamics underlie
movement disorders like Parkinson's disease. Even interest in magnetic stimulation,
stimulating the magnetic fields and will it work in people who are depressed, for example?
Quite a crude level of understanding what you're doing, but there is historical evidence that
these kinds of brute-fought interventions do change things. They're a little bit like banging
the TV when the valves aren't working properly, but it still works. So there is a long history.
Brain computer interfacing a BCI, I think is a beautiful example of that. It's sort of carved
out its own niche, its own aspirations, and there have been enormous advances within limits.
Advances in terms of our ability to understand how the brain, the embodied brain,
engages with the world. I'm thinking here of sensory substitution, the augmenting our sensory
capacities by giving ourselves extra ways of sensing and sampling the world, ranging from
sort of trying to replace lost visual signals through to giving people completely new signals.
So one of the, I think, most engaging examples of this is equipping people with a sense of
magnetic fields. So you can actually give them magnetic sensors that enable them to feel,
should we say, tactile pressure around their tummy, where they are in relation to the magnetic
field of the earth. And after a few weeks, they take it for granted. They integrate it,
they embody it, simulate this new sensory information into the way that they literally
feel their world, but now equipped with this sense of magnetic direction. So that tells you
something about the brain's plastic potential to remodel and its plastic capacity to suddenly
try to explain the sensory data at hand by augmenting the sensory sphere and the kinds
of things that you can measure. Clearly, that's purely for entertainment and understanding that
the nature and the power of our brains, I would imagine that most BCI is pitched at
solving clinical and human problems such as locked-in syndrome, such as paraplegia,
or replacing lost sensory capacities like blindness and deafness. So then we come to the more
I'm the negative part of my ambivalence, the other side of it. So I don't want to be deflationary
because much of my deflationary comments is probably large out of ignorance than anything else. But
generally speaking, the bandwidth and the bit rates that you get from
brain-computer interfaces as we currently know them, we're talking about bits per second.
So that would be like me only being able to communicate with any world or with you
using very, very, very slow Morse code. And it is not even within an order of magnitude
near what we actually need for an inactive realization of what people aspire to when they
think about curing people with paraplegia or replacing sight, despite heroic efforts. So
one has to ask, is there a lower bound on the kinds of recurrent information exchange between
a brain and some augmented or artificial interface? And then we come back to, interestingly,
what I was talking about before, which is if you're talking about function in terms of inference,
and I presume we'll get to that later on in terms of the free energy principle, then
at the moment, there may be fundamental reasons to assume that it's the case. We're talking about
ensemble activity. We're talking about basically, for example, let's paint the challenge facing
brain-computer interfacing in terms of controlling another system that is highly and deeply structured,
very relevant to our lives, very non-linear, that rests upon the kind of non-equilibrium
steady states and dynamics that the brain does, the weather. So imagine you had some
very aggressive satellites that could produce signals that could perturb some little parts of
the weather system. And then what you're asking now is, can I meaningfully get into the weather
and change it meaningfully and make the weather respond in a way that I want it to?
You're talking about chaos control on a scale which is almost unimaginable. So there may be
fundamental reasons why BCI, as you might read about it in a science fiction novel,
aspirational BCI may never actually work in the sense that to really be integrated and be part
of the system is a requirement that requires you to have evolve with that system. You have to be part
of a very delicately structured, deeply structured dynamic ensemble activity that is not like
rewiring a broken computer or plugging in a peripheral interface adapter. It is much more like
getting into the weather patterns or come back to your magic soup, getting into the active matter
and meaningfully relate that to the outside world. So I think there are enormous challenges there.
So I think the example of the weather is a brilliant one. I think you paint a really
interesting picture and it wasn't as negative as I thought. It's essentially saying that it might be
incredibly challenging, including the low bound of the bandwidth and so on. I kind of, so just to
full disclosure, I come from the machine learning world. So my natural thought is the hardest part
is the engineering challenge of controlling the weather, of getting those satellites up and running
and so on. And once they are, then the rest is fundamentally the same approaches that allow
you to win in the game of go will allow you to potentially play in this soup, in this chaos.
So I have a hope that machine learning methods will help us play in this soup.
But perhaps you're right that it is a biology in the brain is just an incredible system that
may be almost impossible to get in. But for me, what seems impossible is the incredible mess of
blood vessels that you also described without, you know, we also value the brain. You can't
make any mistakes. You can't damage things. So to me, that engineering challenge seems nearly
impossible. One of the things I was really impressed by at Neuralink is just just talking
to brilliant neurosurgeons and the roboticists that it made me realize that even though it seems
impossible, if anyone can do it, it's some of these world-class engineers that are trying to take
it on. So I think the conclusion of our discussion here is of this part is basically that the problem
is really hard, but hopefully not impossible. Absolutely. So if it's okay, let's start with
the basics. So you've also formulated a fascinating principle, the free energy principle. Can we
maybe start at the basics and what is the free energy principle? Well, in fact, the free energy
principle inherits a lot from the building of these data analytic approaches to these very
high-dimensional time series you get from the brain. So I think it's interesting to acknowledge that.
And in particular, the analysis tools that try to address the other side, which is the functional
integrations and the connectivity analysis. On the one hand, but I should also acknowledge
it inherits an awful lot from machine learning as well. So the free energy principle is just a
formal statement that the existential imperatives or any system that manages to survive in a
changing world can be cast as an inference problem in the sense that you can interpret
the probability of existing as the evidence that you exist. And if you can write down
that problem of existence as a statistical problem, then you can use all the maths that
has been developed for inference to understand and characterize the ensemble dynamics that must
be in play in the service of that inference. So technically, what that means is you can always
interpret anything that exists in virtue of being separate from the environment in which
