it exists as trying to minimize variational free energy. And if you're from the machine
learning community, you will know that as a negative evidence lower bound or a negative elbow,
which is the same as saying you're trying to maximize or it will look as if all your dynamics
are trying to maximize the complement of that, which is the marginal likelihood or the evidence
for your own existence. So that's basically the free energy principle. But to even take a sort of
a small step backwards, you said the existential imperative. There's a lot of beautiful poetic
words here, but to put it crudely, it's a fascinating idea of basically just of trying to
describe, if you're looking at a blob, how do you know this thing is alive? What does it mean to
be alive? What does it mean to exist? And so you can look at the brain, you can look at parts of
the brain, or this is just a general principle that applies to almost any system. That's just
a fascinating sort of philosophically at every level question and a methodology to try to answer
that question. What does it mean to be alive? So that's a huge endeavor and it's nice that there's
at least from some perspective a clean answer. So maybe can you talk about that optimization
view of it? So what's trying to be minimized to maximize a system that's alive? What is it
trying to minimize? Right, you've made a big move there. But you've assumed that things,
the thing exists in a state that could be living or non-living. So I may ask you, what licenses
you to say that something exists? That's why I use the word existential. It's beyond living,
it's just existence. So if you drill down onto the definition of things that exist,
then they have certain properties. If you borrow the maths from non-equilibrium study
state physics that enable you to interpret their existence in terms of this optimization
procedure. So it's good you introduce the word optimization. So what the free energy principle
in its sort of most ambitious but also most deflationary and simplest says is that if something
exists, then it must by the mathematics of non-equilibrium study state exhibit properties
that make it look as if it is optimizing a particular quantity. And it turns out that
particular quantity happens to be exactly the same as the evidence lower bound in machine learning
or Bayesian model evidence in Bayesian statistics or, and I can list a whole other
list of ways of understanding this key quantity, which is abound on surprises,
self-information, information theory. There are a number of different perspectives on this
quantity. It's just basically the log probability of being in a particular state.
I'm telling this story as an honest attempt to answer your question and I'm answering it as if I
was pretending to be a physicist who was trying to understand the fundamentals of non-equilibrium
study state. And I shouldn't really be doing that because the last time I was taught physics,
I was in my twenties. What kind of systems, when you think about the free energy principle,
what kind of systems are you imagining as a sort of more specific kind of case study?
I'm imagining a range of systems, but at its simplest, a single celled organism
that can be identified from its eco niche or its environment. So at its simplest, that's basically
what I always imagined in my head. And you may ask, well, how on earth can you even elaborate
questions about the existence of a single drop of oil, for example? But there are deep questions
there. Why doesn't the thing, the interface between the drop of oil that contains an interior
and the thing that is not the drop of oil, which is the solvent in which it is immersed,
how does that interface persist over time? Why doesn't the oil just dissolve into solvent?
So what's special properties of the exchange between the surface of the oil drop and the
external states in which it's immersed? If you're a physicist, say it would be the heat
bath, you've got a physical system, an ensemble again, we're talking about density dynamics,
ensemble dynamics, an ensemble of atoms or molecules immersed in the heat bath.
But the question is, how did the heat bath get there? And why is it not dissolved?
How is it maintaining itself? Exactly.
What actions is it? I mean, it's such a fascinating idea of a drop of oil and I guess it would
dissolve in water, it wouldn't dissolve in water. Precisely. So why not?
Why not? Why not? And how do you mathematically describe it? I mean, it's such a beautiful
idea and also the idea of where does the drop of oil end and where does it begin?
Right. So I mean, you're asking deep questions deep in a non-millennial sense here.
But what you can do is... So this is a deflationary part of it.
Can I just qualify my answer by saying that normally when I'm asked this question, I answer
from the point of view of a psychologist when we talk about predictive processing and predictive
coding and the brain as an inference machine, but you haven't asked me from that perspective.
I'm answering from the point of view of a physicist. So the question is not so much why,
but if it exists, what properties must it display? So that's the deflationary part of the
free energy principle. The free energy principle does not supply an answer as to why. It's saying,
if something exists, then it must display these properties. That's the sort of thing
that's on offer. And it so happens that these properties it must display are actually intriguing
and have this inferential gloss, this sort of self-evidencing gloss that inherits on the fact
that the very preservation of the boundary between the oil drop and the not oil drop
requires an optimization of a particular function or a functional
that defines the presence of the existence of this oil drop, which is why I started with
existential imperatives. It is a necessary condition for existence that this must occur
because the boundary basically defines the thing that's existing. So it is that self-assembly
aspect that you were hinting at in biology, sometimes known as orthopoiesis in computational
chemistry with self-assembly. Sorry, how would you describe things that configure themselves
out of nothing? The way they clearly demarcate themselves from the states or the soup in which
they are immersed. So from the point of view of computational chemistry, for example, you would
just understand that as a configuration of a macromolecule to minimize its free energy,
its thermodynamic free energy, it's exactly the same principle that we've been talking about that
thermodynamic free energy is just the negative elbow. It's the same mathematical construct.
So the very emergence of existence, of structure, of form that can be distinguished from the
environment or the thing that is not the thing necessitates the existence of an objective
function that it looks as if it is minimizing. It's finding a free energy minima.
And so just to clarify, I'm trying to wrap my head around. So the free energy principle
says that if something exists, these are the properties it should display. So what that means
is we can't just look, we can't just go into a soup and there's no mechanism. Free energy
principle doesn't give us a mechanism to find the things that exist. Is that what what's
implying is being applied that you can kind of use it to reason, to think about like study a
particular system and say, dude, does this exhibit these qualities?
That's an excellent question. But to answer that, I have to return to your previous question about
what's the difference between living and non-living things?
So yeah, maybe we can go there. You kind of drew a line and forgive me for the stupid questions,
but you kind of drew a line between living and existing. Is there an interesting sort of
distinction? Yeah, I think there is. So things do exist, grains of sand, rocks on the moon,
trees, you. So all of these things can be separated from the environment in which
they are immersed and therefore they must at some level be optimizing their free energy.
Taking this sort of model evidence interpretation of this quantity, that basically means they're
self-evidencing. Another nice little twist of phrase here is that you are your own existence
proof. And statistically speaking, which I don't think I said that, somebody did, but I love that
phrase. You are your own existence proof. Yeah. So it's so existential, isn't it?
I'm going to have to think about that for a few days. That's a beautiful line.
So the step through to answer your question about what's it good for,
go along the following lines. First of all, you have to define what it means to exist, which
now, as you rightly pointed out, you have to define what probabilistic properties must the
states of something possess so it knows where it finishes. And then you write that down in terms
of statistical independence is again sparsity. Again, it's not what's connected or what's
correlated or what depends upon what it's what's not correlated and what doesn't depend upon
something. Again, it comes down to the deep structures, not in this instance, hierarchical,
but certainly the structures that emerge from removing connectivity and dependency. In this
instance, basically being able to identify the surface of the oil drop from the water in which
it is immersed. And when you do that, you start to realize, well, there are actually four kinds of
states in any given universe that contains anything, the things that are internal to the
surface, the things that are external to the surface and the surface in and of itself,
which is why I use the metaphor of a little single celled organism that has an interior
and exterior and then the surface of the cell. And that's mathematically a Markov blanket.
Just to pause, I'm in awe of this concept that there's the stuff outside the surface stuff inside
the surface and the surface itself, the Markov blanket. It's just the most beautiful kind of
notion about trying to explore what it means to exist mathematically. I apologize. It's just a
beautiful idea. But it came out of California. I changed my mind. I take it all back.
So anyway, so you were just talking about the surface, about the Markov blanket.
So this surface or this blanket, these blanket states that are because they are now defined
in relation to these dependencies and what different states internal or blanket or external
states can, which ones can influence each other and which cannot influence each other.
You can now apply standard results that you would find in non-equilibrium physics or steady state or
thermodynamics or hydrodynamics, usually out of equilibrium solutions and apply them to this
partition. And what it looks like is if all the normal gradient flows that you would associate
with any non-equilibrium system apply in such a way that two part of the Markov blanket and the
internal states seem to be hill climbing or doing a gradient descent on the same quantity.
And that means that you can now describe the very existence of this oil drop. You can write down
the existence of this oil drop in terms of flows, dynamics, equations of motion, where the blanket
states or part of them, we call them active states, and the internal states now seem to be
and must be trying to look as if they're minimizing the same function, which is a
lot of probability of occupying these states. The interesting thing is
what would they be called if you were trying to describe these things? So what we're talking about
are internal states, external states, and blanket states. Now let's carve the blanket
states into two sensory states and active states. Operationally, it has to be the case
that in order for this carving up into different sets of states to exist, the active states,
the Markov blanket, cannot be influenced by the external states. And we already know that the
internal states can't be influenced by the external states because the blanket separates them.
So what does that mean? Well, it means the active states, the internal states,
are now jointly not influenced by external states. They only have autonomous dynamics.
So now you've got a picture of an oil drop that has autonomy. It has autonomous states.
It has autonomous states in the sense that there must be some parts of the surface of the oil drop
that are not influenced by the external states and all the interior. And together,
those two states endow even a little oil drop with autonomous states that look as if they are
optimizing their variational free energy or their negative elbow, their model evidence.
And that would be an interesting intellectual exercise. And you could say you could even go
into the realms of panpsychism that everything that exists is implicitly making inferences on
self-evidencing. Now we make the next move, but what about living things? So let me ask you,
what's the difference between an oil drop and a little tadpole or a little lava or a plankton?
The picture was just painted of an oil drop. Just immediately, in a matter of minutes,
took me into the world of panpsychism, where you just convinced me, made me feel like an oil drop
is a living, certainly an autonomous system, but almost a living system. So it has a
sensory capabilities and acting capabilities and it maintains something. So what is the difference
between that and something that we traditionally think of as a living system?
That it could die? Or it can't? I mean, yeah, mortality? I'm not exactly sure. I'm not sure
what the right answer there is because movement seems like an essential element to being able
to act in the environment, but the oil drop is doing that. So I don't know.
Is it? The oil drop will be moved, but does it in and of itself move autonomously?
Well, the surface is performing actions that maintain its structure.
You're being too clever. I had in mind a passive little oil drop that's sitting there.
You're at the bottom on the top of a glass of water.
Sure, I guess.
What I'm trying to say is you're absolutely right. You've nailed it. It's movement.
So where does that movement come from? If it comes from the inside,
then you've got, I think, something that's living.
What do you mean from the inside?
What I mean is that the internal states that can influence the active states,
where the active states can influence, but they're not influenced by the external states,
can cause movement. So there are two types of oil drops, if you like.
There are oil drops where the internal states are so
random that they average themselves away, and the thing cannot balance on average
when you do the averaging move. So a nice example of that would be the sun.
The sun certainly has internal states. There's lots of intrinsic autonomous activity going on,
but because it's not coordinated, because it doesn't have the deep in the millennial sense,
a hierarchical structure that the brain does, there is no overall
mode or pattern or organization that expresses itself on the surface that allows it to actually
swim. It can certainly have a very active surface, but on mass at the scale of the actual surface
of the sun, the average position of that surface cannot in itself move, because the internal
dynamics are more like a hot gas. They are literally like a hot gas, whereas your internal
dynamics are much more structured and deeply structured, and now you can express on your
mark of, and your active states with your muscles and your secretory organs, your autonomic nervous
system and its effectors. You can actually move, and that's all you can do, and that's
something which, if you haven't thought of it like this before, I think it's nice to just realize
there is no other way that you can change the universe other than simply moving.
Whether that moving is articulating with my voice box, or walking around, or squeezing
juices out of my secretory organs, there's only one way you can change the universe, it's moving.
And the fact that you do so non-randomly makes you alive.
Yeah, so it's that non-randomness, and that would be manifested, we realize in terms of
essentially swimming, essentially moving, changing one's shape, a morphogenesis that is dynamic
and possibly adaptive. So that's what I was trying to get out between the difference from
the oil drop and the little tadpole. The tadpole is moving around, its active states are actually
changing the external states, and there's now a cycle, an action perception cycle, if you like,
a recurrent dynamic that's going on that depends upon this deeply structured autonomous
behaviour that rests upon internal dynamics that are not only modelling the data impressed upon
their surface or the blanket states, but they are actively resampling those data by moving.
They're moving towards chemical gradients and chemotaxis.
So they've gone beyond just being good little models of the kind of world they live in.
For example, an oil droplet could, in a panpsychic sense, be construed as a little being that has
now perfectly inferred it's a passive non-living oil drop living in a bowl of water. No problem.
But to now equip that oil drop with the ability to go out and test that hypothesis about different
states of beings, so you can actually push its surface over there, over there, and test for
chemical gradients, or then you start to move to much more lifelike form. This is all fun,
theoretically interesting, but it actually is quite important in terms of reflecting what I
have seen since the turn of the millennium, which is this move towards an inactive and
embodied understanding of intelligence. And you say you're from machine learning.
