There you go.
Okay, yeah, problem solved.
I'm going to give myself half credit for that one.
I don't worry that if we had some sort of negative income or universal basic incomes, that sort of thing that basically just cost of living, the cost of housing and food wouldn't increase enough to eat that all up.
And so people would be back where they were before.
Wait, wait, wait, say that again.
Why would cost of housing increase?
It just rents increase.
Everybody has an extra thousand dollars a month now and so rents.
So everybody gets an extra, the renters say change my rent?
Yeah.
So that's why it's a keeping the four F's together kind of thing.
That is a true worry.
But if you say that there has to be rent control or if you say that.
Now rent control never works.
Never works.
No, but I'm just saying if you used to be able to live off making $2 a day, right?
And you cannot live off $2 a day in the US.
But it's not inflation adjusted $2.
If you still made inflation adjusted to whenever that was.
Not sure.
You couldn't, but I'm just saying the disparity is vitally reduced.
Okay.
Right.
So, so I think any model of UBI has to take into account the rent increases that you're
talking about.
So that's again, going back to preserving the four F's.
I have no idea how to solve that.
That's why I'm only sticking to the information assets, which are much, much cheaper.
So this seems like a race if it's 50 years for, you know, optimal distribution across
the globe and only 40 years for full automation.
We're going to have this horrible 10 year window where the trillionaires are living in
their compounds started by razor wire and the rest of us are like scrambling to get through
it to take their food before, you know, they can easily distribute it and still make a profit
off of it.
Maybe the, maybe the, I'm torturing this analogy, but I can see where in one scenario where
say, imagine if one company or, you know, one company of like.
Evil Corp.
Yeah.
Evil Corp.
Equalization rights to like every self driving car, every fast food restaurant and every
farming piece of equipment.
And suddenly they own what 35% of jobs in the US.
So then 35% of people don't have jobs anymore because all these robots are doing it and
there's not enough of anything to keep these 35 people, 35% of people afloat.
Well, they're going to go after people who have all the stuff, right?
Evil Corp.
So then they've got to basically barricade themselves and hide from the people that they've
heard, uh, saw the rest of us, right?
Um, probably.
I, I imagine that those people would try to find jobs other ways and would, that's a
lot of jobs.
That's a lot of jobs.
I think one thing that we missed is why does, why is there only one evil Corp?
Right?
Why is there only one thing?
Name any IP, any technology that has been monopolized to the unitary level, name one
company that has monopoly globally over anything, it just doesn't exist.
People will steal.
Right?
That's why we have governments.
So what, I think, uh, that was a good segue into talking about governance models and what
you were talking about as well with the rent control.
It was a good segue.
That's what I was going for.
There we go.
There we go.
Yeah.
You got to give me some time.
Okay.
I'm just, just waking up here.
No, you're good.
I'm just teasing.
I was posing that bad thought experiment, but I'm glad something useful.
Governance models, uh, also come into play.
And I think the recent, uh, I know that you guys had Rhys Lindmark on and he was talking
about Crypto Conjures and stuff, and that world is, uh, it's just, just fascinating
to watch from a governance perspective because they're grappling through the same issues
that Wall Street grappled through 40 years ago and it's all incredibly open.
So we get to just open and just beat those governance models to death.
Right?
And everybody gets to stress test them.
And I think any solution of these distribution models would also have to come with a governance
model attached to it.
So I know you're really into crypto too.
And is that because of the, this ability to try out new governance models?
Exactly.
Okay.
Exactly.
And, uh, I don't know how into crypto you guys are, but, uh, the, the people that who
stated goal stated goal was to build, uh, on chain, which is a trustless way of doing
things governance model, right?
So the thing that they set out to build was on chain governance models suffered from bad
governance in the real world.
And now we're being sued.
So that cognitive dissonance is something that when we're building these kinds of distribution
systems, we should not allow, what are they being sued for?
So the, okay, all of this is alleged and nobody can sue me because I am a dumb idiot
and nobody listened to whatever I have to say given that caveat, allegedly what's going
on.
There we go.
Uh, so it's company called Tezos where they raised $230 million to build an on chain governance
platform.
Okay.
But they still have to live in the real world.
So the founders created a nonprofit foundation and I'm doing air quotes for the people listening
in Switzerland, which, uh, because it has to be independent is being run by other people.
The other people that are running it, three guys, Swiss guys, uh, say that they want to
cut because on the books or on Fiat books, they're in control and they want to exercise
that control and the founders, the technical, the founders that are running the actual build
process also want control.
So on the books, the Swiss people have control and they're doing things that these guys don't
want in a way that they're acquiring value to themselves.
So my point is if you're doing these things, it's a good idea to stress test them by using
it on yourself or even better, give it to your worst enemy, right?
Just give it to them.
See, we'll see what happens.
And if you don't like the, uh, what's happening to you, stop the project.
I'm assuming the governance model is at least, uh, somewhat of a metaphor because how is
a, uh, cryptocurrency going to enforce things like border control or...
It's not.
Right.
And people who say that we're going to have land titles and this and that, land titles
are enforced here because if you don't follow the written code, a guy with a gun is going
to come and shoot you.
Right.
Well, hopefully he'll try to arrest you first and only shoot you if you resist.
No, but that's the fear, right?
That's the stick.
So where's the stick on crypto?
There's not.
So you would need a crypto equivalent of NATO basically that are crypto enforcers, which
has the ability to turn into the arm of the Lord type, uh, vigilante effort.
So, uh, without that enforcement, nothing, it's not going to change.
So back to your accounting point, it's just an accounting system.
So this is like saying SAP, because SAP is being run by vault, say that, I'm sorry, say
that again, because Volvo uses SAP as their accounting system, somehow SAP has control
of my Volvo.
That's not right.
It's just an accounting system.
So I think governance models would be notionally, notionally enforceable, but true enforceability
would have to come with force.
And I think the people in crypto's point of view is that we are evolving to a mental
state where force would not be necessary or they're continuing the archive technology
that reduces the application of force.
Okay.
Wouldn't we need in any sort of post scarcity society, some, uh, Leviathan law enforcement
entity?
Again, yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, see, what are the jobs to be done for that Leviathan enforcement entity?
You could say implement, enforce the law.
You could say preserve status quo.
What else?
You could say maybe two other things, but we only want the enforced law part of it without
the preserve status quo and without the, you know, jail, dissidents and that kind of thing.
Well, I mean, that depends.
Maybe you really like the status quo.
How is that different from now?
I'm saying for a poor, for a post scarcity world where the person or the entity in charge
of creating laws also doesn't have consequences, negative consequences of losing assets.
Right.
If, if Naveen, Inyash and Steven are in a post scarcity world, then the entity that's governing
them is also in that same world.
You cannot be like girdle in completeness to say this is somehow above it.
That's why I have to rule it.
Right.
So that's why I say there's a whole flattening happening where, where, where once we are
post scarce, then governance will be just governance and just for rule enforcement.
Well, it seems once we are post scarce, then whoever is ultimately in control of the things
that make everything is the real power.
Right.
There you go.
So that's a great point that you're leading with.
You're saying there, there can be a flat government or a holocracy is not a, a requirement
for poor scarcity, but for extended post scarcity, i.e. people don't nuke themselves to death.
For that to happen, then I think we are tending towards holoca, holocratic models.
Can you define holocratic?
No, no management.
Okay.
Um, then who manages everybody.
Okay.
It's a collective management.
That's why I think crypto is important because it's a distributed accounting system where
that account could just as well be votes.
Okay.
So we would in that case return to a system where the, the coalition was able to amass
the most votes as the power.
Right.
But why would you coalesce?
I don't know.
You want to go explore Mars and other people don't.
And you need a whole bunch of resources to go to Mars again.
So it's not really post scarce.
If you need to impinge on my resources to do your thing, we're not really post scarce.
Okay.
What if you really want that girl in high school to be your girlfriend and she doesn't
want to?
That has nothing to do with resources.
Her attention is a resource.
