If you were like the son of someone who was extremely powerful, you could use that to.
Right.
But wait, wait, wait, wait.
Okay.
I'm saying when we say post scarce and when we're shortening that or putting restrictions
on that, we're saying material goods, we're saying information.
That's true.
I moved the goalposts unfairly and without, without announcing that I was doing so.
So you're right.
Attention will always be scarce and we should not be talking about that in a post scarcity
podcast episode.
Because we're talking about material scarcity.
No, no, no, wait, we, there's no should or should not.
We just have to declare it.
Okay.
There's no post scarcity attention.
Right.
Yeah.
I have, I'm going to live whatever I'm going to live unless I'm living immortally, which
is the same distinction we made, I don't know, half an hour ago or whatever that was.
So if we are immortal, then again, why are you attracted to this girl?
Even if you're not, maybe whatever happens happens and we're still immortal.
So great.
So I think resource, poor scarcity or asset, poor scarcity is very, very viable and very
achievable.
The hindrances are arbitrary and power mismatches for now.
Once we get into ephemeral stuff like attention and information, we, that's a whole other
ballgame.
I guess I, I think there's always going to be some certain subset of people that want
power just for that hell of having it.
And I don't think they're going to necessarily use it to kill all the rest of humanity and
just have, you know, their six people in a walled compound while everyone else starves.
I imagine they'd be more than happy to give everyone all the food and everything because
why not?
But if there's someone that like pisses them off or like, ah, this guy is a little too sexist
or that girl is a little bit too much of a bitch and then just cut off the resources
to that person.
And, you know, that's one person out of billions that's going to starve to death.
And what's the world going to do against this, this powerful coalition that can, can, can
do that sort of.
With the answers in the question, you just said there will always be some subset.
And my point is that will never be 51% or that or whatever coalition wouldn't be locally
51%.
Even if that was over time, there'd be self correction mechanisms where you can only
be bad for blank amount of time.
If everybody has the same power, if access to resources equals power, then you have no
more power over me than I have over you than there's nothing really other than playing
mind games.
Yeah.
There's nothing really you can do.
That's kind of like if, if now we were all the same physical strength and like capability,
you can only be a dick for so long for other people to shut you down.
Right.
Exactly.
And just this keeps assuming that the system somehow respects the wishes of the people
like the 51%, right?
There's no respect.
I'm just saying.
Because whoever basically, if the world, if the, the, the governance system is run on
Ethereum or something, some crypto currency, who perhaps I do not understand crypto currencies
enough, but somebody or some group can control that system, right?
No, the point would be it's totally distributed.
Okay.
Right.
So we're talking ground level.
So independent mesh networks, I'm running my own goddamn satellites and I'm doing packet
running on my own satellites, but my own, I mean, community owned, right?
I don't want to bring the word community into this because it has other social political
con con.
So I don't want to say that, but I'm just saying from the ground up, right?
So everybody has their own connection to an accounting system and connection to access
to resources.
The system is just notionally there for record keeping purposes, right?
If we preserve the four Fs, four people that want to do good will subdue one guy that doesn't
want to do good guy or girl, right?
So I think it's just people being people.
Okay.
All right.
I think I'm just kind of flailing around at this point, trying to find problems with
it because I always say the idea because charisma and charm aren't, are scarce.
There's no way I can import your charm on my, on to myself.
So you can say, how come they will not be another Hitler, right?
Who amasses a whole bunch of people to do bad things.
That is a real problem.
But my point is, great, everybody gets together in a bar, drinks, beer, they decide, okay,
we're going to take over now.
But I'm always saying there's going to be more people that will stop them.
So it would be a long process if there is no exit option.
And if you have some super charismatic supervillain, there's no stopping them anyway, even in the
system, right?
No, I'm saying, even if you have Luther Strange or whoever the super charismatic supervillain
is, how many people can you amass?
So why do people come to a supervillain?
They're persuasive and charming.
For right now, I think there's a resource access issue as well.
Well, yeah, sure.
If you're a supervillain can offer to pay you, that helps a lot.
Right.
So let's say I have, so bring that over to the poor scarcity world where we're saying,
I have everything I want, I have access to everything I want, right?
So as a supervillain, you would have to be so persuasive, and you would have to use me
the way nonprofits use me now, where they're using me on my volunteer time.
So I would be doing bad stuff on my off time.
How would that work?
So not to imply that our current president is a supervillain or anything, but he doesn't
pay anyone to vote for him and to carry out his policies for them or to support him publicly.
And yet a lot of people do anyway.
Right.
Yeah.
We'd like that Trump guy.
We'd like what he's saying.
We're on his side.
Can I take a stab at this?
Sure.
So I think running, I want to anticipate something kind of like what your answer would be.
And I imagine that's because people, I'm going to butcher this and I want you to give me
the better version, but people support a hypothetical supervillain because they need stuff, right?
And they see their need of stuff or their access to stuff being threatened.
These people coming in are going to take it, and there's only so much to get around or
whatever, right?
Is that part of the answer?
I would say that's the entire answer.
Okay.
Yeah, that's true.
He is actually offering them a lot of things by changing laws to favor them.
To keep them in what they're still.
Or their power or their resources or whatever.
All right.
Fine.
I can't find many problems with this post scarcity idea.
It's pretty cool, aside from the implementation being ridiculously hard.
Yeah.
We have no problems.
So before we like move on to listener feedback or whatever, what would you guys do?
I guess both of you in turn first, Navin, what would you do with in a post scarcity
world?
Oh, I have.
Well, in a very optimistic answer, I would say go after some of the big, hairy, audacious
goals that I have, right?
So one of the things that I like to just throw out there is somehow invert the Maslow's pyramid
to say, if you had to achieve actualization first, what would you do, right?
Or if so, it's all self actualization because we took care of all the other things.
For me, I would give me your day to day for a while in a post scarcity world.
Yeah.
Oh man.
It's a difficult.
Can Stephen go first?
Stephen, right now someone rich dies bequeaths $100,000 a year on you for the rest of your
life and it adjusts for inflation.
What do you do with the rest of your life?
Luckily, I had some thought on this because I just drove to Boulder yesterday and I passed
one of the billboard signs for the lottery and it was like $91 million.
So I was thinking about this a little bit and I would like to think I would continue
working in some capacity because I like what I do, whether or not I would keep my same
hours or something.
I don't know, but especially if I could buy the company and be like, you know, I'm going
to work five hours a week instead of 40 ish.
Well, I guess with post scarcity, my other thing that I had $91 million, I'd try and
be super big into philanthropy, but people wouldn't need stuff anymore.
So that would cut that back a bit.
But there'd be cool projects to invest in.
You know, we could have all the stuff we need here, but what if we want to stretch out Mars,
Moon, whatever.
So give me an actual thing you'd be doing.
Oh, day to day, I'd probably be playing a lot of like VR Skyrim.
Okay.
Pointless, right?
But like the things that would motivate me that I would be working towards slowly, like
so my day to day looked probably pretty boring, especially for the first few years.
I would pay people to do the fun stuff or the important stuff while I did the fun stuff.
But I would hope if this happened, the first thing I would do would be to spend a considerable
amount of time thinking of what I'm going to do.
Is that a cop out?
That is a super cop out, but it works.
You could say this, there's a pad line that you could use.
Anything you could do, I can do meta.
So say this is a great answer.
But yeah, I think that that's trying to answer it right away is pointless because I don't
think I'd do it right.
But if I literally could spend a month thinking about it and had all my stuff taken care of,
I think I'd probably come up with a decent answer.
So put on the back burner and maybe I could back to you in some weeks and have something
laid out.
Cool.
All right.
All right.
Me on the hotspot again.
Now that I have some chance to think about it, and this is, I'm going to be as honest as
I can be, I want to preserve my 4Fs.
So I would just train, have like a rocking body.
Okay.
Okay.
That would take whatever amount of time.
And then if the materialist, if the, if matter is somehow non scarce, I would work on improving
happiness or improving actualization among other people.
I think that's a vague enough answer to cover a lot of things.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
I don't know.
