People maybe get overboard once they like, I think part of what stressed me out when I was looking for jobs that I had no resources.
And like every time that I like, all right, I'm going to go get a cup of coffee so I can get the energy to do this.
I'm like, oh wait, that's literally 6% of my month's income or of my bank account balance right now.
Right. So if the resources where I were taking care of, then yeah, you'd find things to do.
Maybe this isn't a hard problem.
Yes, I totally agree with you.
No, no, no, I totally agree with you.
Huh. Okay. Yeah, so this, maybe I've been looking at it the wrong way this whole time.
I'm still thinking on this, but I'm still, I guess, perpetuating that change of mind through the rest of my beliefs.
It's going to be a few minutes, but that's interesting.
I don't know if I have much to add to it, but I am now strongly suspecting that the boredom problem is solvable.
Unless what do you think?
No, I think it's solvable.
I think, I mean, I was never bored when I was at Burning Man, but you read, I know you read this because you are the one who suggested it to me.
I recently read Friendship is Optimal, Heaven is Terrifying.
The fanfic from Friendship is Optimal, which is advertised as, as terrified Jadkowski.
That's awesome. How did they start advertising it that way?
Yeah, but it's, it makes a neat argument that in a post-scarcity society with a nearly infinite lifespan, everyone would eventually...
Wait, wait, those are two different, let's double crux that.
I know, they are two different things.
They're two very different things, but eventually everyone would turn into either a loop intelligence or a post-human intelligence.
And the loop intelligence thing was kind of how, looking back on it, I think I was maybe getting into at Burning Man, but where basically you kind of just end up doing the same thing over and over.
And maybe the loop lasts for thousands of years before you start repeating stuff, but there gets to a point where there's only so many things that you really enjoy doing.
There's these people you like hanging out with, there's these things you like doing, and you will eventually just keep going back to them and doing them over and over for all eternity and becoming like a loop instead of a person.
And I don't know.
We're kind of loops now. We have jobs, we get up and do stuff.
You could change the definition a slight bit to say, instead of saying loop, you could say mastery.
It's the same thing.
If I'm, I don't know, sharpening a blade, that's still a loop, but I get maybe a pretty nice katana at the end of that, right?
So it's just changing that conversation from, it may be a loop, it may be post-human.
But it's the perception, I think when we're speaking of in these scales, perception matters a whole lot.
And that could be an accelerating perception like a mastery over a skill versus a loop, which you have to get bored of after whatever number of tries.
Well, I think you just don't notice after a while, if it's thousands of years, you kind of lose track of your earlier memories and you just keep hanging out with the same people and doing the same stuff.
Again, this is the third thing we're introducing here.
Scarcity doesn't say we have to be immortal.
That's true.
Being immortal doesn't have to say we have to lose our memory.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah, yeah.
I think the vampire fanfic works a lot here.
Like the older the vampire is, the more powerful they become, yet they are more reticent, right?
So if we all turn into vampires who don't drink blood, maybe that's a good thing.
I think that's also the fact.
I guess there's loop and mastery are two really different framings of the same kind of thing.
Same thing, exactly.
You know, Sisyphus pushing that rock up a hill for eternity is a loop.
But he's, well, the question is, is he having fun?
Or can his life be meaningful?
But throw that out and just say, is his life, well, I guess, putting it another way, that sounds super boring, but that fits the bill of being a loop.
But so does like, I don't know, taking on some huge projects, having a great time doing it.
And then, cool, did that.
It's all awesome.
I'm going to start this next new thing.
Or, you know, I'm going to make a 2.0 of the first thing I did.
So, yeah, I think that I like the mastery phrasing a lot better, not just because it's more cheerful, but I think it fits better.
Because you're not, I mean, Sisyphus can get as good as he wants us pushing that rock up the hill, but he's still not, without digging into it, I don't think he's having fun, right?
We don't know that.
That's my point.
That's great.
But pick something more boring than pushing a rock up the hill, but yeah.
No, let's stick with that.
My point is, and I want to improve on this mastery point because I haven't thought of it yet.
Let's say Sisyphus has memory and is optimizing for something.
We don't know at the end of a thousand years that he will not be superluminal, right?
But even at superluminal, he just might be pushing a rock to eternity.
But the issue is there's something to be optimized.
I think having, and I was self-employed and therefore fun-employed for a very long time as well.
So, and I faced the same problem.
I started writing blogs.
I went deep into like rationalist theory and, you know, the type of stuff people do with an internet connection.
So, I think non-isolation and optimization for whatever value that is, positive, negative, you know, something.
If I want to kill people, I would want to optimize to be the best killer on the planet or something, right?
I don't care.
Positive, negative either way.
So, I think the solution to boredom would be non-isolation and mechanisms that push you to have these conversations of,
you're not doing anything, but guess what?
Going back to that time structure, at 6.30 in the evening, you're going to be at the Commons and there's going to be some dude playing a flute, right?
And your body would kick in to say, I want to beat that guy.
So, I will go learn the flute.
So, how do we, do you have any ideas of how we get to this place?
How humans and the species get to this place?
The place of posterity.
Okay, here's an interesting little tidbit.
Me and my wife have a bet about humanity producing the replicator.
It's a 50-year bet.
It's on our shared Google Calendar.
So, I'm hoping that we get to a matter replication machine, or at least a matter recombinant machine.
And we're taking like 0.1 steps there, if we're talking about the physical world, because in the information world, we're already there, right?
Data, information, money, whatever you want to call this, we're already there.
It's just an arbitrary restriction problem that's going to solve itself in two, three generations of max, right?
So, on the physical side of things, we have to get to atom level manipulation and recombinatory stuff, where I think we need a whole lot of energy.
So, there's the energy creation problem, and then there's the matter arrangement problem that we have to solve.
Do you think it has to be atom level?
Like, 3D printers don't work at the atom level, but they're pretty damn cool.
Right, but I'm saying it would be, first principle's basis, it would be more efficient to build something.
Like, if I had carbon atoms, I could go from building coal to diamond within the same set of carbon atoms.
Right?
And if I was doing molecule level, maybe protein and stuff like that, I could work with proteins.
Yeah, I was thinking just optimally.
I think we have to get to that atomic level manipulation.
Okay.
I almost feel like that's overkill.
There's a lot of times I want to move a whole lot of atoms from one place to another, and it's much easier to do that on a mass scale than individual.
No, no, I totally agree.
I'm just saying, just because there's a 3,000 horsepower Bugatti on the road doesn't mean that there's fiat's also not on the road.
Okay.
Right?
I'm just saying the know-how has to be there.
And do you think we'll get there in 50 years?
My wife might win that bet.
All right.
Is there money on this?
No, it's just ragged, right?
So it wouldn't matter if there's money on it, because once you got post-scarcity, what do you need money for?
That's perfect.
If I was you, I would have bet that there wouldn't be a post-scarcity thing in 50 years, because then if you lose the bet, post-scarcity, everything's awesome, right?
If you win the bet, you got a lot more money.
Yeah, you guys are saying my wife's smarter than me.
I may be a little bit.
Well, unless, only in this context, and only if she actually thinks that it'll happen in the next 50 years, but she wanted to bet against it, because then that way, if in 50 years we don't have master, or we don't have the recombinator, at least she won the bet.
Right.
And also, no, because you didn't bet money.
Maybe we could change that.
But what do you guys think?
Do you guys think that we can't do this in, let's say, 100 years?
We can't get to a post-scarcity world?
I go back to, there's a number of, God, it was just, I think it was just recently, Eliezer wrote no fire alarm for AI, really interesting essay, but he mentioned in there that there's a lot of AI researchers who, when they're asked, how long do you think it'll be until-
It's always 50 years, right?
No, no, no, how long do you think it'll be until machines can do every profession that humans do right now, without needing human input?
They say something, I don't remember the exact number, it was more than a century, I think less than two centuries, but something in like 120, 150 range.
But when the question is phrased, how long until you think any task that a human can do can be done as well by a machine, the number is like a quarter of that?
Yeah.
It's like 40 years or something?
Yeah.
And once you can do any task a human can do with a machine instead, that's basically where you don't need humans to work anymore, right?
Well, we have car assembly robots, humans still build cars.
They do, that's true, because-
But need to and can are different.
Yeah, yeah.
And once it's, I don't know, I guess once it's cheap enough to have the-
Because you need machines to make robots right now, to make some robots.
Okay.
I mean, not machines, obviously machines, but you need humans to design the robots.
Right.
And once you're at a point where you don't need humans in the loop anywhere at all, all you got to do is feed them energy and they'll do their thing, right?
I'm totally against this AI apocalypse thing.
I don't know if I want an apocalypse at all, but I think if any task that a human can do can be done by a machine within 40 years, that's basically where you don't need humans anymore for anything.
No need, yes.
But that doesn't mean that we will come up with different needs, right?
Right.
And also, I guess it doesn't mean that the humans won't be cheaper, but-
No, but that's just an arbitrary scale.
If 10 robots can do it for X, 10,000 robots can do it for 0.001X, so humans can get out of the loop.
I think if it is just offloading effort, I think that is just part one of getting to poor scarcity.
There's a whole lot of social changes, there's a whole lot of incentive changes that need to happen, because even with this outsourcing effort to robots, the output is the same, the control mechanism is the same for the economy, right?
You're saying, I'm building widgets, I get to build 10,000 widgets for one tet the price, but I'm still building widgets.
So that, I think, has to change at least a tiny bit.
I think the economy would have to change drastically, because as more and more robots do things, the people who own the robots and control the robots would get all the income, and the people who don't own any robots would die of starvation.
How is that different from anywhere else?
So this is the voice exit economy, right?
Do you get to then buy again and go start a robot killing spree?
Right.
No, I'm just saying that's why our economy would have to change, because once you don't need humans to do work anymore, what are the humans going to do if they don't have an income through some other means?
So we have to get income through other means.
Or have put in place some sort of distribution system.
There we go.
Now I got you.
The wealth is distributed.
Or put people in substrates that don't require food and shelter and that sort of thing.
That's a major example.
Yeah.
Or the robot body answer.
Yeah, but they would still require energy inputs of some kind.
Yeah, sure.
But you know, energy is cheap.
I mean, yeah.
And then it starts becoming, it's always a percentage of your income though, right?
If you can live off two cents a day, that's great, but you still have to make two and a half cents a day or however much and wages would just fall to 2.01 cents per day at that point.
No, I think going back to betting on things that don't change, if we preserve the four F's, right?
Feed, fight, flight and mate.
If we preserve them and abstract everything else, that all of these solutions are viable.
The matrix answer is viable.
The brain and a VAT, which I think again is a matrix or the Isaac Asimov type, we're going to get into some sort of shared consciousness model.
All of these are viable if we keep those optimization functions for lack of a better word, which we call biological needs or something like that.
If we keep those open, we can fight our way or do one of those F's our way into whatever future we want.
And I think anything that any solution that purports to change one of these F's, I am very, very skeptical of, right?
People are not going to be suddenly, I don't know, peaceful or something like that.
How do you feel about the universal basic income then?
I like the concept in theory, but implementation is always weird and it was always implemented the wrong way.
Maybe it has to come by negative taxation or something like that, where the implementation is transparent enough and the process is transparent enough for people to still preserve the four F's if we want to be still human.
If we're talking post-human, then that's going to be the different, but preserving humans, I would say preserve the four F's and any model that gets to UBI by preserving these four F's, great, all for it.
Wait, so how does the distribution approach?
I sort of always assumed you meant something like universal basic income for it to work because, I mean, what's my incentive as Walmart 3.0 to ship stuff over the third world if they can't afford what I'm shipping them?
If it was crazy, crazy cheap to ship, sure.
Oh, I guess, okay, hold on, I just answered my own question.
If it was ridiculously cheap to get there and they could barely afford to pay for it while I'm still making a profit because it costs me like nothing to get it there, is that the answer?
Right, and why are they not just going there?
That too, yeah.
