Maybe I act.
I got nothing.
I'm very selfish.
Yeah.
And very, very vain.
So, yeah.
Just, I would say live.
Well, to make your, make happiness and self actualization available to others isn't really
selfish in vain unless you're doing it just to glorify yourself.
I think I am.
But if, but if the fallout, I'm willing to just say if the fallout is more self-actualized
and happy people, more power to me.
Yeah.
So.
World peace.
You got anything?
You know, lately I've been watching a lot of YouTube videos about the work of director
David Finch and yeah, and I just like watching them going into the stuff that he does.
It's amazing.
I don't know.
I would want to, here's the thing.
I want to say that like I would like to write stories and then act in them and then like
be a director and like work with all these people and put together these beautiful visual
feasts that are just amazing.
God, writing a single book was such a pain in the ass and I can't imagine working like
on an entire movie and I get why it takes hundreds of people just working themselves
to the bone for months to put one of those out, you know, and I don't, I don't.
It's weird because once you're an actor and you're really rich, you don't need to do
it for the money anymore and yet people still do it and like David Finch doesn't need to
keep directing.
He's set for life, but he keeps doing it anyway for the joy of it.
And I don't know how I would ever get that level of passion where I just wanted to keep
doing it forever.
Like there's things that I sometimes get into something, I just work on it for 14 hours
straight and then there's times where I can work on something for months, but I look at
people like that and maybe it's because I'm at such a distance that I don't know what
their day to day is and maybe in real life, they, they like work real crazy hard for like
three days and then for the next four days, they just kind of fucking veg out and be like,
okay, doing nothing now, recharging and then get back into it.
But from a distance, it looks like these people are fucking machines that are nonstop amazing
at everything and, and it is intimidating to want to do that sort of thing.
But I would like to do that sort of thing, like make stuff, entertain the people that
I like and become famous for being good at entertaining people or some shit.
Right on.
Although there's two things.
One, you could get bored of doing something, you know, you said you don't, you could imagine
doing something forever.
I think that that's a trap that's easy to fall into, but you don't have to do the same
thing forever, right?
No, I know.
You could act for a century until you got bored of it and then try something else.
And as long as we speak, maintaining YouTube channels, you mentioned two things that I
think I would do if I had a lot of free time and I'm going to continuously plug two YouTube
channels.
They'll send me a check.
Binging with Babish, he makes food from TV shows and movies.
I think I'd love to get good at cooking.
Cool.
Currently I don't.
And I think that'd be a lot of fun.
There'd be a lot of, you know, fun, I don't know what the right word is, magic, chemistry.
I wonder what would happen if I did this and like, we'll take like enough for, you know,
foreknowledge behind that you could anticipate what that'd be like, that'd be kind of fun
to do, I imagine.
That and there's another tech, there's another YouTube channel sort of in a different direction
called primitive technology where they're like 15 minute videos ish and it takes place
over weeks, but there's no, there's no, there's no talking, there's no music, there's no voice
over.
There's just this guy in his shorts in the woods, you know, whittling sticks and making
fire and making clay bricks and then, you know, making a hut.
And I think if I had all the time money in the world, I could probably spend some summers
doing nothing but that for fun.
I might get bored, but, you know, it's the kind of thing too where the video is only
a few minutes long and it, you know, then you read the long description of what he did
and it took, you know, place over months because a lot of this stuff took, you know, weeks
to dry or something properly, right?
So those are the ones that go back and do things to keep me interested in other stuff.
But yeah, YouTube channels give me some ideas.
Oh yeah.
Is there anything else you wanted to say about post scarcity or what you're doing or
anything along those lines?
No, I think you guys did a great job of getting to governance models and getting to the local
issues that are tangled up with this, but I do want to plug something.
I am.
So I think the listeners should be familiar with a organization called Open Collective.
It's a way for people to contribute.
It's like Patreon, but for open source projects and the thing itself is open sourced.
But I'm also working on something very, very similar.
So as a 0.1 of what we're trying to do here and the things we talked about, this has been
done previously as well.
I'm doing a project to connect every makerspace hacker space by whatever kind of community
lab on there onto one resource.
Have you already reached out to the Denhack people here?
Yes.
I speak with Denhack.
I've spoken to the bio people and there's all the grunt work has been done by.
So if you go to Hacker Spaces of Wiki and if you go to the MIT Fab Lab, their resource
center, all of the information is there, but I just want to have one place with everything
in it and also access rules built on top of it.
So if anybody wants to contribute, just find me on Twitter or just email me or just find
me on the website yet for that idea.
No, okay.
But, uh, yeah, but just find me on Twitter and we can get from there.
What's your Twitter handle?
It's yours truly, Mishra.
My last name is HRA.
So it's yours truly at my HRA.
And we'll link it on the website as well.
Got it.
Uh, you, so you said you heard the cryptocurrency episode with Reese.
Yes.
Did we mess up anything?
Is there anything you wanted to add or correct?
Now, no offense to Reese, but I think, uh, in the initial four or five, well, in the
initial four or five, uh, conversations, you guys were, I think you were trying to hammer
out, well, why is this valuable?
Why the fuck is this?
Well, why do we pay money for something that doesn't exist or something like that?
I think that that was very good.
But something that we didn't talk about was governance model.
So we did that, but only in crypto.
Okay.
Now this is another project that I'm working on.
So another plug, uh, starting, uh, November, I'm going to say 15th, because seventh is
when it actually starts, but 15th is when the public, um, I'm working on somebody with,
um, creating interoperability and transparency platforms for these crypto currency platforms.
So there are, there are projects, uh, that are focusing on interoperability and true
decentralization that is non custodial exchanges and stuff like that, where the
exchange is just an exchange, right?
Uh, and, and there's very, very, very little governance structures or transparency structures
built in.
For example, there's no sec for crypto.
The obvious answer would be sec would have a bunch of guys or people doing branch five
of sec would be sec crypto.
I'm saying that sec is in security and exchange commission.
Yes.
And they're already working on this.
They already are enforcing some stuff.
Wait.
The US sec is already working in crypto.
Yes.
Me, that wasn't, that wouldn't take that long at all.
No, no, they brought two cases last month and they are working to bring other cases
as well.
So, uh, they defined what is, uh, cryptocurrency and what falls into equity and what doesn't
fall into equity.
That was in July, I think.
And, uh, there's a prominent research organization that just put out a document, uh, for a law
that says, uh, it's akin to the 1201 rule that was quite after I was working against
in, uh, DMCA.
So it says, as long as you're working on it for a research purpose and you hold your
own keys and you're not a custodial of other people's keys, you don't have to comply with,
uh, financial regulation disclosure forms.
Ah, so it's not so.
So if I have my own wallet, it's fine, but Coinbase is going to have to start.
Exactly.
Okay.
So, uh, they're just trying to codify that into law.
And one good thing about being in Colorado is, uh, Jared Polis is the chair of, uh, the
congressional crypto site.
The congressional blockchain caucus.
So, and I think he, uh, bolder, bolder, neat.
Cool.
So I didn't know either of those things.
That's really interesting.
Yeah.
We think the SES, I mean, the general, uh, perception is the SEC is bad at New
Tech, but they've government's 10 or our government tends to be shitty at New
Tech, any government.
Yeah.
You guys want to talk about Indian demonization and identity linking.
That's a whole other episode.
If you want to talk to me about identity and you will see my libertarian tendencies
there, but, uh, no, uh, they're, uh, working very, very hard, uh, with the crypto, uh,
industry just to get on point.
And there are, uh, analysis tools built in and there's rules being written as we speak.
So, cool.
Wow.
All right.
So get out if you can.
Yeah.
I, God, I saw yesterday Bitcoin hit almost 6,000.
It's more over six now.
It's over six.
I heard there was like a mini crash or mini crash.
It's already gone.
It's already gone.
Okay.
I was going to buy on the next mini crash.
I saw, I don't know, in the episode I mentioned that I saw, yeah.
Well, I mean, whatever.
I was in for a hundred bucks.
Like it's not like I had my retirement in there and I went ahead and cash tax
that I was going to bust, but you didn't have your retirement in there after you
sold.
Yeah.
Right.
Right.
Well, so next time if it goes down, then I'll buy back in.
I've been thinking about that.
