Welcome to The Basin Conspiracy, I'm Miny Ashbrotsky, I'm Stephen Zipper, and we have a guest with us today.
Hey guys, I'm Naveen Mishra.
Welcome to the show, Naveen.
Thank you.
You are here because you expressed an interest in talking about post-scarcity societies with us.
Yes.
Before we get too deep into that, can you tell us what a post-scarcity society is for those people who don't know yet?
Star Trek.
Okay, that is a very good example, but you've got to define it more than that because there's a lot of things in Star Trek.
I know.
I would say societies and economic incentives in general are defined by scarcity and therefore distribution mechanisms for assets of whatever kind or consumables.
Star-scarcity societies would imply that there's either an infinitely efficient distribution mechanism or an infinitely scalable asset, and then economics and incentives offer those kinds of incentive mechanisms basically.
You said an infinitely scalable asset, would a single infinitely scalable asset do it?
It depends, right?
If there's reproducibility, if there's transformation capabilities, then sure, but if there's infinite gold, you can't really eat gold.
Right.
So we technically have infinite atoms, or at least as many as we can reasonably reach.
There you go, yeah.
But we can't use them for everything.
Exactly.
I think, sorry to barge in, but there's this dichotomy between math and physics where math is very comfortable with infinities and physics is not.
So any of this discussion about scarcity and stuff leads right into pseudo-randomness and pseudo-infinities.
If we are technically rigorous, we should be on the math side of things and use infinities, but because we are not and we're having fun here, I would say we'd stick to the physical part of things and stick to pseudo-infinities.
Okay.
What's a pseudo-infinity?
Things that I can't reach.
Okay.
Things that I can't end by the lifetime of the universe or the heat death of the universe, you know.
Okay, cool.
So for all practical purposes.
For all practical purposes.
All right, cool.
And that is the way we will be using the term today.
So why are you so interested in post-scarcity societies?
I want to build one.
Ooh, build one.
Yes.
Well, I want to get to as close to that as possible.
So most of my work currently, whether that be through the companies that I'm working with or some of the things that I'm doing on the side, want to help create a efficient marketplace tending towards that infinite or for all practical purposes, infinitely efficient distribution mechanism.
Okay.
Real quick, why wouldn't infinitely efficient distribution mechanism be enough if we don't have enough food or whatever other asset we need?
The way I think of these things is to have a mental model of betting on things that don't change.
I think this is what I stole from Jeff Bezos.
He likes to bet on things that don't change and it kind of makes sense to me.
So humans are always going to be greedy.
There's always going to be finite resources.
I don't think we're going to get infinite resources.
So a pseudo way or an easier way to hack post scarcity is to make a distribution model that's scalable and efficient.
Okay.
But we still wouldn't have an infinite number of, I don't know, slippers.
Exactly.
We wouldn't have an infinite number of slippers, but maybe they are infinitely reusable.
Maybe they can be transformed into belts.
All right.
So like a smart matter sort of thing?
Yes.
So is it that you are doing to help usher in this future?
Since you kind of led with, I'm working on this and now I'm curious what you're doing.
So we're not into the smart matter evolution just yet.
We're just based on the distribution mechanism.
So everybody wants money and it's a proxy for a lot of other things.
So I'm working on a way to distribute money based on effort, which effort is, we're trying to get to as close to a meritocracy as possible.
So things that I'm working on right now, v zero point one, if you could call it would be collective action platforms and collective incentive platforms where people come together, work on an idea or a product.
Right.
Get that out the door.
It provides some value to some set of people and they capture that value and distribute it efficiently.
I want to stop you when you said distributes money based on amount of effort.
Doesn't that incentivize people to be really bad at things because I know that like a small child is going to put a lot more effort into lifting a heavy object than I will.
Right, right, right.
So when I say effort, I meant value creation effort.
Okay.
Right.
So I can be a Sisyphus and earn infinity, but that's not what we're going for because that's not going to be valuable to anybody else in that network.
So effort is linked to value provided.
Okay.
What's the incentive to be more efficient at providing the value though, if it is effort based rather than results based?
No, it is results based.
It is.
Right.
So I said effort.
Well, effort to value would imply results.
Okay.
I just try to keep it generalized.
Okay.
I don't know.
It's a character fly.
I guess.
All right.
It gets complicated.
It gets complicated.
Sorry.
I got completely sidetracked with that effort thing.
Stephen, did you want to jump in with anything?
Just to say that I appreciate the virtue of general explanations, but if there are specific examples or any particular ways to bring it home, those are good too.
But I wouldn't think it's flawed to be generalizable.
So how close do you think we are to post scarcity?
Not that close, but there's, I like a lot of idioms, so there's another idiom that says the future is already here.
It's not distributed evenly.
I think it was Gibson.
There you go.
So I think if you give the right parameters to that question of how close we are to scarcity in some sections of humanity, we're already there.
But in most sections, we're not.
And in those sections, we are post scarce for only some types of goods and not others.
Can you give examples or an example?
Because I am surprised to hear that there is anywhere in the world that is post scarce right now.
It's not post scarce, but it's close to it, I would say.
But an example would be electricity for the ultra wealthy.
Thanks.
That's the example I was going to throw out because like you can leave your lights on all the lights on and all your electronics on all the time.
And you're not going to run out of power here in your apartment in the States.
Exactly.
So, you know, if you're in Puerto Rico, that's a different matter because until your generator runs out of gas, then you're burning your power, right?
Although I might run out of money if I spent a lot of electricity.
I realize it would be very hard.
Ultra wealthy caveat from him.
So he actually, his example is better.
I think even medium wealthy in the first world would get you basically limited electricity.
I've heard that the information economy is basically post scarcity because once something has been digitized, it is infinitely reproducible and you don't take away that wealth from anyone else when you copy it.
That's a great, that brings up the same dichotomy that we just talked about, right?
So when you give the information economy example, I think it's an example of the infinitely distributed good, right?
It's artificially scarce in that it was my thought.
It is a flaw or a negative on my part that I cannot impose intellectual property rights on this information economy, right?
So it's an artificially scarce good that's infinitely reproducible.
Yeah.
How do you feel about the fact that there are all these artificial restrictions on information so that it is not a completely post scarce environment?
It's a good needle to thread and I think it's a good intellectual exercise to figure out where you lie on many issues.
So you could approach it in the access way of saying it is infinitely distributable with infinitesimally expensive, right?
It's cheap to distribute, which means access should be free and any restriction you put on it is arbitrary.
You can then come to it from the creator's perspective to say the creator put some effort into it, whether that's an original thought, which is just, you know, brain voltage,
but or it's some art or something that the creator created and that there's some cost to that, right?
Right.
And Steven's programming something right now.
Exactly.
He wants to get paid something for it eventually.
Exactly.
And maybe Steven wants to get recurring revenue for it because he has to live another day and he doesn't want to program the second day.
So when you look at it as an ecosystem perspective, then I think setting value gets to be very, very difficult.
And if there's dynamic pricing, so if I can contribute in any way to that IP to that information asset, then I think that dynamic pricing model makes a lot of sense to information assets.
Okay.
Do you do you think the pricing part is important?
I ask because we are recording a podcast right now.
Yes.
And podcasts are basically like free labor.
We take our thing, we put out in the world, it gets reproduced forever.
We never see any money from it really.
Aside from, you know, from now and then people give us money on Patreon, which is really nice.
And we thank them for it.
But I, I get a lot of things for free off the internet as well.
I listen to many podcasts that I don't pay any money for.
And I watch videos on YouTube and listen to music on Spotify and stuff without paying for it.
And I sort of feel in a way that making these podcasts is a way to help pay back to the system.
I don't feel as bad taking all this stuff from the system without paying for it.
If I am putting things into the system as well, which I know at least some people listen to.
And is, is that a workable model for other things as well?
Or is that even a workable model for the internet?
I mean, people do complain a lot about, yeah, I'm a YouTube celebrity.
Millions of people know me.
I can't fucking pay my electricity bill.
That's a great point.
And I think your first exact, your first way of saying it was better when you said, I, I pay for this,
but I don't pay money for this or I don't get money for this, right?
So when I say price, it doesn't have to be cash or fiat currency.
When you say YouTube, you don't pay for YouTube, you do pay.
You do pay by your attention.
They get to sell you stuff.
They get to put ads in front of it.
So you're paying something.
So there's a asset.
I know, but even then, right?
There's a monetization model where we don't know the value of things.
If there is such a thing as an implicit value to a YouTube video, right?
We, we are so abstracted from it that that value is invisible to us and we expect things for free now.
So I think there's always value there.
How to price it and how to extract that value is a conversation to be had.
And that, I think is where an exchange model or a dynamic pricing model makes sense.
And that's where you have to talk about price.
Okay. Is that, does that interface with what you're doing with your distribution efforts?
Yes, it does.
Okay.
So the company that I am a part of a call crowd raising is a platform where people can get together to create an asset for right now.
It is a digital asset.
So there is IP being created and you can get paid or you can get, you can extract value from, from that asset either by network usage or by payment in kind.
Oh, so.
Wow.
That's kind of cool.
Well, thank you.
No, these types, these types of things have been around longer than, this is obviously not the first try, but this is the, the first try to do this at scale.
How do you get it to catch on though if people can get their stuff for free without having to pay back into the system if they don't want to?
They're not, well, they're not doing it in our system.
In our system, there's a, there's a price point attached to it.
I see.
So either that's through in kind services, through donation, through fiat currency.
It is what it is.
It's just that you have to select how you want to participate in this economy.
Okay.
So how do you expect that we will get to a post scarcity world eventually by having similar conversations to the one we're having right now.
So by studying these information asset marketplaces or by studying these information economies, electricity economies and figuring out what incentives got us there.
And maybe how we can modify those structures to, to not have a ad funded or a third party funded model where the value is not monopoly extra extracted.
I kind of see what you're saying, but don't we also need to have some major innovation in how we produce material goods as well?
Yes.
