him, he said, are you happy?
He said, no, I'm a jazz like Christian where I have to be working in the flow
always.
So this is everything's tending to, right?
You can get zero.
I like the, I like the human aspect being in there because it does sometimes
make things right for corruption.
But on the other hand, it also means that the system will never have complete
control that humans will have some level of being able to step in and, and say,
no, we are nullifying that particular.
Right.
You can wait, wait, wait, you can always update it.
You can always say based on v 1.3 section four, you're guilty of whatever
crime you just did.
But given that this case brought up whatever new evidence it brought up, we
are amending that.
Oh, okay.
So the contract is immutable, but not the legal system itself.
You know what I mean?
The person who got screwed or got away with it, would have still get
screwed or get away with it though, right?
There'd be no way to reverse that.
Come on, I'm not God.
Stupid trying to find all the loopholes.
I know, I don't know, but that's great.
I think if people just did that in this fashion, someone needs to look into
the darkness to point out the problems.
Otherwise they would just run with this.
So, you know, if you can get us closer to zero by pointing out issues.
Yeah, that's great.
That's the way to do it.
Pearl Geek goes on to say we only got one line into his question.
As a software developer, I know that all non-trivial code contains bugs, so the
ability to patch it and especially apply security patches quickly is critical.
But this is not just a high pathetical problem.
It has happened in the past and has led to a hard fork in order to force
the spirit of the contract.
What you were saying, yeah, exactly.
Which is the exact opposite of what the blockchain fans advertise as the main
benefit of smart contracts, which illustrates the bigger problem, all the
regulation and controls around the financial industry are there for a reason.
It's very tempting as a software developer to think we can do without all this
crap until your Bitcoins are stolen or all your Ethereum coins evaporate due to
a bug in a smart contract.
Or you fall for a fraudulent ICO or a Bitcoin pump and dump scheme.
I like the idea of cryptocurrencies, but I wouldn't want my regular paycheck to
be distributed through them.
I probably can't defend my cryptocurrency assets against organized crime or even
a clever and ethically unrestrained trader.
That's what I want the state to do for me.
And I think he brings up a lot of good points.
On the other hand, a different commenter afterwards pointed out that he was, they
didn't use this word, this is my own wording, that he was showing his having
a functional government privilege that there's places where the government really
sucks and their currency is horrible and they don't protect you from organized
crime or unrestrained traders and that current cryptocurrencies work better than
any other option they have in those places.
That doesn't invalidate ProGeek's point.
So if ProGeek lives in a place with a functional government, then yeah, but if
you don't, then your second best, you know, your new best alternative is cryptocurrency.
I think I just want to say one thing about ProGeek because I don't know who
this person is, but he's bringing up a lot of great points.
He ended that he or she ended the thing with saying this is what was the last sense.
That's what I want the state to do for me.
There you go.
I think that's a good assumption of responsibility of saying this is not me.
I want this, I want an external party to affect me this way, right?
And I think one point that I want ProGeek to know is being an outlaw means exactly
that the definition of an outlaw used to be that you're outside of the law.
That doesn't mean you're wrong.
You're just outside it.
Right.
So outside the law gives you freedom, also no recourse.
Okay.
And also for you, people are working on some transparency platforms.
Do you consider cryptocurrency to be outside the law still?
No, no.
No, because, well, outside the law, how?
I'm saying people with your just jurisdictional power will come to your
home with a gun and make you do things.
So there's nothing outside of law as we know it in the enforceable way.
But do we need a lack of better word legal written script for enforcement?
Yes, it is outside of that boundary.
And then I had one comment from Athator, both these comments are from our
separate, by the way, saying concerning the miners, we mentioned in our podcast
that 10 people hold the majority of the mining power.
That is a bit of an oversimplification, but I understand what they mean.
Essentially, many rigs machines are owned by individual actors.
They could mine on their own, but that means they would very rarely get one
very large reward.
And meanwhile, they're bleeding money from the electricity expenses.
So this is countered by joining large mining pools where they get paid on a
regular basis as a portion of the reward based on how much hashing power they
contributed to the pool.
And the problem is that large mining pools are run by a single mining
operator who then has enormous influence over the mining pool.
But it's important to note that individual miners can always jump ship and
divert their hashing power from one pool to another, or even strike out on their own.
And this is where economic incentives come into play.
If a mining pool operator tries to undermine the network for personal profit
motives, which may risk devaluing Bitcoin as a currency, the individual miners
would lose out on their holdings as their holdings lose value.
This would provide incentive to move to the mining pool, which maintains the status
quo, which I thought was interesting.
And he goes on to say that there's five major forces at play in the Bitcoin
environment, the miners, the developers, the users, the merchants, and the exchanges.
Each have their own interests and constantly push for those.
But the way Bitcoin was designed with this game theoretical economic incentives
is that all will only profit if they can find a consensus.
That's why you see so much political posturing at the moment.
Everyone is fighting for power, but realizing that unless you have everyone
swimming the same way as you, you lose money.
This you, you were like, ah, do you have comments on this?
I do.
And I'm, I don't want to keep ragging on this, but the poster is right.
And for people listening, if they want to get into some math on this, there's
this great medium post by a company called 21.co paying homage to the 20 million
Bitcoin that they will always be.
So they, uh, if the, for the economics geeks listening, there's something
called a genie coefficient, which measures inequality.
So number of participants versus how much they have of a particular asset or
whatever that is.
So, uh, the post is called quantifying decentralization by Balaji Srinivasan,
the CEO of 21.co.
And they go into all the factors that this post poster wrote about and they show
you in some detail, what that looks like.
The one point that I disagree with this person is when they laid out the five
actors, think of, so how are they or not any different from the five
actors in the fiat system, right?
Only difference is the might, the developers are a separate group unto
themselves with zero or minimal incentive to, to maintain status quo.
They will do whatever they want to do.
The point is, if nobody's writing the code, what, what are we doing here?
I mean, what are we running?
We're running code that somebody else wrote, right?
So if, if we adopt code as the consensus mechanism, then I don't know what
Bitcoin core or Ethereum core has to do with anything.
It's just get to popularity first, right?
So all of the crypto economic headbanging is great and the philosophizing
is great, but if it was worth four cents, none of this would happen.
All of these discussions are happening because there's a profit motive and people
want to hold on to their profits.
So it's not really to the betterment of the system.
It is to the betterment of people holding most in that system.
And it sounds like you are upset by this too.
Yes.
Because there's a whole bunch of politicizing and grand setting happening
about weird technical details about how big a block should be or what the
consensus more, how data is transferred.
And like the average user does not care.
This is a, I think one of the problem with security, computer security people is
they're always the smartest people in the room and always have the, not always,
but our most are have sharp elbows.
And I don't care that I have 15 factor authentication on my phone.
I don't get me the money.
Like they make me do stuff.
I don't care.
Alrighty.
After Tor's comment went on for a while, it was really interesting.
And they end by saying it's a new world of governance and we don't know how it'll
work out, but so far eight years running and growing.
That is all I have.
Did you have anything?
Nope.
Great.
Well, we have been going for about an hour and a half.
So wrap it up.
I think so.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you guys for having me.
And I would love to do this again.
Thank you for doing the podcast.
Likewise.
I would love to have you back on.
And thanks for thanking us.
That's nice.
But yeah, no, for sure.
I can only think of three more things that I want to talk to you about.
So I think we can have an excuse to go on.
Sure.
Another time if that works.
Absolutely.
Cool.
All right.
Thanks for listening.
Bye.
Bye.
