Hence replicator.
Okay.
So going back to the distribution model or the infinite assets, we can either create infinite assets or reuse of infinite.
I'm, I'm think my point is taking an asset and reusing it requires some inputs though.
Yes, it does.
My point is we're never going to get to whatever that end state is.
It's always going to be a tending towards kind of a function.
Right.
I think there's a whole bunch of gain to be had orders of magnitude difference in scarcity or in access to resources that could be had just by flattening the distribution model or making it more efficient orders of magnitude.
Yes.
Holy crap.
Okay.
Take any, give me an asset that's incredibly scarce food in some parts of the world.
There you go.
Sure.
Food's a good one since we all need that.
So there's, we could, there have been multiple times to solve this, but you could either go two ways.
You could say Soilent.
Right.
Or Soilent like examples where it's minimally expensive to produce and distribute.
Or you could say we create this marketplace of distributed for lack of a better word distributed distribution where it says it's as easy to distribute food to Puerto Rico, the third world.
As it is to a Walmart somewhere here.
Right.
So there's something blocking us in creating a generalized, you know, white space Walmart across the planet.
Yeah.
I briefly wanted to say also, I don't think Soilent is the best example.
Soilent still costs a lot more than rice does.
It does.
It does.
No, that was just a product wise example.
Right.
Okay.
It is what it is.
Soilent is Soilent wherever you make it.
Yeah.
So is the problem, I guess, best solved by either making things easier to make or making them as hard as they are to make now but having an easier time getting them to places that need them.
Both.
But I think the most gains will be gotten by making them easy to get wherever the person is where the usage is.
I can.
Okay, so I sort of agree with you a bunch on that because the world has been enriched greatly by how much cheaper it has become to just ship things nowadays.
Yeah.
And, and obviously there is a lot of inefficiencies and getting things to where they need to be, which causes famines and such.
But when people think of post scarcity worlds, they usually think of worlds where you don't have to work if you don't want to like Star Trek, you can work if you like, or you could not work for the entire rest of your life.
And we're not going to get there as long as you still need humans working in the fields to make the food, right?
Right.
Do you have a different conception?
No, no, no, nothing we talked about required humans to be working there.
We're just saying, so on the order of magnitude increase in efficiency, there could be indoor farms, factory farms somewhere else.
There could be hydroponics, aeroponics that are done.
I don't know if you guys have heard, but in New Jersey, right off the turnpike, there's a giant aeroponics building that's building cabbage in what's aeroponics?
Aquaponics is a waterbed aeroponics is a mist based.
So there's plants that are grown in mist.
No way.
Yes.
Indeed.
Yeah.
So see, and they have pink LEDs because plants absorb pink light better than regular light.
So it's a totally controlled, hermetically sealed system to grow cabbage or whatever high cash crop they want to grow, which could be marijuana in the next year.
But systems like that, where you take human involvement out, that's, I think, is where the efficiency is going to come.
So are we aiming for a world where basically humans don't have to work at all in robots or something else?
Does all the work for us?
Don't have to work.
Yes.
But again, betting on things that don't change.
People want to work.
Okay.
For right now, Max Tegmark has this new book Life 3.0.
I just heard about it a couple of weeks ago.
I haven't read it yet.
Exactly.
So he gives this great definition of there's this subset of people who don't have jobs are happy as fuck about it.
And their children.
Ah, okay.
Okay.
Well, happy as fuck is an interesting term, though, because I was, I was extremely happy while I was writing my novel.
Right.
And I mean, that's that's sort of a job, though.
It wasn't a job I was getting paid for.
And I could work whenever I wanted.
But once I was done with that, I kind of just started started floating.
And I swear my last two months of unemployment, I was doing basically nothing at all.
I was sitting around wasting my day and starting to feel really shitty about myself.
And it was weird as soon as I got an offer for for a job.
Oh, by the way, to any listener who cares, I just got a new job started four days ago.
But as soon as I got an offer, like immediately, I felt better.
I was like, Oh, my time is worth something again.
Exactly.
It is worth exactly this dollar amount.
Whereas before it was worthless and I was worthless.
Well, that hits the point that I wanted to bring up and I'm glad you brought up Tegmark's new book, which I haven't read, but I've also heard of.
Because, yeah, there are people, there are children who like not working, but kids don't, you know, they don't have the, they don't have the power.
Why is their work?
Because that's how they learn.
Yeah.
I mean, maybe I think, yeah, I mean, they would be bored sitting around all the time too.
Probably worse than us, but.
They don't have alcohol.
Yeah.
Or accessed alcohol anyway.
But yeah, because I when I was looking for a job a year ago for like five months and that sucked.
Because I'm not the kind of person who can sit at home and write a book and feel good about myself.
I just sat at home, not writing a book and hating myself.
So there, there's the question of like, how do people find meaning when they don't, you know, have.
It's tough because on the one hand, I don't like assigned my life's meaning to having a job, but it gets me out of bed and gives me something to do and gives me the resources to get the stuff I want.
I suppose if I had all the stuff I wanted, I imagine that would still be bored.
So like just having something that I, I guess, have to do gives me some, you know, I think meaning is having a lot of double meanings here, pun intended.
But yeah, is my question generally understandable?
Yes.
So where do we go from there?
No, that's a great point.
And I like and thank you for making the distinction between meaning and job.
Right.
So there's this good framework for analyzing things called the jobs to be done framework.
So apply that to a job.
So what, for lack of a better word, jobs does the product or thing that is called a job do for a human.
It gives you income, which asks us to like buy things and stuff.
Social structure, right?
We have work friends.
Mostly if you're spending eight hours in a day, you might hate the guy, but you know, you get to talk to him or her about whatever you want to talk to about.
And then there's that ephemeral meaning of long of just work basically just exercise for the intellect or just solving problems.
And like time structure, I think is a fourth thing.
So there's the social structure that you get from from having a network of people that you have to interact with.
But also just like, well, I've got to be there at eight or eight 30 or whatever time your job starts or seven, if you know, whatever.
But what if nobody was there?
What if that time structure was imposed solely on you?
Yeah, I for myself, I wasn't great at setting my own time structure to it.
I guess because I had nothing to do.
No, no, no, I'm saying in a job.
Oh, I'm saying the social structure is the underlying reason for the time structure.
Oh, sure.
Sure.
Yeah.
Well, and also like, I guess even if you work by yourself and all you did was talk to your boss once a month, like they would still, you know, they cared when you clocked in.
Or out or something.
But you're right.
That's a pretty contrived example.
So yeah, that's true.
It's the social.
Right.
No, but your point plays a good amount in the remote work economy, right?
There's a lot of people working from Fiji doing low end code work here.
And you can't impose my roommate and best friend works from home.
There you go.
Great.
See, so and you can't impose a time structure on them because they're doing whatever they're doing.
So if we're unbundling the job, I think the hardest one to replace would be that.
Social structure or that or that drive, meaning, whatever you want to call it, that would all everything else we can automate or, you know, abstract.
And if there's, if there are other things that you could do to get that, like community involvement, like intellectual pursuits, like writing a book.
So if that access is there, then I think we shouldn't have a problem.
I think just once we abstract away the individual bits that the meaning part of things is the hardest part, but everything else we can take away.
I just, I hate how I hate how I get this weird feeling of meaning sort of from my job because it's really there's very few things as meaningless as accounting.
No, it's it's basically playing a video game that's that's just juggling numbers all the time over and over.
And there's it's it is not a fulfilling job necessarily, but I still feel like like the mouse in the maze or the cog in the machine.
I'm like, yeah, I'm doing this and it's useful and I don't know.
It's it's weird that I get meaning out of that and I don't like it.
No, well, I don't know what Stephen wants to say, but accounting is great.
Accounting is great. Accounting is the basis for our for a marketplace, right?
For if I want to build a distribution structure, I have to account for it somewhere.
So I love accounting.
No, I'm even though I'm terrible at it.
Okay, okay.
So but I love it.
So meaning is meaning.
You could there are people who find meaning in cutting crops.
There are feeding.
So I think I think the struggle is more to find meaning nowadays.
Like we solved the whole can you survive question quite a while ago, at least in the first world.
And now it's the trying to find meaning question.
That's really hard.
Exactly.
And that is an issue.
Exactly.
Well, you could hack this in a way of saying go after big hairy audacious goals.
So if there are there are civilization level goals, then there's plenty of work to be done.
And if your basic living is taken care of, then those big hairy audacious goals would give you meaning would give you you people will be obsessed.
And they will do that to failure almost.
How many people do you think that actually encompasses very few.
But when I say big hairy audacious goal, that just doesn't mean terraforming Mars.
That could also mean making sure everybody on nobody on the planet is depressed.
Like Councilor Troy is also a valid option here.
No, but I guess what I meant was how many people do you think would actually want to pursue something like that?
Like when you're not doing anything else, it's often hard to get motivated to do anything.
Like, I guess, right, I had a number of months and Steven had a number of months where we weren't really doing anything and we didn't do much either with all that time that we had.
And I know at least a few people that I'm sure if they didn't have to ever work again would really not do much of anything with their time.
Right. It's not it is not person dependent and it's not time dependent as well.
Like I could be I could be running after some terraforming Mars goal if we want to take with that example for four months and then decide it's not built for me and go try something else.
Right. The issue is getting that initial, as you say, inertia out of the way of saying, okay, my needs are taken care of.
Right. I have to do something. I think at the very least people would do it just out of boredom.
Like one point beyond suicide, you could get somebody to do this stuff.
So I have we have people up to that point to bring on to this.
I'm kind of going through an update in my head right now.
So like one of the the classic things that like comebacks to, you know, something like universal basic income is like people get bored.
They all have no meaning because they don't have jobs, that sort of thing.
And I'm wondering if that's actually a hard problem because it just occurred to me that there's children who are fine, but there's there's the opposite class of people, the retired people.
Like my girl has been retired for 20 years and I get the feeling that even if her, you know, her retirement pension was five times what it was, she'd probably live a life much like she lives.
She gardens a lot. She, you know, socializes with her friends.
My partner's dad just retired last summer and he's got this.
He's at least one or two old cars that he's rebuilding.
And like, you know, so I mean, there's probably projects that he's had on his mind for years and he's like, all right, I'm going to finally do this.
So maybe this isn't a hard problem.
