And it's like, no, actually a lot of them are like your friendly neighbors who
will help you change attire and, um, you know, like, and so like, that's the thing
is I, I know at least two or three, uh, Trump supporters and they're, they're
perfectly nice people.
And so like, and it, how dare you say that?
I know, right?
Um, but like, if you, if you only hear about stuff from your weird circle about
how weird the enemy is, then like, it just, it, it pollutes everything.
Yeah.
I think the people telling you that, you know, listening to that will contaminate
your brain, understand that, you know, staying in a filter bubble is going to
make you believe everything you hear in that bubble.
And they're, they're trying to do that to you.
That's what they want.
They're upset that you're stepping out of the bubble because then it won't work.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that does seem to be the case because I don't buy their bullshit now either.
I'm like, exactly what they've
thought would happen.
Yep.
My main source of, of right-leaning news is Saturday Night Live.
Saturday Night Live is the right leading.
No, but I'm joking because it makes fun of everybody.
It does make fun of the right more, but maybe it's me being biased.
I think there's more to make fun of there.
And so the joke was extra meta because it wasn't funny, just like Saturday Night
Live, you know, most, most episodes Saturday Night Live, I think when Tom
Hanks was hosting one of their remote episodes, he was like, it's SNL.
There's going to be a couple of funny sketches, a few bad ones, and the
rest will just be there.
But I actually have been really enjoying it recently.
I saw a really great, I guess it was sort of a skit where they had someone
impersonating that crazy new right-wing lady senator.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
And it was, what's that?
Bobert.
Yeah.
Yes.
And it was hilarious and I loved it.
And then afterwards I felt really bad for loving it because basically it was
someone dressing up like her and being, her, her, I'm a dumb idiot.
Look at how stupid I am.
Is it okay to laugh at that?
But they do the same thing.
Like I just watched because they didn't have a new one last night because
they're lazy and they worked five whole weeks in a row.
And I guess they're tired.
So last year where John Mulaney was hosting and it opens up with a bunch
of, um, it must have been during the presidential campaign.
Uh, oh yeah.
Cause that's the one with the elderly men contest bit.
Yeah.
It was one of those, but it was at the opening cut was like Elizabeth Warren, uh,
by Kate McKinnon.
Uh, I think John Mulaney was doing, uh, Joe Biden, uh, they had Pete
Buttigieg and a couple of others.
And then they had Larry David as Bernie Sanders, who does a perfect Bernie Sanders.
Um, so I figured like, as long as I'm making fun of everybody, I'm into it.
But the one that you're talking about was, uh, a weekend update.
Yes.
And it had, um, uh, Cecily Strong playing What's Her Butt.
Okay.
And I thought it was hilarious.
I thought so too.
But then I thought like, how is different taking notes?
Cause you got a link to all of these, but like, how is this different from
political blackface where you dress yourself up like someone that you want to
make fun of because they act like an idiot.
Cause they do it both ways.
They also, on another weekend update in the last few months, they had two people
on who were like, we need to start when, you know, the cancel culture is bad.
Cause it's not strong enough.
We need to start canceling more people look like this, this, this baby.
But that's just true.
This, this, this baby cried when it was delivered by a black doctor.
We need to cancel this baby.
So like, right.
So I mean, I think that they're pretty even-handed in what they make fun of.
That's why, that's why I write it up as an example.
But if we go any further without talking about libertarianism, David's going to
explode.
I know I should say, I feel like we spent the requisite 45 minutes on, on
sequences and digressions.
So the real purpose of this episode was last, last episode I had said that I,
uh, basically, I don't, I don't quite understand the steel man for libertarianism
and, or, and, and arco capitalism, nor can I articulate the difference.
And this is probably like now getting too broad, but my, uh, I pointed to the,
the, the situation in Texas as it was two or three weeks ago.
And I was like, isn't this what you get when it's just businesses running
shit without regulation?
Cause specifically Texas left the US power grid so they could avoid regulation,
like having to winterize things.
Cause they thought there was unnecessary and dumb.
And then we had the Texas situation.
And the question was like, is this not libertarianism?
And why not?
Or why is it actually good or whatever?
Yeah.
David, I hope we haven't stacked things against you too badly.
And let the man talk.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah, no.
So, um, do you want me to talk about Texas now?
Or should we wait until the part of the outline where it says we're supposed
to talk about Texas?
I don't think it would be better to wait to talk about Texas until like we go
through the basic definitions and so on.
Oh, no, these Bayesian conspiracy types don't read outlines.
I forgot you did have an outline that I'll, I'll find really quick.
So yeah, go ahead and take it whatever order you wanted to,
cause you're our honored guests.
As long as you process this will lead to Texas.
Okay.
So, um, I think it's a good idea to start out with just a basic definition
of libertarianism.
Um, and the definition that I like, uh, is one that recent magazine uses a lot.
So I feel like it's a pretty mainstream definition within libertarianism.
Uh, it's a belief that it is desirable to limit the size, scope, and spending of government.
And obviously this ranges from, uh, extremely moderate libertarians who
think we should limit that a little to anarcho capitalists who think we
should limit it to zero.
And, uh, unless you guys object to, uh, the definition of government that I'm
working on is, um, Max Weber's definition, which is a, um, a geographically
limited monopoly on the legitimate use of force.
Uh, so there's just one group in a certain geographical area that is allowed
to shoot people and other people won't complain too much.
And that, that one organization is the government.
I think that definition is too, too narrow.
And I also like a belief that it is desirable to limit the size, scope, and
spending of government is like so innocuous a statement that it's impossible to
challenge.
Well, isn't it also true of both the Democrats and the Republicans too?
They just disagree on which parts to limit, right?
Like, so if I were to say, if I said, I disagreed with that statement that it's
desirable to limit the size, scope, and spending of government that like then,
then you could just say, Oh, so you think the government should have cameras
in your bedroom watching you have sex?
Cause that's, you know, that's not limiting them at all.
Like, come on.
So I think that's two week of definition and be the, the, the description
of the monopoly on violence.
Well, I think that's part of government.
I would say like the other part of governments might be like this entity
organization that I send money to, and they make roads and put up fires for me.
Well, what that definition says to me is that it's directional.
It's saying, look at where we are.
Do we need more government or less government?
Yeah, yeah, that's it.
So like vacuum then.
Yeah.
So it's the definition isn't that you think there should be, if you're not a
libertarian, then you think there should be no limits at all.
It's that you think it should be limited relative to the current functions.
Okay.
I can, then that caveat's part one enough for sufficiently for me.
I again think that like the Republicans want to limit the size and scope of
government in relation to certain businesses, whereas the Democrats want
to limit it for other businesses, and both of them have their own social issues
where they want to limit or expand the government.
So yeah, I don't know.
I think that usually the Democrats want to expand how much the government is
involved or like just add more regulation.
I think that's what you hear.
But then you hear like, well, I mean, the Democrats aren't saying what you can do
with your uterus if you're pregnant, right?
Like the Republicans are like, oh yeah, we want to stay out of your, out of your
small businesses, but we want all up in your uterus, right?
So I think that they both, they, you know, and I guess I'm not even comparing it
to either branch, but if I, if I compared it to government now, then I can at least
say, okay, sure, if, if the libertarian says, look at, look at government.
And we'll, we'll figure out what that is here in a second.
But then I, as a libertarian, I think that it's desirable to limit the
size, scope, and spending of that.
I can, I can follow what you're saying there at the very least.
Yeah.
And I have to say there is, there has been a political
coalition between Republicans and libertarians, or rather between the
Republican party and libertarians for a couple of decades now.
But that is something that a lot of libertarians don't like, including me.
And it's also very historically contingent and fairly recent.
Um, so like Carter was an extremely libertarian president.
Um, but he was a Democrat.
And then, uh, part of Reagan strategy, uh, won over the libertarians.
And then the Republican was, the Republicans were pretty much just
coasting on, uh, libertarian sympathies since Reagan.
And I do think Trump did a lot of, uh, good for the libertarians by
getting the assholes out of the room.
Again, this is something we'll talk about later, but that coalition is
something I would very much look to, uh, uh, see that breaking down fairly soon.
Um, so just, uh, just a little advanced prediction there.
But yeah, uh, definitely both parties have some upsides from a libertarian
perspective and both parties have some downsides.
And definitely since Trump, the Republicans have been diligently
disavowing their upsides.
Uh, so yeah, if you just think of it in terms of like libertarians can
basically be rounded off to Republicans, then you're definitely going to
make some easily avoidable mistakes.
Totally.
