No, I am, but, uh, also just the last two apartments I've lived in have just
yesterday there was this dude who was working on his car and he brought a
concert sized speaker and put it on his front porch and then was just blasting
bachata and it was rattling the windows of my building.
And I was just, isn't it nice to be able to call the cops and say they're
violating the noise ordinance?
Can you tell them to shut the fuck up?
No, cause I don't do that.
Did you go off or something?
That means, yeah.
So that's one option.
The other, uh, because the cop, so basically you, uh, your social anxiety
means you have foregone your property right to a quiet street corner because
you're not willing to call the cops.
And, uh, so that means that the guy blasting the music has the property
right.
And so what you need to do is go out and give him a hundred bucks to fuck off.
And then he takes it and he turns the volume up.
Exactly.
I wouldn't do that.
I mean, then you punch him.
I did actually have a, we had these like lousy, shitty teenage neighbors or
maybe 20 somethings fucking teens that were just blasting music and screaming
and doing shots all night long.
And it was like three a.m.
And I, we tried to get like the building security to come do something about
them, but they were like, Oh, we can't, unless there's like documented proof.
So we're videotaping them.
We're like, sure, let me put this on speakerphone and you can hear it.
That was actually, I was on the phone and I was like, do you hear this?
They were, they were howling like wolves.
Like the more I was like trying to lay, I tried to talk to them and say, I was
like, you know, open my window and I was like, hi, two people who work live here
that are trying to sleep currently.
Could you please be a good citizen and stop howling like wolves?
Well, yeah.
So the problem, the problem was you, your means of persuasion was asking if
they're, they can be good citizens instead of throwing a hundred bucks out
the window.
Yeah, but do you really want to pay a hundred bucks every single night to get
sleep?
Uh, yeah.
So then you need to, uh, actually enforce your property, right?
To peace and quiet and get over your social anxiety.
I did.
So the question, the question is, uh, the question is not, does Jace really
want to pay a hundred bucks every night to get sleep?
It's, does he want to pay a hundred bucks every night to get sleep more than he
wants to call the cops and enforce his property rights to get sleep?
So, uh, in a lot of these cases, there's the whole thing of me being a white
dude calling the cops on like poor Hispanic people.
And I'm uncomfortable with that.
Yeah.
Well, I think this is actually a good cozy and bargaining situation.
So like imagine there were no cops and anyone was allowed, they were just allowed
to make that noise.
Um, the idea would then be that Jace, you go out and say, okay, well, I'll give
you, you know, 50 bucks to, to be quiet tonight.
Um, or you can even say, Hey, I'll give you 300 bucks to be quiet all month.
Um, or you could go around to your neighbors and take up a collection and say,
Hey, I want to pay these guys to be quiet.
Um, what, what are you willing to, uh, pitch in?
I don't know.
Like what has actually worked is, for example, there was somebody's car alarm
went off every night and I fucking went around and I videotaped the car going off.
And then I identified whose car it was and I went to their door and showed them
this video and it was like, hi, this wakes me up every night.
This is your car, right?
And then I said, you know, like, I will help you disable this alarm with your
cooperation or without it, with your cooperation or without your cooperation.
Well, I was so like, there's escalating.
I liked to do the escalating level of that where I got the Hispanic neighbors
to be quieter by continually going up to their apartment, walking into the apartment
and looking them in the eye and like, you know, you make people feel uncomfortable
enough times and then like they were usually willing to stop.
See, I don't have the cojones.
So that, so that's basically just cozy and bargaining, except instead
of having a literal auction, you're just like, uh, using social pressure
instead of money.
I think a much more long-term solution that people would fall back on is
eventually forming communities where to buy a property in the community.
You first signed this document that says all of us will respect these quiet hours.
And if you don't respect these quiet hours, we will hire a security
service to come and, you know, force you to be quiet or something.
And so you agree to that.
And to me, that looks a lot like a government.
Can I, uh, no, that, that's a way of reallocating
property rights so that you can, um, lower the transaction costs, which
is not something that, um, enters into the basic cost theorem.
Um, because that just assumes away the problem of property
right allocation and transaction costs.
But yeah, that is the sort of thing that empirical cosines write about all the time.
Uh, can I also think that it'll be a lot easier to understand
libertarian arguments if you understand that even the most hardcore
anarcho capitalists recognizes that in under the status quo, the government
provides valuable services.
It's just that they want those services provided by other entities than the government.
Uh, so, you know, anarcho capitalists and libertarians are, are still very
in favor of having enforcement mechanisms for these kinds of things.
Um, they're just tend to be private companies rather than, uh, governments.
Yes.
You had something, Chase?
Um, actually, I'll drop it.
It was going back to the noise thing, but I want to move along in this, uh, document.
What do you say to people who yell Pinkerton's at you whenever you mentioned
security companies rather than government?
I pay them 50 bucks to fuck off because the first amendment that, uh, property
rights are clearly allocated to them.
Yeah, I kind of, I guess, want to let you keep going just so we can move past
the second bullet point in this, in this talk, but, okay, because I'm tempted
to just keep bogging down on the weeds, but, you know, uh, there'll be time
for bogging shortly, I imagine.
I'll see how long I hold my tongue.
So, uh, any, any other questions about social efficiency and whether or not
it's desirable?
No, for the sake of moving the discussion along.
No.
Okay, cool.
Uh, so basically, if you accept that principle, then, uh, that means
that, um, the, uh, transactions, which should be acceptable by default to you
are any voluntary transactions between consenting individuals, because if both
parties consent to a transaction, that that means they are both made better
off by the transaction.
And so, um, while there are some cases where voluntary transactions can
lower social welfare, uh, for example, uh, if there are externalities like the
parties that are keeping you up at night, they are voluntary between the person
throwing the party and the people attending the party, but there are externalities.
So they might reduce social welfare, but, uh, outside of a few, um, uh, a few
narrow exceptions like that, uh, there, uh, if you agree that the best thing to
do is maximize social efficiency, then you should allow all voluntary transactions
between consenting individuals outside those constraints.
Uh, you managed to both make me praise you when you had said, of course, the
caveat of externalities.
And then you went on to say, barring those few narrow exceptions.
I, I, like, so you had me at the first half, I'm like, Oh, good.
He's sitting next to anality problem.
And then you're like, you just missed it as these narrow exceptions that are
like not a problem.
Well, so the, so the reason why I say those narrow exceptions is because even
if you just accept that, and then you take a very, very, very broad reading of
like what creates externalities, um, and other things like if there's market
power or, uh, information asymmetries, then, uh, that's probably enough to make
you a libertarian because things like smoking weed in your own home or paying
a sex worker to have sex with you.
Uh, unless you like think that there's some really important, like moral fabric
of society, externality or something like that, then those don't really fall
into the, um, they don't really fall into any of those exceptions, but those
are voluntary transactions that the government bans.
So at least I've got to come back to those.
That is enough to make you a libertarian on the definition we're using.
Okay.
Well, like I'm thinking like, you know, my HOA community, I don't think it's
my bylaws because it's in the government bylaws.
But if, if, if we were just operating within the, like the confines of like
personal, uh, what do we call them?
Property areas, whatever.
Like my HOA community decides, uh, among other things, yeah, you know, when
you change the oil in your car, you can just dump it in the gutter because it
flows down the street to the next neighborhood and we don't, we don't
care about them.
Uh, and it's expensive to just build it properly.
So fuck them.
Like it's our rules that we were okay with dumping our oil and name everything
else that shitty that comes out of your house.
Um, we're okay with dumping it because it goes down the street.
Like that's an externality and dismissing that sounds like it sounds like
pretending that that wouldn't happen.
Like that's not a problem.
Yeah.
So I'm not dismissing it, but that's also a pretty easy externality to handle.
Because remember, externalities get, uh, internalized if property rights are
clearly allocated and transaction costs are low.
And in the case of, uh, that particular example, it, the transaction costs are
pretty low, like you just follow the gutter until you find the place that the
oil seems to be coming from and then bang on the door of whoever's houses next
to the gutter at that point.
Um, obviously, but our gated community is, let's, let's say it's gated with 40
foot high walls and we've got guards.
I guess, I mean, I, and I, and this is where I tried to not get bogged down.
And if this is going to bog us down, just say, we'll get to that later, but
I'm just curious how this doesn't just like, you know, totally fuck people without power.
I know the idea is that if you imagine the perfect spherical economist in a vacuum,
everyone has power and the community can get me, you know, me and my, my, my poor
cohorts can get together and go bang on these walls, but they can just, they
can safely ignore us.
Yeah.
So that's fine.
But, uh, Inyash Jase, I need you to, uh, bonk Steven because he just did the, uh,
bonkable offense.
Uh, so yes, it's true that, uh, under some set of circumstances, you can conceive
of a society where, uh, rich people or otherwise powerful people can fuck over
poor people, but for libertarianism to be desirable, it doesn't need to outperform
every single possible scenario.
It just needs to outperform the government.
And if you're positing a group of people who are so powerful, whether it be through
wealth or political connections or whatever, that they can just like dump
oil wherever they want and get away with it, then you're probably going to have
a problem with that group of people, no matter how you organize society.
I think the, uh, counter example to Steven's point would be like, we have
an American government and we also have how they have historically treated the
