but they're more rational in the marketplace than they are in the voting booth.
So the government cannot be a solution to irrationality.
I mean, the government, you're right,
because I'm looking at an ideal government, not the one we have.
And yet I think I think we're getting I dodged that bunk.
I think I think we're getting a little far afield.
But I do, you know, we'll we'll put this for next time.
I share Jason's concern massively for like, how do we protect people?
Yeah, so who don't have either perfect information
or the ability to move to a place that a better age away?
Yeah, so I do want to talk about perfect information real quick
because it is just like another chance for me to goosh about some basic price theory.
So the the information problem is essentially
so suppose you are a car dealer
who knows whether your cars are peaches or lemons and someone
and I'm trying to buy a car from you.
I don't know whether they're peaches or lemons.
So because I don't know whether they're peaches or lemons, the only
I won't be and say your lot is split 50 50 between them.
And I won't go into specific numbers
because that would that doesn't make very good radio.
But if that's the case, then I'm only willing to pay
half the price I'd be willing to pay for a peach and or rather
the half the price I'd be willing to pay for a peach plus
half the price I'd be willing to pay for a lemon, which is the expected value
of a random car.
If you know that I'm not going to do better than that halfway between price,
then you're going to take all of the peaches off a lot because you're getting
underpaid for all of them and so you'll only have lemons.
I will only be willing to pay the lemon price once you take the peaches off a lot.
And we end up with a market where you only sell lemons
and you don't get paid very much for it.
So this is a case, not just of imperfect information, but of asymmetric information.
And in asymmetric information markets, then voluntary exchange
isn't guaranteed to create the social optimum outcome.
It's very important that it is in asymmetric information markets
because imperfect information markets where the imperfection is symmetrical
do actually produce the or an efficient outcome because
if you don't know whether any given car is a lemon or a peach,
then you'll be willing to accept the halfway between price
because there's a 50 percent chance that you get overpaid
and a 50 percent chance that you get underpaid.
So, yeah, asymmetric information is a case where voluntary exchange can
end with bad outcomes, but there are more ways than people think
for imperfect information problems or asymmetric information problems to be resolved.
Some of my favorites are hostage capital.
Which is just one of my favorite concepts in economics.
You were saying something, Jayce?
I don't these solutions, though, largely require coordination efforts.
No, they don't.
And hostage capital is a coordination-less way to solve asymmetric information problems.
So I will talk about it.
So, well, yeah, I got to be ramping this up sometime soon.
All right, I got to stuff.
OK, then this can be the last thing we talk about in this episode
and we can do a part two at some point.
How long will this take?
It will take like five, ten minutes,
but it'll take longer if you keep asking questions.
Let's let's we'll do some pre-reading before the next episode.
And read about hostage capitalism, because that sounds hilarious.
And save it for next time.
How's that sound?
Ah, OK, fine.
I know we're leaving you hanging, but now you're one.
You gave you gave me hostage capital blue balls.
Thank you.
You're your advice to come back and give us give us the next.
Oh, I don't need an incentive.
So before we like wrap this up, are there since this was supposed to be
addressing the Texas thing, are there anything else that any of us want to say
about the whole Texas thing?
I have one last factual question that should have a yes or no.
You said that the fixed rate was an option.
So if I am either I chose the variable rate, you, my neighbor, chose the fixed rate.
Right.
Did your electricity work with the same reliability as mine?
And you got to pay your usual rate?
Yes, because you can't shut off electricity just to an individual house.
It's to regions, which is why when they kept electricity going to the hospitals,
they basically had the entire region around the hospital got electricity.
And those were generally the nicer parts of town from what I heard.
Yeah.
OK, so at least I'm happy to hear that.
That if you did opt into the fixed rate contract, that you weren't like
individually penalized during the during the black and brown outs.
OK, so that that was my that was my last clarifying question there.
No way. All right.
Anything from Jayce?
No, let's wrap it up. All right.
Wait, wait, anything from David about the whole Texas thing?
Yeah, if a place has a government, then generally you want to bet against
anything that happens in that place being an argument against libertarianism.
Deal. I really not always, but generally.
Sure. No, I really appreciate this whole conversation.
I thought that it was a lot of fun.
I mean, the downside is there's just too many rabbit holes.
This is the kind of kind of conversation you need to have.
You know, I admit when you pitched this group or this episode to me,
my initial thought was, you think we can do that in one episode?
We could have glad to see I'm right.
I don't know. I it was it was a good time.
Inyash, if you are hosting this podcast in particular
and you're betting against a bunch of tangents, then you are a fool.
Well, yeah, OK. But I was, I don't know.
The one thing I would say about Texas is that it seems to me a lot of the
problems that people have against libertarian is what Wes said.
People like to prevent people from doing things.
And one of those things is not having insurance, not having regulations.
And you're going to run into a problem whenever you have a large group
of people trying to have a sort of libertarian government that doesn't do that
because people just don't think it's really important.
It's a sexual harassment thing, right?
Yeah, they have to force people to not make dumb decisions.
And I have issues with that because a lot of decisions that the government
had in the past has said are dumb are things that I want to choose to do,
like, you know, have gay sex or take drugs or whatever it is.
But on the other hand, there's also a strong overwhelming social pressure
to not allow people to get those kinds of bills or to not have certain types
of insurance, and that's another hard problem that I think is difficult to solve.
I don't think the fence one is the only one.
It's given me a lot to chew on anyway.
OK, good.
No, this was awesome.
And this was awesome largely in part today due to Dmitri Pariski.
I'm sorry, Dmitri, I can't read good.
Dmitri Pariski, I'm going to go with that pronunciation.
Your public education system at work, ladies and gentlemen.
All right, try this public education system.
What? I went to the same public education system as you.
Yeah, so can you can you?
It's definitely Dmitri.
Can I try? All right, Dmitri Pariski.
I think it wasn't so much that I couldn't read it.
It's that I can't talk.
So anyway, it was a little column A, a little column B.
Anyway, thank you, Dmitri.
You rock and we really appreciate everything you do for us.
Let us know if we can do anything for you.
That goes for everybody, including you, David.
Thanks for coming on.
And I don't know.
I had a lot of fun, you know, even if even if most of this was just chasing
each other's tails and trying to, you know, touch a hundred things in an hour.
I had a great time with it.
So yeah, it was good.
Let's continue it sometime.
Yeah, thank you, David, for coming on.
Thank you, Dmitri, for being our patron and producing this episode
for everyone to listen to.
Hopefully they all appreciate it as well.
And thank you to West for being here for an hour.
Sorry, we had scheduling per bubbles.
Yeah. Oh, and everybody, if you want to hear more of news
politics and in particular, David, pushing his libertarian agenda on everybody.
Listen to the mind killer.
It is our sister podcast.
It also has. Hey, I only push my libertarian agenda at people who voluntarily agree
by listening to the podcast.
That's true. And West always pushes his.
I don't know what's in this agenda.
It's not fully statused, though.
It's sort of it's very statused.
OK, yeah, it's not that status.
I also like what the hell is it?
Wireheading and hedonism and I guess some wacky ideas that are fun.
And I will just push my general, you know, everything I'm correct on agenda.
So yeah, I'm I'm an ordained minister of the church of the dude.
So that's basically my agenda.
So you abide. Yeah, I abide.
So yeah, I also just as long as we're plugging mind killers,
maybe I'm biased because I'm on the side of the microphone for this podcast.
But I laugh a lot more listening to the mind killers than I do than I do
recording this, I think. OK. David, especially I find your brand of humor
like exactly point on there was one.
I think this prompted me to bring it up in the chat like month, months ago.
I dropped some like one word of legalese and you're like,
for the laws of us who aren't lawyers and or pretentious,
can you define that?
And I still chuckle about that to this day.
Thanks for people like our podcast because we're
with each other and then the opposite, you know, I like both flavors.
Yeah, it's different for sure.
So Google the mind killer podcast or just come to, you know, our site.
We have a link to it as well.
And yeah, we'll see you all in two weeks, I guess.
Cool beans. All right, everybody.
Bye. Thanks, buddy. Bye.
