Right.
But like all it takes is one person to say, you know what, I'm not, I don't
want to do this.
Uh, Scott Alexander uses the example of someone farming wasps in their backyard.
Right.
Like, uh, if, if I live in an HOA, we can say no wasps, no wasp farms allowed.
But if I, because you're an asshole, right?
But so like, famously, there was an old lady in a libertarian town that loved bears.
And so she fed bears on her property and it was a huge problem for the rest of the
community.
It sounds like a problem.
So like, it just, I guess, how does the, so then again, we've got the, we get
the, all right, we'll pay you all $100 a month to not raise wasps or we can all
agree 100% of us to not do it.
And then we'll sign a piece of paper saying that we won't do it.
Otherwise we owe you $100.
But like getting unanimous votes for everything down to the level of wasps
sounds like impossible.
So that, that is getting deep into the weeds.
And if you want to take a four hour tangent for me to talk about mechanism
design and pre-commitment, I am super down for that, but it sounds like I have
more endurance on that front than you guys do.
I was sort of hoping we get to that general topic, but.
Okay.
I mean, there has to be a, so there has to be a not four hour version of defend.
You don't have to defend it perfectly, but there has to be a not four hour version.
Otherwise I'm going to accuse you of Jordan Peterson.
Okay.
Uh, so the short version is, um, uh, while you are, so, so like the way I would do
it, if I was like designing a mechanism for that is I would have everyone buy
into like basically buy into a, uh, basically social insurance pool where if
say the filters cost $300, but not having them, uh, will get you $400 in profit.
Have everyone put $200 into the pool.
And then at the end of whatever period, the pool pays out evenly amongst all
people who had filters and then, uh, if there are holdouts, then that gets back
into the complicated area, but basically there are ways around the problem.
And, um, they tend to not be simple, but, um, if you, if you do want to read the
work of the, uh, woman who literally wrote the book on this, uh, it is what Stone Cold
badass and first woman economics, Nobel prize winner, Eleanor Ostrom did her
prize winning work on, uh, it is well worth the read.
Okay.
That sounds fun.
Yeah.
Cause I'm just thinking like then that just, and then we'll, we'll just push past it.
I'm thinking you got to pay somebody to inspect the, the filters.
So like they're going to get less than the 100% return unless the person's being
paid by somebody else.
You got to pay the accountant who's keeping track of all this shit.
Like these people are going to lose money somewhere or it's coming from somewhere else.
But all right, let's, let's do touch on Texas.
Cause I'm curious, like, so this, this, this was in my, my night, my naivete.
I was thinking, all right, well, look, they said regulation sucks and they went
without it and they all got fucked, right?
Or at least many of them, plenty of them did, right?
The rich ones or the assholes got to fly out to Cancun, but, um, the, the rest of them
who didn't have plane tickets ready to go to Cancun, uh, they got fucked, right?
Yes.
This seems like a great argument in favor of regulation saying, look, I don't care
what you guys want to do.
We're going to, we're going to put in some minimum enforcements on what you're
allowed to do as part of our society that includes like the kind of shit you're
allowed to burn to power your vehicles.
That includes the amount of like minimum effort you have to put in into building
your critical infrastructure, et cetera.
Yeah.
So, um, the big case against, uh, blaming Texas's power failure on libertarianism is
that their grid wasn't libertarian.
It wasn't like it was a regulated cooperative with a whole bunch of stakeholders of
whom consumers were only a small share.
Uh, so in an ideal libertarian society, then you would just have a whole bunch
of power companies competing and one could be like super duper robust and their
customers would pay a lot for that.
Um, but they would almost never fail.
And then you would have more lackluster or more lackadaisical companies.
Uh, and if their customers wanted to save money and deal with occasional brown
outs and blackouts, then that's a choice they could make.
Obviously with cases like power, where you actually need to run physical power
lines to every single house, it is more complicated than that.
And, uh, that is something I specifically want to address at length in the Q and A.
But, um, suffice it to say that Texas does not quite live up to the libertarian ideal.
Uh, but, uh, to some extent that is a, um, uh, what you call it.
Um, it's kind of no true Scotsmaning.
Uh, so the other thing I'll say is, uh, if you do pass that sort of regulation that
every single, um, uh, especially if you pass it at the federal level, then you
would need, uh, everywhere to be able to deal with hurricanes as well as, um,
Louisiana does and heat as well as Texas does and cold as well as Alaska does and so on.
Well, and, um, it's better to just have a, uh, to make those decisions as locally as
possible so that, uh, each individual customer or not individual customers because
of the fixed cost problems, but, uh, where as few numbers of customers as you can get
away with are making decisions, uh, for themselves about what risks they want to take
in exchange for higher energy bills.
And if you mandate Texas needs to have its grid hardened against these once in a decade
snowstorms, um, then that will lead to higher energy prices and you are making a decision
for the people who are paying those prices that they should be paying those prices when
they might rather use that money to buy food or, uh, put gas in their cars or do other
things that they would prefer to paying higher energy prices.
And so it's really easy to point at a specific bad thing that happened and then hit the do
something button, but you need to remember that those sorts of things come with costs
and you need to, and someone needs to pay those costs.
And the best way for evaluating, uh, those sorts of cost benefit, uh, calculations is just
by making, by allowing the people who are affected to make the decisions.
And so that's why, uh, you would want, uh, those decisions made by actual Texans.
Okay.
Yeah.
I follow, I think I follow everything you're saying.
I think that, like, uh, I mean, whether or not the average person that you ask would
agree to this or not, they would, I think probably understand that they'd rather pay another
$60 a year in energy bills than have a 20% chance of paying $16,000 a week to warm their
house, right, um, over, over, over any given decade.
Like I, I sort of just assume that's the case.
And the, you know, and this, this gets me to, I think my solution with Texas that I
gleaned from this conversation is that these people probably weren't given a choice
because there weren't competing markets.
And so what happened in Texas wasn't a libertarian, you know, failure.
This was just bad design, bad, bad, bad organization.
Well, seeing that it couldn't be competing.
Yeah.
So you, so you could, um, could.
If you said this is like a thing that locally Texans should, um, decide on it.
If 51% of Texans decide, you know what, we do want to winterize and we're willing to
bear the costs and they pass a regulation that says all the power has to be winterized.
Um, is that acceptable in a libertarian version since it was local decision and the
majority decided to go with it?
That is certainly more acceptable, uh, than the federal government saying all
power grids need to be winterized.
Um, uh, so the, so the other, um, big objection I have to, uh, blaming Texas
on libertarianism is that they're like the reason why Texas could only experiment
with different ways of providing power.
If it was an isolated energy island was because of federal regulations that
they didn't want to follow.
Uh, and those regulations weren't like simple common sense stuff.
Texas was doing those anyway.
Uh, it was like very specific things where Texas thought that they could do
them better and cheaper.
And in a lot of cases they were right, but the government arbitrarily, the federal
government arbitrarily decided, if you want to experiment with that specific thing,
then you can't be plugged into our power grid.
And so like the liberty, the really simple marginal libertarian solution is
just let people experiment with different ways of providing power without
being completely cut off from all other grids in the country.
Well, if those other grids feel that that experimentation will put them at risk,
don't they have the right to disassociate from Texas if they want to?
They do, but I'm pretty sure that no one was making that case.
Like the, the, the generally power is generated locally.
And the only reason you have a national grid is so that the entire thing
doesn't blow up in the case of these local emergencies.
Um, and I, if anyone has made the case that plugging, uh, that connecting
Texas's grid with the rest of the country would present a serious environmental
or safety risk to the rest of the country, I have not heard it.
I think that, yeah, if, if I have, in fact, just not heard it and that is true,
then of course that's a decision that the rest of the country, um, is free to make.
I think that's why, like, you know, and this will be, you know, future
conversation fodder, but I guess at the end of the day, there's a reason
this is a gigantic field of study that you can't sum up in two hours.
Cause like, yes, there's a zillion nuances.
I mean, you know, if, if 85% of my neighbors in Texas were like, no,
fuck the, you know, paying an extra $11 a year for a safer electricity.
I want to spend that on whatever you said, food and gas, but I'm assuming
more stupid things cause it's $11.
I'm making numbers up, but like, should I just be fucked?
Cause all my neighbors are idiots.
Like, no, obviously I can just move out of Texas, just get in your car
and drive 2,000 miles, but that's not like, that's not a real solution.
Right.
Probably also buy an emergency generator.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I suppose if I had the, you know, but even that, like, I mean, I
imagine that you can't run that inside.
So it has to be outside and then I've got to have that.
No, you can run an emergency generator inside.
Really?
It depends.
It depends on some of the details, but yeah, I suppose.
Yeah.
If you, if it vented outside, if it ran on gas, then, or if it ran on electricity,
you had like one of those Tesla powers power banks, you know.
Oh, okay.
I was about to say it's counterproductive if it runs on electricity.
Yeah, you know, you just plug it into the wall and charge it.
Then you, then you power your house.
Yeah.
Yeah, they do have electricity, powered electricity generators that are
called extension cords.
But I do, I can put the Texas thing aside because that's, this was not
a good libertarian example.
And I knew it wasn't.
And real quick, I do, I do want to, I do want to say it isn't necessarily
the case that lack of competition means it's not libertarian because you
can have natural monopolies where you don't have competition, even in an
ideally libertarian society.
So that, that wasn't, it's not that if there's a monopoly, then it's not libertarianism.
That would be left libertarianism or just blatant, no true Scotsmaning.
It's more that the particular monopoly we're talking about here is definitely
has some government mockery in addition to just general monopoly problems.
I just agree that we can just set Texas aside because anybody who wants to
score a point against libertarianism is going to point at Texas and say, see,
look, this happened because they didn't have regulations requiring winterization.
This is a big libertarianism fail.
And just saying, well, yeah, that's what the people of Texas chose is not, it's
