They get together, form an association and, um, immediately take away
people's choices about whether to join it or not.
Uh, so I feel like that's, that's, that's sort of what I would expect in
any kind of society that, that didn't have some kind of enforcement
mechanism against governments.
I could picture this on a small scale where, you know, it's
me and, and a dozen people on an island and together, or at least most of us
decide that, Hey, look, the fresh water is coming from this stream on the top.
Anyone taking a shit and it gets there, you know, gets beaten up, right?
That, that's government small scale.
And like, even if someone wants to make an irrational decision there and shit
in the good water, like the, the, the government of the other 11 of us will
have something to say about that.
Right.
I don't think you're going to go pay him not to shit in the water.
I think you're just going to go point a gun at him and say, don't shit in the water.
I'm going to, I'm going to pay him with, you know, by not hitting him in the face.
Um, and the other thing, the other thing I wanted to say is that when you do get
to talking about anarcho capitalism, um, I had real trouble understanding what
the concept was, um, for a while until I, and the way I was able to conceptualize
it is that it's not really an absence of government.
It's a series of subscription governments, um, that are all operating in the
same area and that you can choose which one you want to subscribe to.
Yeah.
So that is why I brought up the, um, Max Planck definition of government because
anarcho capitalism, as I conceive of it and as Wes understands it as well, uh,
is it is anarchic in the Planck sense that there isn't a geographically localized
monopoly, uh, but a lot of the things that governments currently do would end up
happening under, uh, anarcho capitalism.
Yeah.
And if you want to see a really cool creative take on this, uh, I recommend
to like the lightning by Ada Palmer.
Oh, so good.
Quite.
Yeah.
All right.
So I got to run guys.
Um, all right.
Wes, I'm so sorry that I gave you the wrong time.
No, it's fine.
It's fine.
You guys, uh, I feel like five was, uh, too many for this anyway.
I kind of agree.
Five in a room where we could see who wanted to talk next at work, but, uh, maybe.
All right, but, uh, I'm, I'm sure the rest of this will be awesome.
All right.
See you guys later.
Okay.
Bye.
Yeah.
So, uh, also, uh, homo, homeowner's associations are governments.
Uh, they're just governments where emigration is very, very cheap and easy.
So, um, they are like the least objectionable form of government.
And, uh, if we ended up with a society with governments where the right of exit
was as cheap and easy as it is with most homeowner's associations, I'd be
pretty okay with that as a compromise.
Uh, and then before that we were talking about something else and I can't remember
what, well, I think we've, we've basically laid down that libertarianism is, uh, if
you, the foundation was that, uh, if you accept that, um, voluntary transactions
should, except for extreme outliers, always be acceptable.
And, uh, that's libertarianism that brings us to, didn't that turn Texas into a
meat locker?
Uh, not quite because I also have some moral arguments that are some non
pragmatic moral arguments that I want to go over real quick.
Uh, and these ones are important because, uh, the Fonder, someone is of these
arguments, the worst, the libertarian they tend to be, uh, not in the sense of
being less dedicated to the principles of limiting this high scope and spending
of government, but just they tend to be shittier human beings.
Um, so, uh, I do think it's important to talk about these and why they are
bad and, uh, the extent to which they can be redeemed.
Um, okay.
So the first one is everyone's favorite, terrible argument for libertarianism,
the non aggression principle.
Yay.
Uh, so the non aggression principle is the principle that, um, initiating
force against another person is always and everywhere a bad thing to do.
Uh, this is a, uh, bad argument because it is trivially easy to come up with, uh,
cases where the consequences of rigorously following the non aggression
principle are very, very bad.
Uh, so easy.
In fact, that I'm pretty sure you guys could think of one without, um, stopping
to think about it very long and indeed so easy that sometimes these events
actually happen in real life.
Um, like I generated one with the hypothetical a minute ago about the
dozen people on an island.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Exactly.
The person who did clean water hasn't, hasn't committed violence against us.
First they've just poisoned our drinking water.
Yes.
Uh, my favorite is, um, that, uh, there's a meteor headed towards earth and it
will wipe out all of humanity.
Uh, and Mortimer snodgrass has a space laser that we can use to
destroy the meteor or deflect it.
Uh, but Mortimer snodgrass is a crotchety old misanthropic man who doesn't
care about other people and won't live very long himself anyway.
So he refuses to let us use his space laser and the morally correct thing to
do is obviously to punch Mortimer in the mouth and use the space laser anyway.
And then if you're like super dedicated, then you can maybe throw him 50
bucks afterwards to compensate for the space laser ammunition.
There's a great moment like that actually on a Santa Clarita diet.
She wants into the basement of this building and she's like, hold on,
let me go to the ATM first cause the guard won't let her in.
And he's like, what is this a bribe?
And she's like, no, it's for your nose.
And then she hits him in the face and throws 300 bucks at him.
Nice.
Um, yeah.
Uh, so this is a very bad argument.
If you take it as a deontological principle, uh, but I do, uh, think that
the non-aggression presumption, which is that you should presume against aggression
except in cases where, um, where it's obviously, uh, catastrophically has
catastrophically bad consequences is a much better alternative.
Um, so I am a virtuous.
So I am allowed to think about both, uh, high level principles and immediate consequences.
So I generally like a cost to benefit ratio of around two to three, uh, to
justify, um, uh, aggression, uh, but if you are a strict consequentialist,
then you can just use it as a tiebreaker or if you, uh, are a less consequentialist
virtuous than I am, then you can ask for a higher cost benefit ratio.
Uh, that just comes down to personal moral preferences.
Okay.
And by virtuous, do you mean virtue ethics?
Yes.
And, uh, by virtue ethics, I mean, uh, there are several factors that, uh,
contribute to moral decision making, um, which is intermediate between like the
super hardcore consequentialist or Kantian.
There is only one thing that you should consider versus the like, uh, biblical
deontology of like, there are these thousand and some rules that you need
to follow in all situations.
Yeah.
And, uh, personally, I like the classical seven of, uh, faith, hope, love,
courage, uh, prudence, temperance, and justice, but you know, but those are things
we can get into on our virtuous ethics podcast.
You and Wes could argue about hedonism.
If you haven't done that already, uh, mind killers or whatever.
Yeah.
No, I, I don't want to argue with Wes about moral philosophy because it's
moral philosophy is super half baked.
And now that he's gone, I can say that without getting any pushback.
Eat my ass.
So he can find good ways to justify it, even if they aren't actual good arguments.
Yep.
It's really hard to debate with.
It's fun.
Next time we'll debate with Wes on something.
I'm not saying he's wrong, but I'm saying he has an unfair advantage
even when he is wrong.
I think the virtue ethicist has an easy answer.
Enjoy a bit of hedonism, not so much that it ruins your life, but not, not so
little that it ruins your life.
Exactly.
All right.
So it's a consequentialism to me, but okay.
It's personal consequence.
Yeah.
All right.
So bad argument too.
We've got ethical egoism.
Yeah.
So this is basically just the fuck you got mine, uh, argument, uh, that I think,
uh, Stephen has been worried about this whole time.
And, uh, it is a bad argument because it's really, really bad PR.
And there's no other reasons why it's a bad argument at all.
Um, that sounds like bad PR, just admitting it.
Right.
Can you explain that?
Yeah.
No, it, that's a joke.
Oh, okay.
It's an obviously bad argument for a lot of reasons.
And it's so obviously bad that I can goof on it being bad by saying the only
reason it's bad is because it'll upset people when it's actually bad for a
lot of obvious reasons.
I mean, the fact that a lot of people don't realize that makes it not quite
as obvious as you're saying, in my opinion.
Okay.
Well, sorry, it was a joke.
Get off my ass.
Okay.
You, you, your joke sins are forgiven.
Okay.
I'll get all the way off that.
Uh, yeah.
So, um, the, uh, better alternative to the don't tread on me argument is the
don't tread on anyone argument.
Uh, so politicians basically want two things.
They want money and they want votes.
And in America, uh, the middle class is the biggest class and the upper
class is predictably the richest class.
So, uh, when, uh, governments are making decisions, they tend to
favor the preferences of the middle and upper class.
Uh, and so poor people get screwed.
And this is why you get things like corporate welfare and, uh, much less
of things like actual welfare for actual poor people.
Um, and, uh, there's also just like the basic logic of, um, special interest
politics where, um, uh, essentially it's easier to get a law passed getting you
a special handout than it is to repeal a whole bunch of laws, none of which know
one of which causes you a lot of problems, but all of which together
