I've definitely heard, uh, some of my left-wing friends left, really
left like characterized libertarians as conservatives.
You just want to be able to smoke weed.
Yeah.
That is, I hate that so much.
Yeah.
I'm not friends with those people anymore.
Okay.
Because of that.
So what about Steven's proposition that, uh, governments are also the, uh,
entity that we send money to, to have roads and firefighters.
Uh, so is the operator of a toll road, a government?
No.
Is a private fire department, a government?
Uh, no.
Okay.
I would say that the, that the, in my, again, what's awesome about this is
that I'm coming from a position of basically zero knowledge.
So yeah.
Yeah.
So like there are lots of entities to whom you'll give money in
exchange for goods and services.
The difference between those entities and the government is those
entities are voluntary, where the worst thing they can do to you, if you
don't send the money, is they stop giving you the goods or services.
The government, however, if you stop giving them money, will have men with
guns at your show up at your house and say, Hey, we noticed you stopped
giving us money, please give us money.
And if you're refused, they'll take you away and put you in a room.
Unless you're really rich.
And I mean, like, that's, that's the, I've heard it put that way before.
And I think that I, so I used to listen to a libertarian podcast, like 10 or 12
years ago.
And when he described it that way, and you know, he went on to say, uh, you
know, if you're, if you decide that you want to drive a little faster than the
government says you can, the men with guns will come over and kidnap you and
throw you in a room and lock the door.
And it's like, okay, sure, if you characterize it that way.
But like, I, I think that the, the, the response to that might be something
like, sure, as, but you're partaking in the society in which we've, we've
funded the roads you're driving on.
If you're running a business, the roads that you ship your goods on, um, the,
we've, we've kept the water clean enough for you to drink that you're, you know,
unless you're ordering all your water in, in bottles and showering with that or
something, right?
Like, or, or purifying your own water in some other way.
Like, I think that the argument is, look, we're giving you all this shit because
you're part of the society and you're signed up to our electric grid.
You're signed up to our water pipes, um, pay your part, right?
It's like, it's like a union.
Sure.
Uh, so let me ask you this.
Let's say you are walking down the street and I come up to you, uh, put a gun
to your head and say, uh, hey, give me 20 bucks and you give me 20 bucks.
And then in return, I give you a half eaten sandwich.
Uh, would you say that's a voluntary transaction or was that a transaction
where I used force?
I would say it's not a voluntary transaction, but I'm already prepared to
challenge this.
But you've got something for it.
You've got a sandwich.
Right.
But I didn't ask for a sandwich.
And I didn't ask for a lot of things that the government does.
Like I didn't ask for a war in the Middle East, but I still have to pay money to
fund the war in the Middle East because I haven't been given a choice there.
Right.
I, I was already challenges on weakness of analogy before I saw where you were
going with it, but I, cause that, that, I don't know, for me, it doesn't
quite feel the same.
You know, so like if I came up to you and so it doesn't, it doesn't quite
feel the same because you've been mind whammy to normalize the normalize getting
robbed every year so that you can fund a military to go off and bomb brown kids
in Afghanistan.
It's possible that I can mind whammy and we'll see if I become unmind whammy
or otherwise by the end of the episode.
But like, I think the analogy falls apart because I'm not just getting a
half eaten sandwich.
I'm also getting clean air, clean water.
You know, my neighbor isn't allowed to poison the ground near my house.
You know, like I'm getting all sorts of protections and benefits in addition
to this shitty sandwich.
Okay.
So how much of the government's budget do you think goes to those things?
I don't know.
And I don't know if it's a, if that makes a strong case to my position.
If you don't want to be depressed, don't look at how much the government
spends on wars versus like, uh, what was the NASA, like the space program?
So let me, uh, so let me, uh, I will, I will go ahead and let you know the, uh,
EPA has a very, very, very small budget relative to the Department of Defense.
So with that in mind, if you could get exactly the same amount of clean air,
clean water, not your neighbor's not being able to poison stuff, etc., for
like a fraction of the cost and also the savings just means that the government
bombs fewer brown kids, then wouldn't that, is it, do you consider that desirable?
How do I get that?
Cause I mean, obviously, yes, something we're going through in the Q and A.
Right.
So that, that's, that's what I want to figure out is, is without, without
some giant entity with a stick ready to smack my neighbor in the face for
pouring, uh, sorry.
Um, so, so real quick, do we agree on the definition of libertarianism?
Cause I have some more stuff I need to say before we get to whether or not
libertarianism is desirable.
We just, right now we need to agree on what libertarianism is.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Libertarians want to reduce how big the government is compared to the
current day.
Yep.
Yep.
Okay.
Sounds, that sounds like a decent definition of me.
So the, so the question isn't, is libertarium desirable?
It's how much libertarium is desirable?
Cause I think everyone could probably think of something they want the government
to stop doing.
Right.
I think there's also like that, that feels too much to me.
Like I'm trying to win the argument by just defining libertarianism as that
good thing that everyone wants.
That's what I feel like you've done.
I, so, yeah.
So if I had to like give a narrower definition that's less like that, it
would be, um, you want to limit the size scope and spending of government.
Um, and in at least one area and there are no areas where you would want to
expand it, but that's getting a little bit too narrow.
Cause so I would, I would say that, but also you can like cut up the domain.
So like you could say, I'm a libertarian on social issues, but not really on
the economic ones or something like that.
Um, sure.
But anyway, uh, so are we cool on those definitions?
Cool enough to move forward for sure.
Okay.
Cool.
I mean, we can also just like do that thing where we, you know, acknowledge
that definitions are, are wuzzy and not necessarily valuable.
You know, if we start talking about something that isn't definition,
look it up into the dictionary libertarianism, I'm fine with that.
Like we, you know, definitely, what is the, the nice catchphrased definitions are, uh,
like the categories are made for man, man for the categories.
Exactly.
Right.
So I mean, I don't want to get hung up on a no true libertarian is right.
I don't want to get here in this.
Yeah.
I don't want to get hung up on a no true Scotsman or hold on.
Let me look in the dictionary for that.
Yeah.
I'm good to move forward.
Okay.
Cool.
So before we move forward, there is something that, uh, happens a lot.
And when people are discussing libertarianism, in fact, I would dare
say it has already happened at least once in this conversation.
Again, is, uh, people will compare ideal governments, uh, to real life markets.
And yes, obviously the real life markets do worse in that regard, uh, also
for the benefit of those left libertarians listening, uh, we are talking
about right libertarianism here.
So if I equivalent, if, if I equivocate between markets and, uh, libertarianism,
then I was going to say, I apologize, but I don't, because I don't respect you.
Wait, can you explain that distinction?
Uh, so basically left libertarianism, as far as I understand it, which is
not very well, is the idea that, uh, if we abolish governments and capitalism,
then people will voluntarily organize themselves into ways that the particular
left libertarian who's speaking currently finds desirable.
Uh, and so it was my impression of what like libertarians are in general.
So that's true to an extent, but right libertarians have a much
better theory about why it'll happen, especially because we're not so
big on the abolish capitalism part.
Okay.
Cause I was going to say the policy government and things will work out
sounds a lot like old Marxism to me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, yes, uh, a lot of left libertarianism is just like, uh, rehashing old
fashioned Marxism.
So, I mean, isn't that how anarcho, um, libertarianism works too?
Like if we get rid of the government, people will just naturally form companies.
And I think we've already proven that if we get rid of the government, people
will just naturally form a different government.
That's not how I think about it.
It's how some anarcho capitalists think about it, but I think those
anarcho capitalists are dumb and bad.
So I would like to hear why this is just at a meta level.
This is why I like avoiding like neat little labels for things.
Libertarianism, anarcho capitalists, Democrat, Republican, because then
you've got all these associations and, and boxes you've got to check or don't check.
You need to define, like you need to name things though, so you can talk about them.
Yeah.
I don't feel like this is what I believe, right?
Okay.
Like so, but it would take a long time.
Yeah.
Let's get what David believes.
Yeah.
David is here to tell us why we should libertare, be libertarians.
And I'm assuming he wants to be libertarians in the vein of him.
So let's find out what his libertarianism is.
But don't go wrong.
Jayce makes a good point that having to believe that's what we've just been discussing.
Okay.
