All right.
Okay.
Um, yeah.
So, uh, that's something you shouldn't do.
Um, don't compare ideal governments to real life markets.
You should compare ideal government to ideal markets or real life government to real life
markets.
Uh, and I have requested you all obtain bonking sticks so that you can be bonked.
Uh, if you start doing that, um, didn't we have an excellent example when Stephen
did that, yeah, we don't have video.
So we're just going to work off the honor system for that.
And yes, we did have an excellent example in chat, but I added it to the Q and A.
So let's just move along so we can get to that part faster.
Very well.
Okay.
David enslaved devotion to outlines.
He's like some kind of outline statist.
I know, right?
Um, yeah.
So, um, basically the reason, so there are two reasons I think, um, libertarianism is
desirable and why you should be libertarians, if you're not, uh, the first one is, uh,
more pragmatic, which I realized for the, um, consequentialists in our audience will
be equivalent to morality, but I have separated them out just for the benefit of the
non-consequentialists.
Uh, so essentially I think that, uh, the function of the law, and here I'm talking
about the law as in like the thing that Wes messes with.
Um, uh, so the function of the law should be, uh, essentially to maximize social
efficiency, to make the pie, so to speak, as big as it can possibly be.
And then if, uh, that society, which maximizes the size of the pie has any really
catastrophic outcomes, like people starving to death or dying of easily preventable
disease, then those can be handled through redistribution.
Personally, I believe if we get to that maximally efficient society, then, uh, there
probably won't be, uh, many things like that, because even if some people are
left with crumbs, the pie will be so big that the crumbs will be, uh, more than
enough to give them an excellent standard of living.
Should the redistribution also be handled by the law?
I'm not sure you clarified that.
Uh, no.
So I, I consider the law to be distinct from redistribution.
So laws would be, uh, things like, uh, regulation, minimum wages, emission
standards, that sort of thing.
Um, and then, um, redistribution is just simply taking money from one person and
giving it to someone else.
Um, but so not be handled by the laws in the government or what?
Uh, so that's why I was making the distinction.
I was earlier between, um, uh, with the law as the thing West messes with, uh,
cause like technically from like a civics perspective, the way that you would
enact that redistribution is Congress passes a thing that we call a law, which
says take money from this group and give it to that group.
Um, but, uh, economics perspective, which is where I'm coming
at this from is like, that is not quote unquote a law in the sense that it is
something that law and economics is concerned about.
I feel like the bad thing you're referencing is what we tend to understand
as regulation.
A more or less, um, there are some things that I would consider law under
this definition that aren't regulations, um, colloquially.
Uh, but yeah, if you want to think about it as regulation versus redistribution,
then that's probably good enough for, um, this, uh, discussion.
And, uh, I also want to say that we are far enough away from this maximally
efficient legal code that I don't consider it worth quibbling over redistribution.
Uh, so if we want to have a separate podcast about that at some point, I mean,
we already kind of did with the UBI episode, but, uh, yeah, I don't, I don't
like fighting about whether or not we should have redistribution, uh, cause it's your
position is we should have it if we need it, but we probably won't need it.
Yeah.
And, um, we are far enough away from, uh, that position where we know
whether or not we need it, that like it's not really something you can have
a different anticipated, uh, or yeah, a different anticipated
experience about right now.
Um, so yeah.
And also, you know, you sound like an asshole when you say we
shouldn't have redistribution and mostly I think that's because poor people
are horribly screwed over by the government.
And so they do actually need help that they wouldn't need if they weren't
being so screwed over.
But like I said, there's not really any difference in, uh, anticipated
experience that we can have right now with the laws we do, uh, on that front.
All right.
So we agreed that redistribution, if it is necessary, is good and that the
government will do it and we aren't talking about redistribution today.
Yeah.
Um, one last clarifying question.
Yes.
What is the pie in this, uh, this, the sales pitch?
The pie is all the stuff that society makes.
Um, so all of, all of the goods and services which are produced by a society.
Okay.
Uh, and if you are skeptical that, um, the, uh, that any problems in this
maximally efficient society can be addressed through redistribution.
Well, there's this thing called the second welfare theorem, which says that
yes, they can be fixed through redistribution and the second welfare
theorem, as you know, from the word theorem in the name is a homework land
thing, but it's actually one of the homework land things that applies
pretty well to reality.
Uh, but the detailed explanation would make really bad radio.
So unless one of my co-hosts really wants to get the explanation, then, uh, we
are probably best off just leaving it there.
There's enough to talk about that we can table some things.
I've got a question about the pie.
Um, okay.
Sure.
Like, I don't think the government is just about the pie because to take
an example that we talked about on the mind killer a few weeks ago, uh, when
that cop ran over, uh, a kid at the, uh, at an intersection where a bunch of
people were doing like donuts and drag racing and stuff.
Sure.
The major problem there was that there's a street intersection and the people
who live near that street intersection want peace and quiet at midnight so they
can sleep or whatever.
And, uh, a bunch of kids wanted to use that intersection for doughnuts and having
fun and whatever.
And they both, you know, want good things, one wants sleep, one wants fun.
Those are both great.
They can't both have them at the same time.
And like the government was there to decide who could actually use that
street corner for their thing.
And they were trying to enforce the sleep and quiet one.
And then, you know, things got messy, but like, I don't think that has anything
to do with making a pie bigger.
It's just how do we use this one street corner that we only have one.
I know the answer.
I know the answer.
Is it close?
Uh, yes, it is actually close.
Uh, so essentially we have, so we have a limited resource, a street corner.
We only have one of them.
The two uses we can put this to are peace and quiet so people can sleep and doing
donuts.
Uh, so we have one street corner that we can use to increase the size of the pie,
uh, because both donuts and peace and quiet are things that go into the size of
the pie.
And so the question is who, uh, has more pie, uh, that they can make on the street
corner, the kids or the people trying to sleep.
And, uh, so the proper role for the government in that context is, or for a
private agency, if we're talking about anarcho capitalism is to, um, figure
out who gets more pie by using the street corner the way they want it, uh, and
then to, um, facilitate bargaining between the two parties so that whoever gets
the most, uh, use out of it, uh, gets it.
And if necessary, they may or may not have to compensate the, um, other people
who have to forego their preferred use.
I know this in, uh, in the particular example, an ideal government, uh, or
indeed a, uh, market with no transaction costs would have the kids and the people
trying to sleep all gather at the street corner and, uh, individually bid on how
much they want to do donuts slash have peace and quiet.
And then whoever, uh, enters the highest bid gets their preferred use.
And, um, if the property rights are allocated to the loser of the auction,
then they, uh, the money that they bid goes to the original loan or the property
rights.
And this is the thing that Wes was talking about.
It's the coast theorem, uh, which states that, um, for a transaction, which
has externalities, uh, which in this case means like you are doing something
and, uh, you, um, you're using it will affect other people.
Then, uh, if property rights are clearly allocated and transaction costs are low,
then the, um, the highest value activity will always be the one to take
place, uh, regardless of initial allocation of property rights.
Uh, the only thing that initial allocation will change is the final
distribution of resources.
But without someone to like enforce that, uh, what did you call it?
Like to mediate that, that discussion, um, and it's just people, what coming
together and throwing money down, um, like, wouldn't that just mean that if,
instead of it was a bunch of kids, it was Jeff Bezos who wanted to go into that,
that, that street corner and shoot guns into the air to make noise as much
as possible, that he would just win de facto and fuck the poor people.
Well, uh, so in this context, him quote unquote, fucking the poor people means
paying the poor people lots and lots of money in order for them to grant him, uh,
the right to shoot guns into the air, which doesn't seem like a terrible outcome to me.
I also hold on.
I'm curious though, I guess I, I, I just, I heard you say the theorem,
but it's still not clear to me why he would have to pay lots and lots of money.
Yeah.
So the, the prevailing, the prevailing legal regime has, uh, means that you cannot
shoot guns into the air whenever you want.
Um, and in, and ideally in Kosian framework, but with that same rule in place,
the way that you get the right to shoot guns into the air is going around to
everyone who, uh, has a property right to you, not shooting guns in the air and
paying them until they agree to let you shoot guns into the air.
I don't think this actually addresses the real concern because the kids don't
have the coordination or the money to rent out that street corner.
Otherwise they would have done it.
And so instead they're just going to go to a street corner where the property
rights aren't being very well enforced until they find one where they can do
donuts and the cops show up.
Yeah.
And that's why I said that we're talking about an ideally Kosian society and blah,
blah, blah.
Um, but like that was just for the purposes of demonstrating how, um, both
peace and quiet and doing donuts go into the size of the pie in the context of
the ideal role for a government being to maximize the size of the pie or rather
for a law code, which doesn't necessarily have to come from a government.
Okay.
I see.
And in either system, either way, you're going to end up with a situation where
the police got to show up due to realities on the ground.
Probably not necessarily.
The old lady could come out of her house and start yelling at the kids and the
kids could say, Hey, how about we toss you 50 bucks and you, uh, look the other way.
I wish it worked that way.
You know, that, that kind of thing happens in real life all the time.
Jay's just said he wished it worked that way.
Is Jay's a libertarian?
