Sure.
That's cause I'm not cold anymore.
Right.
I think that one was not replication crisis, the link between temperature and I don't know,
what is it, revealed mood or, or whether you perceive someone as behaving warm or cold
towards you.
I think that's broader than just like, are you holding a warm or cold beverage?
I'd have to.
Like if I'm freezing, I'm probably no way to everything.
I'd have to look into it again, but I actually have a, the West, the wearable that you wanted
to get a amber.
Did you end up getting one of those?
I did not.
Oh, well, I have one.
I like it.
I know.
I tried it.
What is it?
Back when we could see people.
Back when, yeah.
Other humans existed.
I think you let me try it at, at Solstice.
Yeah.
I let a lot of people try it at Solstice.
I probably should be getting some kickback from them for how much I've been marketing.
No, I don't know it.
It convinced me not to get it.
Anyway, what is it?
It's a wristwatch looking device that you wear on the inside of your wrist and you can make
it warm or cold.
I remember that.
Yeah.
Does at least change your, your own internal perception of how warm or cold you are for
some people.
Apparently it didn't work for us.
And they cite some of the other studies about, man, what do they call it?
Cold wellness, like the one about like the beverages and they claim that this device
could have that same result, which I don't know, even just saying it out loud just now
I'm like kind of, but I would want to go like that out to see.
You put it on other people's wrists and then you control how hot or cold it is depending
on how we want them to feel about other people are interacting with.
I have a very strong prior against anything that is, uh, adjective wellness.
Yeah.
Like that's just, that, that just sounds like whoever wrote it or did it or whatever is
just trying to soak a bunch of Karens.
Yeah.
Well, that was the wording of the company that sells the Amber.
It's like, they were citing outlet studies that used like real words.
to me means that like, if my body is at rough homeostasis with like the environment, then
I'm probably in a better mood than if I, you know, if I'm sweltering or if I'm shivering,
right?
Well, the funny thing is this was invented by, uh, students, uh, forget if it was MIT
or whatever, but, uh, there were these students that were working in a really cold lab and
they started trying to figure out something that they could wear to keep themselves warmer.
And they came up with the idea of the product there because, but they all liked this thing.
So it was like, I, I, like the idea of like the people who, you know, made this product
and are selling this product also use it themselves and are getting value out of it, generally
a good sign.
Yeah.
That's what they say about power bands and shit too, though, you know, those people
where they're $60 power bands, but it's a placebo band.
Yeah.
So they are, they're purchasing a placebo effect, which isn't, this is kind of real.
As long as you're selling a placebo effect, I'm fine with it.
If you're selling it to say this will do all this magic to you, then I get annoyed.
That's funny about like the solution about I'm cold at work, like a, I don't know what
the temperature control is like.
There may be it had to be cold, but their solution was like build a $300 watch, not
buy a 25% hand warmer at Walmart, which is what I do.
I think they were moving a lot and they, there was something where they couldn't have electricity.
These hand warmers last like seven, eight hours to put them in your pocket.
Oh yeah.
Those things are great.
And they're, they're cheap.
Yeah.
I used to think of gloves a lot because I don't know my extremities tend to get cold
and I need my fingers for like typing or other things, but like you cover is almost all of
your hand and it just helps so much.
Oh, I got, I used to have these fingerless gloves that like had the top part of the glove
that you could sort of button to the back of it and then flip it forward.
So it would have the finger parts if you wanted them.
Then I lost one of them and I haven't been able to find one that I like as much since
we are getting way off track.
Yeah.
It was all super relevant now.
I tried to shove us into the next post, but you guys were like, also, I just want to say
if the hand warmers last for seven or eight hours and cost 50 cents and the watch costs
300, then getting the watch will, you will get ahead eventually after let's see 300 divided
by 0.25 times seven, 8,400 hours.
So about 30 years of continuous use.
I plan on being immortal so.
And that's assuming it's a day work week.
That's three years of continuous use because 80,000 hours is 40 years.
And that's something they need them every day, not just directly.
Oh yeah, you're right.
I actually really like it for falling asleep.
Yeah, I'm sure I'm done wrong.
I'm sure there's perks.
I'm just, if your solution was I'm cold at work, I've already got a solution for you
and it's super cheap and it's available at your local Walmart.
Alrighty.
I don't know if I should believe you, Steven.
Do I believe everything we're told?
Apparently, this one didn't replicate, but this is the kind of thing that I mean, I
noticed this in my head.
Oh, really?
I don't know if that's because I have heard of this sort of thing before.
I don't remember if I learned about it in philosophy class or from Los Ramos, but I
knew Spinoza was associated with the idea that in order to comprehend the proposition,
it basically means that you understood, like, that you intuitively believe it for the time
that it takes you to comprehend what it's saying and only after the fact do you challenge
it and consider it.
But like, I mean, maybe it's because I'm also a really gullible person because deception
doesn't come, like, isn't something that I, I don't know, I'm less...
We're a high trust community.
I guess, which I, but to the point where sometimes I feel stupid about it, but I think I'm getting
better at it.
It correlates to the high openness trait.
Oh, really?
Because I also find myself being, like, ridiculously trusting and gullible to the point that people
make fun of me for it often.
I did make fun of you the first time I, like, came over your house and you were just like,
oh, hey, you want to just borrow my car?
And I was like, we have literally met for the first time.
I could just drive away with it.
Yeah.
Yeah, you wouldn't.
So the core of this is this following sentence.
One might naturally think that on being totally proposition, we would first comprehend what
the proposition meant, then consider the proposition and finally accept or reject it.
This obvious seeming model of cognition or cognitive process flow dates back to Descartes,
but Descartes' rival, Spinoza, disagreed.
Spinoza suggested that we first passively accept a proposition in the course of comprehending
it, and only afterwards actively disbelieve propositions which are rejected by consideration.
I wonder if this is one of those things, like, where some percentage of people don't
have the ability to visually, like, to visualize objects, like, because this is how my brain
works.
I've done enough meditation to where I see, when I want to, I can notice my thoughts occurring
and I can read something and then, like, I believe it for the time it takes me to read
it.
And I mean, I remember I was listening, it was, I forget, this was, you know, 10 years
ago, like, it was Pendulette or something on a podcast, I don't know, somebody was talking
about Richard Dawkins, because Richard Dawkins was born in Kenya.
And I think, I might have been Pendulette, joked, yeah, he was born at the same hospital
as Barack Obama.
And it took me seconds after that to realize that that was a joke.
Because I'm like, oh, that's interesting, and I'd already had my head somewhere that
Barack Obama was born in Kenya because of how everything was 10 years ago.
But I remember, like, I was like, oh, that's a fun tidbit, I'm like, hold up a minute.
That took me five, 10 seconds to have that flag fly up.
So that, I mean, that's one example that's 10 years old.
But I feel like this just happened earlier this week.
And I was trying to think of an example.
And that's the person that came to me.
I feel like I don't have that internal experience.
Maybe I just...
Yeah, I feel like I don't have that internal experience too.
The post cites, like, some experiment that maybe confirms this.
But I also looked for a replication on this one online and found that a replication
effort actually found the opposite effect.
So at the very least, I would say this is highly contested.
Yeah, or, yeah, like Stephen said, maybe it's just people's brains are different.
So some people do do this and some don't.
Maybe it depends on what sample you got of people you had in your study.
Yeah, I mean, it's still pointing at something potentially interesting.
But I don't think we can actually, like, do anything with it in this current state.
It might also just be a habit that I've ingrained, you know, like, when you, I mean,
if you're reading stuff and you're trying to be a good...
A good, yeah, a good still manner or whatever.
You're like, all right, I'm going to give this person a benefit for the doubt
while I'm reading it and try and make this the best case possible.
And maybe that's what belief feels like in my brain is like trying to make this true.
But I don't think that's true for...
I mean, I don't demand when I'm reading the instructions on a recipe or something.
And yet, like, if it's clear that they meant to say eight teaspoons
rather than eight cups of salt, right?
Like, I should notice the difference.
I think I, like, I must just experience things as mutual.
Like, sometimes I'll read something and be like, yeah, seems possible.
But like, if somebody were to, like, say, do you definitely believe this is true?
I could be like, what I end up saying is, well, I read it in this one book
and it was by an author who generally like does good at reviewing articles,
adding citations, like checking their work.
So like, you know, maybe like 75%.
But like, that's, yeah, that's how I sort of...
Or like, I can read something and be like, oh, it seems like bullshit.
But then it started with the other way too, where it's like something
like 75% bullshit because this is an author, like this is deep actual pro or something.
So I'm curious, have you guys ever played Two Truths in a Lie?
Yes.
When you play that game, do you start from the assumption that things are true
and then try to pick out the ones that are wrong?
Or do you start from the assumption that they're wrong and try to, like, confirm them?
Because I definitely come from a standpoint of like, I start out thinking everything's bullshit
and then I try to figure out which ones are the most plausible.
For those unfamiliar with this, this is, I think often used as like an office icebreaker game
where, hey, meet the new team, tell people, stand up, say your name,
and tell people three things about yourself, two of which are true, one of which is not.
And then people will guess which one isn't true.
The more fun versions of drinking games.
