American Indians, which is very much how you're describing how the gated community
treats their neighbors where they have all the power.
So the neighbors or the American Indians in this case get shat on and wiped out or
whatever.
Exactly.
Okay.
So I, I will receive my bonk and I will, I will say out loud, you're right.
I, I was comparing an idealized version of this.
I wasn't rather than just does better than what we have.
Okay.
And that, that I appreciate you pointing that out.
You're welcome.
For things to box Steven with, cause we didn't have a bonking stick and I was just
like, there's a problem.
I told you to get a bonking stick.
He has been metaphysically bonked.
That's the best.
And I appreciated this kind of bonk cause it came without, without a bonk.
So, all right.
I was also like, when I saw it on paint of bonking, I was like, uh, it's okay.
That probably doesn't mean what I'm reading it as.
If the font's bonking, yeah, it looks like bonking if the font is small.
All right.
No, that's great.
I appreciate you pointing that out.
I, I, I, we should have, we should have put it on a white board and stuck it to the
wall that says this just has to do better than now.
It doesn't have to be perfect.
Okay.
All right.
So how about second welfare theorem?
Um, that takes an hour, right?
Yeah.
Uh, it's not that it takes super long.
It's just easier to explain if you draw a graph.
Uh, if you're really curious, you can, uh, Google Edgeworth box, uh,
EDGEWRTA, uh, space B O X.
Um, and that's like a graphical representation of the second welfare theorem.
It's also something that a, uh, buddy of mine did his dissertation on.
Um, so if you really want to do a deep dive into, uh, the second welfare
theorem, we can have John on, um, but, uh, yeah.
Um, so what about?
Just trying to understand this fucking picture next.
Yeah.
So, uh, that's basically the pragmatic case.
Uh, just if you, uh, buy that you're maximizing social, well, uh, welfare,
then, um, you should at least allow all voluntary transaction or you should
allow all voluntary transactions unless you have some reason not to, and that's
sufficient to make someone a libertarian with a system we currently have.
Um, so there's also some other moral arguments, uh, that aren't consequentialist.
Uh, and, uh, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, let's step, step back a second.
I, I know a lot of people who would say, yes, I basically agree that we should
allow all voluntary, uh, exchanges except for some very small minority that we
might have to object for some reason.
And yet those people do not consider themselves libertarians.
Why not?
Uh, probably because libertarians have chronically bad PR, I would consider
them a libertarian though.
Really?
Or they might object to moral grounds.
That's all it takes, just that most transactions, most volunteer
transactions should not be interfered with.
I mean, uh, I could think of, I think people saying that have not thought
out the implications of that statement.
Yeah.
Almost all transactions are interfered with in some way in our society.
Yes.
If you, if, so I could, uh, elaborate on that, but it's much better if you
just go to the crime of day Twitter, uh, and just scroll on that page or on
that feed until you're convinced.
Well, I'm interested in like what West thinks are the, every single
transaction is interfered with in some way stuff.
Well, so one of those are my tasks.
Also go to the crime of day Twitter.
Go to the crime of day Twitter and scroll on that until you're convinced
that there's a law about just about everything.
Yeah.
Okay.
I, I think I see what you're saying.
So, uh, there's a bunch of numbers and symbols, something 50 CFR, something
dot, uh, uh, make it a federal crime to hunt striped skunk in the big stone
national wildlife refuge anytime other than one half hour before legal
sunrise until legal sunset from September 1st through the last day of February.
Yes.
Okay.
But I make it a crime to sell bunk beds without a permanent label stating the
name and address of the bunk bed maker.
Damn.
You, you can name literally any noun and I will do a search on this feed and
there will be some stupid law about it, uh, or any noun that describes like a
real life thing and not something fictional or otherwise complete nonsense.
I guess what annoys us right now is that we cannot get stem cells injected into
us in the U S if we want to pay someone to do that.
Yes.
We're just talking about that.
Yes, we were.
Oh, you get, they were on there too though.
I'm not sure.
Oh, I don't think we were recording at the time.
Yeah.
All right.
So I think the, the moral position is, I think I'm already sold on this.
I was sold on it when I read John Sturt Mills on Liberty.
Uh, that's a good place to start.
I, I, I think so.
I think it might have coined libertarianism, but the sentence.
The more framework, not quite, but, um, yeah, he was definitely very,
very early on there.
Right on.
Yeah.
I mean, the, the framework is essentially my freedom to swing my fist ends where
your face begins.
Yes.
That's at the tip of your nose.
Right.
I can do whatever I want as long as I'm not impacting somebody else.
And now what does it mean to impact somebody?
I think that's what people get, get fuzzy in the head.
But to me, it's like, uh, okay, um, am I impacting my neighbor by, like he said,
hiring a sex worker to consensually have sex with me.
Um, I'm only impacting them insofar as they have a, like some objection to me
doing whatever I want with my free time.
Or am I impacting my, my society by taking LSD at home?
Right.
No, yeah, I would say.
Yeah.
And like there, like I said, you'd need to have like some sort of basic sanity
check on how you're defining externalities.
Um, because like you could say that like me selling you my watch could hurt
someone because at some point someone might ask me the time.
And if I sell you my watch, then I won't be able to tell them.
And so do you need to compensate that person as well for the, like two
cents that it takes them that they're costed by not knowing the time until
they find someone else who does have a watch?
No, and like obviously not.
And so that's, that really just gets down to the difference between, um,
homework, land and real life.
Like you're, you're allowed to have some element of common sense here.
Uh, and if there are any, like genuinely hard problems to that effect where
it's not obvious that, uh, some person is just being silly.
Uh, in the hypothetical, I have yet to encounter it.
Uh, and if there is a genuinely hard case like that, then just have a bidding war.
Cause that's literally what bidding wars are for, for figuring out who values
something more than someone else.
Uh, could I, for the sake of the conversation, even though I think I, I
think I could imagine already the answer to this, but, uh, how does libertarianism,
uh, take into account, you know, people making your rational decisions, uh, with
regard to like, I don't know, without regulation, uh, you'll end up with lots
of people, you know, making shit products that aren't safe and driving
their shit cars around that'll be exploding.
And if I care about safety, then what am I supposed to do?
Uh, so you did not quite make a comparison there.
So I won't require a bonk, but, um, the way that I address that concern is
by asking when is someone more likely to make an irrational decision when they
are making a decision about how they want to spend their money for goods and
services that they will consume directly, or when they are making a decision
about whom to vote for, which may or may not have an impact on how their
state's electors vote, which may or may not have an impact on who actually ends
up in office, which may or may not have an impact on whether whatever laws we
want passed actually get passed.
Uh, I, people make shit decisions with, I mean, or the whole thing about like
people buying snake oil, I guess, which again is the reason that I kind of already
addressed it in my head because there's even that, like, I think Eliezer wrote
the whole thing about the band item shop.
So yeah, which is sort of, you just have to accept the externalities because
they, the benefits outweigh the.
A lot of it comes down to, yeah, and like, it's not just that people are
allowed to make bad decisions, it's that people are more likely to make bad
decisions in the voting booth than they are in the marketplace.
So trying to ban bad decisions, uh, by government fiat has the problem of
people need to, we need to have a way to decide who gets to decide what's
a bad decision and ban it.
And the current system we have for doing that is elections and that got
Donald Trump elected.
And so if you grant the government a general power to ban bad decisions, then
whenever someone like Trump gets elected, which empirically happens around, uh,
once every 200 years or so, then you end up with things like masks getting
banned during a pandemic.
Well, I agree with you.
Um, I think that's a losing case to make to the general populace.
People are going to see, you know, um, their little old grandma killed by
a snake oil guy who doesn't give a fuck and they're going to want to make a
law against that and no amount of saying people are allowed to make bad
decisions because they should be the ones who get to decide if the decision is
good or bad is going to stop someone for voting for that law.
Yeah, I mean, I have to, uh, I have to go in about then a couple of minutes.
Oh, um, if you want to say then, uh, yeah.
Well, so I wanted to break in here because I think you brought up, you just
brought up my biggest objection to, um, this idea of a government free society,
which is, um, and you mentioned, uh, homeowners associations earlier,
which are part of this, which is that I think if you, if you don't have a
government, people will just make a government.
People, uh, really like preventing other people from doing things.
Um, they are addicted to it.
They can't stop doing it.
And, um, I just feel like in any, any system where there isn't a government,
people will just create one voluntarily and everyone will sign on to it.
And you see this with homeowners associations that you have, there's
these, this area that's unregulated.
And what, what do people do?
