not a counter argument.
Like, people are going to still walk away from that saying, yeah, okay, I won.
That's a point against libertarianism.
We shouldn't have it.
Yeah, I mean, so if someone stubbornly ignores that some policies have costs and
that it's often very easy to just pay attention to the benefits of the policy
and ignore the cost, then that person is just an idiot.
And I don't care whether or not they think they scored points.
Well, okay, you can say that.
But in my experience, that is the majority of people.
That's even where I was 10, 15 years ago when I argued with my libertarian
friends back then, I was like, yeah, sure, there's costs to some of these things,
but it's worth it to have the regulation and save lives.
And maybe now I think.
Yeah, so if they have actually done their homework and shown that they
and like done a cost benefit calculation, then we can have a discussion.
But usually they just say, oh, no, it's worth the cost.
And they just leave that as a baseless assertion.
Yeah, but I don't care about refuting every single baseless assertion.
There's too many idiots out there making baseless assertions for me to go around
rebutting every single one of them.
Well, that's the problem, because every single one of these people does have a vote.
And so and that's why we need an epistocracy to disenfranchise them.
Oh my God.
So so libertarian leads directly to not everyone should have the right to vote,
which is going to be a huge problem in the U.S.
My brand of libertarianism does yes, because my brand of libertarianism
is very unpopular, despite being very good for pretty much everyone.
That's I mean, that's not very good, though, to be very good.
You have to deal with the realities on the ground, including everybody wants a vote.
Yeah, regardless of how good it is, you still have to be able to sell it.
But that was that was the joke I was about to make, which is like, David,
how do we like, how does libertarian, how do we use libertarianism to stop
people from making stupid arguments against libertarianism?
You don't understand libertarianism.
Well, well, PR is not my department.
The answer is we hire a really good PR person.
That's hard. Or several.
So I also want to talk real quick about the follow up from Inyash.
Yes.
About people receiving math of electric bills, because this is also a very good point.
And this is something where libertarians can actually have some more traction
without needing to completely overhaul the way the entire country does power generation.
OK, so I understand this is that people could get lower rates
if they went with a variable variable rate contract that said, you know,
you're charged more or less, depending on what the power demand is.
And for the most part, they save money all the time in the aggregate.
But then this happened and some people got bills for tens of thousands of dollars
or at least over ten thousand dollars.
And technically, that's on the up and up.
The demand went really high.
The supply went really low.
Everything checked out.
But like that seems really wrong to most people that like you can just get hit
with this bill for well, especially when you didn't.
And so like, again, other than deciding you're going to get in a car
and drive two thousand miles, like you didn't you didn't get a choice.
No, there were other options.
Yeah. So yeah.
So this this is something that a lot of people object to.
And I just straight up do not understand it like basically what we have here
is a decision between a constant cost or basically playing double or nothing.
And these people lost.
And for some reason, people are focusing on the fact that they lost
a bunch of money playing this game rather than the fact that they chose to play the game.
So if you choose to if you choose to take a variable rate contract
and and once a decade, there are these big snowstorms and demand goes up
way, way high and supply goes down way, way low.
That that's like something you should have priced into your decision.
And if you fail to do that and you end up saddled with a really big electric bill,
like I like my heart goes out to people who like genuinely cannot pay these bills.
But after a certain point, you just need to say that like people have to live
with the consequences of their decisions.
And I don't get why that's such a hard concept to wrap your head around.
Like another instance of the same argument I've had was
I had a friend arguing that CD Projekt Red should pay the guy who wrote
the Witcher books a lot of money because the Witcher games were a way
bigger success than he anticipated when he originally sold the rights to it.
But like CDPR offered him a percentage contract.
He declined it in exchange for a fixed rate contract.
And he ended up losing that bet.
And like I don't see any way to make the case that he should be indemnified
for having made this bet and lost that doesn't end in a massive cluster
fuck where everyone will always make those big bets because they know
that they'll be subsidized if they lose.
And like that's like exactly the mode of thinking that led to the 2008 financial crash.
So clearly this is a bad thing to generalize.
And there's no reason why you should embrace it in this specific case
without generalizing it.
So don't embrace it.
I think you are pivoting to a much easier to defend arguments.
So I want to bring it back to the power one.
Yes. So so I'm I'm pivoting.
I'm pivoting to a different case of the same thing happening.
Yes. I'm like it's a it's a case where I think a lot of people's
intuitions will be primed differently.
And I agree.
But I think that there is a distinct and important difference in the fact
that people's intuitions are primed differently.
They think that having the ability to generate heat in a deadly snowstorm
is a basic necessity of living, which it probably is, and that it is immoral
to charge someone that much amount of money.
And I agree with you on all the points that you made, except for the fact
that a lot of people believe that the government should prevent people
from being able to make immoral contracts.
Like the government does not allow you to take out a hit on someone else.
The government does not allow you to sell yourself into slavery.
And there are people who would say the government should not allow you
to sign a variable rate contract that has no limits and no exceptions
for things like this happening.
And therefore the contract and the bill should be thrown out on
on the grounds of being unconscionable.
This is actually so I I wage, but we will have to just table that.
Yeah. So I actually do think that
I do think you should be allowed to sell yourself into slavery.
And the reason why it's acceptable to ban assassination contracts
is because they have large negative externalities.
I would I would love to see someone trying to internalize that particular
externality. But yeah, assassination contracts do fall into the exceptions
we've talked about to where voluntary transactions are maybe not
social utility maximizing. You have a thing, Chase?
Yeah, if we're not going to the QA,
could you talk about the sort of issue with perfect information?
That's sort of my one hesitance about some of this,
like scam artists could flourish.
And I think to to to expand on that exact thing,
or maybe this is an example, tell me if I'm right or wrong, Jace,
like I don't know if the average person is equipped to understand
that the risk involved over the next 20 years of signing a variable rate
or fixed rate contract for electricity. Yeah. Right.
So like that person either might select information due to lobbying
or lack of internet freedom or something, or they might just not be good with numbers.
I also think this is so so I advise scam artistry.
OK, so let's say that when you're choosing a variable rate versus a fixed rate,
there was text in in 14 point bold red print
saying warning over the past 10 years, prices have gone as high
as such and such during these circumstances and are likely
and by meteorological estimates,
there this is however many percent likely to happen again
in the next 10 years and people chose the variable rate anyway.
Then would you still think that they should pay the variable rate?
I think that's my easier question than Jace's.
But just a quick answer would be like if that was presented on the front page
and they had said, look, your odds of having to pay $48,000 a month
for electricity are approximately one in 500.
Do you still want to sign? Then I'd be OK with it.
If it's hidden in obscure legalese on page 468, then I disagree with it.
What's making the company that's producing these have to put that label?
I don't think in the particular case of Texas,
it's people vote people in the Texas Energy Cooperative
or whatever it's called voting to require it.
OK, I like that.
Are you going to say anything?
I think this a lot of this the real sticking point comes down to
what is government allowed to stop people from doing for their own good?
Like that that is what the variable rate contract question is.
That is, like, do people have to get vaccines before they can get on a plane
kind of thing? It's what is the level where the government says
you have to do this thing for your own good, even if you don't want to.
So that's so long scenes are variable rate is one of those things.
Yeah, so vaccines are an interesting and timely example
because you don't actually need a government to
to enforce vaccines.
You can just have the airline companies enforce vaccines
and the schools and the stores and so on.
Like that that is something that I think a libertarian society would actually
address very, very well for the same reason that even though
I live in the deep south and like probably 70 percent of the people
I see walking around are unmasked, every single business has a sign
in the window saying, please put on a mask before you enter this establishment.
I heard that text the business is actually were able to
enforce their property rights in in a meaningful way
to having their customer base actually use protective equipment.
Then that would be like a lot.
Better like that would be much better than just having a government
where there's a 50 percent chance that it's run by someone good
and a 50 percent chance that it's run by Trump.
I heard that Texas like I know the odds aren't 50 50, but that was
the purpose is good.
I heard that Texas after the after the the mask lifting
passed that like target, for example, said he still have to wear masks to come to target.
Yeah, that's a that's a good example.
And then the idea of a vaccine free schools and airlines, I'm just picturing
like someone deciding to send their kid to the Jenny McCarthy Elementary School
where like one in 10 kid dies of of preventable illness
or like someone else deciding, you know, I'm going to fly in the vaccine free airline.
I guess then again, it's probably cheaper to fly in the vaccine free airline.
And if you're vaccinated, you're safe to fly there.
So yeah, that's not 100 percent, but you're safer.
Yeah.
Assuming they didn't ban masks and make you lick each other's faces,
then you're probably you're probably in a decent shape.
It works as long as you assume people make rational choices.
But that's my other issue.
Yeah, I think I want I want protection.
This is my well.
So so again, people are more likely to make rational choices
about what they're buying for themselves with their own money
than they are when they're voting.
And so like it is completely true that people are often irrational,
