—
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Manny Ashbrotsky. I'm Stephen Zipper. I'm Jay Sticky.
And welcome to the Mind Killer. I'm Wes Venza. I'm Manny Ashbrotsky. And I'm David, the rationalist brain on politics.
Yeah.
We are doing a crosscast today.
Mind, brain, Bayesian...
The Bayesian Killers. Conspiracy.
And together we are...
Mumble, mumble.
And I'll form the head.
David's on left leg.
We actually do have five people, and we could totally make a giant robot.
Hell yeah. Well, making a giant robot would take a while.
Super Sentai team.
Yes.
At least.
So anyways, yes, we are doing a cross-pollination podcast thingy. That's not a term.
It's close enough. I was going to say if we hit 10,000 patrons, then we'll do a robot. But that joke has passed.
I definitely don't ever promise that to make a robot.
I want to make a robot.
If we hit that level, I'm prepared to make a robot. Not a good robot. I don't know anything about robots, but I'll make something that looks like a robot.
Cool.
All right.
You know what? I'm going to go with that.
Great.
If we get 10,000 patrons in the next 10 years.
Deal.
All right.
I know how to make a robot that is a Roomba for tabletop. One that does a silly dance.
Great. We're halfway there.
The little car things. I've done some very basic robotics.
We need one large enough to fit at least one of us.
So for like the four listeners we have who listen to the mind killer, but not the Bayesian conspiracy, they're always like this.
Well, yeah.
It's just tangents from start to finish.
We don't have a good script or a strict leadership.
But we usually get to what we were trying to talk about.
So today we're talking about two less wrong posts. First one is priming and contamination.
Yes.
Okay. I guess, yeah.
Wes and David are the hosts of the other podcast, which we'll talk about politics.
I wanted to mention that real quick.
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
News of the day kind of thing.
Did I get to the point too fast now?
You did.
A little thought.
You get at the second place.
This is why you need a good outline.
No.
Outlines are for nerds.
Yeah.
We just wing it and forget stuff like cool people.
Yeah.
Like we haven't mentioned our merch.
It turns out for quite a while.
This is true.
Oh yeah.
David didn't know.
That's all right.
Yeah.
They have merch.
We have a place to bring our dope ass shirt.
It looks great.
You can get the Bayesian conspiracy logo on anything.
Yes.
Well, not anything.
Apparently you cannot get it on mouse pads.
Which is so weird.
Yeah.
Huh.
You'd think.
It's a high item.
I think I give anyone who wants it permission to just download the JPEG and put it on their
own make your mouse pad website.
Go nuts.
Just don't sell it.
If you sell it, I want a nickel.
Yeah.
We want at least 15%.
That works.
Okay.
I went with a nickel because that's what J. Jonah Jameson wanted every time someone said
Spider-Man.
Oh.
Was that from one of the movies?
It was in the first one with Tobin McGuire.
Cool.
Yeah.
Well, there goes my bootleg mouse pad business.
Shut us in.
I guess it's not really if you're cutting us in.
Well, yeah.
But then like then the FBI will get after you because they have nothing better to do with
their time.
Right.
Exactly.
And then somebody for selling fake sports merch, which is actually a fun idea for a
market, right?
Yeah.
I was thinking like use celebrity clothing.
Yeah.
Could be another like whole thing.
Oh, yeah.
Use women's underwear and vending machines and parts of Japan.
And I mean, you could just buy underwear, funk them up a bit and sell them over, you know,
in Ziploc bags over the mail and make 50 bucks a month or how much people are willing to
buy.
I mean, I could wear the underwear.
No one's, no one hasn't got a good, cute Japanese girl.
No, they could tell.
No, maybe only you.
No, it doesn't smell like a cute Japanese girl.
Jesus.
It smells like a big American.
Sorry.
Can we talk about literally anything else?
All right.
Now that we're primed on, on underwear sales, let's talk about.
I felt like contamination was maybe a better segue.
Damn it.
You're right.
Now that we've contaminated the conversation with used underwear sales.
So this post is fun for a couple of reasons.
One, what is the name of this post?
Priming and contamination.
Thank you.
As I said a few minutes ago, I know, but that was so long ago we probably forgot our astute
listeners will have remembered.
Anyway, this is, so this was on the, I forget when this came out, 2007, eight.
Yeah.
So like the state of the research at the time was, and this, I mean, I was taught this in
all the way through college that, you know, if you suggest people, whether it's like spin
wheel and it's fixed to land on like somewhere in the teens or somewhere in the 60s, then
ask them to guess the number of countries in Africa that are part of the United Nations.
Their number will correlate with the number that landed on the wheel or.
Or be a higher or lower number.
Yeah.
If you ask them their zip code and then ask them how many practicing physicians there
are in California, those numbers will correlate.
Whereas if you ask them in the other order, they don't.
I was told all this shit for pages.
I think this is true.
You're bringing up the replication crisis, right?
Yeah.
I think that had more to do with.
That's more like anchoring.
Well, it was also priming, but that was specifically in like social sciences.
Why are we bringing up the replication crisis for people who have not read this post yet?
Because as the title suggests, it's about priming.
Okay.
Yeah.
And priming.
Priming is the idea that if I were to like say, hey, I'm going to go to that place where
I need to go deposit the check.
By the way, when I say bank, what does that mean to you?
You'd be like, oh, the money thing, not the edge of a river.
Right.
Whereas if I, maybe if I had said, I'm going to go chase beavers by your house because
you sent a picture of a beaver over the weekend.
And then as to a bank meant you'd be like, oh, that's where that's the edge of the water,
the body of water.
Yeah.
Now that's obviously like not, if it was just me and you, it's not a reliable sample
size, but the idea was that this was a big enough effect to where you could get people
to connect ideas to other ideas by giving them one idea first.
Yeah.
And like the, like the whole bank thing is kind of just obvious because yeah, you're
going to be thinking about the context of what you guys are talking about.
But this extended to the fact to that some studies said that like, if you prime people
with ideas of oldness, they will start walking slower afterwards, which I mean, at the time
I was like, whoa, that's crazy, our brains are weird.
And then the replication crisis happened, which for people who've listened a while would
already know is the fact that a lot of social science studies before about 2014 or so.
People just didn't bother to replicate them.
And once they try started trying to replicate them, they failed to replicate.
And in the meantime, they'd been like writing books about them.
Yeah.
About what this means for humans.
Including them in, I don't know, discussions where they might be relevant.
Yeah.
So the fact that I know less wrong sequences, that kind of thing.
Yep.
Right.
The fact that I have so many examples of priming just from what I remember from 10 years ago
suggests to me that they didn't necessarily replicate the exact thing with bank or something,
but they did enough similar things across, I mean, decades and different.
In fact, another fun thing about this post is that it's cited heavily.
So like this wasn't just one person misreading one person's paper or even trusting too much
in one person's paper.
It was like the established consensus for decades.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There was there was even those things where if you put a cold cup in someone's hand, they're
going to act more cold to you.
And if you put a warm cup, they'll act warmer to you.
And I think my favorite thing that's come out of the replication crisis is one of the
best ways to predict if something is going to replicate or not without actually doing
a replication is asking a random person on the street.
