cause you a lot of problems.
And I actually listened to a really interesting podcast episode recently
about this, uh, so if you want to do a quick digression on that, then we can.
I mean, we're pushing two hours as it is.
So, yeah, and we're not even halfway through the, uh, outline, but what,
what do you say?
I would make it two priority if you feel like coming back for the second
half, I would love to come back for the second half.
Yeah.
I mean, we've got to keep, I'm not, I want to, we're not wrapping up right yet.
No, no, good.
Yeah.
Then let's keep rolling.
We'll figure out where to, where to press pause.
Also, like I, I literally have nothing to do for another four hours or so.
So if you guys just want to like make a super long episode, I'm okay with that.
I don't think I could handle that.
Plus I do got to go out and do some chores.
Okay.
All right.
Then, uh, do you want to cut it after, or, uh, before we get to the Q and A?
No, the whole point of this was to find out why Texas isn't libertarianism land.
Well, we need, we need to, uh, press pause.
Yeah.
Well, we need to, um, uh, we need to, uh, keep the audience engagement.
We need to get them to come back for part two.
This is what happens when you stick to outlines, man.
All right.
Let's, let's press the moral arguments then for now.
Well, uh, so real quick, um, uh, cause this is the basing conspiracy and we never say
no to a good, uh, um, what should we call it, um, tangent.
And this is actually a really cool story.
So in case you didn't notice, uh, alcohol sales laws in America are really fucked up
and they tend to be fucked up at this state level.
So there's a lot of fuckery, uh, instead of just like one big pile of fuckery.
Um, and, uh, I mean, yes, everyone can.
Um, so like, uh, in my home state of South Carolina, liquor stores need to have a
big red dot on the frontage.
Why?
I don't know, because someone said so.
Um, but yeah.
So letter.
Hmm.
Yeah.
So, um, the, uh, one of the weird things about our system is we have a three tiered
system where, uh, the producers, wholesalers and retailers of alcohol cannot be the same
legal entity.
Huh.
And so this has led to a lot of rent seeking getting built up where things like,
um, like the reason you can't make it, you couldn't get, uh, to go cocktail before the
pandemic, uh, was because whenever someone tried, then the liquor stores would panic
and get a law passed banning it.
And just in general, they're, they've like been trying to eat each other's lunches,
uh, which normally that would be prevented by vertical in a, in a vertical integration
where one company owns the entire supply chain.
Um, can we talk about breweries in New Jersey?
Uh, yeah.
Once we finish this story.
Um, so normally, uh, you would just vertically integrate and that would deal with this, uh,
infighting issue.
Um, uh, but, uh, because of this federally mandated three tiered system, that doesn't
happen with liquor.
Um, but then the pandemic rolled around and that provided a shelling point for, um, uh,
all of these various, uh, lobbying groups for alcohol companies to all coordinate and
get rid of a whole bunch of these regulations all at once.
And pretty much everyone involved is much happier now than they were before the pandemic
because they have gotten rid of a bunch of these bullshit laws.
Um, uh, but before they, um, each founded in their individual interests to just try
to get, um, regulations favoring them past rather than trying to get rid of a bunch
of them all at once.
And, um, so anyway, all that is to say, uh, that the government hurts everyone and it
hurts some people less than others, but probably you are getting hurt by the government
quite badly in ways you don't even entirely realize.
And so, uh, the better alternative to the, uh, don't tread on me argument is don't
tread on anyone because everyone is getting trod on, including breweries in New Jersey.
Jayce.
Nice.
Uh, there's this thing in New Jersey and possibly other places where breweries are, I
don't know, I don't know if it's to do with, they don't want them competing with bars or
bars, don't want them competing with them or what the hell, but you can only have a
brewery if it's cat, like categorized in markets itself as like a educational experience
where you have a mandatory tour of the brewery that you have to, you have to take the tour
and then you can have a tasting afterwards.
But the breweries that I went into, I don't know, someone described it and they're like,
Oh yeah, I did a brewery tour.
You got to see the stills and stuff.
And I like built it up in my head as, Oh, cool.
Like, I wonder if you like go in there and you're like, you can make your own beer and
you can like pick out which hops you want.
And they tell you about the history of that.
No, they're like, I went in and they're like, Hey guys, come this way, sign this waiver.
Here's our stills over here.
Here's the other stills.
Here's the shit that we put in the stills.
Okay, go drink.
Sign this other waiver first.
It's just like, Oh man, I wanted the tour.
Can you deliver to me and solve this?
Yes, it can.
Because if you get rid of that stupid law that requires the tour, then you can actually
distinguish between the breweries that actually do give you an educational experience and
the ones that just have to say they do to get Uncle Sam off their backs.
Also, the, uh, don't tread on anyone.
Have you seen the ridiculous, uh, redraws of the don't tread on me flag?
Yes, you tried on me, daddy.
The, the no step on snack ones.
I like, I like that one, but I, I like the, like, please tread on me daddy ones too.
I like the most minimal one where it was a squiggly line and the word don't.
So, I mean,
Just make you merge for the, if anyone, if people haven't made it flag, like it just
lots of snakes, don't tread on any of us.
My own real conventionally, um, conventionally, don't tread on anyone comes on a yellow
background beneath a hedgehog, which is the animal of the libertarian party and
also just a generally good, uh, symbolic representation for a lot of reasons.
I had a good animal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My, my, my one sentence example of government being annoying with business
regulation like that is car dealerships, at least in Colorado, aren't open on Sundays
because of the law.
And I thought that was insane because unless you want to skip work, it means you
have to do all your car shopping on Saturday.
Cars since 2013.
I don't even think that was the case in 2013, but I was in school and I guess my
schedule was more flexible, but when I was buying a car last year, it was annoying.
Um, so I guess the, the don't try to, there's so many things that I feel like we
need to hit, like don't tread on anyone is, is a great motto to live by, but as
soon as it becomes very profitable to tread on one group of people, people might
be inclined to do it, right?
Use the example of the American Indians earlier, like, uh, when it became very
profitable and easy to say, Hey, get out of here, or we're going to kill you, or
like, you know, we'll kill enough of you to scare the rest of you out of here.
Um, people just did it.
It, you know, like, uh, so, so people, people just did it.
People just did it, but they didn't do it because it was profitable.
Like it took a long freaking time before, uh, America's having, um, uh, colonized
the, uh, Western United States actually turned a profit in any accounting sense.
They did it because of manifest destiny and because, um, Theodore Roosevelt, uh,
thought that it would make his pee pee feel good.
And so it was right.
And it wasn't just Roosevelt.
It was also like Taft and some other people involved.
Yes.
Does the don't tread on anyone kind of motto require like that all libertarians
be basically like rational altruists?
Uh, no, because treading on other people is very rarely profitable.
Um, this is not something that was in the Q and A, but it should have been, uh, just
generally, um, if, uh, if people are more, will spend more resources to defend
things that are theirs, uh, then they will to take things from others.
Uh, and this is true for both, like, um, uh, both rational, strategic reasons
and irrational, emotional reasons.
And so that means that stealing from other people is almost never profitable.
Uh, if you just have like arbitrary amounts of money that you're willing
to throw at stealing from someone, then sure, it'll cause problems eventually.
But that's another one of those circumstances where, like, if you have
people that are that powerful and that determined to screw over other people,
then it's going to cause you problems no matter how you organize society.
I think the prevalence of people stealing from other people kind of, um, disproves
the stealing is almost never profitable thing.
Like this is a thing that happens a lot, especially
the taxation is theft idea.
So it, so it happens because there are economies of scale with respect to
stealing, at least certainly with, um, governmental stealing, uh, because
like the government already has a big military lying around.
So they might as well use it for something, uh, and taking stuff from other
people seems like a fine use of that military.
But if you don't have a military lying around, then, you know, you need to get
a military together before you take stuff.
And that's the expensive part.
And if you don't have one lying around, then your neighbor who does
might just take your stuff.
That is the admittedly hard problem.
At least we can, at least we can flag it as a hard problem.
Yes.
So, so national defense is one of the big things that anarcho capitalists
don't really have a good response to.
And I admit that, uh, it's, it is a hard problem.
All right, I got two questions that are probably related before we dive into the
Texas thing and maybe that's okay.
So like we've got the standard, uh, um, uh, allegory, parable, parable of the, of
the fishermen at the pond, right?
Or at the lake where there's, there's a hundred fishermen or fish, fish, you
know, you know, the story, the fish factory, there's 10, there's 100 of them
around it.
It's, they're all polluting the water, like crazy to get all as many
fishes as they can.
They all agree to buy a $300 filter that costs $300 a month to maintain.
And they're all doing great.
The water stays clean.
Uh, Jeff, the dick, the dick, uh, hold out decides, you know what, I'm not
going to wish the 300 bucks and they're making $999 a month and everyone else is
basically doing the exact same, except they're all paying for the filter and
then not paying for the filter catches on because they're all saving money.
And then they're all worse off because the, the fish are all dying.
So like, there's that, that's like the, the hold out problem.
You know, like if, if those, if those teenagers wanted to go around and pay
the neighbors to make noise on that intersection, like all it takes is one
person saying, fuck you, I don't care what you're offering me.
Another more, more snodgrass.
