Right by watching someone that looks like me that I resonate with get fucking killed or beat up or whatever for and and so what does that do.
But then the other guy who's watching it who's watching the other one right the guy in Texas watching the blue lives matter one is getting more and more both patriotic and he's getting vicariously traumatized of the way the cops are being wrongly attacked by the black lives matter folks the protesters whoever it is and.
That person is actually becoming more racist than they were right becoming more scared and so what if they got the other videos like what if the algorithm was actually giving them the other content and what if it was.
Giving them the specific subsets of the other content that would be likely to actually touch something and appeal to something in them.
So that there was just some so one it wasn't just just traumatizing them and two it might be giving them some insight how to do something other than culture war.
How to do something that could possibly bridge where there's trauma on different sides simultaneously.
So if you start to think about let alone the science of yeah you're no one ivermectin right or whatever so if you start to think about could we.
Curate it to have the right media forms.
And the right distribution of the types of content.
And exposure to the types of people that would help this person be more trans perspectival more perspective seeking more perspective taking more holistic in their thoughts and insights.
I mean it's and and even where in so far as someone is watching something and it's their liking and it's being seen what they're watching word where in so far as like status shit is being hijacked.
We use it for the right thing where people start to have status conferred by the amount of stuff that they're looking at from different perspectives and it's educational in nature.
I think it's fascinating to start to think about and and still people be scared hearing this like who the fuck thinks that they know what human development is and what I should see and is going to socially engineer me for their good idea.
And they should be dubious of that.
The thing is you're being socially engineered right now and you and you never aren't right so it's not like socially engineered or not it's.
Bring consciousness to the fact that it can't not happen because we are all conditioned by the environments we're in and then take responsibility to say how do we how do we actually do that intentionally well what does that mean.
I mean at the moment.
I'm sure that there would be a way to make it worse to make it more polarizing or more limbically hijacked.
But it feels like there's a lot more ways to make it better than there are ways to make it worse.
It's interesting the ways to make it worse.
The search algorithm or ants there better it's like is it possible to make food that is much worse for you than hostess and McDonald's.
Well like only if it's not food at all it's just poison right like if I'm doing just pure poison.
But I couldn't really make anything that could even masquerade its food much worse because there's not that many things that are food.
And they they split test optimized for the most addictive ones and with the easiest palatability with the drives most addiction it's like maybe maybe they'll come out with a new type of Twinkie that's even more addictive.
But probably like they kind of already did most of that search base right.
And they're making innovations like OK can we make porn that is even more addictive.
Yeah VR right so and then we'll do shit.
But so but the thing is like hyper normal stimuli that lead people to addictive behavior is just good for capitalism.
If I run a business I want to supply something people are addicted to.
Because because the first rule of business if I'm you know I'm an NBA the first rule is to maximize lifetime revenue of a customer.
And I maximize lifetime revenue very well through addiction.
And but what that means is that there are lower and higher angels in my nature and it's easier to make money off the lower angels of my nature than the higher ones.
Which means the money will go into developing technologies that will drive the lower angels people's nature.
Which is why the underlying incentive system is one of the things we have to work on deeply.
Because whilst that's still in place there's always going to be these particular individual agents here and there that will just take advantage of other people deciding to slow down.
If you can't coordinate effectively.
Yeah I mean the reason to have rule of law is to bind the predatory aspects of market incentive.
To say yes I know you can make money by cutting down the national forest but you know you're not allowed and.
And we actually do have a monopoly of violence with the police force so if you try to take your goons in there to say we're going to do it anyways we'll actually come physically stopping.
And yes you can make money killing people and harvesting their organs and selling them and know you're not allowed to do that right like there's a bunch of things that are just bad you shouldn't do that.
And so this is why we say no not just total free for all free market because.
Then what you end up getting is a few people who have all the money like we have and most people have no money and the people who have most all of the money have relatively unchecked power.
This kind of radical power asymmetry to impose things that might totally suck for the will of all these people so these people say we're going to pull our power into a kind of labor union of sorts called the state.
And the state is going to take our collective values that will encode as rule of law right our values as the basis of jurisprudence creating rule of law.
With a government of people that are supposed to have no vested interest at all because it's up for and by the people.
They are a belief of the monopoly of violence so the state's even more powerful than the top of the people in the market more than the billionaires at the top of the power distribution so that the values of the people can check the otherwise.
Radical asymmetries of market differences that's the idea right.
It obviously breaks down because what that means is those at the top of the market have maximum incentive to corrupt the state to capture it to capture the regulators until you see someone who works at the FDA who used to work at Big Ag or.
Someone who works in the DOD who used to work at Lockheed or whatever it is you're like oh that seems like an incentive problem.
And then you see that GDP goes up when there's war right and because we spend a lot of money on military manufacturing and.
So the regulator that is supposed to regulate the state ends up getting I mean they're that is supposed to regulate the market ends up getting captured by the market because.
The state was supposed to be regulated by the people right a government of form by the people with high transparency where the people saw what was going on.
So the people so the representatives were really representing the will of the people not representing their own private interests that were being paid for by some kind of state.
So the state can only check the market and so far as the people are checking the state.
The people obviously are not checking the state at all the state is not trying and nor are the market forces trying to support the people to do that they're trying to support the people to believe that they can do that by voting every four years or something.
But having no real transparency inside awareness.
But.
But yeah so the thing about perverse incentive well.
You have to be able to say no that way that you can make money and yes you'll be able to say hey they want it right on Facebook is like we're just providing a service people want right and that's what the drug dealer says when providing the drug to kids they're paying for it right.
We're just providing a service they want to yeah you there are weaknesses in people that you can exploit and then they'll want it you'll fuck up their lives we should not do that right that's not like.
Authentic voluntaryism that's like exploiting people's weaknesses and talking up their life because of bad incentive that's the thing we should not do we should provide goods and services that enrich the quality of people's lives and not provide the particularly predatory ones.
So that's where you need a state or you need some kinds of forces to be able to identify those and check them.
We we and this is where we need better collective sense making to be able to identify these are perverse incentives.
Oh we should actually make different kinds of laws and regulations around that old our whole process of law and regulation is too slow for the rate of the tech moves how do we actually change the structure of.
But our governance system hasn't employed any of the new tech why is that China's governments employing their the new tech before an autocratic system we're not employing it to make better open societies why not.
Taiwan starting to we could it's working there.
Yeah.
Have you ever read Seven Eves by Neil Stevenson it's a hard sci-fi book.
So the moon explodes in the first sentence.
And the next two years are humanity trying to work out how they're going to survive how they're going to get genetic progeny somewhere.
Right and they decide to go through sort of a forked strategy they send some up to Izzy the ISS that then gets made huge and loads of other stuff happens they send some under the water.
Given the fact that you spend a lot of time thinking about existential risk we don't have a second community on Mars or another planet or anything.
Why haven't we created a siloed community somewhere which is totally self sufficient defended air gap from the rest of the world so that if anything was to happen there is a contingency already in place like that.
Well there kind of is in terms of do we have deep underground military bases for the continuity of governance or government.
Yes of course right like especially after World War Two and during the Cold War the idea of there's a nuclear attack how do we have continuity of government let's make the bases do that and that they have the self sustaining resource to be able to do that.
And then of course plenty of billionaires have their own bug out bunkers for those scenarios.
Why has the world not created a its own breakaway civilization.
Say something that the world is work together to do.
At all like with with coordination that isn't in the interest of those who are working on it like that's the deeper question there because if if we could work together make a breakaway civilization why not just make this one much better.
Yeah yeah the global coordination does seem to be the challenge you are right it's just it's something that they're interested me I'm reading this book I'm looking at all of the challenges that occur when you have an imminent threat.
But as anyone that spent a bit of time learning about existential risk the fact that you can't see the imminence of something doesn't mean that it isn't imminent.
Like it could be it could be around the fucking corner you know we didn't need much of a difference in some of the parameters of covid to have made this a very imminent sort of danger.
And Rob I suggested to Rob Reed last week and he said that he could think of a way where this would almost be like conscription in a way like you would do your time in the.
Humanity 2.0 bunker or whatever perhaps people would cycle in and cycle out for a couple of years at the time and it would be something that would be really prestigious and people be picked based on sort of.
Genetic markers or attributes that they would want and we would always have a siloed civilization just there ready in case something was to happen to me.
I'm aware that it's probably not going to be super fun but also it kind of might be fun there's not many things you can do that not many other people have done.
It seems like for any country to do.
Relatively small cost yeah gonna suck for some people but it's a pretty small outlay for.
Well.
University of Arizona biosphere to project was something in that direction right can we make a closed sustaining biosphere.
And it's hard and there's easier versions are not quite ambitious that all the big countries do have which is.
If the world blows up.
Is there somebody that still makes it well all of the serious nuclear power submarines are that.
And they know that right when they go when they go under you could have full scale strategic thermonuclear war on the surface and they're still doing the thing.
And they have the ability to do that thing for a while and they have the ability to blow up a big portion of the world from the.
Artillery they're carrying on them so like the they're very interesting like the risk that they pose and the psychological experiment that nuclear submarines are is actually very interesting.
And so but that's also a continuity of government military capacity thing was okay well let's say first strike happened all of a sudden we've got these guys out there and there's they have the ability to respond independent of whatever else got blown up so.
So that's like part partial experiments like that have happened.
I think this is how Elon describes part of his goal with Mars is that we can take a stand somewhere else other than Earth asteroids and whatever.
And as just inspiring enough project to motivate us to think positively about the future and do something interesting.
I'll tell you what I really like about the Mars colony.
Is and what I like about the idea that you're saying even if it wasn't Mars colony but I think Mars colony is maybe the most popular version of it right now and also kind of well resourced one.
I like it as a thought experiment for how to design civilization from scratch.
Because if I make the Mars colony of course there are some differences there and here with like microgravity and cosmic rays and microbiomes which are pretty serious issues but let's take those issues off and just take all the other ones that identical Earth would have.
I still have this issue of how do I.
Make a civilization that does not require import.
And it doesn't mess itself up.
There's going to be very limited oxygen.
I can't have the inefficiencies of a bunch of.
Unnecessary farm animals breathing the oxygen.
If that's not a good way to produce nutrient and chloric density.
I can't have criminals who aren't contributing anymore breathing the oxygen.
So how do I create a social system that doesn't create criminals or that deals with criminality in a way of putting people in prisons for a long time.
I can't just assume that we can get new shit easily not only can I not produce waste or trash I can't even produce micro pollution volatile organic compounds from the epoxies or whatever in this space in this very finite amount of air supply.
I have to be able to make all of our own hardware and software and mining and everything and all of our own biotech.
And if anything breaks we have to be able to make the tools to fix it all right in the same space.
Are we going to use the same law that is retrofitting stuff back from like the 1200s or are we going to redo law from scratch.
If so are we going to do it on a blockchain.
What is the basis.
Well if we're going to redo law what is the jurisprudence upon which it's based.
Well what are the values upon which the whole thing is based.
What is the Constitution.
What is the metaphysics that gives rise to how we pick the Constitution.
If you really want to think about a Mars colony you're thinking about everything.
You're thinking about the full tech stack the full suite of social technologies.
How are we doing education and towards what what is a developed human being that we're trying to develop humans towards.
And ultimately what is the value system what is the metaphysics that we are that we're basing the Constitution and the educational theory and the everything on.
As we get clear on that because of that thought experiment then it's well could we rebuild the world here that way.
Could we build floating cities at sea that where we don't have to produce our own oxygen and deal with all of our own CO2.
We can still piggyback off this biosphere.
And we don't have the we just have to ship it across the ocean not across the solar system you know for the import stuff that we do need.
Could we do ground up civilizations that way.
And you know could some nation states pick up levels of design iteration.
And even if we can't do it ground up knowing what it would look like can we say now we know how to vector to make a 50 year plan to vector the current system in that direction.
That's something so the the actuality of making it on Mars actually interests me less than the thought experiment of what the thing worth making would be and then what it portends for us to get clear on that.
So the constraints of being somewhere like Mars where inefficiencies whether they be metaphysical biological technological sociological legal all of these show up potential flaws within the system.
And.
Is it right to say that on earth because the the externalities of getting these things wrong have sufficient slippage or.
The opaque enough that we don't actually get to see when they happen we have a surplus resources or at least we feel like we have surplus resources that can kind of chew up some of these inefficiencies yet when you start to bring those constraints in in my.
Super silos second world or whatever or on Mars that's when you actually get to see them in a harsher light.
Yeah it's not that Mars has more constraints it has more and less constraints in ways that lead to more innovative design.
It has more constraints in all the ways you just mentioned it has less constraints to be an iteration of the previous things to stay bound to being intelligible to the previous things.
Right it would be very hard to try to make a really fundamentally different law and culture in.
In England.
Because there's a very very strong tradition there's very strong basis of law what would be the to bring it into being what would the basis of law in current law be to bring it into being and does it even make that kind of thing possible.
Whereas on the Mars calling is like we got here first fuck off we're doing it right it's more that kind of thing so whether they get there or not even the thought experiment of it is less constraints about what it has to be or can be.
Based on our past and where the constraints are more just physics.
But those constraints are more obvious to us because we don't have the huge buffer of pollutability and more resources.
Daniel from action burger ladies and gentlemen what can people expect from you over the the next few months where should people go to check out interesting stuff that you're doing at the moment.
The project that is still in just a very very early beta phase but that has most my attention is called the conciliants project I'm one of the members of that team and so conciliants project org and it's really working on.
Right now.
Through a bunch of articles and then translation of those articles through podcasts and then maybe animation other forms of media on helping people to understand.
The problem space of the world better.
The types of things we're talking about the relationship between sense making meaning making choice making imposed order versus chaos and how do we have emergent order to understand some of the things well enough to be able to start to think about.
The.
Innovations it would actually make a difference at a fundamental level how do we understand the meta crisis well enough that we can design better.
We can employ the more powerful exponential physical technologies to make better social technologies that are neither the catastrophes or the dystopias.
And how do we make both the need for that and the design criteria of what the solutions would look like not exactly the solutions but the design criteria of the solutions to be able to kind of drive innovation zeitgeist so both existing institutions can say.
Wow we need to reform ourselves and we need to reform ourselves in these ways and new independent groups like blockchain governance imperatives and whatever can.
Can also innovate informed by these things so that's that's where much of the attention is and then.
Invited like by yourself to do a podcast on interesting and fun and random topics in that so I have a blog that is basically just a place I put podcasts called a civilization emerging dot com you can check that out.
Awesome that'll be linked in the show notes below Daniel.
It's always a pleasure. Thank you so much.
Thank you my friend. Thank you for having me. It's good to be back with you.
Thank you very much for tuning in. If you enjoyed that then press here for a selection of the best clips from the podcast over the last few months and don't forget to subscribe.
Makes me very happy indeed.
Peace.
