Like what was the force that wanted to make it seem that certain and to push against the other narrative so strong?
That should be a very interesting question for everybody.
And yeah, it's fascinating in this whole situation.
I have seen zeitgeist formation that is more intense and faster than I've ever seen previously,
that is not based on good sense-making but other stuff.
Just rapid news cycle iteration.
And yeah, one of the terms that you use a lot is talking about good faith and bad faith actors.
And I guess that this ties in with sense-making individuals or actors,
if you want to say that sense-making agent.
What I find, especially over the last 15 months and the lab-league hypothesis is a good identify because it is so flagrant and in your face,
was people who had complete certainty plus powerful distribution to be able to convince others of their certainty
are able to reverse their position essentially without an apology within the space of 15 months.
That it's, here was a thing that I'm certain is true and now here's another story about a potential other truth
without referring to the fact that the first truth that we made you believe was true was untrue.
We saw this with Joe Biden last year where he said that shutting down travel from China was xenophobic in February
and then by May was saying that Donald Trump had left it too late to close the borders.
You don't get to do that. You do not get to fucking do that.
You're supposed to be the people leading the country.
You're supposed to be the ones that we hold to the highest levels of good faith actor requirements.
Yeah, that's cute.
Like obviously they do get to do that because people are easy enough to capture and move along in that way.
That's why it happens.
What's interesting is each time, say, a narrative changes,
we made a mistake before we couldn't have known or science takes time, which sometimes is true.
But now we know.
It's all it and now we know.
So it's a continuous justification for the authority we have.
And the Consilience Project, we just published an article there recently called where arguments come from.
A team that worked on it did a really, really good job and it basically shows like where do arguments in the public sphere come from?
Like in order for a lot of people to have heard it, a lot of amplification of the message had to happen,
which meant a lot of people who had the ability to amplify a message had to care about it.
Or some people that had the ability to amplify it had to do a lot of work to make that happen.
And so typically there's a narrative that somebody who has some vested interest wants.
So they have like a demand for a narrative because it will create a demand for a thing in the population.
And so they find a source of narrative supply.
They find a academic or a think tank or whatever it is that already thinks that thing or thinks something close enough.
So they don't have to get somebody to lie.
They just upregulate the narrative that currently wasn't like that person has been writing about that thing for 30 years.
It never got any traction.
Now it's everywhere because there's now an agenda that it is useful for it that will upregulate it where before it was women upstream.
And so it's important to just really think about the mechanics of what allows a meme to propagate.
What allows a narrative is I guys to propagate and not just allows it what what propagates it right there is energy involved in propagation.
The energy has an interest at seeking ROI on that energy.
And so this is why DC is filled full of think tanks that are intellectuals putting out public policy that is already predetermined in advance.
What the ideology is they're doing it on every new topic that emerges right.
What do you think a good sense making agent is not or what are some of the most common pitfalls that people have when trying to become one.
I mean we've been talking about the pitfall of excessive certainty this whole time.
And epistemic certainty is I know what is true excessive moral certainty is I know what is good also called sanctimony right.
Those are both pretty big pitfalls.
There is another one on the other side which is I don't know and I don't care as nihilism.
What I find interesting is that most people will or many people will flip from certainty to nihilism in like one step.
Where they're pretty certain of something if they find out that that's not true they're like I can't make sense anything I'm giving up I'm going to watch TV or whatever it is and.
Because the hard work of having to sit and I don't know and I'm going to work at it and I'm still not going to know I'm going to work out more and I'm still going to know for a long time.
A bunch of friends get really frustrated with me because they send me a thing and say what what's your opinion on this thing whatever it is and it's like something about a different narrative on early human civilization and hominid origins or whatever it is and I'm like.
Like did you read the paper I said yeah it's interesting.
And they're like well what do you think I'm like it would take me hundreds of hours to start to have a sense of it like I it's an interesting topic.
I don't have hundreds of hours to put into it I'm not nihilistic and that I don't care it just might not make it to the top of my stack.
And a lot of the things that are on the top of my stack I also say I don't know but I'm working on it right.
So when we talk about sense making being good sense making agent like what are we really like if we try to make it.
Simple and grounded what we're saying is.
I actually want to understand the world I live in as best I can.
Because.
I actually hold that life is meaningful.
And I hold that my life could be meaningful.
Which means that my choices can be meaningful.
And so I want them to be informed as well as they can be.
If my choices are me acting on and in with the world I want to understand things about me and the world and about what those actions will do as best I can.
Because if my choices really matter I don't want to believe it's going to go a certain way and I'm wrong.
Unnecessarily and I don't like I want to understand as much as possible because I act because it matters like ultimately because it matters and I care.
And then the hard part say it matters and I don't know and I might still have choices to make and I care.
It's easier to jump to I know or I don't care.
Because that I don't know and I care and it's consequential and it's moving is fucking hard right like that's scary and heartbreaking.
But it's like there's an epistemic humility.
And an epistemic commitment at the same time.
I don't know but I can progressively come to know better.
Not all positions are equally good positions.
Some of them have more error and some of them are more inclusive of more perspectives.
So I can progressively come to know better so that my choices can be better informed so they can be more effective and more meaningful.
But in order to do that I'm going to have to stay the course of seeking understanding for quite some time.
Which means I'm not going to have to not prematurely come to think I already figured it out too quickly.
Or defer my sense making to someone else who thinks they figured it out.
Easy exits out of the discomfort.
It's deciding to give up halfway through the workout.
It's sandbagging it so that you don't go to your maximum heart rate.
Yeah it's dropping the weight down so that the discomfort is a little bit less.
Yeah the get uncomfortable with the unknown I think is a really good.
Sort of overarching heuristic that you've got there.
One more way to say that.
Get okay with the unknown.
There's an even more poetic and beautiful way to say it that I actually feel and think everybody feels if they drop in.
Is actually connect to your love of reality.
If you didn't care about like if you didn't have a love for reality wouldn't care if it got hurt.
You wouldn't care if you lost it.
You wouldn't care like the fear of losses because there's something meaningful you don't want to lose.
The anger at anyone doing the wrong thing is because they're harming something you care about.
Like care and love are the origin of all the other emotions because otherwise you'd just be apathetic and not give any shits.
So ultimately I give shits about things because there is a care and love about life my life others lives reality that's real.
So there is a love of reality that is at the basis of the meaningfulness of anything.
And reality is mostly unknown to me I know the tiniest fragment.
So my love of reality and my love of the unknown right if I have a love of reality and it's mostly unknown.
That means not just comfort with the unknown but and this is the awe of the mystery this is the spiritual sense of faith and trust whatever right it's actually extending the love of reality into the fact that most of it's unknown.
That's nicer.
We'll take that one.
One of the things that I was very interested in is to try and work out at what stage of personal actualization people should start to serve the world at large.
Should we sort our own shit first before trying to go and fix the world and when do you know when you're ready for one of a better term.
Yeah definitely total enlightenment before sweeping the kitchen.
I joke because it shows how ludicrous it is to think that it is not both always right.
If I am seeking to help the world.
And I have not learned what's going on in the world I might be doing stuff that's totally not needed.
Or not very useful and trying to solve a problem but I don't understand the upstream things that are causing the problem so my actions will mostly be useless right.
So do I want to work on myself in this place just means work on my cognitive models and maps that I understand the issue well enough I can be helpful right sometimes I care about the thing I want to help the first thing is do I understand the problem well enough.
To be able to help right sometimes it doesn't matter this trash on the beach and pick it up.
Did I fix the issue trash on the beach no I don't know who's putting the trash there why what cultural effects are causing that so but I still picked up the trash that day cool.
That is not a comprehensive solution to pollution.
It's a meaningful activity in the moment.
But to the degree I want a comprehensive solution to pollution I have to start to understand the financial incentives to make throw away plastics have to understand what it would take.
Technologically to be able to make plastics that biodegraded I have to understand the culture of why people do that here and they don't in Japan and how we could change the culture there might be a number of ways I can come to understand it well enough right.
So I might want to work on my understanding of the problem before trying to help it so that I have a sense of how to really be effective.
Particularly the more complex the issue is the more consequential it is and the more consequential my action is going to be right.
Oh we're gonna do a solar.
Remittance program where we that's not the right word but where we reflect 20% of the sunlight out of the earth or geoengineering.
She probably pretty fucking sure.
Pretty fucking sure that's a good idea because pretty consequential right or where we're gonna try and sequester to using these genetically modified plants that we've never planted at scale don't know the biological effects of the modified organisms like.
More sense making before choices that are really consequential.
So that's one example of I want to work on my own cognitive maps of what is needed what's going on would be effective.
Enough that I have a sense of what to do but then also there's a point at which there's no more research will work I need to field test the thing try some stuff and be like oh it didn't work for reasons know the lab would never told me I didn't realize that the locals don't even like that thing or they don't believe it or.
And so there's a place where the application layer also ends up being part of the epistemology it's the testing right.
So that's one example there's also the example of well what if I'm working on trying to help the world and it's not.
The problem isn't a lack of cognitive elements a lack of certain kind of emotional healing and development where.
That is affecting how I'm showing up well let's say.
Whatever wounding issues in childhood have me have an outsized need for credit seeking because of not having ever felt loved enough or enough or only having felt good enough based on performance and credit attribution whatever.
Will I possibly mess up a project to ensure that I get the credit out of it where I'll undermine other people or sabotage or whatever it is or emphasize to me getting credit more than the effect of the project.
Where me doing work on not needing that as much because of healing whatever kind of place that isn't me would actually make me a much better agent for change in the world.
Yeah that's like a real thing right that's a real thing where that kind of stuff messes stuff up.
Or where.
I.
I'm trying to heal a particular issue in the world that I don't realize is unresolved wounds in me where I see something resonant out there.
And when I heal the thing in me I have a totally different assessment of it right like I have a totally different assessment because I really.
I was trying to.
Fix marriages in a particular way because of my trauma around my parents divorce or whatever it was and so I was seeing it through a traumatized lens I didn't even realize that I had this whole mission and nonprofit and whatever it is.
So there are times where our own trauma will get projected on the world this is why Lao Tzu said if you want to protect your feet from rocks better to put on shoes and try to cover the world and leather right that that idea of like.
But that doesn't mean that any pain you feel looking at the world is just your pain like I think if someone.
Was as healed and integrated as they could be and they see a factory farm.
They would feel the empathetic pain of the pain of those animals if they see hungry hungry kids they feel an empathetic pain if they didn't there would be something wrong with them they wouldn't be enlightened they'd be sociopaths.
And this is why you see the Buddha crying right this is why you see the the passion of the Christ is the idea of the enlightenment is not just oh I can see you suffering and doesn't do anything to me it's like sociopathic enlightenment is not that interesting.
It's.
But this is where it can be either way right am I clear and I'm really feeling the pain of the other feeling called to help.
Or is the some pain somewhere else just triggering my pain and then rather than face it in myself I'm gonna try to solve it in the world in a way that will always keep my sense making and my effectiveness off right.
So these are examples that people give people understand this is like you do more work on yourself first or my own need for excessive certainty because my own comfort with the unknown that will make me do shit where I'm.
I'm wrong but certain I'm right too often right these and we I'm sure the listeners can generate a hundred more examples.
So should I just do a bunch of psychotherapy and a bunch of Zen meditation and a bunch of.
Study until I am second tier or third tier or whatever the fuck the developmental metric I want to look at is that means I am now whole enough and integrated enough that I can work in the world.
No that's ridiculous you can't even like so many of the ways we learn about the problems is by engaging with them and you couldn't only do it and study and so many of the ways we learn about our issues is by engaging in the world and seeing
Oh I really did try to get too much ego credit there and I'm reflecting on it and I was an asshole and like I need to work on that and I wouldn't have seen it otherwise or wow that project failed and I was so certain that's how I'm seeing my certainty issue.
Right so as I heal and learn and grow I can show it better in the world but as I show up in the world I also get to see those things if I'm looking for them if I don't look for them always blame the world.
Every failure with somebody else's fault right every but if I'm looking for it then I can see those things and rather than just get crushed I'm a piece of shit that's all there is to it I can take it as oh this is this was some.
Belief trauma pattern that created a self-fulfilling prophecy or whatever but I could shift right so I want to bring an empowerment where I will look at.
What in me was off not to just beat myself up and hate myself not to put or not to pretend there was nothing in the off but to be able to see it look at it work on integrating and growing past it.
But similarly.
There's also this thing that we're showing up to the world.
With things that were passionate about it motivates our growth.
Because.
Let's say.
I'm afraid of public speaking.
Let's say I'm like catatonically afraid of public speaking.
I can just avoid that forever and don't have to go through it but let's say I'm somebody like Jane Goodall or whatever and I go and I'm working with the.
With the primates in the wild and I watch the poaching.
Right and I'm so fucking broken by that.
And it matters so much more than whether the people like me or not I get up on stage and talk about it and like we have to stop this position we have to because something bigger than me and my fear of public speaking is actually now moving me.
And if when I get up on the stage to talk I'm still under like are people gonna like me or not like me plays I won't get over the fear if I'm touched by something that is so much more important than that I can actually transcend that because it's not about me I'm talking about the topic.
I'm talking about the issue.
I don't even talk about giving the fuck off have somebody else talk about I'll just talk about there's nobody else is doing it.
So I also find that like the hardest parts of our healing are hard right like we avoid those things for reasons we don't notice them they're in the shadow for reasons.
And oftentimes this is why like so many people only heal patterns when they have kids.
Because there's something bigger than them for which they're willing to work because they're like man I'm fucking my kids up the way my parents fucked me up I told myself I wasn't going to do this I'm repeating the same patterns I see they're going to get it.
And that's the only thing that has them like double down on what it takes to shift that.
So whether it's your kids or whether it's some other calling there's a place where showing up to the world is actually the only thing that can make something more important than you that can allow you to transcend the parts of self that were just too hard otherwise.
So what we want is a virtuous cycle between growing as a being and having who we are show up for what we care about.
And where as we show up for what we care about it gives us insight about our self about the situation and it gives us motivation and as we grow and heal more as a person we can show up to what we care about better.
That's beautiful have you got any sense of whether you think on the whole people tend to more toward the side of showing up or more toward the side of working on themselves first.
If you were to give most people a little bit of a push in one direction would you say consider the outside or consider the inside more.
There are just different groups of people.
Right you have a personal growth world.
And a kind of psychotherapy and healing world and the call it Eastern Enlightenment world that is very focused in that direction.
You have a entrepreneurial and activist in various types of action oriented focus in that direction biases in both sides.
Yeah, have you considered the potential that humans are just to at the mercy of our emotions are programming to be able to reach our civilizational potential.
I was thinking about this when the most recent potential release about aliens was coming about and I had a conversation with a friend saying.
I don't think that aliens could be even 10% more emotional than us by whatever criteria you want to cause that more emotionally reactive because coordination would become so difficult if you had to turn it up to maybe 10 or 20% more.
You'd be able to achieve shit.
Like, have you considered that that we might just be kind of bouncing off a glass ceiling that the creatures that we are a so self limiting that no matter how much we try to transcend our own programming that we are sort of destined to fail.
Yeah, so this is the there's a common question of that I've received many times of like, do I actually get human nature and
Well, they're related questions. Okay. Right. It's a related question. And it usually comes in the form of I am dubious of two things. I'm dubious.
I'm dubious that people can be or I'll say it another way. I'm concerned that people are too irrational and to rival risk to do anything like this emergent coordination shit you're talking about that the level of rationality and the level of anti rivalry.
It's like wisdom and compassion or whatever it is that would be needed don't seem to be well demonstrated across the population anywhere. So what kind of a query and nonsense is this.
And so let's address that it's a real politic critique right or concern.
Am I asking the same thing you're asking not far off. Yes, I mean, I wasn't accusing you directly it was more abstract but yes, yes, you're right.
I've never considered. Yeah.
So
I'll tell you the, the first part of how I approach this so the same way I'll actually use it as an example of when I was saying a good way to sense make is to do dialectic.
Everything on the nature versus nurture arguments and the range of what people thought nurture could do were topics I really wanted to see what were all of the thinking and what was the basis for the thinking.
