Then you don't have to worry about who is the authority that has a monopoly of violence it's there is a.
Population that is well educated conscientious communicating with each other respectful and self policing in that way right self wandering.
So the point is that oftentimes there are these values that have to live in a dialectical relationship but we will forget that and focus on one of them.
Then we'll focus on the sense making narrative that supports that one and think and then we'll wait it's the scientists who believe in it as being credible.
And when people quote them we're like this is a credible scientist but then when someone quotes the credible scientists on the other side will say you're doing a logical fallacy of appeal to authority.
And it's like really you just did that like it's an appeal to authority when they pick their scientists but this is a credible person when you do it.
And that kind of subtle bias just all over the place right and it's fundamentally a kind of bad faith sense making that people don't even realize they're doing most of the time.
So we call motivated reasoning motivated reasoning is tricky.
And.
There's so many reasons for it sometimes I want to be certain just because.
I'm fucking scared to have to say I have no idea what's going on about super consequential stuff as a pandemic or the variance.
Going to get worse or is the vaccine going to make them worse everybody going to die am I ever going to go outside again at this guy seems really certain and the story is not too scary or whatever it is like.
Sometimes there's deep subconscious stuff like my desire for safety and certainty seems to be a path to it.
So the same place in people to get scared of the dark is just when they can't see what's going on they project nasty stuff into it.
Or they get scared of deep water because when they can't see what's going on they project nasty stuff into it.
Get scared of the unknown in general projects nasty stuff and then wants to pretend there is no unknowns they want excessive certainty about everything.
So they get scared of death and so then they want to project certainly about what happens in the afterlife and make up religions.
When you recognize that how much of reality is unknown and actually unknowable.
There is no way through other than actually there's no way through well with grace that doesn't involve deep friendship with the unknown.
Where you don't project nastiness into the dark spaces you just say I don't know like a lot of things in life have been really interesting so far and I'm curious what happens right and I rather than.
Pretend that I know and possibly steer really wrong I'd like to just keep my eyes open and keep paying attention.
So I was giving one example of how motivated reasoning and values and fears and all like that can affect people sense making their other things that can affect people sense making get into.
But the first simple principle you're saying across any domain.
Lab leak hypothesis versus natural genotic origin or anthropogenic climate change being terrible really soon versus not or whatever it is.
Find people who seem very well researched and earnest.
Who hold strong versions of the various narratives and see if you can study their narrative and the reason for it well enough that you can steal man it you can be like I actually really get and can give like an essentialized version of this.
Then when you see the difference between them see if you can come to understand why.
Like are they drawing on different data are they both cherry picking their data is probably something that neither of them are saying there is a lot of data and they're each cherry picking their each framing.
It is one of them.
Following much more motivated reasoning and less good empiricism than the other one.
But generally that dialectical process where one it'll point out to you where you're faster to start to believe in something rather than something else because of your own biases.
And if you notice that and you realize that your bias will be.
It's bias which means it misleads you mislead biases like.
If I let go of the steering wheel my car starts going left.
I have to go actually get it adjusted if I let go and it goes goes right like that's dangerous only like going to stay straight bias cognitively is the same thing it means I'm going to be veering off of reality naturally based on what.
Appeals as more true or less true to me because of.
Various things right dramas conditionings partial value sets in group identities the fact that the world of my childhood.
Is not a fair representation of the whole world but I was early imprinted that it was so I'll take those imprints on everything.
So people should be fairly scared of their own biases.
Right like they should want to seek out and find their biases and correct them.
And so anyone who gets upset when someone says I think you're wrong about something is actually fucking up their own life.
If you if you protect your biases because they're protecting some sacred thing like your fear of uncertainty or whatever.
Then you won't grow in this way and your life will stay upper bound at whatever the limit of truth that those allow you to understand and whatever vulnerable things are underneath it.
And whatever partial values are underneath it but if instead you like actually.
I don't think I can navigate well on a busted map and just doesn't make sense any place where my maps off I want to know.
By definition I can't see my own blind spots blind spot is.
Everybody has biases I can see everybody else is I'm just pretty sure I don't have any.
The best gift somebody can give me is where they actually tell me if they're like I think you're off about this now.
They can be an asshole and just judge me whatever and I still want to listen maybe they're wrong but I want to listen to see if there's possibly a gift in it.
But if they're my friend they'll be like look I know you're really trying I love you I agree with a lot of things I think there's something you're missing here.
Because the worst thing I can imagine is that I harm the things I care about or serve what I care about less well because of something I can't even see and somebody saw it and didn't help me.
So having this is another principle of sense making have friends that disagree with you on really deep things like have different biases if you're liberal have conservative friends.
If you're strongly you know LGBTQ etc have traditionalist friends.
Don't be so sure that your moral set is the only and superior moral set.
That your sense making said it's the only one have friends who have different orientations and see if you can actually see the world through their eyes in a non pejorative way.
Like oh yes I can see if I was as uneducated and traumatized and whatever is them.
But see if you can actually be like wow yeah I can feel.
The clarity and rightness of seeing it this way.
And so have friends that sees things differently and ask them their take on things and listen and ask their take on your take on things and on you.
So this is one of the other things that I think is this one of the other things very destructive social media is the filter bubble phenomena is.
Since Facebook is going to give me what it's not trying like there's not a person having an agenda there's an algorithm that is optimizing time on site and it just happens to be when I see stuff.
The disorient me and I don't and I'm getting less certainty when I want more certainty I bail.
But when I want more certainty and I'm getting more in group validation and I'm only getting outrage at the out group that makes me feel even more like I need to double down or whatever it is I spend more time so it just happens to be.
The appeal and I don't even know I bail I just keep scrolling in the fast infinite scroll because it didn't capture my attention because there's so much shit in the infinite scroll.
That I'm only going to stop to look if the person is hot enough or if it looks like something that my brain is pre triggered to say that's important pre triggered to say that's important means appeals to an existing bias.
And otherwise just scroll right and just kind of don't even notice that I passed it.
But what that means is that I'm going to have both content and people in the nature of that world that will be confirming my biases rather than correcting them.
And so then of course you will get increasing polarization on everything as a nature of even just the info technology infrastructure itself.
Right.
People haven't seen the social delimitation watch it it covers this really well.
So just to even if you keep Facebook at all or whatever social media.
Curate it for the most part the more time you spend on it the less good your sense making will be because it is optimizing for something that is not your sense making.
But if you're going to use it curate it so I went in intentionally found.
Groups and public intellectuals that represented opposite sides of every topic and I liked and followed all of them.
To just confuse the fuck out of the algorithm because it's like who likes the sunrise movement and the Cato Institute at the same time and then what you know.
And then to be careful because I know it pays attention that if I'm going to like stuff I want to kind of have a balanced distribution of my likes which can confuse other people socially.
But it's because I want to see a representative feed right.
And specifically I want to pay attention to when I notice that I have a leaning on a topic.
I want to find the best thinkers that disagree and I want to read their stuff more.
To see am I missing stuff right like is there anything in here I'm missing.
So curating your algorithm that way is helpful getting the fuck off Facebook and just doing better internet research than than that or just following the recommendations on YouTube which are so sticky they're so damn hard to avoid especially because it's going to send up some
hypernormal stuff we're pretty soon you're just watching MMA or bloopers or something.
And then you're like where did two hours ago and you're like I was doing internet research and so just being real about how messed up those algorithms are like OK.
What is it I'm trying to get clarity on what are the narratives and who are good.
First let's just Google who are the who are the scientists academics thinkers whatever that are representing these well.
Let me go read some articles right then let me find who's critiquing those well.
If I can get to the point where I can make each of the arguments as well as they can make it and then I get a sense of why they disagree.
Is it different data.
Is it different values.
Is it different models.
Is it disingenuousness like why do I think that then I might be able to start to say do I see a synthesis here where they each cherry picking and there is a higher order kind of insight.
Very often it's.
You know it's looking at this cross section in this cross section of the cylinder and saying it's a circle in a rectangle and there's partial truth and they're just too low a dimensional insight they're hyper focusing on a thing like.
You know the founding fathers were slaveholders and the whole thing is a legitimate and they built all of these institutions just to buy slavery so all of our institutions are built on supporting that so this institutional racism everywhere and how can you possibly like.
Say anything good about or quote these guys like yeah.
And.
The people.
Who want a better world than all the racism and slavery want a world that is aligned with the declaration of independence more than other articles of governance written.
And.
Civil rights were slow but emerged out of some of the structures that were hypocrites fuck that emerged and there was greatness in the nature of what happened in the country so there was like evilness and greatness mixed together.
And so I can make each of those partial narratives by themselves adamantly and talk past each other.
But the reality is it's complex right like some of the individual people involved.
Where I have a friend Gilbert Morris who's a professor on these topics and he's like Benjamin or he's like a Jefferson.
Was a great man and not a good man at all and you have to hold both like what is what does it mean to be able to hold both of those because I can tell each of those stories on their own and they're both bullshit partial stories.
So can I start to find a higher order synthesis than either of the cherry picked or partial stories.
That's the thing I want to start to look for and then not just jump to artificial certainty that now I got it.
I got the whole thing right.
I got something.
And there's probably still lots of insights.
So how do I stay oriented to continue to gain insights.
So those few things of make sure that what you're being exposed to is the various different ideas.
Make sure you're seeking to understand them and synthesize them.
Curate your info environments to support that and curate your friend circles to support that.
Those are a few things.
There's a sentence in CrossFit that says get comfortable being uncomfortable.
I guess here it's get comfortable with the unknown would be an equivalent.
And there is some it's very easy to have uncomfort with the unknown.
So they're related right.
Yeah.
And the reason CrossFit says that is because comfort and growth don't happen in the same place.
And good sense making and high certainty don't happen in the same place.
Yeah.
It seems to me that it's going to be effortful.
You know, to do this to undertake good sense making is going to require you to go through discomfort to go through unknown and to spend a lot more energy than just the limbic sort of reflex action.
There's a quote from last year is in The Times.
I've got this newspaper clipping.
Matthew Syed I think identified it.
It's called compensatory control.
He said when we feel uncertain when randomness intrudes upon our lives, we respond by reintroducing order in some other way.
Superstitions and conspiracy theories speak to this need.
It is not easy to accept that important events are shaped by random forces.
This is why for some it makes more sense to believe that we are threatened by the grand plans of maligned scientists than the chance mutation of a silly little microbe.
15 months hence now with the lab leak hypothesis.
This feels even more sort of new and interesting.
But yeah, that compensated.
I want to touch on that for a minute.
There was something that that writing did.
I don't know.
I don't hear who you said did it.
So I'm saying this with no allegiance or anti allegiance.
It presented a thought about it presented a position on a polarized topic.
Right.
The conspiracy theories aren't true and this is just a and there weren't mad scientists plotting and anything else and this was just a bug.
It conflated that with a high morals, almost spiritual insight that everybody would naturally agree with and feel elevated by.
Which was that we've all had the experience of feeling disorder and then seeking where we start cleaning the house where we had procrastinated when we our taxes come in.
We don't know how to pay it and want to feel productive in some way or whatever it is.
Like we've all experienced that thing.
And so people are like, yeah, that's true.
And then they're like, no, it is true.
We should just be able to embrace the uncertainty.
So there's like a resonant true thing.
There's like an aspirational thing.
And then there's like a given that a conclusion on a topic that is not concluded is there.
That's a kind of narrative warfare where it almost makes it seem like believing that belief is aligned with the high moral, almost poetic.
Like there's both a good.
There's the ethical and there's almost a beautiful aesthetic and then the true.
Right.
So so the best narrative warfare takes the true, the good and the beautiful distorts them all a little bit and braids them to align with a particular position.
And that's how I feel when I'm reading like the New York Times or something where I'm like.
If I believed anything other than this, I would just be a bad person.
Like it's so clear that what moral high ground is and right side of history.
And it's written so beautifully like whoever wrote this a fucking brilliant writer and poetic.
It's achingly beautiful or whatever.
And and it seems so clear because they're quoting the New England Journal of Medicine and Harvard and whatever it is.
And it seems like the best scientists all agree in the peer reviewed journal setting.
It doesn't make it true.
Like it doesn't make it doesn't mean that the morals that are there are like.
So the lab leak hypothesis is a really great example.
I have not done my research on it to have my own opinion on it adequately.
So I am not going to.
But I'm going to look at it just from a narrative point of view.
The lab leak hypothesis was up till whenever a couple months ago.
You know, like being a flat earther.
Right.
Like a flat earther, anti vex or tin foil hat wearing reptilian baby blood drinkers from the world.
And you know, you have to believe all that nonsense.
And it's like.
But even more, it's like anyone who's saying that could have leaked out of a lab not only doesn't understand science and it's anti science, but they're trying to cause a war with China.
They're xenophobic.
They're against Asians.
They're like, like all this moral sanctimony of what a bad person you are, what the bad effects will be and how dumb you are.
If you think that it's reasonable that it might have escaped a lab that happens to be in that area that happens to work with those viruses.
And because the science is settled because of something that we later came to realize was not settled science.
And so you're like, how?
And so then it starts to come out that actually wasn't settled science.
And we're like, how the fuck did the zeitgeist get that powerful that quickly?
That you were a dumb and horrible person for believing a thing because the science was settled and the science was never settled.
And everyone who believed the science was settled and everyone else is dumb and bad should be reflecting like, what the fuck?
I got captured.
Like I got captured.
I was certain about something.
And I didn't even read the article in nature that proved that it was certainly zoonotic hypothesis and I'm not qualified.
And I wouldn't have known how to do the rebuttal that came out later.
But the guy in the New Yorker, whoever it was that wrote about it seemed really certain.
And it appealed to my sensibilities.
And the institutions that agreed with it were the institutions that seem high-minded that I like to agree with.
So I hope people take seriously right now as an example, regardless of where the virus actually came from,
that the lab-league hypothesis was not dumb, whether it was true or not.
It was not proven false and was not dumb in the way that was said in the narrative.
And then like, how did that narrative get that?
