And were there any kind of axioms that were unquestioned or new possibilities that could change the landscape from even those ideas.
So
one thing is when we look at say how violent versus altruistic or
rational or whatever metric we want to look at and however we assess looking at across a population to get some kind of distribution.
First I would say I'm extraordinarily dubious of pretty much all social science of this type for a bunch of reasons.
One is it almost all started post industrial revolution and much more recent than that and almost all of human history that conditioned us genetically and otherwise was in tribal environments.
And those are so different.
And just like we're saying even the nature of Facebook engaging with it changes the patterns of what we think feel believe react to.
And there's tests that Facebook is run of like we can make people more depressed and happier and believe different things just by putting what's in the out.
Changements in the algorithm a little bit right so.
Post ubiquitous capitalism and ubiquitous industrialization and ubiquitous nuclear family homes and a bunch of things none of which were natural to the human evolutionary environment but they're conditioning that kind of one.
And so it became a ubiquitous conditioning we do the social science then and then pretend that that's not conditioning and call it human nature because it's ubiquitous conditioning that silly right.
And then there's so few indigenous people left or whatever we can just make them statistical outliers.
And even though they have very very different patterns on a lot of those things.
Also.
So that's one reason that I'm very dubious of the social sciences.
And this is even like when they're trying to do a good job not like like the nonsense social science that was.
Reifying why whites were superior in the early US based on bad interpretations of Darwin and for knowledge and stuff right.
But you can see from that stuff how easily bias influences something as complex as social science complex and consequential.
The other thing is that there are a lot of things about people's behavioral dispositions that change with development and development is not factored we don't factor levels of higher stages of human development post just be becoming 18.
Even though they're very real things we just put it all together and under a bell curve.
But you know when you look at the work of Piaget and then the kind of Neo Piaget and educational philosophers were looking at human development and childhood is very clear there's neurologic development and corresponding.
Change and find motor skills and logic skills and verbal skills etc.
And we get to like 18 schools over and then development ends right and that's a fully developed person this.
So what is development beyond that so you have a bunch of people.
Who have worked on higher stages of development and.
Zach Steins a good colleague of mine work on that very heavily and looked at the work of Colburn graves and lots of people who've worked on that but it's like.
The complexity of someone's cognitive model the development of their moral models the development of their aesthetic the development of their capacity to perspective take perspective seek.
And perspective synthesize those things keep developing right or they can keep developing one can do things to help them and then at those higher developmental capacities there are different behavioral dispositions.
And this is not just typologically they're typologically left or right or whatever this is.
But there so we could say if the society was supporting more development of that type you would have a totally different bell curve.
Right and but that's not a topic that's usually factored.
So there's a bunch of things like this where I would say the social science all needs taken some grains of salt.
One thing I have looked at is on the traits that matter most to a civilization that would work well I've looked for positive deviance outliers of the statistical norms on the positive side.
To see is there an upper is the is the upper boundary that we think of really the upper boundary or are there places where what we think of is the upper boundary is the medium right like it's quite different.
And so.
If you there's heaps of examples but if you look at like.
Through much of the last few thousand years across lots of different cultures.
And different geographies have Jewish families raised better educated kids than the people around them.
Much of the time.
They have in and so is there are there cultural dispositions that can lead to.
Higher qualities of education and correspondingly different qualities of ways of being right different types of disposition so then you have that for a long time the Jews all as a diaspora pretty much didn't defect on each other.
Right and the way.
The.
Jewish law is structured there it's kind of like a formal logical system so they're also getting very good at how to be able to think in formal ways which makes them good at which is why they became good at science and finance and other things that were thinking in formal logic is relevant.
It's a really important example because you can say well.
If what Jewish culture gave in terms of.
The development of education and rationality and non defection on each other could happen across the whole population would that change things yeah it really would.
What about the Janists you have a religion where across a long period of time nobody hurts bugs or plants yeah you do.
What about the violent kids in the society about the sociopaths across a huge population the violence bell curve is completely different right you have.
Extraordinarily low violence across the whole population how can that be well they're they're developed differently.
Can you have a population where almost everyone is violent yeah there's a few cultures where violence is ubiquitous right.
And you can see in cultures where kids grow up as child soldiers that you don't make it to adulthood without killing people.
And so it's like the John Jweed and the Jains are both possible in human nature depending on conditioning.
So the idea that what we naturally are is the median of that is just gibberish it's just not understanding how we create societal structures to create conditioning that support the societal structure.
So what if we had something that was conditioning non violence and compassion more like James or Buddhists or Quakers and conditioning.
Rationality more like Nordic build on countries or Jews and what if we had a few of those things and we brought them together into not just an educational but a cultural developmental system.
Could we have is it within human nature.
If rightly conditioned to have higher potentials totally is within human nature for the condition of higher potentials what if in addition we created an economic system where we addressed perverse incentive.
So rather than the guy who externalizes the most harm.
To the environment makes the most money and then gets the most checks and status and whatever to actually all of the harms the externalized harms are internalized to the cost.
So the guy who gets the most money is the one who does the most omnibenefit and no harm anywhere.
Well now there's no sociopathic niche to condition bad behavior and bad values in people and doing the thing that's good for others ends up being good for you actually is conditioning the values even from self centeredness right.
It starts to bridge them in that way.
Well how do we make an economic system that rigorously internalizes externalities and addresses perverse incentive.
That's a really deep question for changing what we would call human nature that isn't human nature.
It's the nature of made up human coordination systems.
Right.
Does all property law does all access to resource have to be at the level of individual private property.
No.
Can we do things that change that fundamentally.
Is every good fundamentally rival risk because it scares no digital goods made it very clear that you have things that are not only not scarce but anti-reverse the more people that use them the more valuable it becomes but we still make them artificially scarce.
Because of the artificially scarce dollars artificially scarce materials economy can we make materials economy that isn't artificially scarce by making it closed loop with enough energy to run it.
Yeah we can.
So the point is do we see positive deviance of.
You know you you look at a very wealthy population old wealth families while they still have the integrity of how to do dynasty or even just the kids going to the best prep schools in the US right and then who go to the best Ivy League schools and how all the best tutors.
Do you have the same distribution of success in life of the kids coming out of Exeter and the kids coming out of an average public school no they're totally different.
Well what if everybody went to Exeter and had that corresponding life since they were little will be totally different.
Well but we can't afford to do that.
Yeah so that here's the thing.
The idea of the dumb masses is class propaganda.
Because the upper class that has access to the things that develop them having more capacity is why they end up having more capacity is a major part of why they have more capacity.
And then the idea that some people like them need to be in positions to rule because the masses are too dumb.
Is a self fulfilling prophecy because then we'll keep the masses dumb by not giving them better educational resources and other types of you know things that would create a difference there so.
I like I actually think that the idea of the irrationality and the rivalrousness of the masses is one of the deepest.
Parts of like propaganda zeitgeist of ruling classes forever.
Because it justifies the basis for rulership.
Cultural conditioning masquerading as human nature in the modern world is something that I've never even thought of before that is.
So interesting.
Yeah I mean if you look at you know you've ran these clubs and you see all these teenagers come into the clubs and how they behave and so you've seen patterns that are on repeat so much you're like I know human nature I've seen this hundred thousand times right.
But if you went to the tribes in the western Amazon and saw how the teenagers there were engaging who'd already been doing ayahuasca for ten years since the time they were little it's not the same like there are some things yes they have a sex drive right yes there are certain aspects of paying attention to social hierarchies that everyone's going to notice.
But there's more that's different like a lot more that's different right.
That's conditioning.
Given the fact that the moment the cultural conditioning.
Appears to be making human nature into a rival risk game it's difficult we have.
Coordination problems we not everybody is a Jane or a Jew at the moment or some perfect amalgamation of both.
With that in mind you said something in our first conversation that was where God's we're just shitty God's and it was a comment on the difference between technological prowess and sort of wisdom more ability to deploy that technological prowess.
If you could do you think it would be optimal to curtail technological development perhaps a couple of millennia say while we let our wisdom catch up or do we risk more by accumulating background risk and potentially.
Losing galactic real estate by not progressing within that time if you got any sense of how that balances.
It's irrelevant because it's impossible.
It's impossible to slow the progress.
Much if you had a God's I view.
If I had a God's I ability to slow it yeah what I yes well if I had the God if I had the God's ability to slow it I would just speed up the rate of the wisdom.
Like what it takes to grow the wisdom of everyone and what it takes to stop the progress are actually the paired thing because.
Outside of the wisdom the multipolar traps when anybody who says I'm going to get there first is going to just win the world because there's so much power so now.
They have everyone has maximum incentive to get there as fast as they can.
Including lying to other people about that they're not doing it so people aren't trying to race and so so.
You know you can say God we are not ready to be stewards of this much technological power let alone power that we won't even be stewards of because it'll become auto poetic and run itself like a G.I.
Right.
So we need to just slow this fucking thing down okay so we can become a unabomber which that was his idea right to his idea was like we we're not ready for tech like we.
We suck with spears we were assholes with spears we were assholes with guns we're assholes with ICBMs and now we're going to have like drone weapons everywhere like no we got to slow that stuff down because we have been assholes with all the weapons we've had and all of the.
We've destroyed environments with way less capacity than we have now okay.
So you come to that idea and you you can do what if you don't have tech you don't have the power to affect stuff.
Because the tech ends up being the power so other people disagree with you and they want the power so if you want to stop them you gotta get more power than them which means you gotta beat them at the race to get the power to beat to stop.
So.
The techno optimists the naive techno optimists who just say tech will solve all the problems is a gibberish position it's not just gibberish it is.
Super dangerous in my opinion it's the most dangerous world view currently.
Because like.
A militant jihadi world view doesn't make AI and crisper tech and things like that it just doesn't make the tools that can be tools of destruction and scale only the.
The world view that supports the increased rapid development of exponential tech is the thing that increases the destruction.
The fundamental destruction power not just the application of the existing destruction power right.
So the idea that the faster we build the stuff the better everything will get because I will just solve all the problems and we can't possibly solve until it's just get to the fastest let it solve all the problems and etc.
Like.
Yeah that's an extraordinarily dangerous view.
The blood I view right the techno pessimists who says.
We have always been bad stewards of power we cannot wield exponential power well.
We've used powerful war exponential war destroys everything we've used power to extract from the environment and externalize the cost exponential externality destroys everything.
We've used our power to create radical asymmetries of power exponential asymmetries of power sounds like a shitty world for almost everybody.
So.
So why like we need to stop that thing well that view.
Well that's true that view ensures that it will have no power to do anything.
Right.
So the only view that can forward is the one that embraces the tech that is where the power is.
But embraces it recognizing that it's not a given that that tech is good it could be developed in ways that are positive but it can also like a facebook wasn't developed with a time on site maximizing algorithm.
It could be a very different forms right like the ability to to.
Take all of my behavioral data make an advanced psychographic profile on me and then use a i to curate an infinite news scroll to affect my mind and behavior that's fucking powerful tech.
But if the goal is optimize my time on site to sell me and my information advertisers.
Then it's going to optimize for putting in front of me the limbic hijacks and the.
Cognitive bias in the in group and the things that drive addiction but if it's desire if it was optimized for.
Developmental metrics of like expose the person to the things that will actually help them see alternate views that they don't already see and help them learn and grow and perspective seeking like.
It could be techniques like that could be the most powerful tools of consciousness elevation and education that have ever been.
So it's not that the technology is.
Definitely bad it's it and it's also not the technologies values agnostic not values agnostic no technologies values agnostic.
I.
If I make a plow.
It's not values agnostic that can be used good or bad the plow will make a lot more food for my people than just hunting and gathering.
So that means that if other people use it and I don't I'm just going to lose.
In terms of making it through famines and having stuff to trade and whatever so I have to use the plow as soon as it exists pretty much right.
And the plow codes a pattern of behavior now I have to yoke and ox.
And beat it all day long to do that so I before I was animistic when we're doing hunting gathering and kill the buffalo every once in a while but I believe in the spirit of the buffalo I can't believe in the spirit of the buffalo and beat it all day long after cutting its testicles off and putting something through its nose and whatever.
So I have to change my whole view on the spirit of the animal right was the tech values agnostic no coded values into me by my using it by the fact that I had to use it for game theoretic advantage right.
So the idea that tech is just tech and it's not good or bad it's how we use it this is a misunderstanding.
Yes of course I can use a hammer to build a house for the homeless or beat somebody skull in and it's a positive or negative use but it's also the hammer will code certain patterns of behavior those patterns of behavior will end up coding values into me right.
And so what it means is if I have social tech.
I can develop social tech that isn't like Facebook right I can develop a social technology knowing that it will code patterns of human behavior that will code their values and how they see the world I can develop it intentionally.
That will code patterns of behavior and values that.
Some model of human development says is actually a more developed person versus is a more.
Attention extracting and profit extracting person which usually means a less developed person.
So it's not that the tech is values agnostic and it's not that it's necessarily good is the technical missings are necessarily bad it's that we can design it in a way where the fact that it's not values agnostic and it will be conditioning values can be good or bad but it comes not just how we use it but how we design it.
Right the nature of the design itself will end up affecting the use patterns which will end up affecting the beings in the society.
So in order to forward we have to both utilize the technologies that have power otherwise the stuff we're doing just won't matter those who are utilizing it will just win.
But we have to do it in a way that is also aligned with the human development and the social values and the integrity of the.
The planet in the comments that we want to see so right now the exponential technology like it's fair to say that exponential tech is in.
Converse so much more power than all other legacy forms of power that only those who are developing and guiding exponential tech will have much say in the future.
Right now.
There is like two attractors for what happens either the exponential technologies.
Just cause catastrophic destruction because you have exponential warfare or exponential externalities right.
Or we figure out how to avoid those by some good control systems using the tech and now we get exponential control systems.
And so we see authoritarian nation states using the tech to make better authoritarian nation states and we see some companies using the tech to make.
Companies that are more powerful than countries but they don't have jurisprudence of foreign by the people.
Right.
And so that is like more like a new kind of feudalism so both the authoritarianism and feudalism are like technologically empowered.
Autocratic structures so there's basically kept catastrophes and dystopias are the only two things that are currently on the landscape.
If we want something that is not a catastrophe and not a dystopia then we have to utilize the tech in a way that binds the tech.
So it doesn't cause the catastrophes that does it in a way that's not dystopic meaning that the order.
Is emergent rather than imposed how do we utilize these how do we utilize and crypto and social and attention tech and all of these things how do we utilize them.
To increase collective intelligence and collective coordination so that we get.
Increased effective coordination and order without it being a kind of dystopic control system like there's a lot of innovations we can really implement there.
So the question of should we slow down the rate of progress if I could like if if I could slow it down and just say hey the guys who are getting way too close to super dangerous.
If I could slow it down yes yes I would like that because right now our growth in doing it rightly and wisdom is not good relative to our growth getting technology more powerful.
If I could get like how powerful crisper technology is becoming as cheaply as it's becoming to slow down so that it wasn't so easy to have very small groups have by weapons capacity like yes I would like that to slow the fuck down.
There's not going to because there is no world authority that can stop it everywhere and anyone that does it is advancing so that nobody really wants to stop it.
So what we have to do is get the utilization of those technologies to a better attractor that can guide them to happen even faster.
The consideration of what sort of a world we would be in if facebook optimized for well-being or happiness or insight or whatever we think about how powerful it is and some of the changes that we've seen in.
Human nature which we now know might very well be cultural conditioning.
It's crazy I just think about the sort of thing about the sort of society that we would have.
If you had multi so you prefer to learn through 15 second video clips okay.
Tick tock education is tick tock mindfulness is for you and then to all you prefer to actually read but you could you get away with more pithy sort of aphoristic stuff okay so.
Twitter enlightenment that's your place like.
Yeah and like okay let's take so the type of media we give people but then also the nature of the content to be bias challenging more than bias confirming.
I don't know.
So if you take a there are some YouTube channels and Facebook groups that just document police violence.
And so you can just watch videos of cops beating the shit out of people that in ways that seem unprovoked and some of them are just cops beating up black people.
And as much as I am aware of the statistics and I'm aware of how we're affected by this I can't watch that channel for more than a few minutes without just seeing red everywhere right like and.
And that's the only issue I can care about I can't care about anything else in that moment.
And then you watch a different channel that is a blue lives matter one that basically just shows cops risking themselves to protect other people and then people attacking cops which is why they are the way they are.
And maybe one that just shows black people attacking cops and then you're like fuck what a fucked up job that is and how amazing they're doing and how much self restraint and.
And now neither of these are giving me statistical representations right I just watched four videos now there's a million interactions or thousands of interactions in every city every day right and there's all kinds of complexity in this.
And I didn't even watch what happened leading up to it but if I'm a if I'm a black person living in some inner city area and I watch a few of those videos and it profiles me and it shows me more of those because I spend time on psychs it fucking hurts.
I'm just getting vicariously traumatized.
