i actually want to understand the world i live in as best i can because i actually hold that life is meaningful and i hold that my life could be meaningful which means that my choices can be meaningful and so i want them to be informed as well as they can be.
What i think people really liked about our first conversation was that we brought some of your work down to an individual level so a friend referred to it as creating a narrative of resonance and given that i thought it would be nice to stop by looking at something that you talk about a lot which is sense making but from the level of the actor so how do you define a sense making agent.
Well i don't know what background the other people listening to your show will have on the general topic when you're mentioning individual agents i think you mean individual humans obviously an organization can act like an agent act like a unit of agency but i think you mean.
Individuals seeking to make sense of the world they live in better we often times talk about sense making at a societal level meaning.
I am currently it comes up a lot like why do we have such a hard time coming to clear understanding about what the nature of climate change is or what the nature of.
Covid viral origins or vaccines or whatever your systemic racism or how we should deal with nuclear disarmament or why does it seem like there are such radically divergent views meaning the way that we're sensing the world is leading to very different senses of the world.
Which of course leads to very different senses of what should happen which makes it very hard to coordinate which makes it very easy to have conflict and so we're talking about sense making we're usually talking about it in the context of shared sense making.
As a prerequisite for shared choice making what i.e governance sense making is not the only prerequisite when we talk about governance and i governance i don't mean government which is a maybe a specific establishment that has a rule of law monopoly of violence but governance meaning some process by which a bunch of people who want different things and see the world differently come to coordinate force in some effective positive productive ways.
So we're talking about how do we get people to have some kind of coherence coordination between the choices they make such that it.
Isn't making choices that we would think of as crime or something that really messes up each other's choice making capacity and where we need to coordinate on choices like we're not gonna make our own roads and things like that we're able to coordinate effectively regarding shared resources shared infrastructure.
Happens to be that lots of humans who don't know each other and have experienced the world differently and feel different things and want different things coordinating on what the right choices is a tricky thing because they have a different sense of what is and what they want what should be so this is why for most of human history the number of people that would coordinate with small tribes were small they classically stayed.
Beyond you know smaller than the number number give or take hundred and fifty ish where there were no strangers everybody that you're coordinating with you know your whole life they had known you your whole life.
Everybody had the same shared basis of experience and everybody could it be in a single conversation on a campfire and so the ability to coordinate.
We could coordinate sense make is we're sensing the same stuff we're living in the same place right we're reading different books we're watching different tv shows like we were nobody had been speaking different languages were exposed to the same stuff.
And so you can also fact check anybody just by looking there right by just having such a shared basis.
And it was pretty easy to unify values because the culture that had conditioned them was the same culture.
So there might be little differences of waiting and so then the ability to you know unified choice making if we have shared values and we have shared sense of the world to both what we think is and what we want to be it's not that hard.
Once we started to get to larger scales where now I've got to maybe make compromises for strangers.
I've got you know we're gonna have some coordination with people who I don't have any shared sense of real fealty with whatever that becomes a different talk and where they really do see the world differently.
And so this is where mostly the order came through some kind of imposition or oppression or top down force which is why it was largely empires.
Okay and then that still meant a number of people smaller than Dunbar that would equal the king and council making the decisions and imposing it by rule of law and force on everybody right so shared sense making didn't matter.
Because people didn't really have meaningful choices they were gonna do the thing that they were gonna do within that context.
So the idea of something like democracy or a republic or an open society where some humongous number of people who don't know each other who don't have the same experiences are all going to.
Not just do totally different stuff that creates chaos but also not need somebody to kind of rule they're gonna find order that isn't imposed it's emergent order that's actually a wild idea right like it's a really wild idea.
That would even be possible and you know the modern democracies came following the enlightenment the cultural kind of European enlightenment with the idea that we could have this thing called the philosophy of science.
Where we could all measure the same thing and get the same result independent of biases didn't matter you know what we thought beforehand if we measure the speed of sound in the right way or whatever it is we're gonna get the same results there's this unifying nature of objectivity that allows us to sense make together.
Which is why Karl Popper who advanced the philosophy of science was the guy who turned open society right that we can do open societies based on.
The ability to do shared sense making using using a more methodological rather than I had divine revelation and it's true and you don't know kind of approach and.
And then but like we said the idea of governance is that there's some kind of emergent choice making or order at the level of the choices we're making the choices are both the result of our sense making what do we think is actually happening what do we think the cause of what's happening are.
And if we do X what do we think will happen right that's kind of forecasting sense making.
But it's also what do we want to happen which is our values which is not sense making sense making is sensing what is the values is what ought what do we think ought to be what do we really care about so we can call that values generation meaning making.
So sense making and meaning making are the prerequisites for choice making the thing that we call governance in an open society is that there's some coordinated process for choice making.
That doesn't have to be imposed by King doesn't just turn into there's no way we can get on the same page that has to be chaos because we can sense the world together and we can sense each other's values and find a higher order set of values includes everyone's this is another part of the enlightenment was the idea that we could do a dialectic on values.
You could say I really believe in doing X whatever X proposition is more like why do you want to do it well because it's in service of.
Decreasing infant mortality and the value that you have is infants and we're like yeah but if you do that thing it'll be bad for this other thing because it whatever it'll damage the water supplies what you care about the water supply.
Let's not focus on the proposition for a moment what you value is children what you value is the water supply let's hold all those as legitimate values right what you value is individual freedom what you value is the responsibility of the individuals to the collective that they are benefited by.
So the ability to hear each other's values and synthesize and say a good solution will meet everybody's values as best as possible.
So often we get stuck with you know a proposition is created to meet some value before even looking at what all the values are and so it benefits the environment but it hurts the economy or benefits the economy and it's the environment or whatever it is.
So those who feel particularly connected to the thing being hurt or like this is terrible we have to everything to fight it.
And those who feel connected to the thing that's being benefited like this is critical someone finally gets us now those two sides is have to become enemies.
If the only chance they have is to vote on a preexisting proposition that is a shitty proposition because it was based on the theory of trade offs between those it was never even consciously explicated they never even said oh this is gonna harm this thing both of your values is can we take these values and find a better way forward better proposition.
It may be could meet them both better maybe rather than that bridge that is gonna harm the environment the way that it is but helps transportation which will help the economy a barge could do it without harming the environment or we could just build better local economies on both sides or whatever it is right.
So the dialectic process is where I want to hear the values that you care about and so you believe everyone needs to be vaccinated or no one should be forced to be vaccinated or everyone should have to wear a mask or nobody should what is the value you care about independent of the strategy the strategy is the way to fill value there is something legitimate in the value even if.
Then the sense making about is that thing about vaccines or about masks or about whatever is that true is separate from is that value legitimate right.
And so if so we don't have participatory governance in the US we don't really in the world in any very meaningful way we have the the legacy story of it but we don't have a population.
Hardly anywhere that are really seeking to understand the world we live in where they're where the government is gonna make choices on stuff.
And for the government to be informed by the people that we understand enough to be able to weigh in well and we seek to understand our own values and other people's values and be able to have the dialectical conversations to see if we're missing some sense making somebody know some stuff we don't we really want to hear it rather than have our.
In group continue to feel right by saying how dumb the people in the out group are.
So there isn't anything like participatory governance which is why open societies are basically failing and doing should leave all the authoritarian societies that aren't even claiming to do that and are just doing top down government better just doing better at long term planning infrastructure.
So.
You know people will hear me talking about sense making usually it's in this context of how do we develop better capacity as a society as a whole.
For everyone to be doing a better job making sense of the world and just believing whatever happens to come through the Facebook feed is algorithmically optimized to appeal to their current biases and kind of limbically hijack or maximally bother them.
And drive in group dynamics where people's fear of being out group by believing the wrong thing in their.
Messes with subtle deep tribal biases.
How can we do better job with sense making at the level of training individuals at the level of how we change education and train people and at the level of the quality of media we put out at the level of how we design the information architecture so that rather than a Facebook or YouTube having an algorithm to maximize time on site.
That it does through appealing to your biases which make you spend more time it which makes people on the right more right the left more left anti conspiracy theorists more hate conspiracy theorists conspiracy theorists farther down that direction.
And so there's this just hyper fragmentation as a result of the financial model of this information technology right so how do we make better information technology.
How do we make better media and for the state how do we do better education all those things so that we can actually have better sense making about what is real.
Better dialogue and communication around what is meaningful or the values so that that those types of conversations can lead to what would a good proposition even be that meets that factors all of what's real as constraints factors what matters as constraints and works to find the best proposition forward.
So if we take as the background that's the societal context of where we're usually coming from and talking about the needs for sense making.
That was a long preface to then say you want to bring it to the level of the individual and say alright so I'm not trying to fix Facebook's algorithms for sense making right now I'm not trying to necessarily fix participatory governance or democracy or the fourth estate or public education.
I'm trying to say how do I as a person do a better job of making sense of the things that I should make sense of that affect the choices I need to make in the world what things should I just actually not bother myself with because I really don't have a choice and it's not the best use of my life energy.
What things should I or do I care to and how do I do a good job and how do I know if I'm doing a good job because almost everyone that we're sure is wrong is sure they're right.
And so we are one of the everyone that they're pretty sure is wrong right and so we should all be pretty dubious of our own certainty statistically.
We're almost certainly wrong about most of things that we're sure right about.
And that's dangerous right like it's dangerous that.
I'm clear about lots of things I think other people are wrong about.
And I'm clear about a lot of things I think people in the past were wrong about.
And I'm clear about things that I was wrong about in my past.
But I probably can't say anything that I'd say I believe today that's probably wrong.
That's that's tricky because it's probably mostly wrong.
And so how do we.
And now when ego gets tied up in that right and then when belonging gets tied up in that if I don't if I don't say the right narrative about.
Masks or about vaccines or about social justice I'll be totally out grouped right because now I'm a anti-vaxxer or a sheeple or whatever it is.
So there's a lot of reasons to have everybody double down on their worst traits of unwarranted certainty and sanctimony.
So if we want to ask the question.
How important is it to our own life to develop our sense making?
How do we know how well we're doing with it?
How do we do it?
We can get into that more.
Absolutely.
One of the things that I've got in my head there is how much more considered and slow decision making at the governance level would have to be in order to factor in all of these different values and choices.
No expediency is something that people value if the bridge needs to be built and people think that it's going to make their life better.
But in order to factor in everybody's different values it's going to take two years of debating and planning and all of the rest of it and that situation of consideration and being moderate and more nuanced with your thinking.
That happens at the individual level as well right it's far easier to just react take something that we think is the closest approximation of correct and just move forward.
No this is gibberish argument.
So let's say we don't have clear sense making on a topic but we have to act.
Why do we have to act are there are there real consequences are just made up bullshit like an election cycle or whatever that we could change the way we're doing governance if there's real consequences how consequential is it to get it wrong.
Well it might be more consequential than taking more time right it depends there are times we have to make consequential choices under uncertainty we're not choosing fast enough is also a choice that's a real thing.
But it's that way less often than we pretend that it is.
And so then what is the consequence of getting it wrong and doing something much might be much more harmful.
But also what's the what is the time effect of moving forward with something because we just have to move forward that a huge part of the world thinks is wrong and bad and are going to actively keep fighting like how efficient does that end up being.
They're all going to pay lobbyists they're all going to help pay for academics to sponsor counter narratives.
They're going to pay for politician candidacy processes and whatever it is so how fast is it really in that being to try to advance something that half the world thinks is a terrible idea.
And so what you can see is we try that we're like no the science is settled that's a famous bullshit line on a million things right.
And you'll see it on both sides of all kinds of things.
The science is settled is just a nice way to say my unwarranted certainty is true.
But the the science is settled climate change the thing it is we got to move forward we and we don't have time to educate you dumb fucks anymore about it and we're just you know so we're going to carbon trade this is the way to do it or cap cap and trade carbon tax whatever.
Okay well how well does that work when all of the groups are going to keep lobbying against it and getting Republican candidates who will then try to undo the laws and four years that those.
You spend four years trying to do the shit knowing that the next four years will undo all of it.
And actually you never even plan on doing something that won't have returns within those four years because it won't possibly get you elected and all the things that need done need to have 1020 3050 year timelines and no one will ever even look at it.
And most of the time you're actually just working on getting political support and campaigning to be reelected.
So the expediency we just have to move forward is usually a bullshit argument for someone in a power position moving forward in a way that will advance their power position.
With plausible deniability that it's something else.
If you want to move a civilization forward.
Either you're moving forward in a way that everybody's getting on board with.
Or you're deciding to use force to oppress the fact that everybody's not on board or you're deciding to keep fighting the fact that they also have force like you just have to be realistic about that.
It's interesting the option of delaying a choice is also a choice there's always a third option of being more considered.
Yeah I like that.
Okay so back down to the individual how how can someone become an adept sense making agent.
We're at the mercy of certain things that individually immediately we can't control.
Therefore making the most of the capacities that we do have is a good idea.
I would not say the answer for this is the same for everybody based on.
What they feel called to their dispositions there.
Their vocation and their kind of sense of what their mission to do is.
If.
Someone is a nurse caring for patients if someone is a mother raising children.
How much does them understanding what's really happening with the digital you want and whether it's going to become the reserve currency of the world or whether or not the US micro grids are susceptible to EMP attacks like how much does their sense making matter.
How much agency do they have to do fucking anything about that pretty little.
How much does it likely stress them out probably a lot.
Does that make them a better nurse or mom probably worse.
Could that same energy be applied to doing better sense making about tuning into their children and their patients better and where they actually have some agency.
So it when we recognize that sense making is to inform choice making right.
Do I have choice around this thing like what is the basis of why I'm wanting to do sense making is it simply because.
I need to know which side of the narrative or I'm on because I think I have to be on one of the sides what if I just don't what if I say I don't know.
I don't I don't I don't know what I think about systemic racism know you have to know but I don't.
Well.
You know and people can try to do a forcing function and within your complicit or whatever it is.
Okay well I can put a huge amount of time and energy and then still not actually have any real agency to move this thing forward given where I am in my life.
But I can put that energy into studying better nursing or whatever it is right.
So I don't think that the idea that like everyone should be deeply informed about all of the existential risks and understand the entire effect of the tech stack and globalization and planetary boundaries and geopolitics is like a thing that everyone should have.
I don't think that's true.
So the first question is like what matters for me to make sense about based on what choices I actually have to make in my life.
That's an important question because it's easy to get sucked into the thing for somewhat unconscious reasons.
Now we can talk about how to do good sense making on geopolitical and environmental and complex scientific topics there.
But the first part is make sure like make sure that the reason that you feel called to do that makes sense.
And I'm of course not saying that if you don't have a company or an organization or you're not a politician of some way that can directly affect that thing you shouldn't know anything about it.
There is something about general informatness as a citizen that can have value.
But you do want to pay attention to like I have finite units of life energy.
And where do I want to put my attention that is also connected to my creativity.
So I want people sense making to be informing their creativity right to be informing their agency and their choice making and the quality of life for themselves and the people they touch and for the world at large as they can touch it.
Now how to actually do good epistemology we can get into next but does that part make sense.
Yeah absolutely I'm interested to hear what the underlying principles are presumably there must be a structure upon which are some commonalities that all sense making agents whether they be the nurse the government official the creator the mother.
Are there some commonalities between all of them.
Are there commonalities and how to do good sense making in any domain regarding regardless of the domain sure they're going to be different there's certain places where it's like.
How to get how to really get this particular kind of backflip is not something I get from reading Wikipedia like I only get it from trying to do backflips like it's an embodied sense making there's like oh I clicked and I got it.
And there's no amount of reading Wikipedia that's going or watching YouTube that's ever going to give it to me.
So there isn't like one type of sense making like there's no amount of reading music theory that will actually get my fingers to grok how to play Chopin so there are different kinds of creative capacities that require different kinds of like.
Because you're sensing how something works right sense making is not purely cognitive it's taking your senses and having a pattern emerge sense making of like I got it we've all had that experience playing the piano trying to do the backflip where it's like I got it that sense making.
Of a type that's a bunch of sensory perceptions that came into a pattern where now I have it in a way that can inform my creativity.
Right.
But I'll stick in the cognitive domain for now.
Since that's largely what I think most people are talking about.
Some super helpful basic tips.
If I'm trying to make sense of a topic.
That is conflicted with where the public opinion on it or even the scientific opinion or whatever on it is highly conflicted.
I should understand the conflicting views before coming to one on my own.
That's a that's a very helpful thing to do so.
You know you were mentioning how do I do better sense making of nursing.
Well let's say I'm a nurse and it's covid time and there's like major conflict of this ivermectin work or not.
And should we be doing this with people and.
You know who do we think actually has too much contraindication for these vaccines or whatever it is like those are places where a nurse would actually maybe want to do some sense making.
Now they might not feel that they have any time.
They might not feel the agency that if they came to think something different than hospital policy they could do anything other than get fired.
But they still might care anyways because like fuck I signed up to this thing because of a calling in an oath and I need to know right.
So.
One place there I like to start as I like to see okay.
Are there two primary narratives or are there a few narratives right let's begin say there's two narratives.
Ivermectin really works and it's awesome it doesn't work at all and it's dangerous right.
Typically there's more than that typically there's like five or six maybe it works early case but not later or works for these kinds of situations or there's some indication works but we don't really know or whatever.
But let's take kind of primary narrative camps because in today's.
World most people are trying to sense make between pre existing narrative camps.
And it's kind of important to understand.
There is a very strong incentive for everyone to fall in narrative camps are basically these strange attractors.
And so there are underlying forces that drive what you can think of as polarization to rather than just like well whatever is true it's going to be.
It's much easier to believe something is true that someone with expertise says with a lot of certainty and other people agree with.
Especially if there's a lot of literature and I'm unskilled or I don't have the time how I'm going to read all of it myself.
And then you get a narrative and then you get people say that narrative has something false with it and they do a counter narrative that is usually an anti narrative that are also kind of smart.
And typically based on either a different emphasis and values hey this is about personal freedoms this is about public health.
This is about my right to decide on my own body this is about not being a grandma killer whatever it is right.
Sometimes it's just a difference of values that affects their sense making.
Because they're sense making the thing that seems most aligned with their own values are not actually paying attention to the sense making they're looking at the narrative of truth that fits the value that they seem to care more about right.
I don't think anyone should be comfortable with the idea of more imposition on people's personal freedoms than necessary and I think everyone should be dubious of anyone who feels that they are in a position to say what is necessary and impose it by force.
Like everyone should be dubious oh you have a monopoly of violence that can impose necessary limits on everyone's freedom and who is the authority like what is the authority process that is not influenced by power or fucked up motives or ego or mistakes at all that deserves to have that fucking power over everybody.
Like everybody should be legitimately concerned about that that there is such a thing as adequately legitimate authority to wield monopoly of power.
Simultaneously everybody should be legitimately concerned about.
Unnecessarily being a grandma killer right like about taking a risk as a young person that would be not that consequential for you probabilistically they'd be way more consequential for other people and everyone should have some sense of like yeah we actually have a duty to each other we have a social responsibility
a social fealty that insofar as we're affecting each other we're not just automata.
And if we can affect each other invisibly but still tangibly there's real consequence to that like.
Even as libertarian as I want to be non aggression I don't have the right to come up and hit you in the face right well do I have the right to dump toxic waste in the river on my property if you live right downstream for me and that's the river that.
Feeds your well no I'm aggressing on you right so if I'm sneezing and coughing in your space.
And I might have an infection like there's a real situation there regarding what is the limit of personal sovereignty and what is the limit of civic duty.
And everybody's comfortable and it's interesting because a lot of people really like.
Libertarian sovereignty feel comfortable the idea of civic duty to go die and more.
Including where there's a draft if it has to be right not just even where it's voluntary so like okay there is a relationship between.
Between the way that the individual affects the larger holes that they're part of and is affected by them and so how do we maximize everyone's.
Liberty and maximize the well being of the whole.
In a way that no one's liberty is unduly harming anybody else's right.
Obviously we'd like to do that with emergent order rather than impose a rather than a law doing lockdown more conscientious citizens who understand more and care more would be better.
Right if you had citizens who cared more and did the research better and really came to understand it better than they wouldn't need police they would be self.
