Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Inyash Brotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber and today we're
joined by nobody. We're all alone in the Brotsky International Studios. Jess is taking a pilgrimage
to Rationalist Mecca. She's in the Bay Area with a friend who used to live out there.
Seeing all the cool sights, meeting all the cool people, and leaving us here to keep
things running while she's out. I asked her to take a bunch of pictures of Reach for
me because I really wanted to know what they do there, how they do it. I think it'd be
cool to have something like that in Denver. I didn't know what Reach was. What is Reach?
What does it stand for? Rationalist and Effective Altruism Community Hub?
That's what it was. It's like a community center for all the rational people out there.
Yeah. It looks cool. One note, nothing against them, but it looks bizarrely cluttered. You
guys should fix that. It freaked me out. It didn't freak me out, but I'm like, why is
there like a code on the floor? Come on, people. It looks cool. Is this just like a space
that someone rents that anyone who wants to come in could come in and hang out?
I have no idea. In fact, if there's anyone listening who knows about Reach and would
like to talk to us about it, I would love to hear about that and maybe do an episode
on how you can start a little community center thing.
We can ask Jess to ping people while she's out there.
We should do that.
We should do that.
Okay.
All right.
But since Jess isn't here, we didn't want to do anything huge without her, so we said,
oh, let's just finish up that listener feedback we got because we did still have a bunch of
stuff. And it was like good. And I am a little bit worried though that we're doing two listener
feedbacks in a row. Like, you don't think...
Still content.
It is still content, but...
Let us know in the comments if you hate us doing comments for two episodes in a row.
Yeah, yeah, seriously, because I wanted to like, you know, where people are like, oh,
God, another feedback episode. It's like back in the 80s and 90s every now and then they
had a filler episode where they would just show clips of...
Oh, God, clip episodes. You did a two in a row in your week by week. That would suck.
I know.
But this isn't a clip show. We're not showing our greatest highlights. We're visiting
and we're continuing conversations.
Yes, we are.
The other benefit of doing it now is that a lot of these were, you know, some of the
comments from these were from older episodes before Jess was on full time. So I don't know
if we actually have any that old, but whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're going to dive right in.
Yeah, let's do that. And also we should try to keep on it better next time. Always have
a little bit of feedback at the end of an episode so that we don't get up in this backlog
again.
Yeah, part of our thing is we start recording a little late, which now at least it's daylight
savings and all that. So maybe it'll be, you know, less depressing to start recording
before dark.
Right.
And the, we're mindful of how long it takes to edit, but this one's actually a good quick
one. We had a comment from one of our patrons, Tim Sharp. I'm pretty sure the full names
are on Patreon.
Yeah.
Anyway, so Tim wanted to say thanks for the bonus content. I guess that's a reminder that
we do put out some stuff. We try to put some out every episode. Anyway, so Tim says thanks
for the bonus content.
By the way, are you planning on updating the website? As much as I love, parentheses loved
Katrina, she hasn't hosted in ages. And on a related subject, I'd love for you to bring
her back as an occasional guest. P.S. Welcome Jess. So we do have news on that. Jess is
on the website now.
Oh, is she on the website now?
Oh, I thought you said you were doing it. Jess, we'll be on the website by the time
this airs.
Yes, exactly.
And yes, she's our new full-time host and she's awesome. I'd love to have Katrina on
at some point. I know that she's been busy. She's got, or she's had a career. She's had
a kid.
So yeah, she has a brand new infant right now, which is taking up like all of her energy.
We can have the kid on the podcast. I mean,
we can do it. It'd be cool if we got his first words ever on the podcast.
Bayes.
Easy to say. That's right.
Actually, I think the S sound is probably is pretty hard for kids.
Yeah, probably.
But if she says, Bay, we know what she really means.
That's right. Yeah.
So that's the first one that'll be updated.
I've got a picture from Jess and the little blurb and that'll be done.
Deal. Cool.
All right. David wrote into the podcast email and said,
since Enyosh seems to be in a very similar place to me a few years ago,
vis-a-vis news, fake news and social media.
That is to say, we don't believe anything we read, et cetera.
Since I managed to get out of this hole, I thought I'd share my winning strategy.
Quite simply, I have a one strike you're out policy when it comes to unfollowing
slash unfriending people.
If anyone shares anything which seems like they shouldn't have shared,
I'm unfollow them.
This includes fake news, news which is factually correct, but so partisan that
annoys me and well, anything that makes me wonder, why the hell am I seeing this?
I actually know somebody else who does this, or more or less,
I think Matt Freeman and I were talking about our social media strategies.
And I don't think he has necessarily one strike policy,
but he's working on curtailing his input.
Or maybe that was me who said something like that and I'm projecting.
So I don't want to put words in Matt's mouth unless he wants to back it up.
I do something similar.
Like for me, it's not one strike.
Like I'll give someone a few swings.
But yeah, I have got at least three fourths of my list is unfollowed.
And sure, it does make things better, but I don't think it necessarily solves
all of the problem about about what news you can believe.
Yeah, that's true.
And it's tough.
Like in the other hands, too.
I mean, I think maybe one strike might be too severe given the source.
Like if one time Neil deGrasse Tyson shares a quote, you know,
he complains about how Thor's hammer is too heavy or something.
I'm like, you know, that doesn't necessarily mean I'm not going to see
what he posts anymore.
This is why I never followed him in the first place.
Oh, he's, uh, I might have mentioned this before, but he's
finding that like some people find it annoying that he rips apart movies
for how bad their science is.
Yeah, but I mean, that's his thing.
That is his thing.
And when he had Andy Weir on his podcast, he, um, he told Andy
that I was really impressed with like how little criticism I had to draw
with the science in your book.
And he's like, you know what, when I revised it and I, or maybe when I was
writing it, I wrote it with you ripping it apart in mind and I'm glad it passed.
Cool.
Um, so I mean, he made sure to double check all his stuff, which I think
it's pretty good, quick side note.
Uh, when I left Facebook, I still have an account, but I haven't posted
in a couple of years.
I think many people had done what you did to me, which is on follow me
cause I've rarely, rarely shared anything worth seeing.
And the whole time Rachel was in New York, we would, instead of like sending
each other pictures of cute animals and stuff, it post them to each other's
walls, which shows up as activity that other people have to see.
And they're like, I'm sick of seeing three fucking dogs a day from Stephen.
So bye.
Um, so I don't think I'd miss.
Ever get sick of seeing three fucking dogs a day.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
A monster.
Yeah.
That's fair.
Yeah.
You don't want to be their friend anyway.
Forget those people.
I don't know if you want to do the second half of this or not.
Yeah, sure.
Uh, he says it is amazing.
My social media experience has become so much better since I started
adopting this policy.
Uh, give some examples, but the key to this was adopting a mindset of the
follow button isn't an expression of love or appreciation for this person.
It's a statement that I'm willing to give this person instant access to my
life to say whatever they want.
This is a privilege that I'm very judicious about giving out and it is no
shame to have it taken away.
Uh, after I adopt this mindset, I unfollowed all the high school friends
and distant relatives who were filling my Facebook feed with crap and the level
of stress in my life instantly dropped by half.
Yeah.
The, the, the internet seems like a way to get annoyed.
Yeah.
And it could be in a different number of varieties, right?
It could be your one friend to keep sharing MAGA memes or something.
But I mean, my mom's not even that old.
She's not grandma age, but she's basically, you know, grandma on Facebook meme
style that, you know, she'll share like whatever inspirational quote she
came across or like completed this survey, check, you know, what, what,
whatever bullshit flower or something or you or whatever.
So it's like, ah, it's boring, you know, I love my mom, but I'll, you know, like
you said, it's not like, it's not like I don't like you.
It was just, you know, I'm not going to let you bug me with this crap all the
time.
So they wrap up by saying that since then my list of people I follow has
dropped to a 10th of what it was, but my average details per minute of Facebook
time has increased enormously, which I think is doing Facebook right.
Yeah.
They also posted something, but since Jess isn't here, we can't address it yet,
but there was a, he wants to see our reaction to it.
Cause it was the best, um, repudiation of universal basic income that they've
ever come across.
Ooh.
So that sounds like fun.
So I've got it still saved.
We'll hit it next time.
We'll hit it at some point.
We'll do a UBI episode at some point for sure.
Yeah, totally.
All right.
Cause I'm not an economist, but I should totally do that.
I mean, the biggest problem that I know of, uh, with it right now is the
fact that it's just not feasible considering how much it would cost.
We don't have the way to pay for it.
Is there, uh, is it a ripping apart that is addressed as something other than
I didn't read it.
It was a link.
Oh, yeah.
So we haven't checked it out yet, but, um, I mean, yeah, that's my thing
cause I'm not an economist, but I'm, I am a socialist libtard.
So if someone says, Hey, give everyone free money, then I'm all for it.
Yeah, but you can still do math, right?
Yeah, but like it's, I don't know.
It's one of those things that there's arguments about, you know, this, this
