Somebody tweeted him a link.
This was no, I was just not ready to make the internet porn hub from now on.
I was thinking about that recently.
I don't know how it came to mind.
It might have been because I'm never on Snapchat, but my brother has
ferrets and he sends me videos once a while.
So they're great. So I'm on Snapchat again.
And if you go to like the stories section, there's like ads for other things.
And one of them was like an oddly satisfying channel.
And there's a great you or there's a great subreddit called oddly satisfying
where it's like, you know, somebody like fitting a piece of formed wood
that they'd cut just to fit exactly right and it's like seamless.
And so like, you know, those like, oh, that feels so good to watch.
There was a recommended thing for that.
But that's the only place I've ever seen like an oddly satisfying tag.
And I didn't know that Reddit sold my stuff to Snapchat.
So I was thinking just recently why, like, it would be nice
to have like, I don't know, an alternative hub where there where there was another
because like this internet is never going away.
This is this model.
But if there was if there was a competing web.
We need actual internets in real life.
That'd be cool. Yeah.
Hey, hey, I could hear music. It was dope.
You said it wasn't too well.
No, no, it's fine. I was I was enjoying it.
Yeah. See, that's that's another good thing about getting older.
You learn, you have time to learn skills.
Like if you just practice guitar one hour a week,
it's not a lot of time, even like two 30 hour sessions a week.
It's not a lot of time to spend.
But every spend a half hour on it, your fingers are a little sore.
But you keep that up for five years.
You're goddamn good guitar player after that time.
Yeah. Five years passes way sooner than you'd notice.
I think all of a sudden you're a guy who's got five years experience playing guitar.
And there's like more free time with a lot of case in a lot of cases.
Like my mom's learning paint.
Oh, I mean, she probably took painting in school or something.
But like she's doing painting stuff for fun now.
I mentioned Rachel's mom does cello.
And that's something that she's picked up in the last few years.
So like it's just the freedom of doing stuff.
And the emotional dulling we were talking about actually can be a good thing, too, in a way.
You don't you don't get as crazy by everything.
You're like, yeah, this is no big deal.
I've gone through this sort of thing before.
Yeah. Like you other people can even tell other people,
hey, I've had this sort of thing happen before.
Don't panic. Here's what you do.
Like I can I can only imagine how awesome it must have been to live
in a village or a tribe with elders that would just know things
as opposed to having to figure out everything yourself, getting occasional
advice from one or two older people and finding everything else on YouTube.
Yeah, it's I mean, I learn better talking to people, too.
But on the plus side, like our generation, the people who are, you know,
savvy with the internet now have access to elders all the time.
Right. And whatever niche thing it is you want to know,
there's YouTube tutorial for it, which, you know,
probably has its pros and cons.
I was thinking about that speaking of aging.
There's this thing I remember in school where, you know,
like especially older teachers and maybe even people's parents,
because like you'd be annoyed that, you know, you're everyone
probably has worked with a coworker or something where they're just completely
tech illiterate and, you know, I've heard from multiple people.
They're like, don't know people who will
they'll receive an email attachment in the form of a PDF and then print it
and then scan it and save it at the desktop because that's the only way that
they know to do it. And it's just like random pointless shit like that.
And then we try and correct them on it and be like, why don't you just do it
this way? Oh, I'm retiring in five years. It's no big deal.
And it's like, it's kind of annoying though.
It takes you 30 minutes to do something that should take five seconds.
And so anyway, the, the response from a lot of the start of a response from
older people is like, oh, well, you know, since I don't need to let know
it because it's new stuff and I'm retiring soon, it's not a big deal.
And you'll be in the situation too someday.
I challenge that assumption.
I can see why it's a natural assumption because that's what happened previously.
And that's probably happened previously for as long as tech has been booming,
right? And yet our generation has grown up with advancing tech and has
kept up with it this whole time.
Every single year we got to learn new things.
Yeah. And I mean, I, I don't think my dad could play, you know,
anything on an N64, you know, like it, which isn't to say that's a life
skill, but that kind of stuff is transferable.
Being able to, I mean, I remember they got a, my parents got a TV a couple of
years ago that has like, it's like a smart TV with like, you can download
Netflix onto the TV rather than have a third party hardware that you plug into
it. And they couldn't figure out like, how do I select an open Netflix?
And so it was kind of an intuitive, it took a, like a mental switch for me to
like, Hey, look, you see that highlighted square on the screen, touch
the direction on the remote that you want that square to go in.
And that's the highlighted one.
But like, that's super intuitive to me because I've been doing that since I
was, I guess, basically shortly after I learned to walk.
And it's, it's not even just technical skills.
It's a lot of things you learn throughout life that I see younger people
making these mistakes now.
And I'm like, well, only one way to learn that way thing is to actually learn
it. I mean, for, okay, as a, as a non-specific example,
a few years ago, I was playing rock band and we were playing the song,
won't get fooled again by the who, right?
Which is a really fun song to play.
It's got a cool message, but it's basically about after Vietnam, they
wrote the song about we were fooled into a war under false pretenses.
It's not going to happen to us again.
And now I know what that song is about.
Okay, cool.
And what happens?
Iraq war comes around.
We get told there's WDMDs in there and we go into war again.
Like the exact same fucking scenario.
I was like, it, it, it happened again.
And I don't know, maybe.
So to be clear, I'm not pro-Iraq war, but that war made a lot more
sense than the Vietnam war.
I mean, because there were, there were actual pretenses of actual danger.
Well, there was actual pretenses of actual communist danger.
Well, that's the thing is there were going to be communists over there.
That was the scary danger.
Not that they have problems that could kill us.
In, in the modern day, yes, that's funny, but back in the sixties, the,
the rise of communism was actually a scary thing.
It was a scary thing.
I, and I, I guess I remember being flabbergasted when I learned that was
the reason for the, for the Vietnam war, whatever, in school.
And I was like, wait, it's the concerns that they were going to have bad
government, like over there, this small country.
Oh, well, there was a concern about it dominoing and taking over everything.
Yeah, I know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
So I guess that, that, at least my teacher didn't even make that point.
They were just like, yep, people didn't like communism.
I'm like, okay, but that seems like a weird reason to go in and, you know,
they palm the country, but okay, sixties, whatever, they were weird seventies,
whatever, but I mean, this shit just keeps happening.
And I can't help but feeling, this is one of the reasons death is bullshit.
You spent your entire fucking life learning all sorts of things about
yourself and how to work life and just how to live and be a good person.
And just all these skills you pick up to during life and you get to the end of it.
And then you die.
And the next generation has to start all the fuck over from nothing.
I'm like, just how much more advanced could we be if it wasn't for this death
bullshit, painting the reset button constantly?
We, we need to get rid of this.
Cause I'm sick and tired of seeing the same mistakes being made over and over.
And got every generation, people got to relearn how to read and do numbers and talk.
And yeah, it'd be kind of cool if that useless 15 year period in your life only
happened like once per, I mean, doesn't have an once per person, but only once per
whatever era, like, um,
and that you would have to keep learning the same political mistakes and everything.
Yeah, it's, I'm looking forward to seeing that experiment carry out.
Hopefully I get to see it happen.
Yeah, death, death is bad.
Oh, that's not familiar.
Oh yeah, death is bad.com.
That is bad blog.com.
Okay.
That is bad blog itself is taken.
Is that a good site?
It's a squatter site.
Ah, dicks.
Yeah.
Uh, there is one other nice thing about aging, at least for men.
Um, I'm assuming this doesn't apply for women, but, uh, the turns out that a lot
of women find men more attractive as they get older.
So like if you have trouble getting, getting laid in your teens and early 20s,
it's not necessarily that bad a thing because like looking distinguished is a
thing that a lot of people, a lot of female people are attracted to.
And probably, and probably some male people, but it depends if you age like
Ted Danson or if you age like Donald Trump, right?
Right.
So I mean, you got to take care of yourself and have probably baseline level
of attractiveness, but I mean Ted Danson's 70 and he's, I'm, I would bet $1,000
right now he's still polls.
Like there's, there's no way I got that exact quote in his fifties when he was
voted sexiest man alive.
Uh, but what you got the quote from?
It was a comedian that the work, the reason I use the word polls there,
because that's kind of, uh, you know, a, that's not a very nice way to say that.
He's still sexually active, but, um, I got that.
It was some comedians that's something like that.
But yeah, I mean, Ted Danson's dashing is all hell.
And I did, I blew my mind when I learned he was 70 years old.
So yeah.
But even for people who aren't like just naturally, huge good looks, the fact
that growing out of the boyishness and starting to look like you have some
resources and some maturity at your disposal can be attractive.
We'll see if I ever get there.
I still, I still look boyish.
Um, what was I going to say about, Oh aging.
Yeah.
So that's a perk for men.
Um, I, you know, some older women are attractive too.
I think, but unfortunately I think it does tend to skew one way, but that's
just society, whatever.
