So like, that reminds, this is,
all right, this is a sidebar,
but we're in the end game now.
So remember, we had the conversation way back in the day
with Katrina about like whether or not
you can harm somebody who's dead.
And you and I are both kind of running with the Aristotelian
like virtue of like, sure,
you can destroy the reputation or something.
But I wish I had asked her was like,
if say you died and I put a bunch of meat in your fridge
and a bunch of child porn on your computer,
would I not have harmed you?
So like in the technical sense, no, because she's dead.
But in like the other sense, it's like,
all the good that you've done in the world
is now destroyed by the fact that like,
I've created this convincing fraud
that or this convincing framework
that like you're this fraud who ate meat this whole time
and never believed your virtues.
Oh, and you had kiddie porn on your computer.
Yeah.
So like-
So that book I raved about a couple episodes ago,
Monster Baru, The Monster Baru Cormorant.
Hold on, can you say that also?
Because when you, when I plugged that in the last episode,
I had to ask you what it was
because I couldn't understand what you said.
Okay, the book was The Monster Baru Cormorant.
Her name is Baru, first name is Baru,
last name is Cormorant.
Okay, so that's why I couldn't like Google it
because they weren't words.
Yes.
Okay, gotcha.
Well, Cormorant is actually a word.
It's a type of bird.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right.
Last name is NAFTA bird.
Anyways, but yeah, in the book,
there's a character that makes the point
that it can't be that things don't matter anymore
after someone is dead because we all die.
And so that means that nothing matters.
So arguing from the bottom, but I like it.
Yeah, yeah.
Things have to matter even after you're dead.
What I thought you were going to say,
and this is the other side of that coin,
is that like things have to matter
after they're dead because we care about dead people.
And we care about the impact that they had.
Like Martin Luther King didn't stop being important
the day he was shot, right?
So your posthumous impact matters.
And don't get me wrong, this was not a dig on Katrina.
The reason I was thinking about this recently was,
I can't remember what brought it up,
something about that like,
can you harm dead people?
It came back to mind just a few weeks ago.
And it's not like I thought I had this great gotcha.
It's like, I wish I'd asked her that
because I wonder if that would have illustrated my point better.
Anyway, so wrapping this one up, this post.
The literature on bias is mostly cognitive psychology
for cognitive psychology's sake.
I had to give my audience their dire warnings
during that one lecture,
or they would probably not hear them at all.
And I don't think we talked about it.
That lecture he's talking about is that when he became of this,
became of the sophisticated arguer bias,
that now he teaches that in the initial talk,
he never, that's always part of the first exposure.
And I guess he could leave the room before he gets there,
but you're not gonna get any good weapons.
You're gonna get vague things like population insensitivity
or something as an example of a bad heuristic.
But yeah, so being aware of the sophisticated arguer trap
is important for a good rationalist.
I don't know, kind of like the analogy to rationality
and martial arts has hit so many times.
And so acute that like it's worth,
it comes to mind easily, right?
This might be like using a headbutt to strike somebody.
Like if you hit them right, it hurts them a lot,
but it hurts you too, but you might not notice it maybe.
Is that too torture to an analogy?
I would say like, you probably want to teach someone
how to fall early on in martial arts.
And if you don't, they're gonna hurt themselves a lot,
practicing it.
That's good, that's good to think of it too, yeah.
And I guess just to be aware that like,
some moves can damage you too,
if you're not careful about them, maybe.
Yeah, all right, maybe it's on a smooth analogy
with that particular one.
Post two, de-biasing as non-self-destruction.
So this starts with a quote from Nick Bostrom, quote.
A question from Nick Bostrom.
Quote slash question, it's in quotes.
Okay, it's a question from Nick Bostrom.
What practical things does de-biasing enable us to do
other than refraining from buying lottery tickets?
You know, that's the fair question from the outside, right?
I mean, we've asked basically that same question
using becoming rationalists as instead of de-biasing
a number of times on this podcast.
Yeah, that's a good point.
And de-biasing isn't sufficient
to become a rationalist as necessary.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, it seems to me that how to be smart
varies wildly between professions.
Yet such concepts as willing to admit you lost
or policy debates should not appear one-sided
or plan to overcome your flaws
instead of just confessing them,
seem like they could all apply to many professions.
All of this is a device, not so much about
how to be extraordinarily clever as rather,
how not to be stupid.
Which I think is something that we hit on
before we're trying to answer the question of somebody like,
what's something you do rationally daily life?
Like, it's not so much like,
I do these five things every day.
It's more like, I just try not to suck
and I try to use these tools.
And it's so familiar.
I almost think that we must...
Did we quote this post before?
Was this just something we had on our minds?
Because we've dreaded?
I think I quote...
I think I informally quoted it not verbatim
during that conversation.
Yeah, because I use the example of like,
and maybe that's in this poster now,
but it's not in the quotes that we pulled out.
Like, not sucking up being a janitor
and not sucking up being a lawyer
probably have a lot in common.
But being great at both of those professions
have like very little in common.
So there's the basic,
base level art of just like,
not sucking at what you're doing.
That tends to be pretty consistent
across lots of things.
And I mean, it's just like, I don't know,
if you've had lots of jobs,
if you've had lots of coworkers,
and you've had good and bad ones,
a lot of the bad ones will have a lot of the same habits
as a lot of the other bad ones, right?
But the good ones can be good in different ways.
I mean, the bad ones will be the ones that,
you know, whatever don't show up to work
or are mean or something like that, right?
So.
Not showing up is a pretty big deal.
It's a pretty big one.
And it's a good sign that you suck at your job.
Debiasing is mostly not about
how to be extraordinarily clever,
but about how to not be stupid.
It's great successes are disasters
that do not materialize,
defeats that never happen,
mistakes that no one sees
because they are not made.
Often you can't even be sure
that something would have gone wrong
if you had not tried to de-bias yourself.
You don't always see the bullet that doesn't hit you.
That's the quote that always stuck with me.
Because it also sucks because,
and he goes on to point out
because that makes shitty anecdotes,
that makes shitty evidence, right?
Yeah.
It's like, remember all those times
I didn't get killed?
I don't know, man, running back to driving.
It's like, you know, if you're a good driver,
you might not even notice all the time
is that you don't kill yourself
when you're driving, right?
You'll notice some of the close calls
if you do screw up.
And if you're like, I was texting and then,
oh shit, that car came out fast
