does seem like the kind of thing that would actually boon the economy.
Um, you know, I'm again, not an economist, but my understanding is that if
you're working at McDonald's, making about $1,000 a month right now, and then
Andrew Yang wants to come on and give everyone $1,000 a month, well, then
McDonald's gonna have to up their, up their, their wages to keep you on board.
Cause you could make as exactly as much money sitting in your ass at home.
Right.
But we just come, the extra wages come from somewhere.
Yeah.
Probably from McDonald's.
So they'll cut their profits down from 7 billion to 6 billion next year or
something, right?
Uh, more likely they're going to increase the prices.
The profits might go down, but people could afford it too.
So, you know, if you, if you're, I mean, can people afford it?
If they're only making a thousand a month, but if they're, if
they're suddenly making twice what they're making, if they're making, if
they're making a thousand before UBI, then, then suddenly they're making
$2,000 a month, then yeah, they can afford another $0.99 or whatever per
bread piece of McDonald's.
Yeah.
That said, I had a griddle on the way over and it was amazing.
So I don't eat that much fast food, but I was craving it.
Just quick warning to all our listeners, don't eat any McDonald's.
Don't listen to any ash.
We have, we have fairly decent health and safety food standards here in the United
States.
Oh, it's not the health and safety.
It's not the safety part that I'm worried about.
It's, it's the, the, just the health part.
Yes.
I think this is my general, I guess, like once a month or something.
That's, that's basically the rate at which I eat it, if that.
I mean, so like the whole thing with fast food phobia, this is my
Skeptoid adjacent rant that like, I mean, there have been people who have
done, um, McDonald's only diets and lost weight.
The idea is just to eat in proportions that don't make you sick.
Like that Chocumentary with, um, Morgan Spurlock supersized me.
Yeah.
He wasn't, first of all, he had a preexisting condition that made him get
sick and have to quit partway through it.
That was his liver issue that he disclosed up front.
Um, and so if you're eating a diet that's rich and whatever, um, I'm
guessing fats and salts or whatever, um, it would make it be rough on his
already damaged liver.
But the other thing is that the average person doesn't, so part of the gimmick
of the show is that if some, if they offer, do you want to supersize that,
which I don't think McDonald's even does anymore.
Um, I haven't heard of a supersize.
No, you're right.
I haven't heard them, well, I haven't been to McDonald's in a long time,
but I've been to some other restaurants and they don't ask that anymore.
I don't think it's a thing.
I think maybe the documentary did that, which cool, whatever, but the thing
was when, if they said, do you want to supersize that, he would have to say
yes, and you'd have to try and eat it all, which is not the experience
of your average eater, right?
You usually stop eating when or shortly after you feel full.
So you're not sitting there gorging yourself, throwing up and then eating more.
Well, I, I mean, the main problem I have problem, the main concern I have, I guess
with the fast foods and those sorts of foods is that they seem to be optimized
to not make you feel full until you've had too many calories.
Like you don't, you get a 700 calorie burger or something, and it doesn't
feel like you've had that much food.
And it just always seems to be that if you eat until you're full, you will
overeat at those places.
That's probably fair.
I mean, I, I typically don't like, I'll get one thing and drive off.
So I'm not hanging out and then, you know, going back for more or something.
Yeah.
But if you drive off and you're hungry next time, you'll get two of the thing,
right?
And two of the things more calories than they should have.
That's, that's a reasonable concern.
But from my own experience, I, I never do that.
I'm, I always know that like, if I don't feel full 10 minutes after eating it,
I will 30 minutes later.
The other main thing about fast food or restaurants in general is, um, the, uh,
portion sizes of beverages, I never get sodas.
Um, I drink soda very rarely and I'll never get a large soda McDonald's.
That's like what a leader.
Uh, so I'm not going to suck down a leader of Mountain Dew or whatever
they have, uh, to, you know, cause that, that's going to be more calories
than your Big Mac and your fries, right?
Sugar water is really cheap and they make a decent profit off it.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
It's like 17 cents a cup or something on their end.
So anyway, that's, that's, oh, all right.
Last thing on UBI, that just to prime us for our conversation on it later, that
one thing that I like about, um, raising minimum wage and laws that do that is
that since UBI is more of a pie in the sky goal, raising minimum wage is a
step towards that.
You know, so like, yes, there's other economic issues with just that, that
aspects to make poor people less, uh, poor, but it, it, it's a, it's a step
in the right direction and I don't know if it's a step straight towards
the right direction, but it seems to be a positive step.
But again, not an economist.
So maybe we'll have one of those on when we do this.
We might as well.
Yeah.
We know some people that know some econ stuff.
We do.
All right.
Alrighty.
Uh, let's go on to Pearl Geek.
This is from the subreddit.
This is from the subreddit.
Yes.
Pearl Geek says there was some talk about how you should enjoy life at a young
age rather than optimizing for a good life when you're older, since you're not
that healthy, et cetera anymore.
I'm not sure I necessarily said don't optimize for when you're older because
you're always going to get older.
So it's not a bad idea to optimize for it, but I might have said something like
that we were kind of like, we were kind of saying like, man, it seems so weird to
just work constantly and be tired all the time when you're young, just so that
when you're old, you can be tired from being old, but not having to work.
Yeah.
And like the thing is like you, you know, traveling is harder because, you know,
it's just, it's harder to carry a big backpack or go hiking or whatever it is
you like can do while younger.
And isn't it just me or our emotions muted a bit, the older you get?
I think it depends on the person.
Okay.
It's definitely been true with me, but I'm hoping that turns around a bit at some
point.
Well, I mean, on the one hand, it was good when I was, you know, in the middle
part of the late part of being young, because early young, the emotions were
fucking out of control.
I did, that was not a fun ride, but now it's starting to almost get to the point
where sometimes I'm like, I think I kind of miss, you know, some of the more
intensity of like 10 years ago.
Yeah, I try to tune into that and make those happen when I can.
Oh my God.
So like, maybe we won't enjoy the traveling as much when we're old because
we're like, yeah, yeah, seeing this.
That could be another part too.
Maybe they feel it the same, but maybe it's just kind of like exercise, you
know, like, if you've been through enough shit, then like, oh, this is
sucks, but it's, you know, back when, you know, my great, when my grandma, you
know, was, was living through the Great Depression and literally sharing bath
water in a house without electricity and that sort of stuff.
It's like, oh yeah, you know, I, I don't know, insert, insert minor tragedy here.
It's like, yeah, I went through that shit when I was 10.
Like, you know,
It's not as bad as going uphill both ways to the worst school in the snow.
That's right.
And it's not as good as that one weekend with that one girl.
Speaking of salient emotions, can we sidebar really quick?
Sure.
I mean, try and stop me.
Um, I finished a Red Dead Redemption two.
Oh my God.
Then I'm sidebaring for a video game.
This is an important video game because it ties into emotions.
All right.
I've complained a little bit about the gameplay.
It's still kind of clunky, but they did a great job.
And I'm not, it's going to spoil anything.
I mean, not really.
Uh, they did a great job making you care about all the characters.
And so if you played the first one, you know that you don't start with the full
gang from the first game.
So you know that they're not all going to make it probably.
Okay.
Or at least they're not all around.
And, uh, man, at the end, there's, you know, you get this kind of classic, uh,
well, classic from the genre of like the redemption arc for the character.
You know, like I used to be this kind of rough and tough, fuck you attitude
outlawed, like they get perspective and actually have things to care about or
like want to do better.
So that, that really came through really well.
And speaking of salient emotions, man, any game that can make me cry at the death
of a virtual horse did something right.
Nice.
It was so touching when I was telling Rachel about it, because I, you know, I
went off, finished it for like three hours and then I was telling her about it.
I couldn't even tell her the part about the horse.
Like, cause I was right after it was still really fresh.
But like, since I suspected the end was coming, the end of the game, and since
this character is not in the first game, which takes place later, um, I assumed
he wasn't going to make it.
And that's not a spoiler because that's just history.
If you've seen the series and he might, you don't know, but anyway, in any case,
I'm feeding my horse, like you've got like all kinds of foods and stuff for if
you want to, like somewhere like good, you know, for whatever, but I'm giving it
like sugar cubes and stuff.
And I'm like, you know, I hope, you know, be happy.
And you really develop a relationship with the horses.
That does a good job at that.
And hit me right in the feels, man.
So where were we?
Oh, yes.
Old people have fun and emotions was the point that pure geek was making.
Oh yeah.
Um, or Pearl geek, excuse me.
It turns out, continuing the, the, um, post or the comment, it turns out that
young people have a tendency to underestimate how much they will both
enjoy life and cling to life when they are older.
