I currently have trouble finding sources for that, but this at least touches on
the subject and there's a link.
Also being old can be a surprisingly long time span for me.
The limit of old was our German historic retirement age of 65, but many people
live to be 80 or even longer.
So 25 plus years of being old.
So I'm officially accusing Eneosh and Steven of unscientifically unsound
ageism with a smiley face.
Yes.
Um, so I did reply to that one.
Hey, I found that super, um, comforting, um, if it turns out that, that research
supports that old people are happier than I suspected, that's great news.
Cause I might be an old person someday.
I've heard that old people are fairly happy.
Most of them.
Yeah, that's good.
Um, you don't have all the stress of life crushing down on you anymore.
Yeah.
Certainly went to retired.
And if you're doing okay, um, yeah, there's, there's the other benefit too.
That just like, you can do what you want with your life.
Yeah.
And I had something for this.
Um, I do, I do have to say that I am in general terrified of the whole aging
process and being as I'm like kind of the oldest amongst my friends with one
exception, uh, well, either the oldest or everyone else is on par with me.
Right.
Again, with, with one exception, it, it feels, it feels weird and I'm feeling
my age a lot and I do not like it at all.
And, uh, maybe you'll hate it less when you're older.
It's hard to say.
Maybe it's like, from my limited perspective, I've, I've had like body
mechanic related issues for like 15 years and at a point you kind of just get used
to it and like, in that sense, it stops sucking.
Like it's just like, well, I mean, I, you know, it's like, I couldn't jump three
feet in the air before and like, you know, or so like, if you couldn't, if you
could never jump three feet, then like not being able to, it doesn't really matter.
So like, if you can't do something that you could have done 15 years ago after a while,
it's just like, yeah, that's just not something that my body does anymore.
I just, I hate the whole getting in firm and not being able to do stuff.
And like everyone gets, I hate to say this, but uglier, you know, and it
just, everything about it sucks.
There's, I guess there's some good parts of it, but God.
Well, I think the good parts are, are like, other than, I mean, I imagine
that when you stop being attracted, whenever you get old enough to like, you
know, not be super sexually attractive, you're also probably not super sexually
like active, you know, actually old people's sex happens, but it's, it's not.
I mean that in the sense that my, my fiance works, she's worked in
geriatric social work for like the last, what, five years.
She's always walking in and old people boning.
Luckily, no, but it does happen.
Like STDs can be rampant in nursing homes because these crazy old people are
banging.
Yeah.
Um, they're like, I don't care.
I'm going to die soon anyway.
Basically.
Um, or maybe they just need free condoms.
I don't know how it works, but any, in any case, uh, I think that I don't know.
I imagine like the lack of like sexual appeal will probably bug you less than you
think, but I'm also still holding out for the fact that we probably won't get old.
So I'm hoping fingers crossed.
Yeah.
I guess I'm less the, I was much more hopeful of that when I was younger and
the older I get, the more I'm like, Oh God, it's not going to happen in time.
Is it?
I think that's, uh, I want to break her as well.
I'll keep that keeps up at night.
Cause he keeps moving back when the singularity is going to happen.
Cause he keeps missing the deadline.
I think, I don't know.
I mean, we've got decades before this becomes a real thing, right?
I mean, my main concern is dying.
And yes, it can be old for a very long time.
I think I saw it today on Reddit that the oldest person alive right now that
they know of is 116 years old, but granted, the last 50 years of that must have,
well, last 35 years of that must have sucked.
Well, maybe the last 20.
After being 96, I don't know, in any case, some, some amount of it is just
increasing pretty spry 90 year olds.
It's true.
Yeah.
I mean, my great grandpa, he lived until his mid and late nineties.
And I mean, we'd go visit their place in the summers and he'd be like on his
roof, cleaning gutters and shit in his late eighties, but I wish he wouldn't
cause we were there and we could do it.
Okay.
So, um, yeah, I mean, people, people do stuff.
I think it's just like, you know, you, you know that your life's going to be
constrained in some ways, right?
So, but at the very least, apparently people are happier than we suspect.
So we'll, we'll take some solace on that.
Kind of like it would suck to become paralyzed, but like, I know, because I've
seen this touted over and over that people who become paralyzed return to their
base level of happiness after a few months.
So it's weird too.
Cause I was like, I, when I was young, I was kind of, I was never rebellious, but
I always like wanted to be rebellious, rebellious, I guess.
You're very well as you left the village.
Oh, not, not when you're really young.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I, I bought into the whole, you know, don't trust anyone over 30 thing.
And now I am over 30 and you're like, listen to me.
And it just, it's, I see, I don't know.
I never thought I would be this old.
I used to really hate old white men cause they ruined everything.
And I'm like, I'm basically an old white man now.
I guess I've ruined everything.
That sounds racist.
No.
Okay.
Well, yeah.
I mean, you can say that this group of people was historically responsible for a
lot of problems, but just cause you haven't fit those demographics, that's
just straight up profiling.
It is.
And I will, I will say that I was at that age, the race slash agist and, uh,
didn't think it was a problem.
So now you got to get over it.
No, I guess so.
Yeah.
I mean, you can do some transracialism and trans age or whatever, trans ageism
stuff, which I think is more ridiculous than trans age, trans, trans, uh, racism.
Yeah.
Like I think it could be trans racial.
I'm not sure how you'd be trans age old though.
There was somebody because, uh, yeah, the, the, uh, what's her name, uh,
blanking on it, the, the very, very bad wizard person step mom.
Okay.
She's one of the intellectual dark web people.
Yeah.
And she keeps bringing up this example of the person just, I think this person's
trolling cause they want to just, you know, make a fuss, but they want to like
change their age.
I think they're like in their fifties, they want to change it to like, I'm 35 now,
which me, I'm like, cool, no harm done.
You're going to retire when you're 80.
Like fuck you.
Sorry.
We only let people retire when they're 67, you know, um, but I think that one's
just, that one's harder though, because there was a day you were born and we can
measure how many days it's been since then.
You know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's fair.
But what if you feel a certain age?
I, you know, I, I, and some people do mature much later than others.
I've been an old man for 10 years.
See, right?
You, you are trans agist in the other direction.
Yeah.
But I'll, I'm not going to change that on paper because there's, there's perks to
being certain ages and you know, whatever, there's also perks to being older.
Yeah.
If I had a money to retire on, I could change my age to whatever age I could
collect my non-existent pension at.
So in any case, it's, it's, it's good to hear that old people are, are, you know,
I never thought that they were miserable, but there's, there's the concern that
like, oh man, I'm not going to be able to do all the stuff I like, but apparently
like the, you know, like the paralysis thing that turns out to be less of a
concern than I thought it was.
And that's super reassuring to me.
So all right.
We've got J.
Michael two, four, nine, seven on here on one of the subreddit comments.
I think this was on, yeah, it was one, a couple of episodes ago.
They had a long post with a bunch of sections.
So we pulled one out here on a freemium profits.
And he says, uh, again, if they say again, if you, if you weren't the customer,
you're the product, PGO is tracking your location habits and
Oh, Pokemon go.
Thank you.
Pokemon goes tracking your location habits and monetizing that data.
And they're in that.
And they, they are Niantic slash Google powered after all, um, with association.
No one, no really bro.
We're really not tracking you when you tell us not to, et cetera for the, for
reels this time, that whole thing of like, Oh, we're not tracking.
You don't worry about it.
And the micro transactions are just a nice, easy bonus.
Yeah, I know it's a, it's a freemium game.
I know exactly what I'm in for.
I haven't considered that.
Does Google really need more ways to track us though?
I already tell them everywhere I'm going because I need to know how to get there.
I think there's that.
And the other thing with Pokemon go that monetizes it without you paying for
anything is that Pokemon Poke stops are, um, not, not necessarily, not necessarily
even most of them, but a lot of them are in businesses.
Like every Starbucks actually a few months after launch is now Poke stop.
So it was every sprint store.
Yeah.
And they pay for that.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So, you know, that, that's the thing that happens.
It'll draw you to that location.
