And Hey, while you walked all the way over here for a Poke stop, aren't you thirsty?
Why don't you swing in for a Starbucks?
Um, yeah, I mean, these things happen.
I, I can't remember what context this was brought up in, but I think this is just
an understood cause of an understood effect of the game.
Like there are other games, the only other mobile game that I play that has
anything like a monetizing aspect is, um, what's it called a clash of clans.
And that one, there's, there's no tracking because your location doesn't matter,
but it, it, it heavily intensifies as you just spend real money to get in-game
currency to speed up building and stuff.
Yeah.
Which if you play it right, you never have to do.
So I just, I've been playing.
But you'll always lose against people that do do that.
This one doesn't, doesn't actually do that.
Luckily it's not quite as bad as some of those cool new AAA games where you can
pay for an instant win card.
Like looking at you, Star Wars Battlefront two.
No, I mean, so other people can, can basically get their bases
leveled up faster than you, but you're competing against people at your same
level all the time and that also increases their level.
So it's not like they don't get an unfair advantage other than being able to
skip spending five years to build their base and they can do it in two.
Yeah.
Or right away if they're fucking millionaires.
Right.
So this was a comment that came in a, maybe a month or two ago on episode 56,
which is the one that we had, um, our guest Vivian on to try and explain to
me what like privilege was and offense and all that stuff.
And, uh, Bob wrote in saying that in a sense, I'm glad Vivian expressed her
views because I always thought that quote privilege on quote narrative is
cloaks and racism and per se perpetuates everything wrong with it.
Oh, excuse me.
Is cloaks and racism and perpetuates the very thing of reports to seek out to solve.
I feel more secure in my view than ever.
The term punching up betrays a mentality here.
I'm a white guy.
You're a black guy.
Well, of course I'm above you.
Yuck.
Um, this view is despicable and minimizes people into little more than
members of a tribe.
This wasn't rational.
It was nonsense.
Um, I agree with most of that.
I will say that the, the, the phrase punching up, I think it doesn't necessarily
mean I'm above you.
You're below me.
It's that society has me above you and, uh, therefore you below me.
And so it's, it's, it's not necessarily like I'm racist and I'm above you.
It's that like, because I'm in this class and that classism is real.
Like, I don't, I don't think, I hope I didn't, none of us came off denying
anything like that and it sucks.
And it's like, I mean, obviously that's a stupid thing for me to say.
So it's the, the problem isn't that like this isn't real or this is a bad attitude
to have this is that's, that's socioeconomics, right?
And they're, they're too often, uh, in today's day and age, hopefully this
will get better in the future, derived along racial lines, which is insane.
And so people can, uh, I think the slippery slope to fall into is, is to
say that like this is every person's fault or this is, this makes every person
a victim, right?
I was listening to NPR about a month ago or so and they were talking about
Taylor Swift and it was something along the lines of kind of not attacking her,
not like ripping into her in the whole John Stuart eviscerates way, but they
were like really going at her for, you know, being this white lady and not using
her privilege correctly to help out the minorities and benefiting from the system
and all that.
And I was like, wow, man, they are hating on Taylor Swift.
And then someone mentioned, yeah, but she's done good things for the causes
of women and it was like, oh yeah, yeah, no, no, she's, you know, as a woman,
very empowering for women and everything.
I was like, damn, that was some fast backtracking.
And it was, it was just interesting to see, you know, the, the quick switch as,
as to whether she was the oppressor or the oppressed class.
And just changed on which lens they were using.
And it was, it sure shows the fragility of that whole stupid game.
Yeah.
And also, you know, she's fucking Taylor Swift.
Maybe just judge her as a human, as opposed to a member of, you know, the
whites or a member of the women's or the riches or whatever.
Yeah, yeah, I, you know, I don't know what her early life was like.
Maybe consider that.
I know that right now her life is pretty good because she's super rich and pretty famous.
Not to say rich people are no problems, but they have problems that poor people
would love to have.
Yes, yeah, they have ways to deal with their problems.
Yeah, they can afford therapy and they can afford time off to take it.
I think it's interesting.
Like this might have been an example I brought up during that episode where like,
you know, if somebody I knew who got like beat up or something while somebody
called him racial slurs, I'm not going to pause to ask like, Oh, well, hold on.
What can I hold a brown bag to you?
See if you're passing white or not.
Like that's, that's disgusting.
That's madness, right?
But it's fun to see people change lenses depending on whether or not they're
playing identity politics or tribalism or tribalism or whatever.
Right.
I have a friend of a friend in the Quaintance, I guess, who often
cosplays like Jasmine and other people from Arabic areas.
And she is, I believe, oh crap, Syrian.
I want to say Syrian, maybe Lebanese.
No, I think she's Lebanese.
But yeah, they like ripened her for it because she's fairly light-skinned
into how dare you, this cultural appropriation.
Oh yeah, you mentioned those costumes on.
Oh, did I?
And then she's like, bitch, I was born in the Middle East.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My and and isn't that weird?
Like, I mean, I didn't learn about the term brown bagging
until what, a few years or a few months ago.
What is brown bagging?
That's where you take a brown bag and see and hold it up to them
and see if they are, if they're darker or lighter than the brown bag.
Yeah.
Which I guess, depending on the bag tells whether or not they're passing
white or not.
And that's like a lot of what like the same card you see pulled out,
which is bizarre because this is the same, the same brown bag
that the that that racists will use to determine whether or not
you deserve inclusion in our special group, which it's, it's weird.
I mean, like kind of like distant third person perspective on this is like
history is always just reactions from the extreme of how it was a couple of
decades ago, right?
So like we're wearing a pendulum swing.
And I'm pretty sure we're at like near the top of the swing where like it's not
going to get much, it might get a little weirder, but it's not going to get.
This isn't the stasis that it can stay.
Ultra prudish right now.
It's really weird.
And in some ways not, you know, it's weird, but yeah, I think, I think
it's going to, it'll swing back and do what it, you know, and obviously
it's not a clean metaphor because there's lots of pendulums.
I'm sure if we're going to totally torture it, but I don't know if you
want to mention this or not, but you had somebody do Padman, Parvati Patil
for the Methods of Rationality podcast.
Do you want to talk about this?
Oh, have I mentioned it before?
No, I was going to mention it, but I didn't know if you wanted it.
Oh yeah, go for it.
I think it was, you know, because the show was done in segments as it got
caught up with the book and then you do like side stories or other short fiction.
Somebody wrote in and it was like complaining that the person who did
Padman, Parvati Patil, when they did their attribution, didn't have a
brown person sounding name and did it with an American accent.
And they were like, that's super offensive or something.
And well, what it was, so to set up, when I did the podcast, originally
I was doing basically all the voices, certainly all these small parts
because there's over a hundred small parts and I don't know that many people
at a level where I can just ask them to do the parts, right?
And eventually I got enough fans of people just start setting in line.
So now every part I think is done by different people with a few exceptions.
But to keep all these characters separate for me, I started doing them
like in different funny accents and voices and stuff.
I had like the Debonair English guy.
I had, um, I had one like old Western cowboy drawl guy.
Was that Ron?
No, no, no, that was Ron was the surfer, dude.
That's right.
And for Seamus, I had a terrible Irish accent, which was kind of like a mashup
of the Lucky Charms guy and groundmaster Willie from Pesimpsons, which is literally
what I based the accent on because those were the only two people I knew who turns
out those are two different countries anyway.
But at the time I was like Scottish Irish, same accent, right?
I was just kind of the mash up the two of them.
Anyways, that there was a lot of like funny accents and just goofing around
playing with the thing.
So I could, uh, so I could keep them separate in my head and eventually
like I started getting a few other parts, specifically the female parts.
I just could not do female voices.
You couldn't do 20 of them at that too.
Exactly.
That was the thing is during the speowark, there's what eight main women or something.
So good luck doing eight convincingly separate voices.
Yeah.
So I got, uh, I tapped like a whole bunch of friends.
And since I was doing like silly voices and shit, then, uh, they were playing
along with that too.
And this, uh, this one girl was like, Oh yeah, Pavarti Patel.
I would love to do with them.
And she like went on YouTube and tried to do more or less the best
accent she could, but it's still sort of a humor piece, right?
So she was just having fun with it.
And, uh, and it wasn't until, I don't know, the series was almost over.
When I got this, uh, feedback that someone said, you know, I was listening
to Harry Potter methods of rationality.
I was having such a great time.
I was loving all of this, identifying with Harry.
And then I hear this accent come on and my heart just drops because it's
the same accent that people in high school would always torment me with.
And, and yeah, I was like, Oh, fuck.
And I just felt awful.
So, okay.
That's, that's, I went and yeah, I got that changed as quickly as I could after that.
I didn't have the whole story.
I thought that it was just some, you know, stereotypically white social justice
where you're complaining that you're doing this on behalf of other people.
Oh no.
