Um, I think it's at least in part evolution too.
Yeah, that's fair.
I, I, my understanding, having not gone through menopause myself is that the
process of, of being like currently going through menopause is kind of annoying.
But then you're done with having periods.
And I think you still get like all the bad effects from having the periods though.
Including the bleeding.
Well, except for the bleeding probably, but like everything else that you get
from periods that makes it awful is still comes back every month.
I thought all the, like half the awful stuff is related to the bleeding, like
the cramps and all that stuff.
And I think all that stuff keeps happening.
I thought the cramps are from shattering your uterine lining, which
causes, which is why you had, which why you bleed.
We need a woman here.
We do.
Well, we also need a woman who's gone through menopause or at least one
who knows about periods about this and ever talk to someone who's older.
Uh, man, this is how you, this is why you shouldn't have two dudes on a podcast.
At least not talking about menopause.
Right.
Yeah.
So yeah.
All right.
Let's move on to something we know something about like, uh,
actually was that everything that was the only two things that we had.
Oh yeah.
That was the only two things we had, uh, like the rest of this podcast.
Oh wait, is this being put in the end or the near the front?
This will be at the end.
This will be at the end.
Yeah.
Okay.
Uh, I think that was everything I had.
I think that's everything I had.
Um, I mean, there's a lot of topics I want to get around to discussing here at
some point, at some point we need to have a criminal justice episode because I
was just ranting about that before we started recording.
Yeah.
Um, and I can think of a couple of people who might be good, good resources for that.
So we've got UBI, criminal justice, uh, gender.
Uh, I really want to talk to Jess about the whole reach and thing that she's
seeing right now and she gets back.
So yeah, we got, we got a bunch of things on there.
There's those.
I also, we haven't had like a like futurism episode or like, I don't know if we
need a whole episode for anti-death, but that could be part of our transhumanism
episode, which we've never done exclusively.
Uh, we have, we did a transhumanist transhumanism episode.
I linked it in the show notes that just went up today.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
So we have done one 38 or 39.
And that was, that was ages ago.
It was time to do that one again.
Okay.
We need to have an EA person on to talk about EA, um, effective altruism.
And there's at least a couple others, but oh, I guess as part of futurism, maybe
separate something about, we've talked a little bit this episode, last episode about
like saving for retirement and how to do that in a way that, uh, is there a, in a
couple, and very quickly, is there like a, a position that's common in the
rationalist community on that?
Cause I don't think the rationalist community per se, but there's, I mean,
just very basic, easy advice.
Oh no.
I mean, I know what the general advice is, but I wasn't sure if rationalists
said like, no, no, it makes more sense to spend now because when we're 50, we'll
all be post DBI post singularity, all that stuff.
Oh, I was curious if there's any, any sort of belief leaning that way or something.
Uh, certainly nothing explicit that I know of.
Yeah, me either.
I think that sounds, I mean, individually, people can make that decision
for themselves if they think that things are that coming that quickly.
But, uh, that sounds a lot to me, like sell all your possessions and follow me
sort of thing that Jesus did.
And then it turned out the world didn't end in his lifetime, which is like,
though,
but at least the perk with this is that it's not give me all your possessions
or sell them.
It's like, go have fun.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
And then you'll be destitute when you're 60.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Alrighty.
Well, uh, thank you for coming over and helping me get that off my chest.
Hey, absolutely.
And this is the real ending to the episode.
So thanks for, uh, your bonus little few minutes here and we'll see you guys
all again in a couple of weeks.
Okay.
Peace out.
Feels weird with that just here.
It feels like I'm waiting for just to show up, you know,
like, oh, that's right.
She's not coming.
