without Robin Hansen.
It was one of the ones before that where we just talked about signaling.
Okay.
When Katrina mentioned, uh, mimicry where harmless species might imitate
venomous ones that predators will avoid it.
Like, uh, like some flies and snakes do.
Enesh pointed out that it seemed like cheating and nobody mentioned that
Professor Quirrell had taught us one, about one thing.
Cheating is what losers call technique and be worthy of many
Quirrell points was successfully executed.
So yes, good catch.
Thanks for noticing that one, Graham.
All right.
Next one's on you.
Uh, Desmond on a comment on the cyber Christianity episode, this one actually
came from our website, the basing conspiracy.com rather than, uh, the Reddit
says, this episode had me scared for a good while.
Not at the content of the discussion, but at who I could have been.
I was raised Mormon and didn't break into atheism until six months
into a two year Mormon mission trip.
Even then it was a slow process, two steps forward, one step back.
That said, if my slightly younger self had heard about cyber Christianity, I
think there's a very good chance I would have bought into it as an excuse
to hold onto my beliefs.
I like to imagine that I would have eventually shrugged it off, but this
could have delayed my deconversion by months or even years.
Worse, I'm cringing because I know I would have shared this idea with all my
friends as something I believed in and something they should believe in too.
I wonder what it says that a person can be exposed to the same ideas, but the
order in which they were exposed to the ideas can send them down different
paths, which is, yeah, I'm curious to hear about whether young
Enios might have fallen into this trap too.
Um, no,
I was going to, I dammit, I was just finishing a drink of water.
I was going to run your prediction that the answer would be no, but can I guess
why?
Sure.
Because it would have been a drastic enough departure from the religion
that you were taught that it wouldn't have been an excusable substitute.
Like you, this wouldn't be something that you can kind of slide in and not go
to hell for.
You still would have gone to hell if you were still a Jehovah's Witness when
you were exposed to this, right?
Uh, well, I'm probably according to official dogma, but if I bought it, then
I would be like substituting this in for the belief anyway, right?
I always sort of saw this as, I think, what, um, what Desmond was concerned
about as like a kind of like, um, the, the, the reason to stay in the, in the,
the faith, yeah, stay in the society, the, the, the faith's society.
Like if I bought into it, I don't think I'd be worried about being sent to
hell for being bought into it.
I, you know, I'd be like, Oh, so everyone is secretly actually going to get, you
know, taken out of the matrix and I will be among them because then they don't
believe it right now, but they're still going to get, they're still going to get
taken out of the matrix.
So that's awesome.
I sort of always just saw the cyber Christianity thing once I learned about
it as just like kind of more of that slippery apologetics bullshit where it's
like, say this when you're talking to somebody's arguing with you, but then
go off and do whatever you want and, you know, pretend and just kind of pretend.
Okay.
If someone really bought into this as their actual religion, that, that would,
well, I mean, most of religion is, you know, just say this stuff and then go
off and be a community together.
I don't know.
Yeah, but, but the, the important part is that you're saying the same stuff
as the rest of your community.
Yeah.
And then when you're on the debate stage with Richard Dawkins or Christopher
Hitchens, you'll make other noises and then go back off to your congregation and
make those appropriate noises.
So like you'll go to the stage and be like, well, of course God's not like
real.
He's not standing on a cloud.
He's, he's in our hearts.
He's, he's a manifestation of all the good that's in the world.
Then you go right back to your pew on Sunday or to the, whatever the stand where
you talk to people and say, of course God's real.
He really cares about you, which is not what you'll say when being challenged.
I sort of thought this was just sort of another bait and switch position.
Gotcha.
Which it might be by some people, but maybe that's not the point.
I think that'd be a really weird bait and switch.
I don't think it would be very effective.
It seems to me more as the sort of thing you would tell yourself if you wanted
to stay in, despite all the evidence you saw.
I doubt someone would try to use it as a bait and switch sort of thing.
The much more common bait and switch would be something like, yeah, God is
just the feeling of love that we feel for all humanity.
Gotcha.
That's fair.
So why wouldn't, what wouldn't, why wouldn't you have about this as a teenager?
Oh, because, uh, my main gripe with God was that he was evil.
Uh, that he, you know, for some reason hated the gays and wanted them all to die
and had this abhorrent moral system.
And this wouldn't have changed any of that.
This doesn't make, I mean, just to be clear, that, that doesn't make God not real.
That just makes him an asshole.
Right.
But that is, that is where I started.
And that is what started me down the path.
And there was, there was, this would have not arrested that path.
That's fair.
Yeah.
Plus, I mean, that, that rebuke doesn't really land when you're also told
that God loves you and loves everything infinitely.
Right.
Yeah.
And it's like, he loves me a lot, but he's still like, keeps hurting me and keeps
torturing people and killing kids and, you know, wants gays to be tortured forever.
Who loves somebody enough to torture them for fucking ever.
I know.
That's some intense love, man.
I guess I just don't really understand the true meaning of love.
Yeah.
So yeah, that's interesting.
I think as a kid, I wouldn't have found this convincing either.
I was never as religious as Enya's, but to my vague sense of religion, I don't know.
I guess I saw the matrix when it was new and because I'm super young, that would
have been like when I was early teen, maybe 11 or 10, 12 ish.
And it came out 99.
If someone had tried to sell me on the idea that like, no, look, and like I, you
know, if, if say, Bostrom's paper had come out about, you know, simulation theory or
something, I don't know, it's hard to say what I can't really put together a mental
model of my younger self that well.
Um, I still don't know if I did the least bit compelling now.
And I haven't actually, I, the most I've looked into Bostrom's, um, simulation
argument is like the really short version.
Um, he's actually, I think the most recent guest in Sam Harris's podcast, which
I haven't heard yet.
So I will see if they go into simulation argument there.
They don't think he again gives the really short version.
Okay.
Well, at the end of the day, it's not convincing to me.
And I think my thing is, well, I mean, yeah, let me, let me explain.
Cause the, the argument that they're variable may be more simulations than
there are real worlds or because there's one real world at the top, right?
And then it's just turtles the rest of the way down.
If that's the case, I guess it's not that I don't necessarily buy into it.
It's that I don't think that changes anything.
I feel like I'm still in relation to other people and other minds and like,
whether or not, um, like if you're in the matrix, which is a really easy way to
distill this thought experiment and you're being a dick to somebody, you're
still being a dick to somebody.
Right.
The other person's a mind in a bat too.
It doesn't matter where their body is.
It just matters that you're being mean to them and you're impacting their
mental states in a way that makes them less happy.
But that's not a refutation of the simulation argument.
Even if it was true, I wouldn't change anything.
That's, that's what I meant to clarify.
Yeah.
So it's not that I, I don't, I don't have a solid refutation to, to his argument.
What I do think is that it doesn't change anything for how I'll live my life.
Okay.
So you just don't really care.
Yeah.
So like, and it's also not something that I could ever transform into like a
religion that like, oh, when we all get out or when all this changes or when
they, you know, patch the, the really shitty, uh, death bug that's in the
here or something, right?
I've got nothing like that.
And it, uh, my current conviction in that theory isn't going to change any of
those perspectives yet.
So, okay.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's grab the next.
I want to do more than a male because apparently I didn't compete into a
document, which is weird, but I have it up right now.
I did at the bottom actually.
Cause I grabbed the one above it too.
Oh, okay.
Um, oh wait.
No, I didn't.
I grabbed another more than a male on, that was on the atheism.
So you do that one because that wasn't a cyber Christianity.
Yeah.
Yes, it was.
Okay.
So on the same episode, um, we're doing a male on the subreddit says, I share
Anyosh's ability to easily be, to be easily sniped by these ideas.
There's a part of me that's grasping for explanations and this part seems to
find there's somebody watching or something that created your world for
purpose and they're watching you and judging your behavior to be really
compelling, probably because I'm a social primate, timeless physics helped solve
my issues with meaninglessness in a pointless quote unquote cosmos.
Yeah.
In the far future, the universe will be a flat smear of cold hydrogen.
But if you think of the universe as a timeless object, then past and future and
now cease to have objective meaning.
The moment when you lost some sleep to help talk a friend through a rough time.
That moment is permanently embedded in the universe.
It will always be there right where you left it.
It will always have happened.
Nothing can take it from you.
So what if the moment passes out of living memory?
You did a good thing.
You had a moment of connection.
You mattered in that, in that moment.
