So if you've ever worked a register,
you know, you get people who are like,
well, man, why can't you guys, why is this so expensive?
And it's like, oh, you're right.
Me, the 750-hour employee determines how much those cost.
Right.
So I knew that this wasn't his decision.
It was something that they might have to escalate up.
So.
OK.
Yeah, I was just curious because I thought,
I thought the dick part was that challenging the narrative
that anyone can identify or choose their gender
without any sort of excuses or reasons given
or something like that.
And I was like, I wonder, I wonder what he was worried about.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Certainly, I don't think I should have been like,
demanded to justify why I felt that way.
So the dick part wasn't that exactly.
It was more just that because it wasn't genuine coming from me.
Yeah.
It was since it was insincere.
So we had at least one other thing you wanted to hit,
which was something else.
I was just wondering, oh, yeah, that, yeah.
So I guess the thing is then they would have had to explicitly
say, you know, we're gendering you as opposed to anyone
can choose their gender.
And then that would be the asshole move
of forcing that on them.
But it was just the asshole move of not wanting to claim
an identity you don't actually have.
Yeah, exactly.
It wasn't me defending their assumption
or their need for justification.
If I was in that, if I was in a class that I was claiming
to be in, it would not have been as such of me
whatsoever to push it.
And if anyone is feeling discriminated against
and they're actually being discriminated against and not
like me just pretending, then, yeah, by all means push it,
make a stink, make change.
But yeah, my main thing was that since I'm not actually
in a situation where I feel like I identify as a woman,
then it was definitely insincere.
So it was an asshole to my honesty,
not to them for being, you know, gendering whatever jerks.
Yeah.
So.
OK.
Yeah.
The other thing was that, so like I said,
I was in pain on Monday.
And so that was on my mind when we got to the aging question
and just like, man, this really sucks.
Getting old is going to suck.
Is this going to be my life now?
Yeah, exactly.
But the reason that I originally copied and pasted that in
was because I wanted to say that actually,
I think there's a lot of really good things about aging too.
But they weren't salient on Monday
when you're thinking of all the bad things.
Exactly, yeah.
Like not necessarily the aging.
Well, no, some parts of the aging process itself.
OK, so first things that are not integral to the aging process,
but merely the process of having more years of life,
is just you pick up a lot of stuff over time.
Like I got all sorts of crazy miscellaneous trivia in my head
and other things that I know.
I have a lot of skills that I've learned over time,
which are just really useful.
And like I didn't know those 10 years ago.
And sometimes people like compare people of different ages
and like how you look at how more advanced.
And it's like, yeah, OK, but he's also had 15 more years of life,
you know, he's just had a lot more time to absorb things
or she or they or whatever.
So you just having those extra years of life
comes in really handy with most everything.
And it's also helped me like I have the experience
of fighting crippling depression now.
So I'm generally pretty decent at it when it's not at its worst.
I will say that sex has gotten better constantly throughout my life.
Like five years ago, I was having the best sex I'd ever had.
Now I'm having the better sex.
And then I'm just like, you learn six.
Hell, yeah, high five, bro.
I mean, it's not like a high frequency activity,
like throwing a ball is that you can do it 20 times in an hour
to practice at it, right?
So just learning more about your body and interacting
with other people and figuring things out really makes a difference.
Am I hearing whispers of a like sex tips episode
for the patrons or something?
Heck, no, the I think that would be weird.
I think so, too.
But it's there are instructional videos for that.
Exactly. Yeah.
And they're not found at x2, although maybe they are.
They are found on Pornhub for all sorts of neat things.
They have like strictly educational material, which is funny,
because it I mean, now we're this is definitely tangential.
But like one of the one of the downsides of porn,
which is actually on my mind because Sam Harris did an interview
for Playboy a couple weeks ago.
That's cool.
Yeah, they did like a photo shoot and stuff,
which like so they like showed that at the top of the web page,
I guess, so you got like these fancy pictures
and then like just quick Q&A on like intellectual dark web stuff,
thoughts on a religion, afterlife, drugs and then porn.
And I don't remember what his full answer was
and it doesn't really relate because my answer is basically
as long as it's not psychologically damaging than go nuts to you
or obviously to the participants.
You know, if you're watching stuff with non-consensual people
who aren't really porn.
Exactly. That's a film crime.
That's a crime. Yeah.
But one of the downsides is like, I remember I was at the cusp
of manhood when the internet was first like getting a different one's house.
And so I remember, you know, being at a friend's house or, you know,
occasionally at my place, waiting for a picture to load line by line.
Right. Yes.
And so that was like, fortunately for me,
that was the that was the the level of technology available
for the 13 year old porn seeker, right?
Or however old I was.
Now you can get 1080 pixels on your phone in the bathroom.
So like it's I I'm curious, not to sound like a
cumbersome old man, but like I do worry that that would be
malforming for good attitudes for a 13 year old.
Yeah, I really think that sexual sex ed should actually be about sex
and not just procreation and sexual diseases because that's a long
that's a long leap because large parts of the country right now are anti sex ed
in the first place. I know.
And it's not even about sex.
But no, sex ed really should teach you about sex and how to
at least the basics of how to do it because porn is the only education
a lot of people get and it is a shit education.
It's like trying to teach someone to be a law enforcement officer
by making them watch John Woo movies.
No one actually runs downstairs,
leaning on a banister, shooting two pistols and killing 20 guys.
Right. You're not going to get to be a good cop by watching Die Hard.
No, that's not how any of this works.
That's actually a really good analogy.
It's fun to watch, but it's not how real life works.
Yeah. And I mean, you know, we don't have any
I doubt children listening to this show, but I mean, I'm just, you know,
some of the convoluted sex positions that these athletes can do,
like they might feel good, but they're not the kind of thing
you want to try at home without practice and probably like a trainer there
to make sure you don't, you know, concuss your partner or something, right?
So yeah. So other than that, why don't we get on porn?
Oh, because the internet is terrible.
I really think the internet should go think this could never happen.
I wish that the internet could go back to the days of being funded by porn
because everyone just has like porn ads on their site
because that at least wasn't terrible.
I mean, I guess it made it technically unsafe for minors or whatever.
But now the internet is run by making people as outraged
at their most hated outgroup as possible and stoking that.
And it's basically ruining society.
And I think that's a much worse way to fund the internet
than having porn banners everywhere.
It'd be interesting to see like if Facebook had poor banners,
if you'd get half as mad, right?
Because like you would be like, oh, man, my idiot uncle is pro.
Oh, wow, look at that ad over here.
And like that's got to distract from some of the rage, right?
You can't be both like, you know, super angry in your head
and while diverting blood elsewhere in the body.
So I just I think that the the the culture of generating clicks
and money from outrage has harmed society far more than porn ever did
or porn ever could. Yeah, it's interesting.
I mean, one cool thing about porn and tech is that porn tends to be
at like the forefront of all like new internet development.
So like I they were among the first to do anything with like 3D videos.
Mm hmm. So I mean, if that's your thing, you know, they pushed the secure
web payments and the technology behind that.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the tech scene, if you get a chance to work
for a porn company, sounds awesome. Yeah.
So there's that. I feel like it was less tangential.
Oh, we were talking about sex and stuff.
Yeah, that was all better places to learn about sex stuff.
Other cool things about getting old.
Oh, yeah. So yeah.
But that but I guess the to bring back the the porn digression
is that porn hub has educational videos in addition to pornography.
Yeah.
So if you live in a place that doesn't do sex,
they actually have sexual education videos and things that are even related to sex.
Pornhub has a few things that are just generally not porn at all.
And it's weird and interesting.
I think Kumail Nanjiani's movie, The Big Sick,
the whole thing was available on Pornhub.
