and I thought I was going to.
And yet it's your reaction
and your skill as a good driver
that lets you notice and then not have that happen.
But that's not like,
that's a victory because it's not a loss, right?
But it's not like a I won at not crashing,
unless you're getting those,
the game you're playing is not crashing.
You see what I mean?
It's like an inversion of winning
in the sense of not losing,
which I'm just hitting home
because that really struck ball with me as,
that's a very basic thing, right?
I remember the writer who wrote in,
or the commenter who wrote into us once,
he lived, I forget which country it was,
but it was one of the developing nations.
And he said how much,
how often he saw people doing
simple, somewhat self-destructive things
that if they had just known some rationalism,
it would have made a difference.
And if the entire community had known that,
it would have been a huge level up to the whole community
to not make those errors.
And it's just things like that that you don't see.
Yeah.
Especially when your entire community
is already practicing it.
We're going to have to have Jess talk
about her time in the Bay Area and like visiting,
I'm not sure exactly where she's staying
or she's like, in a hub where people are all doing this.
But I'm curious like what a small microcosm of society
would look like if they're all doing all the things right
and they're all not losing all the,
if they're all missing all the easy bullets
or the easily dodgeable bullets.
I mean, I imagine for example,
like electricity bill never not gets paid, right?
But I'm kind of curious if there are like victories,
if everyone's together and doing this,
what are the awesome things that are happening?
So that'd be curious to see.
And if Jess can't do it,
we'll get somebody from Ritu cans or we'll try.
So yeah, I mean the great victories,
and this is more on the point I was making,
the great victories of de-biasing
are exactly the lottery tickets we didn't buy,
the hopes and dreams we kept in the real world
instead of diverting them into infinitesimal probabilities.
The triumphs of de-biasing are cults not joined,
optimistic assumptions rejected during planning,
time not wasted on blind alleys,
is the art of non-self-destruction.
And I mean, this is actually kind of funny
because he mentions the, you know,
cults not rejected and stuff.
Or cults not joined.
That's right, excuse me, not joined.
Only don't reject one cult.
This one.
When I was a kid, probably up until my early teenage years,
I was convinced that like,
here's what I'm going to do and how I'm going to win at life.
I'm going to find a magical artifact.
There's all these stories have to come from somewhere.
As a kid, I didn't think that it was all wishful thinking.
I assumed that it was all rooted somewhere.
I was like, I'm going to find that a magic amulet
or the magic ring or something,
and I'm going to get these powers.
And I mean, how dumb in my life have turned out
if I didn't shake that off after a couple of years, right?
Like if all of my like working to like get enough money
was so I could go, you know,
whatever dig in Egyptian pyramids or something
to go try and find a magic trinket.
Maybe you'd be a faith healer right now, man,
raking in the money.
Or maybe I'd be a real magic person,
not just a faith healer, right?
Oh, well, okay.
Oh yeah.
There's the shister art of like pretend faith healing
where I'll pull out your cancerous tumor with a sleight of hand.
But yeah, if I could, if I could do something.
But yeah, the thing is, I don't think that's the case.
So it was just funny because I wonder if I'd read this
as a kid, what I would have thought.
As a kid, to give my younger self exactly as little credit
as he deserves, I think I would have thought,
sure, but this one's different, right?
This pyramid scheme is real.
It's got an actual pyramid, man.
Exactly.
Fact is most people, this is back to the post.
The fact is most people who take a half-hearted pot shot
at debiasing themselves, excuse me,
at debiasing themselves,
don't get a huge amount of mileage out of it.
This is one of those things you have to work at
for quite a while before you get good at it,
especially since there's currently no source
of systematic training or even a decent manual.
The sequences end up being a decent manual to get started,
but he's writing it right now, so in this time.
If for, and this is a quote, or this is a link
to the 10 virtues of rationality post
that we should actually just do for one of our sequence posts.
Yeah.
So this was all hyperlink in this next sentence.
If for many years you practice the techniques
and submit yourself to strict constraints,
it may not be, or it may be that you will glimpse the center.
But until then, mistakes avoided are just replaced
by their mistakes.
It takes time for your minds to become significantly quieter.
Indeed, a little knowledge of cognitive biases often hurts
that quote got cut off.
It's often harmful, I'm assuming is what that was going to say.
I think it was the link back to the prior post.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Do you want to stop there?
I don't, I kind of don't want to do the third one
because I'm not sure it's as related and I'm sort of burnt.
That's totally fine.
Okay.
We've got one bullet point and then I'll hit it.
Sure, sure.
Yeah, sorry.
No, you're totally fine.
I appreciate the, yeah, it's been a long time.
So the last thing on here is that as a public proof of like,
that this does anything, that rationality is useful,
he says, I can see at least three ways that it could come about.
First, there might be founded an order of base craft
for people who are serious about, serious about it.
And graduates of these dojos might prove systematically
more successful even after controlling for measures
of fluid intelligence.
Second, you could just, you could wait for some individual
or group working on important specific,
or domain specific problem, but also known for their commitment
to debiasing to produce a spectacularly huge success,
public success.
Third, there might be found techniques that can be taught easily
and have readily measurable results.
And then a simple controlled experiment could serve as public proof,
at least for those who attend to science.
As far as these go, I think CIFAR is kind of doing the third.
And the first two, I've heard people in our local community
who are trying to do something kind of like that,
where they, they want to, and it's not necessarily committing
to like a, it's more, I guess, the first one of saying,
look, I'm successful here and here and here
because of my rationality training.
And these are all the stupid mistakes I didn't make.
I think they're, they're in the progress now of,
or in the process now of trying to refine something like that,
that's presentable to people.
Oh, cool.
So this things are still happening.
I'm sure there's way more happening outside of the Denver area that,
you know, I wonder what people, like I said,
in the Bay Area or at CIFAR and all that more up to.
That's where all the big names are?
Yes, where all the big names are.
And yet, like, I'm pretty sure if we had, you know,
this, this great breakthrough at some point,
we might have come, we might have heard a word about it here yet.
Right, right.
So I think they're still working on it,
but granted, this was what, in 10 years ago,
some things take a while.
Yeah.
Well, in 10 years ago, there was really no one yet.
I mean, there was a few posters on overcomingbias.com.
Right.
Which later turned into less wrong,
but not yet at this point even.
Yeah.
That's fair.
And I mean, I guess the other thing too is like,
I guess I'm just kind of heading off like the rejoinder of like,
well, why hasn't this produced anything like this yet?
Because this is like untreaded water in social science.
And I mean,
And if you had told me, hey, it's been two years,
I've made a breathtaking discovery in a new area of social science,
I'd be like, okay, well, I'm kind of suspicious.
Right.
And there have been steps.
There have been very positive motions and like I said,
movements working on these things, but.
And it's not like there hasn't been success.
