because they possess a greater ammunition
in which to counter-argue
incongruent facts and arguments
will be more prone to the above biases.
I felt like it was worth going into
because everyone's heard of many of these,
like confirmation bias, probably attitude polarization.
But the main thing is that there's the effect
that if you're just aware of the first five,
those are great tools to use to rip other people apart.
But this is where it introduces the sophisticated arguer.
But yeah, also I thought that it was interesting
because I was chipped up briefly on prior attitude effect
versus confirmation bias, which are different.
And he pointed out that even telling people
about this isn't necessarily enough.
He says that he told someone about the sophisticated argument
a sophisticated arguer effect,
where if you know all these biases,
they will tend to use them just to promote their own position.
And next time that Eliezer said something
that the person didn't like,
he accused Eliezer of being a sophisticated arguer.
Didn't try to point out any particular
sophisticated argument or any particular flaw,
just shook his head and said that
I was apparently using my own intelligence
to defeat itself.
So he basically had just gotten
yet another fully general counterargument.
Which I don't think we've discussed the topic before,
and yet it was a hyperlink in the post.
So somehow we missed it.
It wasn't a hyperlink.
It was, I think.
Oh, it wasn't.
Yeah.
Why am I tripping up here?
I think it's something that was already being discussed
like in comments and such.
So I guess plus the other bloggers,
fully general counterargument.
So they added all in caps as the thing
that's actually already known in the community.
But there was never a post about it.
I somehow read it this afternoon
and thought there was.
So I'm crazy.
So I guess we didn't discuss fully general
counterarguments because we haven't gotten there yet.
But the gist is that it's this one thing you can wave
that's like, nope, conversation stopper.
I'm done.
I generally run into,
there's children dying in Africa or in China or whatever.
That thing you're doing right now doesn't matter.
It's like, okay.
Or running with our anti-theism run from a little earlier.
Like the God works in a serious way
to answer any and all,
like why is God killing poor babies?
It's like, well, he works in a serious way.
How could you possibly know the mind of God?
He has his reasons that you puny humans cannot comprehend.
And to say that, like, again,
not necessarily picking on theism,
but to run with that example,
not necessarily not picking on theism,
but to run with that example,
like the comeback God works in a serious way
isn't an argument.
It's not even really a position.
It's like, it's just a,
this is my stop to your argument.
And nothing you can say will change
the fact that God works in a serious way, right?
So basically it's a tool you can use to like quote,
win any argument,
but not in a way that like makes either of you better off
for having had the argument, right?
Right.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah.
So he says,
even the notion of a sophisticated arguer can be deadly
if it leaps all too readily to the mind
when you encounter a seemingly intelligent person
who says something you don't like.
I thought that was,
that was almost depressing in a way that even,
even that is misused.
You know, I remember reading when I first read this
that like this might come up in real like rationalist life.
If I had a conversation with the rationalist and stuff,
I don't think I've ever been accused of being a sophisticated arguer,
which might mean,
which may be a good sign that I'm not a sophisticated arguer
in the, in the pejorative sense.
Right, right.
Or it could mean that my friends aren't sufficiently rational
to point out when I am being one.
Okay.
But it's,
it's the kind of thing that in a,
in a conversation between two people
with the right training,
if we were discussing,
I don't know, somebody's position on something and I'd be like,
are you sure that's not, you know, sophisticated argumentation?
You would be, you would idealistically pause and say,
oh, maybe it is.
Right.
And so it's another thing to be aware of when you're introspecting.
But the thing is like,
no one has the motivation to investigate all claims as rigorously
as they would investigate something like,
your mother is a pedophile, right?
That would be something where I would be like,
no, she's not allowed me to prove it to you.
And there's, you know,
people feel that way about the things they really care about,
but no one like's going to go and investigate the opposite position
because they just don't have the passion and the energy for it.
I think,
I think this is one of these places where it's better to have
a variety of views on things and get your,
get people who believe differently,
both investigating something.
You mean,
you mean,
you mean like you couldn't be an impartial investigator
if someone raised this charge seriously?
No, I just mean,
you cannot be this impartial.
We're not perfect Bayesian machines, right?
We already have our passions and our things we care about
and limits to our time and our energy and our motivation.
So I think the best thing to do if like you want to,
and now that I say this,
sorry, my head's running out of my mouth.
I was going to say,
the best thing you want to do when you want to investigate something
is to get two people who are both really interested in the subject,
but in opposite directions
and both look into it at the same time
and present their viewpoints to each other
or to an interested third party.
And then that reminded me that,
yeah,
that's the thing that Scott Alexander is doing
with his adversarial collaboration.
Yeah.
And it's just,
it's catching on a little bit more.
But yeah,
I mean,
that's the reason why you want to have debates and such, right?
Because you,
you're all into looking up the stuff that supports your position
and you need someone else who has the same sort of passion
to look into stuff that is against your position
so that you at least have the,
all the available data in front of you
instead of just the stuff that you had the time
and the inclination to find.
Does that tie in to the sophisticated arguer?
That just sounds like a good lesson
in like being aware that you might be too invested in something.
Yeah.
I don't know that.
I might be missing something.
I think the sophisticated arguer would be someone
who would dismiss the other side quickly.
Or yeah,
they would use all of their sophisticated arguments
to point out why they're so stupid,
but not really defeat,
not really defeat it.
Right.
Okay.
Or even say to the other side,
you are blinding yourself with your own sophisticated arguments
instead of actually accepting my position.
Yeah.
I think maybe choosing an emotionally charged example is,
I don't know.
Now I'm kind of wondering if I don't sufficiently care about things
because like if someone told me that,
I'd be like, wait, really, what do you,
why do you think that?
I might insert my response depending on who they were
and where this came from.
But like if you told me that my mom was a pedophile,
I'd be like, why the hell would you say that?
Like, what do you know that I don't know?
Right.
And if she's not, I'm pretty sure.
But if you had really compelling evidence,
I kind of want to know.
