It's preserved in the causal history of the universal wave function, which is a
more indelible substrate than diamond, which holy shit.
That's great.
Yeah.
I think for me, that was basically just what I said, but more poetically put.
I'm kidding.
I'm giving myself too much credit.
No, but I thought that was beautiful of that life.
I think so too, that that was very moving.
When there's a beautiful moment, it is forever now part of reality.
I did say something much to the same effect, but minus the actual, like, I
guess the convincing part of like, this is actually part of the timeless physics
universe.
My thing was more just like, it still matters because it was nice, which is a
lot less, a lot more hoity-toity and a lot less solid than this.
Yeah, I'm like, I'm like the solidity of.
No, I totally agree.
And apparently other people did too.
Um, because I think these are the only ever, uh, gilded comments I've ever
seen on our subreddit.
So, or rather this, the only comment that I've seen gilded and it was gilded
twice.
So yeah, that's awesome.
I think it's, yeah, it's just the idea that correct me if I'm wrong, if my
reading is the same as yours, but I might have used this example or maybe I
didn't, but like, if you're in, if you're in Auschwitz, you're going to be
killed next week and you do a kindness for one of your, your, your fellow
prisoners, that doesn't go away when you're both killed next week.
It, well, to the point with timeless physics, it really doesn't go away.
It literally doesn't a forever moment of beauty that's in the universe.
Okay.
I'm glad that's solidity, solidity landed.
Um, like to me, when you first gave that, gave that analogy, I was like, I guess,
but they're both still dead.
So whatever, no one knows or remembers or anything, but the fact that I don't
know, there's something about it actually being there that makes a difference.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
And that is actually, I even visualized it.
As a bright color that's just almost trapped in sort of an, a clear amber
thing, just the act of being a color in there.
I know it's stupid visualization.
It's not, it's great.
Everyone has their own, but that's how I saw it.
No, that's beautiful.
I picture it more like time on a, this is embedded in me from as a teenager
watching Richard Dawkins' Christmas day lectures where he had that cool, like
that big several meter long meter stick and a little beam of light moving
across it.
I see it's kind of like little bright points where the beam was, right?
Yeah.
And no, to be clear, Matt, this was a much more beautiful and articulate
way of putting it and it landed harder.
And I think that's great.
Um, I really liked that one too.
So I'm glad it's on there.
Yeah.
I don't have anything else to, you know, this isn't, I don't have much of a
conversation for that one other than saying, I think it's fantastic.
Thank you for sharing that.
Yeah, man.
Relating similarly to that and another, uh, backed into their
more dynamical comment, but this was a child comment of another one on our
atheism episode.
We had user, uh, Calvin three, two, one say that I consider myself a
rationalist theist.
Is this necessarily a contradiction?
I would think a Bayesian would consider, excuse me, I'd consider a Bayesian
would only consider unlikely.
I think it needs to be careful to not prescribe too many
mandatory positions to the rationalist label because that is one definition of
fundamentalism.
Uh, I have found many contrary opinions have merit like the anti-vax
person, Jerry Hammond, for instance, I don't know who that is or what they
said that has merit, but whatever, maybe it's some gentle
admonishment of like being sure that science is safe or something.
I have no idea.
It could be something that nice.
Um, I kind of made hand gestures reading the first two sentences because it
feels like wishy-washy apologetics and then they go on to link to apologetics
later on in the comment chain, um, which I, so apologetics is, I like how
it sounds sorry in the name.
It's the, the branch of like theistic defense where I don't know why they
call it, I'm sure there's some great reason that's historical, but in any,
in any case, it sounds like sorry.
Um, but that's apologizing for the fact that our God can't actually provide
evidence and it's the same to me.
It's that what I was talking about earlier with that, that, that wishy-washy
bullshit where, and don't be wrong.
I'm not, I'm not criticizing Calvin or anything.
I think, you know, people do whatever they want.
You know, it sounds like you've got something that works for you and that's
great, but my experience watching apologetic debates was they would say one
thing and do another and they would engage in a lot of, of really dishonest
debate tactics, you know, straw manning, um, oh, here we go.
Apologetics from the Greek, meaning speaking in one's defense.
Yeah.
All right.
That's fair enough.
Um, so yeah, this is, this is in defense of, of theism, but there's this guy.
What was his name?
Oh, actually it's the one that, that you mentioned or that you, you put in a
link to a video by, uh, um, or excuse me, Calvin puts, puts in a link to a video.
Dr. William Lane Craig.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Who I had seen debates from and this was the guy, I remember there was like,
he was on a, he did a debate with Sam Harris, where Harris points it out like
that a lot of the characteristics of, of religiosity, you take away like the
religion aspect, if it's one person, it's straight psychosis.
And in his opening statement where Harris made that remark, he, he went on, you
know, he elaborated that length that like, I'm not saying religious people are
psychotic, I'm not saying that there's, there's even a parallel, uh, other than
the fact that, you know, basically, I think he used the example of like, if,
if you're, if you're praying to, to God and you're talking to him every night
and you hear him talk back to you, you're religious.
If you're, if you're talking to Michael Jackson or, or Elvis or somebody,
you're, you're crazy.
And then, you know, Craig comes back and he's like, well, I certainly wouldn't
think my esteemed colleagues here at the university hosting us are psychotic.
Um, which is exactly not what Harris said.
So it's that weird, it's, it's super dishonest debate tactics.
Maybe he's got some things worth hearing, but I only saw him in the
context of a debate.
I, when I was big into atheism, I saw a bunch of things with him and he's,
these are typical, typical apologist.
I was trying to be generous, um, but yeah, it only cause I actually didn't know.
But yeah, I, I, I got the impression that he, he didn't have, I mean, he,
he definitely didn't argue with integrity.
Like I said, I mean, this wasn't even as disingenuous as like misquoting
somebody like from a book and then publishing an article about how, you know,
your, your wrong quote or something.
This was like, he was right there.
He just said it.
In fact, I think Harris's rebuttal was like, I didn't say that my, that
our colleagues here were psychotic.
I guess I'll let the YouTube video sort that out.
Like this was recorded 30 seconds ago.
So in any case, um, um, we're going to reply to, to that comment about, um,
would a Bayesian consider, you know, a Bayesian should only consider
unlikely, not impossible and that don't prescribe too many, uh, mandatory
positions to rationalize label.
Cause that's how you get, that's one definition of fundamentalism.
I think we've talked a bit about, maybe we'll talk about how that's not fundamentalism.
I think, uh, in, in one sentence that I can think of right away, it's the
differences that like these aren't unchallengeable tenants of the faith.
This isn't things you have to believe on insufficient evidence to get into the club.
Um, this, this is, these are things that are more or less settled, but they're
always open for discussion.
Like rationalists tends to be anti-death, but if you find a deathist
rationalist and they're arguing in good faith and they're not straw manning,
well, no, probably be a good conversationalist.
You know what I mean?
I hate to go down this track because we're just going back to the same old
atheist, uh, debates that we've are also bored of now, but it's just basic
special pleading.
No one ever says, I would only consider it highly unlikely that apples
will start falling up into the sky tomorrow.
It's, there's some things that you're just like, yeah, that's not going to
happen for all effect and purposes.
It is zero probability.
That, that was more than emails reply that I liked here.
He says, I suppose we're all rational theists and that we all assign some non-zero
probability to the possibility that the world or the universe or something was
created by an agent rather than purely consequence of physical laws.
We've just talked about simulation hypothesis, right?
But I wouldn't say I'm a theist because the apportion is because I apportion so
little probability to mask to that hypothesis.
I feel like that's the thing is like, maybe this time when I drop my phone,
it'll go up and is it logically impossible?
No.
Therefore, should I sign real probability to it?
I don't want to break my phone.
I, right?
So I'm not going to drop it.
Eliezer has this post in the sequences about the lottery where, uh, he, some
people talk about like how the lottery at least like gives people some hope for a
while, you know, which is one of the good things about it.
And he said, okay, sure.
But if you're being rational about things, you should appropriate, you should
portion out an amount of hope equal to your chances of winning, which is physically
impossible because a human cannot devote less than one neuron to hoping something.
Right.
And, uh, I feel the same way.
The chances of God are so close to zero that I cannot subdivide a single neuron
into giving it that amount of probability.
So, uh, no.
No, yeah, I think, I think I used the, the example that I gave my old co-workers
when somehow God came up like the first time we hung out and I thought about how
I was going to answer because I didn't know what their stance was.
And I had said, I put God in the same mental category that put unicorns in.
I haven't seen one.
I don't expect to see one.
I'd be extremely surprised to see one.
Um, God is probably actually less cause unicorn wouldn't, wouldn't blow my model
of the universe out of the water.
Right.
But it's also, this is kind of like a reverse apologetics point.
And then an apologist can make a counter-argument, but like, it's not clear
what would even convince me.
