If this was somebody and they were, they were saying like, man, this was the
shit that people blocked me with like that.
Or even if it was like somebody, you know, what I'm getting at is it came
from a place of like genuine, like personal, uh, notice rather than like,
if it was just like someone saying, Oh, that's culturally insensitive.
I'd been like, whatever, bite me.
See, that's what I thought you're capitulating to.
No, no.
Okay.
So that's different.
All right.
So that, that makes it better.
I forget how we got on that.
Uh, because we were talking about cultural appropriation.
That's right.
Yeah.
Oh, and the brown bagging, whatever.
So I brought that up because I told somebody that story and I gave them my
wrong version of it, that it was just somebody who wrote in, but that it didn't
actually matter.
What they said was like, well, yeah, why didn't he bring an Indian person on to
do it?
And I was like, cause he didn't know any Indian women.
And what is he going to do?
Like if somebody writes in and gives them a voice, I don't know if he knew this
person, IRL or not.
But if they did, like what are you going to do?
Like ask them for their 23 and me.
Right.
Like, or, you know, what, what are they falsified?
Those documents or just, or if they lie to you, like, you know, how much, how much
of this background check is really due on you for doing a free podcast?
I mean, it's also made doing, made making the podcast harder.
Cause now I always either try to get someone of the nationality described or,
or ethnicity described, or, uh, just change the accent.
Like, uh, Kokomo in the crystal society is described as having a Kenyan accent.
And it's like, I like reading it cause I can hear it in my head.
It sounds kind of like, I know Trevor Noah ish.
I don't think he's from Kenya because I, I, I don't actually can't tell the
difference between all the accents, but I, I, I kind of hear it, you know, like
the, the kind of know the Eastern African accent.
And, uh, I don't know anyone like that.
So I was like, you know what, just, just do straight American accent because I,
I don't want, I don't want to ask someone to do a Kenyan accident and get it wrong
and, and have that sort of thing happen again.
So yeah, I've, I've had to look a lot harder for people.
And if I can't find someone, then I just like, you know, don't, don't do an
accent and it's kind of a bummer, but
which sucks.
Cause it's also kind of like erasure too, right?
Yeah.
And so it makes, it makes characters that were ethnic white on, on, I mean, or
sounding white anyway.
Yeah.
I mean, on the other side of that, sounding mid American.
Sorry.
When it was lots of flavors of white, when you're doing it on a budget of
zero dollars, like you can't really afford to do casting calls.
So it just kind of turns into what it is.
I had something on accents and stuff.
Damn it.
It slipped my mind.
And miss accents because accents were always fun.
And I don't even think for the most part, they're like making fun of people that
much, but comedians almost always do accents of some kind, you know, and it
just makes a set better.
And you can do it with, in a way that's not like me and spirited, you know, if
you're talking about some guy from Wally Brock in Scotland, you can do it with
an accent.
Exactly.
But it doesn't, you know, that, that I wasn't saying something disparaging or
making a racist joke or whatever.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, but we'll see where things shake out.
Um, but having heard that it came from an actual person's place of like, man,
this kind of actually hit me, then that, that, that actually changes my whole
perspective on it.
So I didn't want anyone to have their methods of rationality
experience ruined by something like that.
Totally.
That's awesome.
Let's see.
Oh yeah.
Because we were talking about the whole episode with Vivian.
Yeah.
Which yeah, it was learning experience.
I mean, it was conversation that I had enjoyed.
I mean, I thought it was a good episode.
We had a lot of feedback, people like what the hell was this?
And there were a few people like, you know what?
I, I don't want to be involved with this.
Right.
Someone thought that like, if they're replacing our third host and I'm leaving
and I'm taking my Patreon money with me, which I think it was, wasn't it one of
the people that did some of our music?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's right.
Yeah.
Like we'd rather not have our music associated with us.
I explained, you know, this is, we cover a lot of topics on this and we like to
hear from the people that actually hold these positions.
It's not that we endorse them, but you know, everyone gets to say what they
want to say and not be censored.
Yeah.
If they're going to be cool about it, most people can.
Yeah.
And it's, it's important to get all the perspectives and they're like, oh, okay.
Yeah, that's cool.
No, I'm totally with you.
I was like, cool, rock on.
I'm glad we're seeing the same thing.
But yeah, I wouldn't want that to be a constant feature.
You know, it was an interesting episode to have.
Yeah, I couldn't do that every two weeks.
Moving on.
So yeah, this was on the one that we talked about.
This is another one from David via email.
We did that one on everything fitting into four categories.
If you squint hard enough and he brought in that Helen Fisher, the, I know
we're from her episode on Neil deGrasse Tyson's podcast and she does
like a lot, like love science, like what's actually going on there, the
different, you know, phases of love and neurochemically, what's going on there.
Oh, love science.
I thought you were saying she loves science.
Oh, who doesn't?
Yeah.
Yes.
No, the science of love.
Okay.
So he has, he says, he thinks he has an answer to why everyone seems to fit
into four broad categories because the most, most of personality, human
personality is governed by four neurotransmitters.
Stope means serotonin, testosterone and estrogen.
This research mostly comes from Dr.
Helen Fisher and he links to a talk that she gave, which we can put in the
comments, um, the reason foundations, annual donor weekend.
To make a long story very short, her work is the best I found to explain
the four bucket thing, even though she assists that conceptualizing them as
buckets is a mistake.
The Hogwarts houses and inch turtles, the colonial groups from Albion Seed,
reproductive strategies, even the four conspiracies from Brennan's story,
competitive, cooperative, Bardic and Bayesian.
Those are the short stories and the sequences.
It also pays a lot of rent and anticipated experience.
She's used survey data to predict brain scan results from the prevalence
for the prevalence of these neurotransmitters and vice versa.
Unlike, say, the Myers-Briggs where those predict basically what's your
Myers-Briggs, whatever personality trait.
She's also making money for it with match.com, which I think she helped
found, or at least they were, she was heavily consulted.
I remember that from Tyson's podcast a few years ago, if the market
test holds any weight with you.
So anyway, hope you found this interesting.
I do find that interesting.
Yeah.
I don't, I mean, I would want to read more about it because again, the, I,
I am kind of suspicious of anything falling into four easy categories like that.
One of the parables from that, uh, thought, from that thought experiment
slash exploration was that it's not always neat for buckets.
Yeah.
There was a PS here that that is, that is interesting.
And I'm interested in hearing more about that.
And I'll totally listen to her, her talk at least.
Yeah, me too.
PS, I would guess that rationalists are high on testosterone.
Do you happen to know the sex ratios of children produced by two rationalists?
I'd like to register an advanced prediction that it pursues
prevalent, pretty strongly male 60 to 75% he's guessing.
So that's sex ratios of the children produced by two rationalists.
Not how many people are rationalists.
Do high testosterone people have boys more often?
I didn't think so, but maybe they do.
I assumed that it was always just a 50-50 shot.
I'm not a doctor.
Maybe it is close to 50-50.
You know, yeah, certainly nothing like 60 to 75% well, unless, unless
testosterone plays a big part and if rationalists tend to have higher testosterone,
I mean, those are two assumptions that we both have no data on you and me personally.
I mean, maybe someone does.
Yeah.
And we also don't know the, the ratios there.
60 to 75 though.
That's intense.
That'd be interesting.
No, but that, that is cool.
And I, I hope to read some more about it at some point when I have time.
Yeah.
I want to check that out.
I will put that in the notes and, and ping you again when I find the link and to post it.
So, um, anyway, thanks, David, for that one.
Yeah.
Oh, this was a really quick one just from a listener who recently started listening to
the show and then binged it all, which is great from Graham.
And, uh, they listened to, uh, you know, she's a reading of, uh, method metropolitan
man and methods of rationality.
When we did the signaling episode way back with, it would have been signaling
