Um, I've, I've thought about this a bit and then stopped 10 years ago
cause I got bored of atheism, but like, Oh, well, what if somebody came down
and they could fly and, you know, like, like Harris uses the example.
It's like, what if, you know, Jesus landed on the White House lawn tomorrow.
And it's like, look, there he is.
There's his magic powers.
That's all it would take.
I don't know if Harris has considered that, like, what would be more likely
that that's the returned son of the creator of the universe who has DNA.
And, you know, whatever he's a son and not just like this, this thing, but it,
or, and that the universe was created, you know, whatever 10,000 years ago
and it's all a trick, you know, heredity, DNA is a, is a myth, but, or whatever,
all that stuff that we thought we understood is all false.
Or that this is aliens playing a trick on us or that we're in a simulation
and they're like, Hey, someone hacked God mode.
Um, so someone found really clever magician.
Right.
Well, I did hear this isn't original to me.
So I wish I could give credit to who said it, but I did.
He, I have someone point out that if God were to actually come down
and make me omniscient so that I knew everything that would be, you know,
then I would also know that he exists.
And so that'd be a, that's one way I could be convinced.
Yeah.
I mean, I wonder then, I mean, if, if you were to take a little DMT,
you might think you had that state of mind, right?
It's true, but it goes away after the DMT wears off.
Yeah, I suppose.
But I mean, you could literally, if, you know, people report the experience
of like going somewhere and talking to intelligent agents when they're on
DMT for like 15 minutes, right?
And if you, if, if he's like, Hey, you're here, here's omniscience.
And you're like, God.
And then you come back and it's like, guys, I saw it.
I had it all.
Like that, that's not a real experience or excuse me.
That's, that's a quote, real experience, but that's not a real epiphany.
No, well, that's also not real omniscience.
Yeah.
But yeah, I suppose, but I don't know.
I would, I would put real omniscience maybe in this.
Like I don't, I guess if it was real omniscience, I would know it wasn't a
trick omniscience.
So I guess that's the rub there.
Okay.
So solved.
So, uh, more than a male says, I wouldn't say I'm a theist because I
apportion so little probability mass to that hypothesis.
If you're claiming that the words rational and Bayesian and implying that as a
Bayesian rationalist, you were also a theist, then you need to have some
really extraordinary evidence in favor of theism.
If the rationalist label means anything at all, it means that you can't just
believe things that you find convenient or aesthetically appealing to believe
and continue to use the label.
I think that's fair.
And, you know, I, I'm not gatekeeping rationalism, you know, I'm, I'm,
there's probably somewhere out there a handful of like sincerely devout
cyber rationalists as the elder conspirator here.
I will gladly take on the burden of gatekeeping rationalism for us.
Fair enough.
You know, and I'm tempted to, too.
I'm, I'm torn between being politically expedient and not being a dick.
I mean, I appreciate your comment, Calvin.
I think it's, I think it's thoughtful.
I don't think like people should necessarily be excluded because being
around rationalists help people, helps people to become more rational, you know?
Yeah.
So I, yeah, we've had people before who are into things that I consider
woo, basically, like, you know, magic.
And, uh, I think we've had a, a theist before.
And, you know, sure, I'll still hang out with them.
I'm not going to shun anyone.
I don't think the label is, I don't think you can really be a rationalist,
the theist, but on the other hand, I'm not going to like kick you out of
the community just for that.
I'm like, yeah, if you aren't abusing anyone and you're trying to use your
rationality, stay and eventually you probably come around.
Yeah.
And I think, and if not, whatever, you do you.
Yeah.
And, and then not so many words.
I think it's not that it's like, because we don't allow that nonsense over here,
but mainly because it's a contradiction and like, you're just not getting it.
It's like saying, like, I'm a martial artist and I'm, I'm a black belt, but I,
uh, I can't move or refuse to move or something.
Right.
And it's like, then you're not going to be able to beat any of it up.
It's like, oh, that's not the point though.
I'm really a black belt.
And it's like, or yeah, like, you know, you came into an accident and you
couldn't move anymore or something.
It's like, sorry, you're not a black belt anymore.
Like, cause if, if part of the test of being a black belt is that you can
beat up a blue belt and you can't do that, well, then it just happens to be that you
can't.
So it's like, it's just kind of a contradiction.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Sure.
But, and it's about, and it's about analogy and I made up on the fly.
I think it's, I don't know.
Like, I think the way that this works in, in some circumstances when you're talking
with people is like, what's something that you don't believe in.
And you know, usually it's like aliens or bigfoot or Loch Ness monster or
something, and maybe an apologist would be willing to say, well, I assigned it on
zero non-negligible probability to all of those.
I would ask someone who's Christian, uh, what's a Hindu God that you do believe in?
Right.
That's actually a good point.
And I, I don't know.
And I, maybe I, my impression from, and if they can't name one Hindu God that
they do actually believe in, I'll be like, that's the same level of belief that I
ascribe to your God.
I like it.
And it, it could be that a, a truly introspective apologist would say, I believe
in all of them or something, but that almost sounds like a cop out too.
Maybe.
At that point, you don't really have any religion.
Yeah.
If you believe in all of them, you're just a spiritual hippie.
And hey, you can be spiritual hippie-ish, but it's, it's one of those things.
People are spiritual hippies.
You know, they tend to be really nice.
So my best friends are spiritually hippies.
Oh my God.
I just said that didn't I?
Oh, I didn't say my best friends.
That's right.
You said, you said, you said people.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
No, it's, I think it's just like, you wouldn't consider somebody a scientist if
they didn't believe in DNA, like not, not just, not just that they challenged,
you know, and, uh, Mendelian inheritance or, or evolution or something.
Although I think that that would be a good disqualifier.
I mean, you could be like, I don't know, geologist or some kind of high
energy physics or something and not necessarily know anything about DNA.
And do like, yeah, I don't believe in that.
Sounds weird to me.
Let's say you can't be a biologist if you don't believe in DNA.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that, that's like this, right?
Except this isn't like a dogma.
This is DNA isn't, isn't a prescribed belief that you're told you have to
accept to become a biologist.
It's just like, if you look at biology, that's the conclusion that you
can't help but find, right?
And if you find something else and you've, you've got really good evidence
for it, publish a paper, get your Nobel Prize.
Like if you, if you overthrow DNA, if, if, if it turns out that DNA isn't
real and we've just been tricked for the last 60 years, um, that'd be super
weird, right?
And somebody'd be really interested to hear that, but it wouldn't be enough to
say, well, I, I assign a non-zero probability to the fact that DNA
doesn't do anything or isn't real.
That's, that's, that's not a, that's not a belief that even pays rent, you
know, um, cause if you're going to behave in the rest of your life, like
DNA is real, doesn't analogies now becoming tortured?
Cause most of us don't care that DNA is real.
But if you were a biologist going through your career,
yeah, you would have to keep making the, it's a whole thing.
So anyway, I thought it was fun and I really liked more than emails, uh,
contribution there.
So let's wrap this up with some GPT two comments.
Yeah, sure.
I'm very ill equipped to handle all the good ones, but, um, I'll do my best.
So, okay.
Uh, so we have some, uh, skepticism on the GPT two.
Chebatron, Chebatron, uh, says that in responding to, oh, I think it was
responding more than a male saying GPT two knows that the semantic tokens
that uses are related to each other by rules, each token having its own rules.
And at this point, people were starting to discuss like, what does GPT two know?
You know, and, uh, Chebatron says, I highly doubt GPT two has any representation
of semantics in its model.
You're correct about relation rules, but what are those rules?
You construct English texts using grammar rules.
You're also using vocabulary as a mapping between concepts and specific words.
You have a personal style for GPT two.
Those rules are after this word, the most likely one to go to is this other word.
I'm sorry to disappoint you, but GPT two is just a buffed up Markov chain generator.
It has a decent look behind buffer and takes into account lots of values,
not just the last one, but in its essence, it's just that don't take this as
me being dismissive.
GPT two is very impressive for what it is, but it doesn't bring us
closer to AGI in any meaningful way.
It demonstrates that neural nets can scale.
It's good for all sorts of expert systems dealing with highly specific tasks,
but it's not a missing piece for each AGI.
That's, uh, I think that's a good comment.
I think, yeah, I guess it doesn't bring us closer to artificial
general intelligence in a meaningful way.
I think I agree with that.
Um, what it does bring us closer to is, you know, you can have a conversation
with a robot about a book, not yet, but we're getting close.
Right.
Um, maybe not actually conversation.
That would be intelligence.
You know what?
