There has been a huge amount of public interest
in finally addressing friendly AI due, you know,
in large part due to the work of Eliezer
and the early rationalists, Nick Bostrom, of course,
the AI movement was kicked off by these people.
And there is a, you know,
large supportive community in the Bay Area
that a lot of these people can live meaningful lives in now.
I mean, I would consider all three of those
to be pretty big successes too.
Yeah.
And I mean, we've heard from other like non Bay Area
based rationality groups that have to report similar,
you know, meaning and friends and communities.
So yeah, these things are happening.
I think just as far as like,
why isn't there a manual yet?
Like that, you know, eight quick steps
to not sucking at life.
Because there's no such thing.
Yeah. First of all, there might not be eight quick steps,
but B, I'm sure there's a hundred books with that title.
And C, we've only, the community's only been at this
for, you know, a little over a decade.
I strongly suspect I'm very confident
that things like this will be coming out.
But, you know, so far as I know,
nothing has been published today
that is a guaranteed manual.
So cognitive science or cognitive science
and like social sciences are hard.
And that's the downside.
It's like, you know, anyone who knows anything
about like treating depression or, you know,
dealing with a mental disorder
or mental illness or whatever,
like what works for one patient
doesn't necessarily work for another.
And so part of like working with the person
is figuring out what approach they need
because of what specifically we need to work on.
So like it's not, what I'm also strongly confident in it
is that this isn't going to be a set of steps
that works for 90% of people, right?
This is going to be the kinds of things that
all right, cool. Well, we found that 90% of people
who do all hundred of these things
tend to do really well.
Maybe only need a dozen, you know?
So anyway, it has run on quite a bit.
And we did have a third one we were going to do,
but frankly, it's kind of Matthew and boring.
He dives into more math that I think is strictly necessary,
but it's not like, maybe I'm just math averse.
But it's just, it's on inductive bias,
which we will actually, I think, save for next time
because it's been a while.
So for next time, our less wrong posts
will be inductive bias and futuristic predictions
as consumable goods.
Cool. So all that's left for this episode
is to thank our patron, Oren Milman.
Thank you so much for your support as you've heard before,
but it stays true. This means a lot.
We're sorry you only get two-thirds of the normal thanks
since there's no Jess here today.
Nonetheless, your support is appreciated
just as much as if she actually was here.
Yeah. So she is also thankful in spirit.
That's right. So yeah, other than that,
um, you know, rating review on iTunes,
star with your friends, et cetera, all the stuff.
People plug all the stuff at podcasts,
but you guys know what to do.
Yeah. We trust you. I don't have anything else to say.
Seriously though, thanks you guys. It's awesome.
Yeah. This has been a fun thing that we've been doing
for just over three years.
Oh man, it's been three years now.
Wait, no, two. Yeah.
No, I think it's been three.
Actually, we do one over two.
Oh wait, yeah, you're right.
It has been three. Man.
Suddenly, I feel older.
And we've had a patron to thank every week
since we started. Man, that's true.
Yeah. There was a time where we were like getting
near the bottom end of the list and I was like,
well, I guess when we get to the end of the list,
we just stop the podcast because we're at patrons.
Not seriously, but jokingly.
And then yeah, it's just been increasing again lately.
And wow, we've got, we've got the list still.
So yeah, thanks guys.
And so yeah, if you want to add your name to the list,
jump on Patreon, find us, throw us a buck or two
if you feel like it.
Once again, if you don't, iTunes, friends, all that stuff.
But we're happy to listen. This is fun.
I don't know. I, someone wrote in,
and I don't think we touched their comment.
It was just, it was on the subreddit or maybe via email.
I don't know. Once in a while, people write in
and say that they like listening to it.
And that means a lot. That's all I was going to say.
So that means a lot to me and it's fun to do.
So thanks.
All right. We will see all of you in two weeks.
Sounds good.
Oh wait, just kidding.
We have a couple more things we wanted to hit
before the end of the episode.
So we're going to do those now.
Yes.
So the first thing I wanted to do was,
one of the feedbacks is,
I wanted to ask you a question.
Oh boy.
Yeah. Feedback from the co-host and co-host.
Non-listener feedback is sometimes,
sometimes permitted, I guess.
Right. I warned you about this one though.
In our last episode, you said that you went into the pot shop
when they were having a woman's ladies night,
like 50% off pot or something?
Some percent. Something like,
something not negligible, like 25 or something.
Yeah.
Yeah. And you said, well, I, I'm a woman,
or identify as a woman or something.
And the guy gave you this look.
And you said, just kidding,
because I didn't want to be that asshole.
And I was like, I was curious, what,
what do you mean by I didn't want to be that asshole?
You bet.
So this would have been two episodes ago,
because this is the second feedback episode.
Yeah.
So.
Right.
Um, was that, was that a non-feedback episode
when we said that?
Oh, maybe it wasn't.
So maybe it was, oh, you know what,
it probably was the one that came out today.
Yeah.
Okay. Yeah.
So the one that came out today,
this one's coming out two weeks from recording.
So yeah, I can't remember the specifics.
I don't know.
He might have said no or something first.
It wasn't just a look.
I definitely waited for a response,
but the, my main reason for like not pushing the point at all
was because it wasn't true.
Like, I mean, I didn't,
there are people who are actually in that position
that maybe feel like if there's some promotion going on
that like they, they qualify more than I do,
because I'm, I was just trying to save 25% or whatever.
Right.
That was basically it.
Okay.
I didn't want to claim a status that you don't actually feel.
Yeah.
It would have been just ingenious for me to push it
beyond the like, oh, as long as all you have to say
those magic words to get the percent off or something.
Yeah.
And I never go, I had been to this place,
I went with a couple of coworkers,
they were driving, so it was on the way home.
And this isn't like a, one of my saying,
a deal I'm missing out on because I buy so much stuff.
I almost never go to the pot store.
So it's not a huge deal.
But because I had prep time to think of this,
I was thinking of this on the drive over.
One could make a utilitarian argument
that I ought to have pushed the point
because they clearly didn't have a policy in place
for somebody who was in the position
that I was claiming to be in.
Right.
Yeah.
So if I had, if I had made a stink and it was like,
no, look, you guys are discriminating against me.
They might have actually been forced to like,
refine a policy that was more inclusive
or if their dicks more exclusive.
Right.
Yeah.
They probably wouldn't.
What they'd probably say is like,
what it was is I'm sure this is the promotion
that didn't come from the cashier.
Right.
