So you do end up having sort of master controllers in the, in the nerve cells, for example, in relation to, to other cells, it's, so there's a, it's, it's not, we're not just a swarm, you know, we are, we're, we're some.
There are interesting ways in which you can understand the cooperation between all of our individual cells in the, on the model on the analogy of a swarm but the other ways in which that analogy breaks down.
The other thought that was sparked in me by, by what you were just saying is at what point does one is one justified in speaking of cognition. I mean, what is it that what does the term cognition refer to really.
If, if you have a very simple algorithm that always does exactly the same thing, where none of this kind of emergent behavior of the kind you've just described happens.
Is that cognition of a very, very, very basal kind, or does one only have a reason to speak of cognition, once emergent behaviors, once, once, once they're novel problems, or at least novel phenomena, novel computer computations which are not to go back to the very beginning
of our conversation which are not written into the code, you know, computations which, which are implicit in the sense that we were using that which are emergent in the sense that we were using those two terms, and does that qualify as cognition.
And if it does, bearing in mind, my own beliefs about what constitutes consciousness and you and I have spoken about this many times before functionally, what constitutes a conscious what is probably definitional functionally of a conscious agent is an agent which can solve
problems. It has to have some way of feeling its way through the problem in other words of monitoring is this going well or is this going badly because it's not written into my, into my DNA as it were you know it's it's this is something that I've never
I have no predictions for I now have to, I now have to predict the present. And, and how do you do that well you have to palpate how well or badly is this going, and then you have to change your mind.
That's my, I mean putting it in very simple simplified terms that's my criterion for what what is what what is plausibly potentially a conscious agent, but, but now I realize in saying that that then there's no distinction between what qualifies as a, as something
cognition and and what qualifies as something called consciousness, and the only way I could find a justification for continuing to use those words differently is that they are operations, which become automatized, which were once not there so in other words
something rises to the level of explicit in the in the psychological sense of the word, one has a feeling your way through the problem, then you learn from the experience, and you lay down new predictions which can become very confident and automatized
So they're the products of consciousness but they are not in the present functioning consciously. So those I think it's it, it makes sense to me that you would have to call those cognitive operations because they're the products of learning.
So the actual work of learning the actual learning from experience with the emphasis on the word experience, you know, that part is conscious cognition. It's working memory, as opposed to long term memory which is, which is now I laid down a prediction on the basis of the predictive work that that that I that I did.
So let me ask you that that question that I began with, and what would your definition of cognition be in the sense that you're looking for basil cognition what what constitutes cognition as opposed to wrote following the program.
So I agree with you I think it's fundamentally about problem solving and feeling your way through a problem and specifically in invulnerable creatures, because it's different if if you are a composite being that is in danger of falling apart into your component pieces.
It becomes a whole other business, you know, feeling your way through problems as a whole other business to it.
And I think that's that's that's what we mean by cognition and I'm willing to as you know I'm willing to take it very basely and I don't think it has to be the complex metacognitive stuff that we have.
But what I'm realizing now is that I'm not sure if if there are any, you know when we so so so we, my initial intuition was like yours that they would be very you know that would be wrote to the kinds of things and then there would be these like more complex
emerging things.
I'm not sure there are any of the first part anymore. And the reason I say that is because if you were to look at these algorithms, how much more wrote can you get they are fully deterministic there's not even a pseudo random number call there they are completely
deterministic. They are completely transparent, you know, they're very simple there are there is no more hidden mechanism of biology to look at. Same thing with our gene regulatory networks that we showed could have six different kinds of learning
just again that's just a couple differential equations so so if from something as dumb and simple as this, we can already see the ability to solve new problems meaning go around the barriers and right.
We can already see that they are optimizing things that are nowhere explicitly provided a mechanism for like, like minimizing distinction from from your neighbor.
I mean, I don't know that that there are any that don't have that I mean maybe maybe we could try to come up with some, but it makes me you know even if we were to come up with something extremely dumb.
I know that our failure to find these kind of properties is anything but a lack of imagination on our part. You know, like like I'm doing you know we could come up with some sort of bit add or something that just adds bits and we'd say okay surely this thing doesn't do anything
and maybe, but but but having seen this in sorting algorithms that distance has gotten really thin. And now I'm starting to wonder if our inability to to observe it in simple things is just lack of imagination and our, you know, evolutionary training on very complicated things where we're just you know we're
good at seeing. So I don't know. You know when and of course it leads me to this kind of fun, but you know as a sort of a more panseqist view where
these kind of properties to me look like they're baked in at the very beginning you know maybe wherever mathematics comes from I don't know but but but but baked in very early on, and then and then the other thing I think I feel strongly about is that we have to do experiments.
So, we cannot just observationally look at something and say, well I can see if this thing is dumb it's not going to do anything that I don't, I think we're not good at that at all I'm not I don't think it's possible anyway but I think we're just bad at it.
And we need to do experiments we need to do barriers we need to try various kinds of training techniques we need to see what is this thing doing when when we give it a little leeway you know.
What what does it look like from its perspective and you said you also said something very very interesting about.
Okay, you can you can treat this thing as a distributed agent from the cells point of view, and from the cells point of view. Okay, who are my neighbors and all of that.
Somebody and it might have been Carl or it might have been Adam but but somebody was saying the other day when we were talking about this, look at it from the clusters point of view, because informing these clusters.
Maybe we do have a temporary high level of higher level of organization there's a, you know there's a, and ensure you know it's dynamic meaning pieces come and go.
We're a molecular ship of these years in the cellular one right so we come and go to, and maybe there's another story to tell from the perspective of each cluster as to what the world looks like.
So, that's, you know that's that's where I've been recently is is really thinking about how to, how to see the world from the perspective of these weird agents, you know and what what does it look like.
What does it like to be so I so I don't think it's a crazy question to ask what's it like to be a chunk of data being sorted. I don't you know what's it like to be the sorting algorithm what's it like I, I'm sort of now open to that that gets back to your
you know the consciousness question you know like I'm I there may be in our perspectives of like valuable in our perspectives and all of these things. I don't know.
Yeah, I since our very first conversations.
I've told you that you, you, you've made me much more radical than I went already I was in trouble in relation to my colleagues in in reducing everything to.
You know, what the virtual brainstem is capable of.
But, you know, you've, you've persuaded me that it goes way way way lower than that, in terms of what is plausibly a cognitive and and plausibly a conscious system.
I also always end up finding that there can't be a sharp dividing line at which point it becomes, you know, so there has to be a gradation one has to speak of proto consciousness or proto cognition and, you know, and that that has to go all the way down.
I'm with you there.
It's not entirely the same as panpsychism but you know it's it's it's it's difficult to say in which way it's not panpsychism, but now let me in trying to in trying to
not be a panpsychist let me take it a step further.
And it goes back to what we were saying a few minutes ago in this conversation when when I was saying in one respect, we composite creatures are just a swarm, a swarm of cells.
And each cell is just doing its, you know, it's from the cells point of view it's just this is this is what I do.
I always do. There's no cognition going on here I do, I do, I always do exactly the same thing.
And then you could say well from the clusters point of view so the where the emergent behaviors arise or from the swarms point of view, what Adam or Carl had said to you, you know, well, what, what is it like from the point of view of being the swarm.
Or what is it like from the point of view of being the cluster that that is one way of going.
But another way of going is back to the point I made in when I said there's ways in which we are not a swarm in that we, we do have master cells, and, and, and slave cells and they're, they're, they're, they're not on all fours they're not all doing the same thing.
Once you start to have cells within this cluster cells within this swarm that are monitoring at a higher level than the, than the soldiers, I'm thinking of ants now.
Once you have generals and soldiers, then you, maybe, maybe you then can, you know, can more justifiably speak of the mental processes being at the level of the, of the organizing overseeing overarching cells than than not every cell then has equal dignity in terms of its
cognitiveness.
That gives me a really interesting idea that we should try experimentally in our system, which is I can make some of the we can make some of the cells more powerful than others.
We can let them see a little bit further or we can let them push a little harder in terms of where they want to go and see what effect that has if we right right now everybody's equal.
But, but I see your point, I think it's very interesting.
If they're if there are regionalizations like that, I wonder if we will see some sort of substructure within the, I'm sort of visualizing a nervous system within the cluster, right, so you have a cluster that and there are there's a pattern of the of the more powerful
cells within the you know sort of organizing like I make it this up I don't know if this will happen or not, but but I can sort of imagine right a temporary almost nervous system I think what we'll do that I'll talk.
Very interesting.
It makes my mind suddenly leap back to your worms. And I remember that there was, I forget exactly the anatomy that you told me about, but there was something about the the something like the epithelial cells.
Had functionality that the that the intestinal cells didn't have I forget as I say what the anatomy was but you, you could you could grow a new worm from some cells and you could not grow a new worm from other cells.
Yeah, the worms. So the worms, they have a population of adult stem cells. And if you cut a piece that has even one of these stem cells in it, you will get you know you can get a whole worm if you cut a piece and there are regions of the animal where you can cut off like the tip of the
nose has no stem cells in it if you cut off that tip of the nose it will not, you know, it will, but but I think it's, I think it's a matter of the hardware and not the information because.
So these these stem cells are the source of new cell types they produce the stuff you need to make a proper worm right, but I don't think they carry much of the information because we've done another experiment and this is not published yet but we've we know what the answer is when you when you take a little piece out of a two headed
worm and you irradiated like crazy to kill all of the stem cells that are in it, and you take just those somatic cells and you shove it into the body of a one headed worm under some percentage of the time what ends up happening is that that one headed worm now becomes converted to be
so that information did not require the stem cells that did not require new cell types the the transplant in fact will all die the you know that those cells only live in 30 days or so.
But the information lives on. And so, so I think there's a real distinction here about what you need to know what to do versus what do you need to actually build, you know, the body of the worm.
