impact our military ability to still do our objectives? And how would that be perceived
in the international community? How it would affect it in concrete terms is absolutely not at all.
It would have absolutely zero impact. You would get some people that would argue
around the fringes, but I would be more than happy to have that debate,
particularly if we could have it in a room with no windows and lead lining where it would be overheard
classified information reasons. I'd be happy to have that discussion. But so I would argue
there is no that would cause no harm. Now the second point is kind of interesting because
that's where it gets more into diplomacy, international law, US credibility, all those kinds
of things. I think it would be a positive because we can go out and say, look, we're being responsible
here. We recognize there's a problem. Our past policies may have made things a little bit worse.
So we are now saying we're going to step back and now it is up to you, Russia and China. We want
a new INF treaty. And that's really my third point is more on the negotiation side is we want to,
we can then have the credibility to go to the international community to work within these
institutions and say, hey, we want treaties. We want verification. We pulled out of open skies.
We pulled out of a number of these verification treaties that were in place during the Cold War,
which is another thing I think the majority of people may not realize. So those are things we
can do. And I think that taking those initial steps unilaterally, first of all, it doesn't really
hurt us much if at all from a military capacity standpoint, but it gives us enormous leverage
to go to the international community and to put other countries like Russia and China on the spot
and say, look, we want to deescalate here. We want to make sure that we do that in a way where you
don't take advantage of the situation, but also that we're not playing games with the end of the
world. So you and I often talk about systemic risks to our system and we look at what might happen
and worst case things. There may be a silver lining, and of course, I'm being kind of utopian
here, but there may be a silver lining in the Ukraine-Russia situation in that it may de facto
act as a modern, proud profit if things get scary and the rhetoric, and it accelerates
conversations of the type that you just advised and suggested that it refreshes our memory of
the dangers and the long-term permanent dangers to our planet and our civilization from
an exchange of nukes and gives us a chance of grasping towards wisdom instead of
this cleverness dopamine power feedback loop that seems to have been ongoing for the last couple
decades. Do you have any thoughts on that? Yeah, and in fact, you just reminded me of what I think
is a very important point. People say, oh, well, Ukraine, if we don't draw the line here, if we're
not strong, then Putin's going to take over Europe or whatever. But remember during the Cold War,
and of course, you don't, is before my time, too. You think of Czechoslovakia, you think of
the Prague Spring and the Soviets going and using military force invading, taking over. You look at
Afghanistan, the multi-year war in Afghanistan, the multi-year wars in Vietnam. We had wars where
Americans and Soviets were shooting at each other, yet we managed to avoid a nuclear war.
Part of the reason for that is we were aware of the risks and consequences, and we took deliberate
steps to de-escalate. So there's a track road here, there's nothing new. And guess what? The
Soviets didn't take over Europe because they knew the risks, we knew the risks, we made it clear.
So I don't buy these arguments that say that, oh, we have to act strong, we have to engage in
brinksmanship in order to prevent Russian aggression. That's just history shows otherwise,
and I think that's just posturing. So to get to your point, I think that we can be rational about
this. We can look at it in a hardness way and not lose our humanity, and we have to. The stakes are
too high not to. I agree with that. Simultaneously, I wonder, especially in your case, how can a human
being study this subject and be an expert and discuss it calmly? It's just so fricking overwhelming
and frightening. It is interesting, and I kind of look at myself sometimes. I backed into this in
a way, ended up in this world. And what's interesting is I, of course, study my main
research area as natural disasters, although lately it seems like humans have been competing with
Mother Nature for that. And so when I got started, it was emergency management was known as civil
defense. And so the thinking was, hey, we can get blown up by nuclear bomb today. It's a good day. So
you had a very relaxed attitude about hurricanes and tornadoes. And you learn pretty quickly in
all of these fields that you have to shut your humanity off, or else you can't think rationally.
The problem is, if you do shut your humanity off, then you have to, then you end up going down
these rabbit holes where you're doing target planning and looking at overpressures and
fireball heights and all of these things that go into it. And it's a fascinating technical problem.
So somehow every few minutes, you have to remember that you're talking about human beings, you're
talking about the natural world. And it's a hard problem. And it's a frightening bit of our nature
that you've talked about in biological terms that our brains are wired this way, that we're
fascinated by the problem and lose sight of what should be this humanity. And it scares me. It
really terrifies me how my brain works and how the brains of people I know and respect end up going
down these same kind of rabbit holes. And I think that in my case, what I won't say snapped me out
of it, but put me into perspective was going to places like Beirut and seeing the horror of even
a little war and realizing this is nothing, this is trivial compared to what a nuclear exchange could
be. So I in seven minutes have to do a lecture to a hundred college students on ecological
economics. So I'm going to need to shift gears in a couple minutes. But based on what you just
said, I'm thinking ahead to this lecture, one of the slides I have is I talk about supernormal
stimuli and that the dollar is the biggest supernormal stimuli. In other words, a modern
invention that hijacks our brain in a deleterious, maladaptive way relative to our ancestral
environment. And I've always said that the dollar is the biggest supernormal stimuli there is. And
now after talking to you, I actually think it's nuclear weapons are the biggest supernormal stimuli.
It's something that, you know, it's not a spear or a knife from our ancestral time because it's
many, many orders of magnitude larger in impact and scale than weaponry in our tribal past.
You know, the power is intoxicating in the sense that, you know, I know things about,
I mean, I know how to configure a W or, you know, a B 61 to destroy a city block or a city. I mean,
there, you talk about the dopamine and the adrenaline in the testosterone hit from having
that kind of power and awareness. It's why young men and women now go off to war because
they think they're invincible and they can get the other guy without the other guy getting them,
but you don't have to look him in the face. That's what worries me the most is in the moment,
we've never had this happen in our lifetimes. And it's just almost a matter of time before
something escalates. And that's why I think your work and thank you for
sharing your wisdom on this, because I have no idea what to do, but at least you've given us a
framework for how to think about it and to get people involved because we have a lot of these
things that are real pressing risks to our futures and our presence. So thank you for your concern
and patriotism and knowledge and expertise on this. Do you have any closing thoughts, Chuck?
I'll say it with feeling where Scrooge said it, joking about humanity is not Scrooge, but
humanity is my business. And you think of, you know, you said patriotism. Patriotism is
so important. And the most patriotic thing you can do is making sure your country doesn't
do something wrong or get wiped out and call shirts. The senator very famously said,
my country right or wrong, if she be right, I stand by her. If she be wrong, I set her right.
And so that's kind of how I see this. And people want to talk about, oh, Russia did this, Russia
did that. Yeah, I'm not a citizen of the Russian Federation, I'm a citizen of the United States.
I want to make sure we're doing what's right. We can deal with Russia and deal with them on their
terms. But we got to take care of ourselves and do the right thing first. Thank you, my friend.
Always a pleasure. I always learn a lot. I always leave a little shaken up. But I appreciate you
and your wisdom. Thanks. And I hope that people don't get scared by this, but get stimulated
and start thinking about it and start asking questions because that's how this is going to
end up being resolved. If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit TheGreatSimplification.com
for more information on future releases.
