Today, I have not a second but a third conversation on the great simplification with my friend and
colleague Chuck Watson. I've known Chuck for 15 years. He's a former Air Force pilot.
He's a risk analyst. He's worked for the government, government agencies like NASA,
the State Department, the private sector. Since I've known Chuck, he never calls attention to
himself or his own deeds and stories. He is singularly focused on stabilization and mitigating
risks. I learned on this conversation some things about him that he's never told me in 15 years.
He is a reluctant spokesperson for the systemic risks involved in a nuclear escalation,
but I think the fact that he agreed to do this conversation and share his expertise on the
difference between convention on nuclear weapons, what are the escalation pathways, what are the
damages, and more specifically, what can we do as a nation, as a world, and as individuals to
minimize the risk of a nuclear civilization ending exchange is why he agreed to share these things
today. I hope you all spend the time to listen to this roughly 90-minute conversation with my friend
and risk expert Chuck Watson.
Hello, my friend. Hi, Nate. How are you? I'm good. How are you?
Well, it seems like we are always talking about something depressing that I have to say this is
probably one of the most important topics that we can talk about.
Unfortunately, I agree with you. You have been on this podcast twice already to talk about Ukraine
and Russia actually several months before that situation came into reality and to talk about
nuclear war, nuclear weapons. I've gotten a lot of feedback from listeners
that I want to hone in today on what we can do internationally as a nation and as individuals
to minimize the risk of what you've referred to as a potential civilization ending nuclear exchange.
So that's where I want to go with today's conversation, avoiding nuclear war in the near
term. But I want to first kind of recaps a few of the things we talked about and also take a
deeper dive in some of the basics, kind of like what nuclear weapons are, how they're different
than conventional, what a limited or large-scale nuclear exchange would do to our world,
and how the current geopolitical legal war landscape makes it increasingly, unfortunately,
possible that this could happen. So one thing that I've learned in the past couple of months
is, well, two things that I've learned. Number one, I know very little about this
important situation. And number two, I can't really believe much of what I'm reading,
because it feels like yesterday's podcast was with Tristan Harris talking about social media
and algorithms. It feels like there's these stories spinning around that I don't really know
if they're true or not. And so on this topic, I am privileged, lucky or cursed, depending on the
perspective, to have someone count someone as a friend who, A, is extremely knowledgeable about
this stuff, and B, is willing to talk about it. So maybe we start there just to be clear
to our listeners that you are an eminent expert on this topic. Could you share a bit about why
that is, your background, as much as you can share in any case, on why you have insights and
expertise on this topic? Well, and I always get nervous when people use the word expert on any
topic. And I would have to say, my somewhat ignominious career, I've been involved in a lot
of the topics that get blended into this whole subject, because we're not just talking about
the technical aspects of nuclear weapons and how they're used from a military standpoint.
This is so interwoven with things like diplomacy and international law and the moral codes and all
of these other factors. And unfortunately, there's a tendency to get so piped. And again,
I've been quite fortunate in that I've been involved on the military side of things. I've
been involved in the planning emergency management, it's called now, but it used to be called civil
defense. And that's actually an interesting point and diversion that we want to avoid. But I will
say it's interesting because coming at it from a civil defense standpoint, when you think about
a hurricane versus a nuclear bomb, well, you'll pick the hurricane any day of the week. And so it
helps to give you some perspective on various kinds of disasters. So that's a piece of it. The
diplomacy side, I've spent a lot of my career working on international projects. So I've really
come to appreciate things like how international technical agencies, how the UN works, how
multilateral and bilateral negotiations happen and how those agreements work. And that's something
that, again, it's not any particular brilliance or skill or talent on my part. It's just that I've
been fortunate to end up being in those rooms and in those discussions. I'm not somebody that you
would have ever heard of, but I've probably been in the room on a lot of fairly in hindsight
momentous events over the last 40 years. And it makes for an interesting perspective, I hope.
I don't know if you're comfortable sharing this. And if you're not, we can edit it out. But
you've told me in the past that you have a flag that used to fly over the White House signed
by Ronald Reagan for your efforts back in the day. Can you speak to that or not?
Yeah, I actually, one of the bits of trivia and mementos that I have is I do have a flag that
was presented to me in the Oval Office by Ronald Reagan. And so you say that and people immediately
go, ah, hi, you know, you're one of those ultra conservative types. But I have a signed thank
you note from Janet Reno for a particular mission and operation that I did as well that's
framed lower on the wall, but it's still on the same wall with the with the flag from President
Reagan. So I like to feel that my role is and my oath was to protect this country. I think the
best way to protect this country is also taking into account that we've got to look out for humanity
and we've got to look out for the bigger picture and be very careful about getting too narrowly
focused on our own issues and particularly getting to work with senior diplomats and even
presidential level leaders from other countries. You really start to understand that we do have
we've been called the indispensable nation, which I think is true, but the way it's used is very
deceptive and destructive. I think we have a positive role to play, but part of that positive
role is by recognizing other countries have interests and looking out for everybody is
beneficial to all of us, which is a really kumbaya thing for somebody that grew up in the
Republican Party to say. Well, it's why we're friends, right? We face a lot of existential
issues or at least perceived to be existential issues. And that's why I'm doing this podcast,
talking to knowledgeable people who care. And you're certainly one of those. So thank you for
that intro. Let's get into it here. Briefly, let's start from the absolute basics. What is
a nuclear weapon and how do they work briefly? So going back to the 1930s, physicists started
to figure out that you can generate enormous quantities of energy by breaking the binding
energy between actually inside of atoms. And so when you talk about splitting the atom, that's
basically what a fission bomb is doing. The other kind of nuclear reaction we need to talk about
is fusion, which is what goes on in the sun. And that's basically the opposite. You're cramming
lightweight elements together to make heavier elements. So the first race to build a nuclear
bomb gets started because of physicists coming out of Germany. And of course, the very famous
Einstein letter that people may have heard of warned that there was a tremendous potential to
build a bomb that was, and I'm going to use the technical term in order of magnitude. And I mean
that literally 10 to 100 to 1000 times more powerful than a conventional explosive. And the way it
works is really pretty simple in the sense that if you take unstable atoms like uranium, certain
isotopes of uranium, if you cram them together, then the neutrons that get produced causes that
material to tear itself apart. And so that's a fission bomb where you basically take two chunks
of uranium that are subcritical. In other words, they won't go off on their own. You cram them
together and they blow up because they end up splitting themselves and converting the binding
energy, the atoms into energy. And it happens in an uncontrolled way. You have a nuclear bomb.
If it happens in a controlled way, you have a nuclear reactor that you can generate heat and
generate power from. So the race in World War II was to build this super weapon.
And to give you just a little bit of context on how powerful nuclear weapons are,
it would have taken approximately 200 B-29 missions to drop the equivalent bomb energy of
what the single B-29, the Enola Gay, dropped on Hiroshima. So it's thousands of times more
destructive. One nuclear bomb is thousands of times more destructive than a conventional
explosive. And that's just the explosive part. Yeah, we'll get into that. But I just want to
understand the origin of why our species developed this. Was it because they wanted to kill a lot
of people because that would be an offensive move? Or was it a shock and awe? We need to
demonstrate we're capable of this. So an offensive move was actually a defensive move.
What was the thinking back then, just briefly? Or can you speculate to that?
Yeah, I've read quite a bit about that. Richard Rhodes has a fantastic set of books about that
that was done in the after some of the material became declassified in the 90s, early 2000s.
And it's really pretty interesting because it's a lot of those factors. First off,
there is fear. You have to remember when the nuclear weapons program got started,
Hitler was overrunning Europe. Even though it turned out to not be true, and there's some
speculation that Heisenberg, the lead German scientist, actually sabotaged their program
because he didn't want his government to have access to that kind of power. But at the time,
fascism, the world was plunged into war. Nobody knew how it was going to come out.
So the thought that the other side could get this super powerful weapon where it would replace
hundreds if not thousands of airplanes and bombs with a single device. Well, that just scared
everybody to death. So that started the race. Then as it became clearer that, well, we were so far
ahead that Germany, Japan had no hope of actually building a device during the war. It became more
of an efficiency thing in the sense that, okay, if you've got to destroy a city, well, this bomb
can do it and it only takes one airplane to do it. And so it becomes almost frightening to say
that this is the way humans think it's a cost effectiveness calculation.
It's optimal forging theory at a large scale in a military sense.
And there is one additional point that you mentioned the shock and awe. Well,
by 1944, it was pretty clear that, of course, both Germany and Japan were going to be defeated.
And so then there was the race to develop and shape the post-war world. And so, of course,
that meant that, well, Russia bounced back. Yeah, the Soviet Union bounced back. It was
clearly going to be a major player. So then the thinking started to go, well, we need to send a
message that we have these powerful weapons and to use that in the post-war negotiations.
And there was legitimate thought to, if using this bomb shortened the war, well,
you can say it's selfish. But if you're one of those soldiers waiting to invade Japan, then
there's a very powerful argument to say, I don't want to be one of those hundreds of thousands
of casualties if we have to invade Japan. If I'm destroying some of their cities with this
powerful device ends the war sooner, then that's a good thing. So it was all those factors blended
together. How many nuclear weapons were there in 1944? How many were there at the time of
proud profit in the early 80s in the Reagan administration versus how many are there now,
just rough ballpark? Yeah, so in 1944, there were zero. In 1945, well, 44 was zero. But 45,
that was actually a big fear because when they dropped the first bomb, little boy was a uranium
bomb, only bomb. And then the one on Nagasaki was called Fat Boy, it was a plutonium bomb.
There was only enough material to make three. And so that was a big fear is, okay,
we use these and if they don't fold, then we've got to try to build more. And it's a difficult,
at the time, it was very difficult to do that. So then through the 40s, it was very small numbers.
In fact, the original idea was to build more of the Nagasaki types, but they ended up building the
uranium types. And so you had the low dozens of bombs. But then in the 50s, we figured out
smarter ways to build these things. I'm going to use air quotes around smarter. And so it ended
up going from 10s, then when the Soviet Union was able to explode their first bomb, a race got
started. And in hindsight, it's insane the number of bombs that we have and continue to have.
The focus tends to be on the strategic bombs, the really big ones. And that number hit the tens of
thousands that has come down now to the mere thousands. And the thing that gets overlooked is
there are still tens of thousands of tactical nuclear weapons, the ones that are cherish
cherishima size or smaller. And those have never really been counted in treaties or looked at that
closely. And that's actually where the biggest danger today was. So in short, we went from dozens
to tens of thousands on both sides down to thousands of strategic remaining tens of thousands of
tactical that are either in storage or easily assembled. And that's pretty much where we are
today. So I mean, this is the definition of an arms race in the purest sense.
How similar is this to dear antlers and conspicuous displays of prowess in the biological world?
And at some point, didn't people wonder, boy, at 10 and 50 and 100 and 1000 and 5000, we no longer
are representing what's possible militarily to win a war because we are now at the world destroying
level. Did that ever come into the discussion? And how is this different than a biological
display of fitness and strength? Well, it's interesting because when you get in that world,
you start to get focused on the very, very deep technical aspects. And we could go off on long
tangents on why did you need 10,000 weapons? Well, you get into issues like fratricide,
you get in, which is where two bombs going off. Well, is that going to interfere with one going
to interfere with the other or cause the other to not even go off? You then get into issues of
counter force strategies, what kind of targets are you after? And you can talk yourself into tens
of thousands of weapons if you're narrowly focused on the military mission and on targeting and those
kinds of things and completely lose sight of the big picture of, yeah, you just turn the earth into
a wasteland with even 1000 of these weapons. If those 1000 go off and they almost certainly will.
So making that better from a purely technical question standpoint is irrational.
Yeah, it's irrational rationality. I don't know if any other way to put it is you get so focused
on the technical problem, you lose sight of the fact that it's insane. So the nuclear experts
back in the day were siloed, so to speak. They didn't look at this from a systems view.
Yeah, they were, you know, if you're a bomb designer, you're trying to figure out how to
build a better bomb and bomb and it's kind of, it's a little bit psychotic and it scares me when
I think of my inquiry looking back on getting focused on narrow technical issues, because it's
fascinating the physics of it, the figuring out altitudes to set a bomb off at or looking at those
kinds of things. It's a fascinating technical problem. You lose sight of the fact that
you're talking about wiping out civilization and killing millions of people, because it's such a
fascinating and difficult physics problem. And so you put the humanity out of your head,
because you wouldn't be able to solve the math if you didn't.
Okay, let's continue on. Comparing nuclear weapons to conventional weapons. How big
are the bombs that are being used between Russia and Ukraine right now, back and forth?
And how does conventional weaponry compare in magnitude to nuclear weapons?
Yeah, that's a really interesting point, and you can get into an interesting technical
discussion there too, because bomb yields, in other words, how much energy, how much blast
gets generated has actually declined over time. And that's, that's a separate issue. But in terms
of comparison to a bomb that say the US used in Iraq or Afghanistan or even today, the Saudis
using in Yemen or, you know, we're, Israel's using in Syria yesterday. And again, I'm pointing all
that out because we focus on Ukraine, but people are bombing each other all over the world right
now with conventional weapons. The biggest in the US arsenal is called the GBU-31. That's, you know,
we love to have our acronyms on all of our systems. And it's a 2,000 pound explosive.
So it's going to create a blast radius of about 60 meters, you know, 70 yards or so.
And that's the biggest bomb that we use routinely. Now, to give you an idea of what happens when you
talk about nukes, when you're talking about regular explosives, you talk about pounds of explosive.
But with a nuclear weapon, you talk about tens of thousands of pounds of TNT equivalent. So the
Hiroshima bomb by comparison was 14,000 tons, 14 kilotons of explosive energy equivalent. So
that bomb that we routinely use today. That's one ton. That's one ton. And the biggest bomb
the US has ever used, which was the Moab, the massive ordnance airburst bomb in Afghanistan,
was about 11 tons. The smallest weapon in the US arsenal today is 300, nuclear weapon is 300 tons.
And again, that's a point that I think we need to talk about. It's very different about nuclear
bombs. If you've got a conventional bomb, it's pretty much a fixed explosive. But with nuclear
bombs, there's something that we talked about that before dialy yield. And so I had never heard of,
to be honest. And it was funny because you talk about silos. I was thrown off that you had never
heard from that. And then I started asking around and no one that I know has ever heard of dialy
