Today, the answer to that is very different to what it was 10 years ago, much less 20 years ago.
And so I'm going to skip over all that history. If anybody cares, we can discuss that or go through,
ask me a question on the blog and I'm happy to go into it. Today, the range of applications is
extremely narrow. And what the main thing that you get from a nuclear weapon right now is the
fireball, which can vaporize even the most hardened target. So if you've got a missile silo with
a reinforced concrete shell that a normal bomb would not penetrate and you want to disable,
there's a nuclear weapon in that silo or missile in that silo that you want to make sure can't be
launched, you could fire a nuclear weapon at that, vaporize that silo and disable it.
That's still... Dumb question. Dumb question. When you do that, does that detonate the opposing
nuclear weapon simultaneously or not? Generally not. Nukes are designed in a way that it's hard
to make them go off accidentally. There's a lot of technical reasons that I won't go into on that,
but they're intentionally and just by the physics of it, a lot of things have to go right for a
nuke to go off. And we've dropped nukes before. There's actually a nuclear bomb sitting in the
ocean probably five miles from where I'm sitting. Nobody knows where it is. It accidentally dropped
in a collision. Yeah, in the collision, there was an exercise and there was a nuclear bomb on the
aircraft and it was a mid-air collision and it's somewhere off the coast of Tidey. But anyway.
It's armed, but no one's going to detonate it because they don't know where it is.
Well, and plus, whether it's had the pit or not, the paperwork's not clear, which is in itself
is scary. But yeah, there've been live bombs drop and they don't go off. It's hard to make
it go off accidentally. So the answer to your question is no. What are the social and geopolitical
risks or interactions currently that increase the risk of a nuclear exchange? You can talk about
Russia and the US and NATO and Ukraine, but just generally, what is the situation? Maybe you could
just briefly describe what is the first use doctrine and how has it been used and start there?
That's a great point, Nate. And it's one that I would bet most Americans don't realize that
we are the only country in the world that has never had any kind of a no first use.
And in fact, we say that we can use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear adversaries.
We've said that we can, the last, there's the nuclear posture review is currently going on. It's
the classified version's been released. Hopefully the public version will be out here in a few weeks.
Basically, the one that's currently enforced says that we would use a nuclear weapon in
response to a cyber attack that took down our electrical grid. I mean, literally that is US
policy. Biden people are hopefully going to change that and rethink it. But we've said that we'll do
it for biological warfare attacks for all kinds of non-nuclear. And again, to me, that's irrational
for all the reasons we've just gone through because nukes are different. Yeah, it's US policy.
Oh, if there's a major terrorist attack, we'll nuk your country. We're the only country in the
world with those. Is this because we want to scare people into doing what we want? Or does
this just piss people off? I mean, internationally, I know nothing about this. Why is it that we're
the only country that's not in that club that says we're not going to do first use?
And it's arrogance. And we've already used them, hubris, I would say, rather than
arrogance to be really pedantic. But you know, there is that fear factor. It's like strategic
ambiguity is a concept. And I mentioned that word before. But just to be clear, what that means is
if you don't, in game theory, if you don't know exactly what I'm going to do and you think I might
do something crazy, it's going to limit your actions. That's the simplest kind of phrase.
Well, the problem is you're talking about strategic ambiguity around an issue that
has the potential to end civilization on this planet. I don't think that's a place where you
want to have ambiguity because ambiguity works both ways. You're saying, maybe I will,
maybe I won't. Well, the other side may go, okay, I'm going to roll the dice that maybe you won't.
So, I think that's an incredibly dangerous thing. It may work for some kinds of conventional
scenarios. And I can see where it is useful. You look at the whole, like, Taiwan issue,
the ambiguity may have been beneficial because it gives both sides some room to maneuver. But
when it comes to nuclear weapons use, I think you need very bright lines that says,
here is where we will use them. And in effect, that's pretty much what Russia has done. It's
certainly what China has done. Russia has been modifying their nuclear use doctrine. And you
get into these chicken and egg arguments, but largely based on our changes. So we've escalated
and put nuclear weapons into Europe that under INF were actually previously banned. And so now
Russia has said, well, we're going to respond in turn. And so you get into this, again, we've been
in a soft escalation spiral probably since the mid 2000s, 2005 or so. It got worse after 2014.
And now we're in a very dangerous place in that spiral. How does using a small nuke
automatically or likely lead to using big nukes? In other words, how do things escalate like that?
Well, first off, you run the accident. I'm going to say accidental. As we discussed earlier,
let's say that you have decided to use a nuclear weapon to disable. So you've got Russian, let's
use this scenario, you've got big Russian formations and swept through Ukraine. They're on the Polish
border. You're afraid they're going to cross the border and you want to stop it. And you know that
NATO conventional forces aren't sufficient to the job. Well, maybe you say, well, we will use
tactical nuclear weapons to break up those formations. So you launch, you know, you activate,
you launch weapons against that way. Well, obviously, Russia is going to say, well, we want to stop,
we want to disable the storage sites for those nuclear weapons to stop you from using them again
or in the first place. So that takes a... Now, Russia's got some additional flexibility because
of their hypersonic weapons. But if we used a nuke on them, it would be very logical for them to
respond by hitting those air bases. Well, now you're starting to get cases where there's going
to be secondary effects. What you have a nuke go off, there's going to be fallout, you're going to
have civilian casualties. The time to respond gets shorter and shorter because you're using missiles
with five minute flight times or aircraft with 15 to 30 minute flight times. And so
you see activity and you start shooting at it and you start to get where there's an exchange,
then you get popular pressure of, wow, we've just lost now two or three million civilians
from a limited nuclear exchange. Maybe we need to go ahead and I can... Maybe we should go ahead
and do a counter-force strike, the technical term saying, we're worried the other side's going to
launch their strategic weapons or their city destroying weapons. Let's hit them first.
So if there's a missile that goes across a country's border, like between Russia and Germany or,
I don't know, pick your destination, how do people know that it's not just a conventional
bomb or it has a nuclear war? Right now, for ballistic missiles, only nuclear weapons are on
ballistic missiles, the long range, like submarine launch. Now, there are theater ballistic missiles
that... We use cruise missiles mostly, but there are tactical ballistic missiles that are conventional,
but generally, like a submarine launch missile or an ICBM, those are all nuclear because it's an
expensive piece of hardware. You're not going to put... So if there's a submarine launched
missile somewhere, the actors involved can assume it has a nuclear warhead. Right. And what you
don't know is how big that warhead is and you don't know... Initially, you know the general area
it's going. Right now, you... But does it matter? I mean, does it matter, seriously? Does it matter
if it's at the lower end of the dial yield or all the way on the higher end? You know, it depends
on who you are. If I'm the decision maker, I may look at it and decide to ride it out
and then respond once I know... If I know my force is survivable, maybe I decide to let it ride to
see what actually happens and then use other means. And this is another thing where you get into
deterrence and the reason why I think Russia is not likely to be used first, it's not their doctrine
to use first except in an existential threat to the Russian nation. But the other reason is
they've got so much moral authority on this, they've never used a nuclear weapon. The U.S.,
we've used nukes. You know, we're the bad guys. And in the international community, that carries
quite a bit of weight. People don't trust the U.S. to not use a nuclear weapon because we've
demonstrated the ability. And you look at all the arguments now, people say, yeah, we were right to
do the Hiroshima Nagasaki blasts. But there's a pretty big body of literature which says
wasn't really necessary. But just to be clear, I think it was probably the right thing to do
at the time because we know a lot more now than we knew then. But still, just from a credibility
standpoint, again, we have a explicit first use doctrine which outlines all kinds of things.
There are people right now saying, well, we need to fire a nuke at Russia to show them we're serious.
I mean, my God, you're saying use a nuclear weapon to make a point?
But you hear those discussions, I'm sure you've seen in Reddit, some of them by
members of our Senate. So it's crazy. So there's dozens of additional things we could talk about
here. Let's first acknowledge that the world would be better off with no nuclear weapons,
but also that realistically, that's not going to happen anytime soon. There are long-term
solutions. There are transition solutions. But given the stakes that we face, and I think
both explicitly and implicitly in this conversation, you have articulated how freaking
dangerous even small nukes because of the escalation potential are to our civilization,
our biosphere, our oceans, et cetera. And don't forget the effects of even
water weapons. Again, as we've discussed, even a few weapons, even one, you're creating
Chernobyl-type radioactive hotspots. So nuclear weapons are even small, quote-unquote weapons,
are such a leap in effect. Conventional war is bad enough, and I know I've been in a few,
and you can't imagine the horrors of places like Beirut or Sarajevo. I mean,
I'll get checked up over it even just thinking about stuff. But that's nothing compared to what
one nuclear weapon can do. And when you start to look at the secondary effects, so that's why I
keep telling people, yeah, you can get overwhelmed by the big nuclear exchange, but we've got to
make sure that not even one of these things gets used. I think you've made that clear. So the rest
of this discussion, I would like to talk not about the long term and the transition, but specifically
in the short term, how can we as a world, as a nation, and even as individuals minimize
the risk of horrible outcomes in the coming months or year.
So let's unpack this. First of all, what could we do at an international level? I know you have
some suggestions. Well, and I actually like to start with what individuals can do. And the first
thing, and I- Yeah, what can individuals do? And I gotta say, and, you know, we talk in social
movements and different things to talk about, well, awareness. Okay, you're taking the first
step. If you're listening to this podcast, and if you're thinking it through and saying, yeah,
you know, these guys have a point, this is scary, I need to do something. Okay, that's step zero.
Because if you don't, if you're not aware of the problem, and as we've just discussed,
haven't been a problem for 30 years. So it's not, there's no blame to go around to say
why you don't know. But okay, now you know, now you got to do something about it. So
there are things that the US can do immediately to reduce the risk of a nuclear war. And some of
them are terribly popular with some people within the military complex and within the decision
making. But you know, that's what there's a lot of actions that politicians are encouraged to take,
because people tell them, no, you're not going to do this bad thing in our name. So I would start with
this. We need a clear nuclear use doctrine. I have not seen the current NPR, the Nuclear
Posture Review, but I am not expecting from what I've heard that there's going to be
significant changes in that risk regard. We need to have a very clear no first use policy.
We need to have a very clear deterrence policy of saying, here's where we will be willing to use a
and make it very clear that our force posture, know what the weapons we have fits that doctrine.
Part of the problem right now is we like to sign UN declarations saying that we don't want to be,
you know, that nuclear weapons should never be used. But then we develop these weapon systems
that make it easier for them to use. So that would be my first point, we need to have a solid,
publicly known nuclear use doctrine. If that was created, if the US did that,
would that minimize the risk of other countries actually cheating on first use? And would that
like lower the temperature on this whole thing? I think so, because if you, you know, right now,
it is ambiguous. And so the potential adversaries may say, well, maybe we need to get the first
lick in. Well, if you've said, we're not going to use them this way, and you've changed your
weapons mix to make it clear that it's a retaliatory force, not a first use force. I think it is
tremendously stabilizing, which brings me to the second point. There's no military reason for the
W76-2. That's the submarine launched missile, the submarine launched small nuclear platform.
It's just insane. It's destabilizing. It's pissed off the Chinese and the Russians. And, you know,
it's just, militarily, it makes very little sense for a lot of reasons, happy to go to technical
details at some point. I think the third thing is we can de-escalate by reducing, and we started
this modernization program. I think we do need to modernize our so-called land-based deterrent,
the ballistic missiles. I do think we need to make sure our nuclear deterrent is solid, but making
more tactical nuclear weapons that are easier to use in a lower threshold, we could stop that.
President Biden could stop that tomorrow. As soon as he hears this podcast, he could sign the
executive order saying, I'm going to withdraw the W76s, and we're going to suspend the B61 upgrades,
pull the tactical-yield weapons out of Europe. You do that. It does two things. It hasn't really
hurt us that much from a military flexibility standpoint. The second thing it does is sends a
very clear message to Russia that, okay, we may be willing to fight you conventionally. We will
fight you with nuclear weapons if we have to, but it isn't going to be a first resort. And so that
cools things off. And given how bloody, messy, and slow conventional wars are, people really don't
want conventional wars. And so even Russia, all the demonization talk about Russia, I think is
it's helpful rhetoric if you're trying to gen up support for a policy. But I know the Russians,
I know some of these people, they don't want this war anymore than we do. They just feel painted into
a corner. And so that's where diplomacy comes in. One of the things that I've said to a couple of
people lately is the only thing worse than not recognizing the next Hitler is calling somebody
the next Hitler when they're not. And unfortunately, I feel like that's where we all with Russia that
and we're bordering on that with China as well, that you demonize people, you can't talk to them.
And if you look at what happened in the 80s, Reagan said horrible things about communism and
about the Soviet regime. But when it came down to it, he did business with them, trust, but verify
all those things that came out of the 80s. And if a hard nose cold warrior, you know,
rabid anti communist like Ronald Reagan can step forward, shake the man's hand and do the INF
treaty. Well, you know, we can do that with Vladimir Putin. So your three ideas are number one,
a crystal clear, no first use doctrine that kind of rejects the escalate to deescalate
theme. Secondly is discontinue the W76 dash to program, which are these missiles launched from
subs with dialy yields. And then the third and presumably more controversial advice would be
to remove the small tactical nukes from the arsenal, which don't have any realistic use
anyways. How would at least the first two of those things be initiated? What's the path to
making those happen? The technical path is the president signs an executive order and it happens.
Now, obviously, it's a little more complex than that. But basically, that's just political will
on the part of the senior leadership of the country. Now, the way it happens in the real world
is people listening to this podcast, contact their congressman and their senators and say,
look, we've got this huge problem. We need you to deescalate. We need you to listen to us that
we are afraid of a potential nuclear war. We need you to become informed because I've had
conversations with elected officials, and they don't know any more about dialy yield than you
did three weeks ago. And that's kind of scary. And but it's also understandable because it hasn't
been at the forefront for 30 years. So the way it starts is the public tells their elected leadership,
hey, we need to deal with this. And then the pressure builds and hopefully it causes them
to reevaluate where things are. And if they don't, well, you look at what happened in the 80s,
you had protests in the streets over it. You had the nuclear freeze movement in Europe.
But again, the first step is contact our elected officials and push them to study this problem
and to make sure they get multiple opinions, not just from those that are in the
nuclear establishment that is so invested in all kinds of these weapons. And again,
I don't object to nuclear weapons as a deterrent force. I think it's actually an important part
of our weapons mix. I just think we need to be very clear how we're going to use them and then
have of the weapons systems mix that is not going to be more dangerous than not having them.
So if we were to sign a no first use doctrine and discontinue the W76 missiles, how would that
