you've got immediate ionizing radiation. That's your immediate effects. Longer term. Well, you
have, those are delayed effects, things like the fallout. So a lot of material gets sucked
into the blast, is irradiated, becomes radioactive, you've got debris from the bomb.
You know, even at a high end nuclear blast, you're only consuming 30 or so percent of the
material in the device. So the rest of that radioactive material just gets spewed all over the
place. And so that becomes radioactive fallout. That can fall for hundreds of miles away from the
site and last for hundreds of years. So you think about Chernobyl, you know, we're still talking
about the fact that people driving through that area stir up dust. You've got areas in Europe,
hotspots, where you can't drink the milk from the cows because the radioactive isotopes are still
in the soil, it ends up in the grass. And this is not in Russia. We're talking about
in parts of Poland, in parts of Germany, where you still get radioactive milk from cows,
eating stuff that's left over from a nuclear reactor accident 40 years ago. Well, imagine
you set off a few dozen or a few hundred nuclear weapons, again, a limited exchange.
You're going to have these hotspots all over the world for decades that's contaminating our food
and water. And that's just the immediate radiation effects, the particulates, the dust, the soot.
That ends up getting blasted into the stratosphere. It's going to hang out there for years. So you
potentially can end up with even a small exchange of a few dozen weapons could cause cooling in the
atmosphere, which could impact crops, the particulates, the settling, the obstructing of the normal
sunlight can interfere with the oceanic food chain. You collapse or damage the oceanic
food chain. You just caused a real problem for all life on this planet. And that's not even from,
that's before we get to the really bad scenarios of thousands of nukes going off.
You, in a recent email to me, said there are three countries that have the potential to destroy life
on earth. That was your quote. Can you explain how that would happen? And to be clear, because I
actually, I actually had a, there was an ecologist that corrected me on that. Of course,
we're not talking about destroying life on earth. We are talking about destroying virtually anything
bigger than a cockroach. So to me, that's right. Yeah. I mean, you're, so to be clear, you're
complex life, complex life. Yeah. So
that seems fantastical exaggeration to me. So I would like you to be explicit on how that could
happen. It isn't. The reason being that for twofold, first off, with a large scale exchange of say,
3000, again, remember that strategically each side has, you know, on the order of 2000 strategic
weapons, these are the big missiles, the submarine launch, let's say that half of those on each side
get deployed and go off. So you have that's 2000 nuclear weapons going off in the Northern
Hemisphere, a few in the Southern Hemisphere. So the amount of radiation, the amount of material
ejected into the atmosphere, roughly equivalent, we think that the problem with some of these
is that the modeling tends to get into classified materials, but there have been some public
studies, that kind of an exchange. You're talking same level of impact as the asteroid impact at
the end of the Cretaceous that killed off the dinosaurs. So right there is your. Because of what?
Because of the particulate in the atmosphere and shutting out the sun or? Yeah, exactly. That's
the nuclear winter scenario. You get particulates, you get soot ejected into the stratosphere that
causes a tremendous diminution of sunlight and energy reaching the surface. And that's, we have
that's a separate, that's separate than the radiation, completely separate from the radiation.
You're talking about having 30% of the Northern Hemisphere uninhabitable for several centuries,
not to mention all the radioactive dust blowing around and contaminating everything else. So
even assuming you don't have catastrophic ecosystem collapse from the cooling and loss of
sunlight, the radiation is going to be such a severe problem. And that's not even getting to
some of the other issues that we talked about, that obviously that kind of exchange,
you've just destroyed all of the mechanisms of human civilization, forget economies and energy
use and all those other things. The, you know, when you've killed off 2 billion people and destroyed
most of the functioning economies in the world, you know, the people that are left, it's not going
to be a pretty sight. But again, the most likely scenario is you have catastrophic
nuclear winter, you end up with catastrophic ecosystem failures. And that's before you even
get to the radioactive effects and radiation effects. I wanted to have this conversation
with you because I think more people need to understand the seriousness of this risk.
And I was hoping that people would listen to it and think about it and share it.
But I'm just, my initial reaction is I'm going to lose listeners because of this conversation.
Here's the thing. We can do something about this. Okay. We've already, we're going to get to that.
We've already, we've already, and again, it is depressing, but we already did something about
this once. In the 80s, we actually did significant de-escalation. But back to the, the topic at
hand, that big exchange, you get into arguments whether or not it's possible. I think it is
because I think people in the heated moment get dumb pretty fast.
Well, it's at that point though, it's, at that point, it's almost the evolutionary game theory
of spite, which is, oh my God, all these missiles are heading our way. Those bastards, we're done,
we better take them with us. I mean, it's like, it's, if I can't win, I'm going to,
I'm going to lose and make them pay more sort of thing.
So that's absolutely true. And although it does raise an interesting question of during the Cold
War, we came very close to exchanges. And they were prevented not by policy, not by,
you know, brilliant technical systems. They were prevented by single moral and ethical individuals
who said, wait a minute, the consequences of that, I'm not going to follow instructions.
That's the irony of, of the preventing nuclear wars. A lot of times it's people going against
the rules and saying, you know, I don't want it in civilization.
Isn't that just a profound insight that there's this tragedy of the commons and collective
action problems and the cleverness of our species in, and nuclear weapons is, is the pinnacle of
cleverness, trumping wisdom and the super organism and all that. But the things that actually
provide wisdom are at the individual human level. And, and that that's how this has been
avoided in the past.
It's individual human beings making the humane decision.
Could that happen again?
Uh, I think it could. I hope it could. I would like to believe that it could. It scares me that
unfortunately part of the thing that we're discussing, you know, does, I grew up with the
threat of nuclear weapons. I knew what it would do. Are the young officers, the middle grade
officers and middle grade people in the State Department, even at the upper levels, are they
aware? Are they just going to let things go on autopilot? Are they
as frightened of nuclear war as they should be? And I wouldn't, that's, I think, a very important
point is that doesn't mean being paralyzed. It doesn't mean that you just give up and, and
but what it does mean is that you understand at a deep human level. That's what I was referring
to earlier. The problem is it's so easy as an academic exercise. It's horrific. I see it in
myself how fascinating it is that you see the physics, you see the complexity of the problem,
and you start to go down those little rabbit holes, but it's, we're talking about human
life here and the life on this, on earth. And I would like to think that is foremost in people's
minds, but you know, the guys making the decisions in the 80s had to do duck and cover exercises in
elementary school. The guys making the decisions now didn't have to go through that. And I'm not
sure that's a good thing. Okay, two more questions on this topic, and then we'll move on. Number one,
you've just outlined a complex life-ending scenario where thousands of these get
exchanged from multiple parties. But what would, what would a regional war like,
say Pakistan and India with 100 nuclear bombs, not thousands, what would that do to our biosphere
and our planet and our civilization? Something that's not the worst case, but still a reasonably
possible bad case. Yeah, so again, to break it down, you've got roughly 10
nuclear countries in the world right now that have significant arsenals. Of those three,
the big three have the capacity to have the big civilization ending thing. And those are also
have the potential to participate in regional conflicts. So yeah, you could have scenarios
where the US and Russia exchange a few dozen nukes and back off at some point. Again, the
escalation spiral says that that's very risky, but it's all as possible. You've got Israel, of course,
is probably the number four in terms of number of weapons, even though they don't acknowledge it.
You've got England and France both have significant arsenals. You've got India, Pakistan is the one
that people have been looking at in particular. So you do have these nations that are out there
that have the few dozens to 100 scenario. There you get into, again, the prompt effects,
obviously tremendous loss of life. You get a lot of material ejected into the stratosphere.
You're talking cooling of, you know, maybe five to 10 degrees. You're talking about changing northern
hemisphere growing patterns. You're talking about radioactive hotspots. And one of the things that
you've got to be careful with, a lot of the studies are assuming the old way of targeting
with nuclear weapons where you're trying to maximize structure blast damage, more modern weapons,
and in counter force scenarios, you're actually detonating the device at the surface. And I realize
that may sound technical, but it's important because a surface detonation, the fireball,
is vaporizing material and throwing it into the atmosphere. So that throwing it into the stratosphere.
That's very different. So I've seen studies that are trying to use wildfire analogies.
For instance, the big wildfires in Siberia, and there are people saying, oh, well, that's the
equivalent of a few dozen nuclear weapons. And I actually know it isn't, because with modern
targeting and the way that these various nations intend on using their weapons, that material
wouldn't be in the troposphere, low altitude, it would be ejected into the stratosphere,
which causes a lot more of the cooling scenarios. So again, back to the focus on the point is,
you're talking about changing growing seasons. We see what happens when we've got problems with
supply chain. We'll imagine a 30, 40% reduction in the amount of food that was growing in the
northern hemisphere over two or three years. That wouldn't, that would be ugly. Radiation
hotspots, again, those are going to be a factor scattered, a few dozen of those around the world.
So it's even a small quote unquote exchange has planetary consequences. And there, as you just,
as we just said, the number of players expands from just the big three to 10. Plus, there's a
few countries that are, if not ours, in one case that I'm not going to name, are months to years
away from joining the nuclear club. And so that's where the diplomacy comes in.
So here's a tangential question to the focus of today's conversation, which we're going to get to,
which is how to avoid a near term nuclear exchange. But I'm just wondering, with more and more people,
and I'm happy about this part of it, becoming aware of the externalities of humanity functioning
as a heat engine on climate change in the future. There's a lot of people who now and in the future
are concerned that we're on a runaway greenhouse gas pathway and understanding the cooling effect
of a couple of nukes. Is it possible that that becomes some sort of a geoengineering path for
crazy people or rational people in the future? What are these people missing? Can you speak to that?
Or am I just, is that implausible? I've actually heard that in some discussions before,
so I don't think I'm totally off base. No, and it's from people that don't understand the secondary
and tertiary effects, to be just brutally honest. If they hear, oh, cooling, all right, well, okay,
what about radiation? What about particulate fallout? It's just an insane idea. There's
geoengineering plans that don't involve vaporizing and killing millions of people.
If you want to go down the geoengineering route, this isn't the way to do it. And I know there's
people who look at it from population control or unintentional geoengineering. And I've seen
those discussions and I would call them the more fringe environmental movement. And even from some
people that I respect that, I have to say, whoa, stop, have you ever thought about radiation? Have
you thought about the fact that you're likely, even with a small exchange, I saw there was a
cartoon of these dolphins watching a nuclear bomb and they're like, hey, yay, we're free of the
humans. It wouldn't work like that because, again, you start changing the chemistry of the oceans and
collapse the ocean food chain. Who's going to go first? It's going to be the dolphins because that's
their dinner being grown out there. So it's just an insane thing, but it shows how little people
today really understand about the consequences and impacts of nuclear war and why the first part
of our discussion was so vital before we get to the second part is you've got to understand just
how different nukes are. Well, why is that though? I mean, I'm a smart guy. I know a lot of smart
people. I don't know crap about this situation until the last few months. We talked about this
before that it's risk homeostasis, things never happened. So we just kind of adjust our behaviors
to include the things that we shouldn't be doing. But how can the average person be aware of this?
There's so few people that are as knowledgeable as you are. Well, a lot of it boils down to what
happened with the collapse of the Soviet Union because when the Soviet Union collapsed, the US
was left as the dominant unipolar force in the world. So there was really, China was not yet
a major power. They were still at the very beginning of their economic boom and expansion.
You had the Soviet Union broke up. The nukes all went back to Russia, but Russia was consumed with
its internal economic issues and its political stability. So at that time, there was who was
going to watch a nuke at us? Where was the scenario? There was some talk after the 2000s,
well, of a terrorist, but a single terrorist bomb. It's like, oh, that's bad. It kills people in this
one city. But clearly, you're not discussing for one or even two or three devices. You're not talking
about the kinds of consequences we are now with a few dozen or much less hundreds of thousands.
So for a generation or longer, for 30 years, we have had a world where there weren't any real
rational public scenarios to use where the public would, before the Ukraine conflict,
when did people really talk about there being a nuclear war? And it just wasn't,
it's something that people talked about because there weren't any viable scenarios that they saw.
So two things happened. It dropped off the public radar. But the other thing that happened was
the change in our weapons mix that makes nuclear weapons more usable. So those two things happened
completely out of the public perception. Here's the next question. Why do we need nuclear weapons
at all? That's an interesting question. First off, it's the kind of thing that once they were
developed, then it develops an internal logic and an internal self-sufficiency. So I think that the
talk about banning nuclear weapons, I have sympathy for it. It's very idealistic. It's completely
utterly impractical. You know, we have them, we need to learn how to live with them and manage them
because it's just not going to happen to get rid of them. So as we talked earlier about history,
we can see how they got developed. And yeah, it made sense at the time in the 40s, we didn't really
understand radiation and secondary and tertiary. We didn't really understand thermal effects.
That was something that didn't really start to develop until we actually did testing with
nuclear bombs. So we backed into it. We stumbled into a world with nuclear weapons. And so once we
were there, then the logic of the Cold War took over and put air quotes around logic. And so we ended
up with these tens of thousands. And so we hashed through that. Where we are now, and there's a
narrow technical case to be made for them. And you'll see things like, well, you know, they have
military utilization. And I have a real problem with the military utilization because of the
escalation spiral. I would ask two key questions for people that believe that there is a first use
case for nuclear weapons, which is, first off, what's the moral case for using a nuclear weapon
against a non-nuclear adversary? Again, the destruction, the secondary effects. How do you
justify using a nuclear weapon? I've never seen a good ethical argument. Forget international law.
It would also be illegal international law, but that doesn't stop country. So what's the use case
where it makes sense to use them against a non-nuclear adversary? Against a nuclear adversary,
the problem is, well, how do you avoid an escalation spiral? And so it's almost like nuclear weapons
are not usable as long as you have them. And so that seems to be where we're at with we need them
because we have them. And because it's almost impossible for everyone to agree to get rid of them,
then we need to figure out how to reduce the risks and manage them
rather than try to figure out how to get rid of them because it's not going to happen.
But militarily, are there reasons that are budget related or effectiveness related where a
nuclear, small nuclear, tactical nuke is the correct military option? Or I don't even understand
how to praise the question. No, no, that's actually the correct. Is there an operational
application where a nuclear weapon has a unique role that no other weapon can perform?
