yield, which is no one that I know that's not in the business has never heard of dialy yield.
Essentially, you can program a nuclear bomb. So that beat, it's called a B61 is our current air
drop bomb. It weighs 715 pounds. Okay, so compare that to the 2,000 pound little over 2,000 pound
GPU 31. So this B61, it's a third of the weight. And its smallest setting is
300 tons. So its smallest setting is 300 times as powerful as that 2,000 pound GPU. And just
by changing the setting on that bomb, I can increase its yield to 170,000 tons, literally with a few
keystrokes. Okay, so one bomb that weighs 700 some pounds can have an explosive impact of 300 tons
or 300 times our largest bomb conventionally, or not 300, but 170,000 times, depending on how you
dial it. And how does what happens? What's that? Well, yeah, just depending on the settings,
literally with a few keystrokes and configuration changes. What is happening mechanically in
that bomb to make that difference? A lot of that, of course, is classified. But one thing that is
publicly discussed and known is modern weapons are what are called boosted fission devices.
And what that is a fancy way of saying that normal like the plutonium or uranium bomb
is fission. But what you do is you add a little bit of deuterium or tritium gas.
And that when the bomb goes off, the fission bomb part goes off, that causes fusion,
which is the process that goes on in the sun. And it's a little more technical than that because
you're actually it's the fusions only a few percent of the energy, but it's causing more efficient
fission. That's what's called a boosted device. So basically, by controlling how much of that
tritium gas you're injecting into the core, you can change the yield from 300 to 170,000.
So we have we're working MIT and other places to build fusion reactors
for sustainability, low carbon energy, depletion reasons. But we already are using fusion
or hopefully we won't be using it, but the technology exists in our nuclear weapons,
where we're dropping small suns on cities or whatever. Is that right? Yeah, essentially,
you know, that's again, that's a little bit simplistic interpretation. But yeah, that's
basically what's going on. And again, to be clear, the nice the thing about fusion is that
it's more controllable than fusion in a lot of ways. And it's a harder problem to do it as a
sustained reaction. But in terms of with nuclear bomb design, you can use that to control the
yields by the amount of gas that you're injecting. So how big was Hiroshima bomb? About 15 kilotons,
15,000 15 kilotons. And now this dialy yield one, you said is 170,000. So 12 versions. Yeah,
there are actually versions of the B 61 that can go up to into the 300s. 300,000 tons. Yes.
So that would be 20 times a Hiroshima bomb. Yeah. And we have hundreds of those in the world.
Yeah. Yeah. And that was there's stockpiled in Europe, for instance, which is just to mention,
these are small devices. It's not like you've got a missile or a silo. It's just a looks like a bomb.
You put it on any of the number of our airplanes, and you can go deliver a tremendous amount of
destruction. Okay. Okay. We're going to get to the destruction in a minute. Well, the discussion
of destruction. Why would someone want the ability to have an option of 300 tons or 170,000 tons
of impact? Why is it important to have that dial as an option? What does that give you?
It gives you a lot of flexibility. I'm going to put my Dr. Strangelove hat on here and talk about
it gives you so much more flexibility. Let's say that your target is a missile silo. Well,
what you want is the fireball of the nuclear explosion to hit that silo because it's hardened.
In other words, it's going to blast just the pressure wave isn't going to destroy that silo.
You have to hit it with that 3000 degrees Celsius fireball. Well, that 300 ton device would actually
do that. The fireball is fairly small. The fireball would only be 50 or so meters across.
So you hit that silo with that small device, you could actually destroy that silo,
not cause a lot of surrounding damage. The same if you wanted to take out a communication center
or some other very critical piece of military infrastructure. Well, let's say you want to
destroy an airport. Well, an airport, maybe you would want to use a wider setting to make sure
you've destroyed and damaged all the runways or port facility. For instance, you don't want to
destroy 100 yard area in a port. The port of Savannah is several miles in size. So you don't
want to blow up just one small part of that port. You want to take out the entire port.
In that case, you may want to dial it up to 50. Well, if you've got a city, which we shouldn't
do, we've signed treaties that says we're not going to fire bomb cities, but let's say it reaches
the point where you're in an all out nuclear war and you want to destroy a city. Well, in that case,
maybe you dial it up to 170 or in military terms, let's say you've got a large formation of troops
that you want to destroy. Well, in the open, well, maybe you use a 170. So it gives you a lot of
military flexibility. We're going to talk about the impacts. But what about the perception? If a
missile is launched and heading towards a country, they have no idea whether it's a small bomb or
170,000, they don't know what the dial is. So there's like a game theory embedded in all this,
right? And how does that play into this? Yeah, exactly. And as we are want to say,
it's worse than that. The US has just deployed the upgraded version of the W76 bomb, which is
launched from the Trident missile on our missile submarines. Well, it is a dialy yield, and it
can go from 0.3 to 80 or so kilotons. And so the right now by treaty, we're limited to four of those
per missile, but those treaties are going to expire next year. And we can actually get a 14
warheads on that missile, which means we can hit 14 targets. Well, put yourself how do you hit 14
targets with what? How do you hit 14 targets with one missile or even four? That's, yeah, that's
another piece of the wonderful world of nuclear weapons targeting. It's called a Mer multiple
independent reentry vehicle. So what you have in the missile nose cone, you launch it ballistically,
it's headed towards the target. You have what's called a bus, which is a device that holds the
both the bombs themselves, the warheads reentry vehicles, along with countermeasures, because
you want to throw out a bunch of noise and junk so that the other side's missiles, anti missile
systems won't be able to maybe lock on to your to your incoming weapons. So what it does is at a
certain point in the trajectory, the individual warheads detach, they have little motors and
steering veins and can't go into too much detail on that, but they have mechanisms that they can
steer. Today, they're packed, they have GPS targeting. So they can steer themselves so you
can hit targets several hundred kilometers apart with a single missile. And as of next year, our
current treaty, which limits us to four per missile expires, we can put 14, and of course the Russians
can do the same, can put 14 warheads on a single missile. So imagine you've just seen it, you have
what's called a hot datum, you've seen a submarine fire its missile, you don't know whether it's
one 300 kiloton or four 300, sorry, four 300 ton going after small targets or 1400 kiloton going
after your major cities. So doesn't the mere existence of a dial-a-yield situation, it's
almost like a cloaking device that no one knows what's inside that, doesn't the existence of that
lower the threshold for an escalation? It does, and I am adamantly opposed to those kind of systems.
I think, especially when you put them on strategic platforms, because it's bad enough that they're
on aircraft, but when you put them on a missile submarine, it's extremely dangerous, but and
you know, the game theory types, and when you get stove piped, you look at it and go, well,
you know, it's strategic ambiguity and it gives us more flexibility. You don't want flexibility
with nuclear weapons, and there's a very strong reason. Why not? And that's the question. The
reason is, every time we've gained this out, when you start with a small nuclear exchange,
it ends up going and escalating, you get into a spiral, escalation spiral, and you end up using,
going all the way to strategic and you end civilization. Like the Matthew Broderick movie,
Wargames. That movie was actually partly inspired by a real world event that in the early 80s,
there was an exercise that was done during the Reagan administration called proud profit.
And you'll notice there was such a sea change in the 80s. You had Ronald Reagan, anti-communist,
go look at his speeches from the 70s. You're not going to find anybody more staunchly anti-Soviet,
anti-communist, evil empire, tear down this wall. The rhetoric was extreme. Well,
you had Reagan, Weinberger, the secretary of defense. You had Alexander Haig, who came in as
secretary of state. They came in, you're ready just to show the Russians, the Soviets, and I
tried to make a distinction between Soviets and Russians because there is a huge difference. But
so they came in, they were going to show the Soviets what for. Well, they ran this exercise and
their thinking was, well, we can use a nuclear weapon as a demonstration. We can use it and not
escalate. Every exercise they ran ended up in a global exchange. And you'll notice what happened.
It scared the crap out of everybody, rightly so. The rhetoric toned down and then we started talking.
One of the best treaties this country has ever done was the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty.
It had a tremendous beneficial effect of de-escalating the situation in Europe. And we
abrogated it. We pulled out of that treaty. You look at, there's only, the only...
When did we pull out of it and why?
Roughly four years ago, it was during the Trump administration. But the Obama administration
was set in motion pulling out of it. There's been talk, the Bush to the W. Bush administration
talked about it. There's been discussions of pulling out of it for at least 20 years. So
you can't really blame Trump. He just did what everybody else was gearing up to do. And the
reason is, again, based on military flexibility, so that, well, we want to be able to use for
military planning purposes, these small tactical nuclear weapons. And the other argument was,
well, it's only the US and Russia that's involved in it. What about Iran? What about China? What
about North Korea? So the idea was that if not everybody was in it, then we're just going to
pull out, which we can get to the diplomacy side of that later. But I think it was certainly
foolish because if INF were in play today, a lot of this rhetoric about using nuclear weapons over
Ukraine or in Europe, we wouldn't be talking about it. So, right, exactly. So getting back to Reagan,
evil empire in the 70s, and all of a sudden there was a pulling back of that rhetoric and
discussions started to happen. And here, 40 years later, the amount of nuclear weapons in the world
is larger, they're bigger, they're more powerful, they have better technology, and the rhetoric
is totally shifted. Yeah. Well, just to be really clear, the numbers in raw totals are down some.
The problem is the ones we have left are more usable because of the technology.
They're more accurate, which means you're more likely to use it because you're thinking as,
oh, I can hit just what I'm shooting at. Of course, that's not taking into account things like
fallout. It's not taking into account the psychology of it. And it's not, again, the secondary effects
we didn't talk much about. We talked about blasts, but you look at radiation, you look at fallout,
those kinds of things become important when we talk about consequences. But in terms of
the danger, it's much worse because the frameworks aren't in place for the discussions. As you say,
we're not talking, we don't have treaties. We also have an attitude that we can use these
nuclear weapons and not escalate. And again, proud profit showed very clearly in other exercises.
I referenced that one because it's one that's known publicly. But all the analyses that were done
looking at the big picture, it always ends the same way, and that's in a general exchange.
If someone in our government, in the Department of Defense is wargaming out these scenarios now,
aren't they finding the same result that it's going to end in a general escalation?
Or if they are, are they being shouted down or aren't there people that are doing that anymore?
It blows my mind that that's not happening. I think we've lost a lot of institutional memory
over time. And one thing to remember is that at the time of proud profit, I was in my early 20s.
I was one of those kids that got through high school and college a little bit early and ended
up in government service. And I was, again, on the fringes of these things, but I was in a position
with communications and everything. I had a pretty broad picture. And so I was in my early 20s.
The principles were in their 50s, 60s. Even the people that were at the mid-level were in
their late 40s. Well, we're 40 years later. They're gone. They're not in government anymore. They're
not, you know, a lot of them are deceased. So that's where, again, I think I'm a little bit of a
different voice and perspective because I was so young and seeing these things. And of course,
not so young anymore, but anyone who would have been our age more than likely would have not
been in the room on that. I was just lucky because of the position. So I think that there's a loss
of institutional memory. I think within the Pentagon and within the people who plan these
sorts of things, it is well known. The frightening thing is I don't know that the principles in
this case, like our leadership in the State Department, the CIA, the executive branch,
you notice how different the rhetoric is over Ukraine, for instance, between the State Department
and executive branch are being more militant than the Pentagon is being much more reserved
about a lot of issues. And I think there's a good reason for that.
Because they know the potential escalation and impact and civilization risk.
They do. And I think, too, I think people should be a little bit careful with the rhetoric around
Russia right now. And I've heard in the last, as we recorded this in the last day or so,
there's been a lot of talk about, oh, Putin's threatening to use nuclear weapons.
And again, this gets to the whole area of linguistics and understanding Russian culture
and language, understanding anyone else's language. I'm sure we have the same problem
with China and others. It's just unfamiliar with Russia. What Putin is doing is, in my view,
reminding us of the risks. Yeah, there's a little bit of an implicit threat underneath it,
but he's reminding us that, look, this is dangerous brinksmanship. And if you look at
his statements over the last few years, he has warned that escalations in Ukraine could lead to
this point. So yeah, I don't want to get off on that tangent of how we ended up there. But I think
it's important to realize that what I'm seeing is that from the Russian side, they are very aware
of the dangers of this situation. And there's a myth, I know you've got questions about myths
coming up. And I don't know if you want to start hitting those or...
Well, I want to make sure that we articulate the actual risks from nuclear weapons and the impacts.
Yesterday, you and I exchanged an email where you broke it into immediate and then longer term.
And in the immediate, there was shockwave, thermal, and radiation. And in the longer term,
there was delayed fallout in particulate. Could you just unpack this? We summarized it
in a previous discussion that I will put in the show notes for people to listen to, but
just give us an overview of the impacts from nuclear explosion. And then I'm going to have a
follow-up question on a large exchange of lots of them, what that would do.
Right. And so again, the two key differences really with nuclear weapons, dialy yield,
I think that's critical. The other piece is if you look at conventional explosion,
that's 90-something percent of the energy goes into the blast wave, the shockwave that's
destroying buildings. And you get a little bit of thermal heat and fires from it. But
the vast majority of the energy is the shockwave. Nuclear weapons are very different. The first
that we tend to not talk about too much, but it's important is the fireball.
It's literally the temperature of the sun. It's going to vaporize anything within that range.
Fairly small, a few hundred meters across to maybe a kilometer across from the very large weapons.
But I don't want to forget to mention that because the fireball is what's causing all these other
effects. So the shockwave, that blast wave propagates out at first, it's supersonic. It's
actually moving faster than the speed it sounds. You can imagine, you've heard a sonic boom,
well, you can imagine what that's doing on the surface from a bomb blast. And that causes most
of the immediate structure damage. The other thing that happens is the thermal radiation.
It's burning. It's the temperature of the sun. You're taking a piece of the sun and putting
it on the earth. So it's causing flash burns and fires of anything combustible, sometimes 20,
30 miles from the detonation site. So that's a huge thing. So the first thing is the blast wave
tears up the buildings and stirs things up. Then the thermal radiation sets everything on fire.
So you're getting the worst effects of a shockwave and a firestorm. And then the radiation.
One of the scary, fascinating things about nuclear bombs, and particularly this gets to
the small yield. So you look at, say, a B61 that's set for the 300 ton setting,
the blast size is maybe 300 meters across, but the radiation is deadly out to 600 meters.
So that's where some of your older listeners may remember the neutron bomb or enhanced
radiation weapons. Those went out of fashion in the 80s, partly for the reason that it's kind of
creepy that you can set this bomb off and kill people, but leave the buildings and tanks and
things fairly much intact. And so that went away in the 80s. But, you know, just like fashion and
MTV, we're back, you know, it's back to the 80s. And we've now built those weapons that at the time
were speculative. So that's the key things. You've got the shockwave, you've got thermal radiation,
