Let's be really, really clear and honest with ourselves here.
We are at war with Russia under international law.
There's been no declarations of it, but by providing, targeting, by having our military
personnel providing specific intelligence, Russia has every right already under international
law.
Leaving aside the issue of whether the invasion is right or wrong, none of that matters.
The simple point is we are combatants in this conflict.
Today I'm welcoming back to the program my colleague Chuck Watson.
Chuck's been on the show five or six times highlighting geopolitics, war, particulars
about nuclear weapons and the risk homeostasis that we've all taken for granted these last
decades on the nuclear situation, and particularly what's been happening in Ukraine in often
prescient detail over the last couple of years.
Why did I ask Chuck to come back on?
Because we are slowly moving from a proxy war to potentially an open war, and most of
us are kind of asleep.
Things have kind of slowed down in Ukraine, not to Ukrainians they haven't.
We've lost 400, 500,000 Ukrainian humans in this war.
But recently France, Poland, and others are making noise about directly involving their
troops, their equipment moving into the arena, which would potentially trigger Article 5.
Russia would retaliate, and then we are quite potentially off to the escalatory races as
Chuck has talked about before.
So as much as I'm an energy systems finance ecology analyst, I think geopolitics of this
sort is the mother of all risks, and I feel a fiduciary to share what's going on to the
followers and hopefully decision makers among you.
Why should we listen to Chuck Watson?
Chuck worked on the technical aspects of international relations and foreign policy for over 30 years,
detached duty from the US Air Force to the State Department and National Security Council
in the Middle East under Robert McFarland and Donald Rumsfeld.
Then in the 1990s and 2000s, designing foreign aid projects around the world, coordinating
use of declassified Soviet and American Cold War spy data, and more recently climate change
studies and other natural hazard models, all at the intersection of military aid, intelligence
worlds, economics, technology, and foreign policy.
He's one of the few people that I trust on this topic, and I think this is a really important
topic. Please welcome Chuck Watson.
Good morning, Chuck.
Good morning, Nate. It's a wonderful spring day with all the pollen coating everything.
So if I seem reddish or yellowish, it's from the pollen.
I have very sticky hands right now, which you wouldn't know because they're off screen,
because I just had to squish a bunch of grapes to feed them to my ducks because the
full grapes are too big for their mouth, but they love grapes.
With that aside, the ducks and the spring are beautiful, but we are in a world of unseen,
unfelt peril, which those of my viewers that have seen year four or five conversations with me are
aware of. Things behind the scenes are seemingly getting urgent, and I wanted to touch base with
you and bring us up to speed on what's going on and what's relevant. So just as a little bit old
wave backdrop leading up to the present moment, Western leaders have always said this war is
about Russian aggression, and the NATO efforts are defending the international order, democracy,
and the people of Ukraine. Is this really the case, and what is this war ultimately really about
from your system's historical analyst perspective?
Yeah, Nate, that's a great question because if you're going to craft solutions to a problem,
you've got to start with what's the underlying basis. When you get right down to it, this is like
a lot of great geopolitical crises over human history. When you get down to it, it's about
resources, it's about revenge, it's about history. Part of it is there's this attempt to, in order
to get support, and it's a lot about domestic politics, there's an attempt to make this about
this wonderful crusade of democracy and whatever, and also to make it a coherent narrative across
Europe and the US. But Europe, the US, and even within Europe, there are a lot of very distinctive
reasons why this conflict has gone forward, and most of them really don't have that much to do
with Ukraine. Ukraine ultimately is a civil war. Again, we can, you don't have to go back to the
rise of the amphibians like Vladimir Putin does in his three-hour discussions of history,
but it is important to realize that Ukraine, the very name Ukraine, means borderlands in
Old Slavonic, and in Russian, modern Russian, Ukraine means outskirts, and the reason it has
that name is it is a borderland. It's between the Slavic world, Europe, it's, even within the
Slavic world, it's kind of a boundary area, and it's the various parts of it have been controlled
by Poland, by Hungary, Romania, Russia over the centuries. So you've got different cultures,
different histories, so you look at Eastern Ukraine as more Russian-affiliated, Northwestern
Ukraine is more Polish, Southwestern is more Romanian or Hungarian, and so when you look
at how we got where we are and that skip over a lot of that history, it boils down to the collapse
of the Soviet Union. The boundaries of the Old Soviet Republic were used, but it really threw
together a bunch of people who historically are different and haven't lived together. They have
different cultures, different languages, different attachments, and what they could have lived and
wanted to live together peacefully, they were trying to build a federal republic, but quite
frankly the U.S. and West decided, particularly the U.S. and Great Britain, decided that this was a
great opportunity to further weaken and disrupt Russia, and so they took some existing tensions
which would have been worked out domestically, politically if Ukrainians had been left alone.
We interfered, caused it to disintegrate into a civil war, so where we are now is to the underlying
reasons why. Again, resources, and a lot of that boils down to China, and one of the things that I
think we should mention at some point is this Rand report that came out in February. It's pretty
fascinating because it's obsessed with China. You listen to U.S. leadership, there's this
obsession with the rise of China, and of course China is an economic powerhouse at the moment,
but what they don't have are resources. What Russia has are resources, tremendous natural
resources. We've discussed that before, the oil, the mineral resources are an incredible fraction,
you know, food. You look at wheat production and all the things we've discussed in other podcasts.
From the U.S. standpoint, it's about controlling those resources, partly for profit, partly for
our corporations, but a lot of it is a game of keep away because we don't want China to have
access to those resources. You look at some of the other players, France. You look at the French
president now is making some very provocative statements, and that's a lot about revenge,
because Russia has been helping various African countries that were former French colonies to
gain more independence from France. Partly that's a diplomatic move on the part of Russia. It's also
helping China out. It's helping to further compartmentalize, in a way, the world economy
and get it away from U.S. domination, and so that's helping China. That's one reason why
China supports Russia so much is that, you know, not just Russian resources, but Russia is creating
a world where China has more interference-free access to African resources. You look at Eastern
Europe, that's just pure revenge and history. You know, we like to talk about something called
periodization when we do these kind of analyses. Wendy's start history, and in the Middle East,
that's a huge thing, because you start with the formation of Israel. Do you go back to
biblical times? Same thing in Eastern Europe is, okay, who first killed whose family is what this
boils down to, particularly with Poland, because Poland and Russia have a long history of conflict.
Poland and Ukraine, the Polish people in large part, particularly in southern Poland,
they hate the Ukrainians only slightly less than they hate the Russians. The Volian massacre
during World War II is still a very bitter memory on the part of the Poles. And then you look at,
you know, the UK has a long history, the Great Gain. Britain feels like a lot of its fall in
the late 1800s, and problems was as a result of Russia and that competition. And of course,
the Crimean War and the, we have the, you know, the Charge of the Light Brigade, there's a long
history of war between Russia and the UK. And Germany has history as well. And of course,
the recent, with World War II, there's still amongst the German military a certain bitterness
over that. They feel like they should have won and defeated Russia. They feel that, or the Soviet
Union at the time, but they still see it as Russia. And there's a very complex psychology there.
And finally, what's particularly fascinating to me in one way is this, what you would call the
values argument, Western post-Christian values versus the more traditional Eastern European and
particularly Russian values as expressed through the Russian Orthodox Church and the Orthodox
Christianity. So US domestic politics splits out kind of the same way that, you know, Russia's
the convenient enemy. We don't have a lot of economic connections. We can do sanctions against
Russia. It doesn't really hurt the US. It's catastrophic for Europe, but it doesn't hurt,
doesn't really hurt the US that much. China, we can't do, if we did sanctions, serious sanctions
against China, it would wreck the US economy. So again, you get down to why is there war with
Russia? It's the usual stuff, its resources, the high sounding democracy, and those sorts of things
are just a cover. Had we aired this interview, what you just said two years ago, most people wouldn't
have believed it, but you have continually kind of had prescience on what's going on. Let's hope
you don't have too much presence with your articulation of nuclear missiles, or at least
you're worried about that. But I think it's starting to be seen that this narrative of this is about
defending the Ukrainian people and democracy is becoming a little unbelievable, given that
I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have lost their lives by the extension
of this conflict, which apparently was attempted to be a peace treaty made almost two years ago,
and the British government apparently scuttled it. But for me, I like to follow the news,
and I like to think I'm an analytical, clever person that can disseminate signal to noise,
but this particular issue, NATO, Russia, in Ukraine had really opened my eyes,
in thanks to you and half a dozen other people that showed me that what's happening
isn't what we're hearing in the media, and so I've learned that, and I think people that have
listened to your prior conversations have also paid attention to that. Well, let me drill down
on one thing you said so that I can understand it. How does France versus China and access to
resources in Africa, mechanically, what do you mean by that? Like, can you give a tangible example
of how what Russia is doing impacts France economically or in a material resource way?
Yeah, this gets into a whole, we may have to channel Putin and go back in history here at
least somewhat, because if you look at France's relationship with Africa, France had a lot of
extractive colonies in Africa. After World War II, it was forced to give up a lot of those colonies,
but when it did, it did so under extremely favorable trade concessions, and so
in some people call it neocolonialism, there's a fair amount of resentment about it in Africa,
and that France in particular has been quite aggressive in maintaining military forces in
Africa. Of course, there's the famous, the conflicts over Algeria, and that's
a bit of history that folks that are interested should explore, but if you look at particularly
Central Africa, the Francophone areas of Africa, they have a long history with France in the
sense of France dominating their internal politics, manipulating the internal politics
through economic levers to try to keep leaders in place who would maintain that
extractive colonial relationship. So the specific example, of course, would be uranium,
and as we know, France is very dependent on its nuclear energy for electricity,
and where does that uranium come from? Well, there's not a lot of it in France, it comes from
Africa. There could be alternative supplies in Europe, and where are those supplies located?
Oh, let me think, they're in Russia and Ukraine, so you can see where this becomes a real problem
for France in that within France, there's a number of revolutionary movements that are
coming to a fore that are trying to get a more equitable basis of their trade relationships
with Europe and with France. And so more equitable means your profit margins drop,
and you don't have direct control over central resources. So that was one of the points I just
mentioned, resources and control are so critical. And with France in particular has developed a
very toxic relationship with Russia, because Russia through some of its proxy, I say proxy,
some of the corporate paramilitaries like Wagner Group, there's the Z-Force Group is another one,
there's some others that they have been assisting, providing security assistance and training to
a lot of these groups in Africa. And recently a number of countries have thrown France out and
have changed their economic and trade relationships. It's been a cascade across Central Africa.
So France obviously resents that a lot. They have been pumping both material, but also
it's no longer really in Ukraine a proxy war. We're now in a secret open war between Europe,
some parties in Europe, the US and Russia. And a good example that is France. There have been
French foreign legion forces within Ukraine helping with the scalp missile targeting and
providing assistance. Well, Russia eventually got tired of that and hit one of their big staging
areas and killed a number of French, foreign legionaries a few weeks ago, hasn't gotten a
lot of coverage in the West. That may have been the proximate trigger for Macron's recent comments
and the spiral of escalation in that France was using Ukraine to extract revenge against Russia
for Russian diplomatic and security help for these French former French colonies,
which cuts off their potential access to resources.
So getting back to the two wars, there's the
kinetic war and then there's the propaganda media war. We're now getting as usual conflicting
messages about the progress of this war. Russia is weak. Ukraine needs only a little more help to
win. So we send them more missiles and F-16s and funding versus Russia is now about to attack NATO
and Blitzkrieg all the way through Europe. Can you give an update how things stand according to
your analysis and information? Who's winning? Who's losing? What's the situation?
Well, first off, let's be really clear. The big losers in this situation are the people of Ukraine.
The civilians caught in the middle of this. Most of them, the ones in the West probably would
prefer to be under Russia, the ones in the East. And by the way, that was not true 15 years ago.
15 years ago, I think if you look at the Poland, the majority of people in Ukraine wanted to be
an independent country, but not forced to choose between Russia and the West. They wanted economic
ties with Russia, cultural ties. Because I mean, the current, they give me an idea of how crazy
this is. The current head of the Ukrainian military, his parents live in Moscow. His brother,
I think, lives in St. Petersburg or whatever his family is Russian, they now hate each other.
This is a battle of brothers. This is more akin to the U.S. Civil War than it is World War II,
where you have Germany invading other countries. Do we have an estimate of how many Ukrainian
civilians and military humans have died since the beginning?
You know, the numbers are all over the place. My estimate is that in terms of
dead and permanently disabled, it's probably on the order of $500,000 to $700,000.
You can cross check this with, if you look at satellite imagery, you can see acres and acres
of new fresh cemeteries. You can, if you monitor the various social media within Ukraine,
private chat groups, you can't discuss this publicly because the Ukrainian
special forces will hunt you down if you talk about this openly. But if you get access
with your friends and relatives and it's catastrophic, there's tremendous casualties.
And by the way, you don't see that on the Russian side. You're not seeing any indications that
certainly there's casualties. It's probably in the tens of thousands, not in the hundreds of thousands.
So there's a huge asymmetry. And that gets to your question about how's the war going.
By the way, I wouldn't have known that. I wouldn't, based on what I read in the media,
I wouldn't believe what you just said. Well, it's interesting because if you look at BBC, for
instance, and the BBC English Service reports radically different numbers than the BBC Russian
Service does. And the reason is any Russian speaker would look at BBC Russian and look at
the numbers and go, yeah, that's about right, you know, 50,000, something like that. You look at BBC
English and they're saying hundreds of thousands of Russian casualties. But no Russian would believe
