which has evolved over time from a proxy war. And like you said, let's set aside how it started
and all that. But I think we have to start with civil war, proxy war, secret war.
If we go to open war that is not secret, how does that have any hope of resolving in a way that
doesn't have bright flashes? I doubt it, because we're already very close. Where we are now,
there are pathways and it'll be presented as Russia winning, but it's really not
in a lot of ways. It's Russia achieving some of its objectives, but those objectives
and the stability that would ensue if with a partitioned Ukraine, the partitioning Ukraine
is the only way this is going to end peacefully. Because if the conflict continues, neither side
can lose. Well, actually, I should rephrase that. Russia cannot lose this because it's existential
for them. The US could allow Ukraine to go because, again, rand in their seemingly random,
pardon the pun, worldview last year was saying, well, Ukraine's not really a strategic interest
of the US. And they're absolutely right. It's not. So just to clarify, if we go to an open war,
it's no longer secret with or without the US involvement. So it's two separate questions,
part A and part B. What happens then, likely? Yeah, that's a real problem. I don't see, if it ends up
open war, I don't see politically how it stays confined in Europe, depending on the administration,
and that's why the next six months are so critical and dangerous because I don't see
a Trump administration intervening, let's say France and Poland get into a shooting war with
Russia and then try to invoke the NATO treaty. I don't see the US under Trump doing that.
But isn't it kind of likely, based on the tea leaves, that such an intervention by France
and Poland would happen before the US election or not necessarily?
Yeah, I think it has to, because Ukraine may not exist at the end of this year. I know that's
increasingly becoming aware to the US public, but I think that by the end of this year,
it'll be de facto partition. And again, I would not be surprised to see a Polish intervention
in Western Ukraine, but they will studiously avoid attacking Russia. They'll basically move in,
take those areas, and Russia had no intention of going into those areas anyway. That's another
myth, by the way. Russia doesn't want all of Ukraine, they only want the traditional Russian
areas of Ukraine. That's been very clear from their statements.
So again, just to be clear, if we go to an open war with or without the US,
you don't think that it will then be confined to Europe. And then, intentional or not, there are
just multiple avenues of a runaway escalation of response, counter-response, bigger response,
nuclear weapons. So we're on that runway if this gets to an open war.
That's what it feels like. I find it difficult to figure a way that the US could lose
a conventional war in Europe without going nuclear. And again, the conventional correlation of
forces, there's a famous quote from Omar Bradley that amateurs study tactics and professionals
study logistics. The logistics of a war with Russia over Europe just don't work for us.
There was some Princess Bride quote to that effect.
So the implication, Chuck, then, the strong implication, the message that you're sending here
is we have to avoid the open secret war turning into an open war.
Yes, absolutely. And again, there's no-
How do we do that? Is there a reasonable path forward to that?
You know, it's, I think the way you do that, first off, there's domestic, you know,
there's political concerns. Because again, just like with France, in fact, more so than with France,
the Biden administration doesn't want to get stuck with the accusation they lost Ukraine.
And they have an opportunity. Republicans are blocking future aid. It would be very easy
for the Biden administration to do what they're doing and say, you know,
we've got to disengage from Ukraine. It's not really our strategic interest yet. It's bad that
Russia won, but it's the Republicans' fault. But at the same time, they need to tell the Europeans,
look, we're not going to fall for it. We will not, if you intervene in Ukraine without
NATO consensus, you're on your own. And we will not save you if you do that, even if you try to
invoke Article 5, because Article 5 does not apply if you initiate the conflict. So I think that's
you know, and you could do it. You then the French, the Germany actually would go along with this.
Poland would probably be fine with doing something like only Polish forces moving into the traditional
Polish areas. You probably get Romania and Hungary moving into their traditional areas,
like Transcarpathia. Russia would then, yeah, take the rest of Ukraine. We'd have a new iron curtain,
but it would be a very stable situation. It would be a stable situation with respect to nuclear
weapons and a nuclear escalation, but it would be an acceleration of the great simplification for
the European continent economically, right? Would it? Would it? That's the interesting question,
because already tremendous amounts of resources from Russia are still making it to Europe.
It's just now there's a middleman, and it costs a lot more. So you look at during the Soviet era,
where did the very, the big pipeline, what's the word in Russian? That's friendship, you know. So
how long would it be before, first off, the indirect Russian flows are already in progress?
You know, you look at stabilizing food markets and resources. Those resources, given the way
commodities work, and I don't need to be preaching to Mr. Economics and resources, Nate,
but you know perfectly well that if those resources are flowing into the rest of the world,
that's going to help stabilize the markets. And how long is it going to be before a lot of those
barriers in the form of sanctions start being, you know, look at how many sanctions are waived
already to keep it from collapsing. And again, it's to, you know, if China's the big threat,
it would think it would be of the US to allow the situation with Europe to stabilize between
Europe and Russia, just to keep China out. So I think if they're willing to set the emotion
aside, I think that there's a lot to be said for that. I mean, I was raised in a Cold War
anti-communist environment, but it was also made very clear that, yeah, you can do deals with them
if you're careful. Again, Reagan trusts but verify, we could return to that world, and that
would help stabilize Europe. And the simplification is coming either way, but it would certainly
make a soft landing much more likely than a catastrophic collapse and a hard luck landing
at Royal Freighton. Thank you for a sobering update on this situation. Are there any closing
words for our listeners that are worried and aware and paying attention to this situation?
I think the big thing is just be aware of the biases in the media and the reporting and try
to see beyond and see what the underlying motives are. Again, we started this by saying it's not
really about democracy or even a Russian invasion. It's about resource control. It's about history.
It's about revenge. You know, as we often joke about being fire apes, you know, apes that learn to use
fire. I think that kind of blends into it that there are these other and are domestic political
concerns. And again, try to see past that to the fact that, you know, there's that famous 80s song
by Sting. You know, the Russians are people too, and they love their kids, and we all do. And it's
our leadership. And our leadership, sad to say, you can argue that sometimes they act just as
irresponsibly as those in countries that we are, you know, claim that we're enemies with.
So bring stuff. Thank you for sharing your wisdom and perspective. I am hopeful that we
navigate a way out of this without going to open war, because we also have a lot of other
challenges to face as a culture, as a species. We do. And again, there is a way out. It's been
where there's been a way out of this conflict ever since 2014. Everybody knows what it is
politically. You know, it's, you just have, we just have to take that path. And it's a political
fight and political face saving, which again, sadly is the human condition. But, you know,
that's, that's, as so many of our, your guests have said, that's what we're down to. It's
rarely about technical decisions. It's usually about human emotion.
Well, one of these conversations between you and I, I would like to talk about
not war, not Russia, not NATO, but governance systems and what is possible in the future,
given not only the geopolitics, but climate, energy depletion, finance, all the other risks
that we face, what sort of governance systems might be feasible in coming decades? Because I
know you're, you're very interested in that topic and have a lot to say.
Yep. And that's part of our problem is that, that's why our podcast ends up being so long
is because we have lots to say and you have great questions and perspective. And, you know,
it's a, it's interesting stuff, even if it is scary.
This one was supposed to be 20 minutes. So we, we went over a bit, but thank you for, for your
continued sharing and, and trying to make this situation resolve.
Thanks. Take care.
