that or no Russian speaker would believe that because there's no secondary signs of it. You
would see it. You would see the reports of families. You would see, again, if you're an analyst like
me that has access to high resolution satellite data, you would be looking and going, where's the
cemeteries? You know, it's just not there. And so that's where this gets so poignant that I think
is so critical. You know, the problem is, I say stuff like that. And as you know, in the early
days, and I withdrew from public speaking about this to a large extent, because you were immediately
trashed as being some Russian Putin fanboy or, you know, Russian agent or something. And I had
people asking me how much the KGB was paying me, which, of course, bust out laughing because KGB
is internal security in Russia now. I'd correct them and say it's the SVR that's the foreign
intelligence service. And then they get even more angry because you know so much about Russia. You
must be a Russian, anyone who knows anything about Russia must be a Russian agent, seems to be the
logic of the day. But, you know, that's a real problem.
To point it out, you were a Russian expert when you worked for the U.S. government back in the
day. And I'll just say for the record, I know that you would rather not do these conversations.
And we discussed yesterday about how urgent things are. And you felt fiduciary to share this
information, because all we can do is what we can do. We're just a couple of humans that care about
the future of complex life. And that's why we're trying to share this information with other and
hopefully rational minds can integrate this and result in better decisions. But sorry to interrupt.
Keep going. No, I think, Nate, that's a great point. It's probably worth
spending a few seconds here to discuss that. Because, you know, a lot of people that are
speaking out on this, I say a lot, there's some, and I don't want to name names, but they are
Russophiles. I mean, they, you know, they like Putin. They like, and I don't want to say authoritarian,
it's a little, you get into political arguments over things. But, you know, I study, I was
being trained as what we used to jokingly call ourselves demonologists, you think, to study the
Soviet Union. And yeah, there's aspects of Russian culture and the language is fascinating. And
that's, that's an aspect of it. But, you know, I'm an American. I love this country. I love my
civilization. And I don't want it to go up in a bright flash of 3000 degree light. And so,
you know, it's like most cultures, you know, understanding a culture, understanding a world
leader doesn't mean you agree with them. It just means that you're trying to see what they're,
whether or not their arguments are valid and demonizing the other, as you well know, is a
long human technique to try to gain support for conflict. Because inherently, you'd walk the
streets of Moscow, you talk to people, guess what, their concerns are no different from the
average American. And you go and you crane the same way. And to get to you back, you know, get back
to your question about who's losing, again, the people of Ukraine, because, and you ask about
casualties, because they're caught in the middle. It was a civil conflict that could have been resolved
peacefully. Because of outside interference, it turned into a civil war, which evolved into
a proxy war briefly. But now it's a secret war, in essence. Yeah, Ukrainians are largely the ones
fighting it. And by the way, on that point, I do need to sneak in here. You know, the majority of
the casualties and the majority of the forces fighting in Ukraine, on the Russian side, are
Ukrainian quote unquote, they're the militias of the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republic,
which are now part of Russia. But it's those militias that originally formed in 2014 to resist
the attempt to derusify what Eastern Ukraine, they're the main ones fighting. So essentially,
you could argue they're fighting for their own liberation. Wait a minute. So a substantial or
even a meaningful percentage of Russia's forces engaged in this war are from the Eastern Oblast
Ukrainian regions themselves, fighting against what were not so long ago, they're their own
countrymen. Exactly. Yeah, that's one of the dirty little secrets of this conflict. You go back to
2014. Now, what you'll hear is, oh, well, these, what Ukrainian national, ultra nationalists who,
by the way, are largely from Western Ukraine and are actually largely of either Banderas or Poland's
affiliate, but that's a different argument. If you look at the way that, the way this
shaked out in the way that the revolution in 2014 started, it was indigenous. And Ukrainian
nationalists will say, oh, it was Russians that were infiltrated from Russia. It wasn't real,
quote unquote, Ukrainians. Well, then what are you going to say about their current,
the current head of their military? His family lives in Russia?
I want to continue on this question of who's winning and who's losing and what's the current
situation. But I wanted to briefly recap a story. You know, I was just in India. I was in a town
called Auroville, which is an international community to begin with. But I met people there
from Russia, people from all over the place. And it's in times like that that there's this
fellowship of humans that realize that our governments are crazy and there's power dynamics,
but they just like music and good food and community and the same things like you were saying
everywhere. But what was interesting is of the three Russians I met in India,
two of them, when I first met them, they were staying at my little hostel.
They introduced themselves and said they were from Germany. And I said, oh, it sounds like you
have a Russian or Ukrainian accent. Well, yeah, I'm living in Germany now. They were afraid knowing
that I was American to introduce themselves as Russians. And after a day or two, we became
fast friends. I went biking with this woman, Olga, often learned a lot about their culture.
They're the same as people in Wisconsin and Minnesota at that level was my take. Anyways.
No, that's absolutely right. And in fact, that's that was kind of the point. And why,
you know, when we start our discussions, we'll end up talking about the pollen or the cats or
something like that. And, you know, that's how most discussions between two human beings,
whether they're Chinese or Russian or German or whatever.
And this is what, well, we would normally talk about dogs. In your case, it would be cats. But
this is what ultimately gives me hope is deep down, there is a brotherhood of the common human being.
It's, it's, there's the scaffolding of the war and the power and all that that is imposed,
especially in a, in an era where we've come accustomed to a huge amount of energy surplus.
And that may be flattening or declining. So that in that that that energizes our,
our in group, out group dynamics. And that's what's going on right now. But it does give me
hope there are Ukrainian people who follow and comment on my podcast. And I have to copy paste
and put it into Google translate to see what they're saying. But there is a an awakening of
humanity of the stakes of our times that does continue to give me hope, despite all these,
these bottlenecks ahead of us. Sorry for that. Please, although it's important, I think, please
get back to the current situation. I guess there are three things, right? There's the proxy war,
there's you just referred to it as an open secret war. And then there's an open, not secret war,
but an open public war. Are we headed there? What's the situation?
Well, you look at Macron's comments recently, and this is hard to say what's going on and how
much real support there is for this. But Poland has been negotiating with Ukraine for the last
18 months, basically, about moving their own forces into and apparently there are already
significant Polish forces in the former Polish areas that are currently part of Ukraine.
And there's a lot of fear on the part of Ukraine that if they let Poland in, Poland's never going
to leave. And the Poles have said, yeah, once we're there, we're not leaving because it's
our land, it's our people. So, you know, the French going in, and you know, it's hard to,
I suspect that a lot of this is either laying the groundwork or testing the waters. If it happens,
first off, it's important to realize that even the Poland has significant military forces
on their own, neither Poland or France have the ability to stand up against Russia alone
or combined with Ukraine. Again, you don't get this impression here in the West, but
Russia probably has still 75% of their combat potential in reserve. You look at their people
here go, oh, they're having to buy artillery from shells from North Korea. They're being very smart.
The domestic protection is being stockpiled and the stuff they're getting from North Korea and
other sources are what they're using operationally, which is they're building their combat potential
on the assumption they're going to have to face off against NATO in some way.
And that's a scary thing, but it's also important to realize because what Poland and France in
particular and probably the UK as well, they're looking to, they are afraid that the US is pivoting
away from Ukraine. You look at Victoria Newland leaving and unfortunately, I can't remember his
name just off the top of my head that the guy who was appointed to replace her, he's very much a
China hawk. So he feels the real conflict is with China and this whole thing with Ukraine is just
a distraction. Whereas Newland because of her Eastern European connections and for a lot of
reasons was very aggressive in saying that no, it's about Ukraine. So her leaving is an interesting
sign. You even look at Lindsey Graham in the last day or so has been saying things that
seems like he's positioning himself to abandon Ukraine. And he's the guy that was saying
dead Russian is a good Russian or some crazy stuff like that. Oh, I've got a video of him
singing a Nazi era song with a bunch of band terrorists in Ukraine a few years ago. I doubt
he knew that's what he was singing, but the guy, he's really flipping. Now he's saying, well,
you know, we can't give just the last night, I saw a video clip this morning. I guess he made
these comments yesterday. He was saying that, oh yeah, Ukraine, we can't be giving them money.
It's a loan and they need to be, we need to make sure they can pay it back.
And how the hell are they going to pay it back? Well, and that's the whole point because by
saying that he's essentially saying we can't give them more money because everybody knows that
there's no way that's ever going to happen. So that's laying the groundwork to go, gosh,
we'd like to help. But you know, we have, and he was talking about our $34 trillion of debt and
how we can't be giving money to Europe or to, or to Ukraine. So he's, he's changing.
And if you lose a major shift, that's a huge shift. Again, Newland leaving. And I apologize,
I can't remember the gentleman's name, but he's a well-known China emphasis. It's,
you know, the song, all the signs are the US is getting ready to abandon the Ukraine.
And what actually abandons the world, what the US wants to do is turn it over to Europe,
and particularly to France and Poland and the UK. Germany, it's a little bit of a different story,
but the problem is the French military only has artillery reserves for three days of combat with
Russia. And then they're out of ammo. You look at Poland, you know, Poland would be the front lines.
And so the Poles are going, well, wait a minute, you know, if war starts with Russia, then, you
know, you know, we're on the front lines and we're screwed. So I think where this is headed is
Macron's comments and the Polish comments, if they start something, it's not with the objective
of taking on Russia. It is with the objective of trying to draw the US in, which raises an
absolutely vital point, the NATO treaty. There's a widespread misunderstanding in this country.
It's the NATO treaty is simplified. And even political leaders have said, well, it means an
attack on one is an attack on all. That's actually, you're talking about article five, article five.
That's not what it says. If you read the gory details and the actual legal basis for it,
it's a lot more complex than that. So for instance, if France went into Ukraine,
then that's them unilaterally without NATO authorization or consensus because it's a
consensus organization. If they go in, and of course, Hungary would never approve a NATO
action in Ukraine. So let's say that France goes in. Well, Russia would be not just within
its rights, but strategically and strategically, it would make a lot of sense for them to start
striking French manufacturing sites in France, start attacking French bases that were providing
logistical support perfectly legal under and not just legal, that's the norm under international
law. Well, then France would start screaming, you know, NATO article five. Well, no, because in
that case, it's not, it would not be an unprovoked attack on France. And again, the article five
specifically says that the parties will consult. It doesn't say they will intervene. So the U.S.
would have every would not be violating the treaty by saying, yeah, you know, we looked at this,
you started it, it's not our problem. So let me understand this. So Ukraine is doing much worse
than the public stories have been, which means that the NATO efforts in Ukraine are doing worse
than than we've been seeing in the media. France and Poland and maybe some others want to aggressively
get involved because by doing that, they kind of forced the U.S. to get more involved at a
time when it seems like U.S. is pulling back its unanimous support, and we have a big election coming
up, and there's Taiwan and other issues. And is that going to work? Are they going to pull the U.S.
in? It seems to me that if we get to the point where Russia is attacking physical infrastructure
in the country of France, are we off to the races then with escalatory back and forth things that
end in Archduke, Ferdinand times a thousand? You know, that's interesting. And again, it's a lot,
you know, there's a difference. In fact, let's be really, really clear and honest with ourselves
here. We are at war with Russia under international law. You know, there's been no declarations of it,
but by providing targeting, by having our military personnel providing specific intelligence,
Russia has every right already under international law. You know, leaving aside the issue of whether
the invasion is right or wrong, none of that matters. The simple point is we are combatants in
this conflict. Russia has every right to shoot down our intelligence aircraft. They have every
right. They could actually start bombing our port facilities because we're providing logistical
support. All port facilities in the domestic United States? Yes. Under international law,
again, just not making value judgments about anything. The reason they're not, of course,
they're deterred because we have nuclear weapons and our leadership is bonkers and would immediately
go berserk if that happened. So there's a practical reason why they're not doing it.
Legally, they would be fully justified. So when you start to talk about a French intervention,
I would expect that they would not strike directly in France unless they had to because
they can probably kill off any French forces that are sent into Ukraine. And Putin has demonstrated
in the Russian leadership, we shouldn't speak all about Putin because, yes, it's very centralized,
but it's a complex leadership structuring. That's one of my pet peeves about the way it's reported
here in the West is if you talk about the US, you talk about Biden, but then immediately people
talk about the Republicans and the Democrats and our convoluted political structures. Well,
Russia's political structures are somewhat simpler, but he's still under tremendous pressure from
nationalists and it's not as simple as Putin decides and it happens. So let's be really fair
about that. But Putin and the Russian leadership are being pretty measured and their strategic
patience in this has been our saving grace so far because legally, they could strike at
German, Polish, French, US facilities, particularly British facilities. Now,
real quick before I forget because I think this is an important point that,
you know, I don't know. I think with France, they're talking big. I think to make Germany look bad,
to improve their leverage. And when this falls apart, France will be able to say,
we wanted to save Ukraine and couldn't. Poland, I think, wants to grab those Northwest
areas. I think they want to, they're walking a fine line between how they do that without
creating a wider conflict with Russia. So it's a very complex nuance situation. The problem is
and the scary thing to get to our, I think our key wrap up point here is how dangerous it is
because through this whole conflict, the rhetoric of Western leaders has gotten so far ahead of our
actual potential in the conflict. And so Macron talking like, yes, we're going to intervene in
France. Nobody seriously thinks that a French full effort military intervention in Ukraine would
be successful. It would end up slaughtering a bunch of French military people. It could potentially
bring havoc on France. Yeah, it would hurt Russia, but Russia could survive it. Same with the Polish
intervention or, you know, Baltic interventions, you know, yeah, Russia could sweep through
the Baltics if they wanted to. It's just the problem is these leaders are talking big to try to
position themselves for when Ukraine collapses. At what point does your rhetoric paint you into
a corner? And that's my fear with the Biden administration. And that's a little bit less
in with the departure of Newland. I think there's, talk about how do we get out of this? I think the
way that we, one way we get out of this is, you know, with the Biden administration politically,
they've got a great opportunity to say, oh, you know, we wanted to help Ukraine, but the
Republicans blocked it and it's all their fault. And France, I think, is playing that same game to
an extent. Yes, they're angry about Africa. They're scared about their resources. You know,
are they so delusional to believe that an intervention would be successful? I hope not.
So we are in an open secret war right now. We being NATO in the West against Russia,
