I don't know if they would think that and they might totally think they would.
We literally do not have the mental capacity to make that decision for ourselves,
much like those toddlers don't.
I mean, maybe.
We may physically not have the capacity because we cannot grasp the things that they're trying to
say, much like a toddler just wouldn't be able to grasp why this is beneficial for them.
Sure. I mean, this sort of relates to my one beef with one of the things Neil deGrasse Tyson
always says when he talks about aliens finding intelligent life on earth.
And he's like, oh yeah, look at Stephen Hawking. He can do complex
higher order mathematics in his head, just like a little four-year-old Timmy over here.
And he jokes that we'll stand in relation to them like we do to ants.
And I don't know... And so they'll... I think I might be butchering the rest of his quote or his
point, but he talks about how they won't feel like we're intelligent.
I strongly disregard that because there's definitely a difference between what we're doing
and what ants are doing and what ants are doing and what rocks are doing.
At the very least, they'll find something interesting here, even if it's super boring to
their standards. Even if something that their lower order pets are operating at the same level
we are, they're still going to say that's super rare and awesome.
I just hope they have an ethical theory close enough to mine to say,
let's let those humans make their own choices. Even though we don't think that they are qualified
to do that. I think the main reason we do it for children is because we know that
the children will grow up and we want them to not die. So we impose our will on them anyway.
But I mean, you could make that same case for the aliens. They're like these stupid humans are
going to die if we don't upgrade them. I don't know, it's just different with children because
I'd go to jail if I didn't try to keep a child alive.
That's a very different kind of argument.
Yes, it is.
I just don't think that differences between IQ are the same at every level.
A child versus you is not the exact same thing as you versus someone with 100 or 200 extra IQ
points. I agree, but were you raising any religious context?
So how would you compare yourself to God in terms of being able to understand anything?
The way you understood God earlier?
Well, as a religious person, you are supposed to say that you can't understand anything about
God hardly at all. It's not inconceivable that a highly advanced race would be as unto God.
But now that I'm not religious, I don't take those mystical,
mysterious ideas seriously anymore.
Okay, so you don't think there's a level past what you could comprehend?
There's definitely things that I can't comprehend, but I don't need to be able to
understand really complicated things in order to have respectable autonomy, whereas a three-year-old
is missing something that is not just inability to understand complicated things.
They're missing something much more related to basic ability to reason.
I think this is one of the reasons I shouldn't have children,
because that would be like, okay, little Timmy, I'm not going to violate your bodily autonomy.
You may run in that street if you want to. I'll just tell you, I think it's a bad idea,
but I also get the impression that if I, based on the other adults I've seen,
that if I were to have a child, all of a sudden those values would change.
And I would be like, get your ass over here, Timmy, or I'll beat you,
because I don't want you to die.
So I maintain that, like with my alien example, I think if God wanted to,
God could convince us of whatever reasons that he had for whatever, right?
So the idea that it might be inscrutable to us, I think, is just hand-waving,
we don't know, kind of thing, what we talked about. It's not supposed to make sense.
You would think that, hey, if you're really as smart as you're, tell yourself you are,
tell us that you are, you could dumb this down for me, right?
Yeah.
What if it forced you to have a phase shift into some sort of spiritual
entity, and you like your physical body?
I mean, well, I'll get back to that in a second, but I wanted to say that,
I think what Shelley was getting at is I think the next important part,
that you can have kids with really high IQs.
That test, they can do things that their peers can't, and that's how they measure IQs.
And I think that running with just that number is not really the most useful metric,
because a lot of other stuff comes along with, like, I think this was on the air.
Taryn, in a previous episode, you and I and him were talking about coming online as a sentient
adult. Kids don't have that, right? So part of that is, or that's a big part of what it means
to be a rational agent. I don't know if that's the main ingredient, or even the biggest,
but it's definitely part of it. The idea to reflect on the fact that not just that things
are happening to you and responding to them, but to be aware of like, oh, I'm currently thinking
about what's happening around me, and I'm thinking about how I'll respond to it,
that's a different level of existence.
When you were a child, you couldn't imagine that being beyond that level of existence, right?
Yes.
And so there is, hypothetically, maybe a level of existence beyond what we're at now,
which we can't imagine. Hypothetically, but I'm not sure that it makes good
sense to assume that there is. No, I don't, I agree with you, but I'm just talking about
hypothetics right now, that there could be a situation where we want someone to
respect our bodily autonomy in a way that we don't for lesser beings.
I think now I'm capable of understanding the argument, look, I really just can't explain
this to you because your mind is literally incapable of handling it. Whereas a kid,
I couldn't understand that argument, right? So if God came to me, or if a transhuman
person with a five-digit IQ would have told me, hey, look, I really just can't explain this to
you, but trust me. And I'm capable now of at least acknowledging that kind of sentence
that's sort of thought. Whereas before, I'm just like, nope, needles hurt or whatever, right?
If you ask me if I wanted to get vaccinated or something. I don't know if there's that much
more to it. I mean, on the plus side, I don't strongly anticipate us running into that situation.
I do see us getting there along the gradual path, probably, or at the very least something
that we do to ourselves, not that is imposed on us from the outside.
And I personally just think that the ingredients necessary for having autonomy that should be
respected is reason and self-aware sapience. And you really don't need to have powerful,
cognitive abilities beyond just what's necessary for those things.
But maybe there's a secret third thing that none of us know about because none of us have it.
Well, in that case, screw that thing.
Cool. That is also the conclusion I finally went with, mainly because I like who I am right now.
Yeah. And I don't know if it was the right answer, but it's the answer I like.
Whoever these super intelligences are that would consider that necessary,
they don't just don't have the same values as I do.
Well, I mean, the whole, we were talking a lot in the terms of we, but it could very well be
a different section of we. It could be like the we that grew up on Mars discovered this technology
first, and now they're still human and they're trying to impose this on the earthlings and
there are things that don't want it. I mean, so I get very similar values since they both,
they grew up human as well. I get the challenge you're trying to make,
but I feel like in that situation, just to run with it as presented,
that you'd get some number of volunteers from earth who would say, no, no, trust me,
you know, I'm going to go try this. Just let me see it. Let me tell you, it turns out,
I go, I'm gone for an hour and I come back. I'm like, you know what, it's actually pretty awesome.
And I'm still the same me. I can answer the same questions. And now I have this mission,
this really cool sense that I can't explain to you. And I'm sure most people will be convinced
by that, but there's going to be some tiny fraction hold out of Amish people who are like,
I lack my lack of zippers and I'm going to stick with it. So that I'm actually, I'm torn with,
like I used to, when I grew up, I thought like the Amish community ideal was kind of like quaint
and cute. And then I realized like, no, kids are like dying of splinters. And so I'm sort of not
in favor of that. So what we're, again, we're, we're hammering on the same difference. I'm not
sure if we disagree on anything, but we might, but like the difference is that like, if an adult
decides, you know what, fuck this, they throw their phone in the river and they're going to just go
live in the woods, cool, go for it. If they drag their kids with them, then we have a problem,
right? Because the kids aren't capable of consenting, but they're, they don't have the autonomy to
disagree. There's, I think a huge barrier that we're regarding a difference like in, in kind of
like minds, right? Now I get like, there could be some third stage here, but I don't...
So not to get all...
I might have just turned my position around.
Not to get all incendiary on you, but in that case, would it be child abuse? If you had a child
that was deaf and you could correct it with a cochlear implant, but you wouldn't because you
grew up deaf and you want them to have the same culture?
I mean, so you're choosing an example that happens to have a real life component to it,
which makes my answer inflammatory, but no, no, but I'll go for it and I'll say yes. I mean,
consider the alternative where you were born deaf and you, the reason that you like it and value
is because you developed this really cool community with people that have the same struggle that you
do and it was valuable to you growing up, but your kid's born as a hearing person and you're like,
I want the new raised deaf and you, you know, grab a chopstick and pop their ear drums or
something, right? So that's child abuse. I don't see how, so like that's the same example as raising
the kids IQ versus not, or, you know, whatever, right? The one from the simplified transhumanism.
So I definitely would see them not necessarily as equivalent because one, you're, you know,
harming and it takes a different kind of person to harm somebody, et cetera, et cetera, but I see
the outcomes as basically the same. You're subtract, like imagine the alternative, like,
I mean, if you want to raise them with adversity and have them have that cool community,
why do you just stop at deafness? Like, why don't you take their eyes out too, right? So like,
that's all kinds of adversity. If adversity makes you a stronger, better person, imagine having no
hands, no eyes and no ears, right? So I mean, how far do you want to turn this up until like, no,
okay, that's, that's got enough nightmare fuel for now. Thank you. I'd slightly modify that by
saying like, in the case where you have to actually make an effort to get them to a plant,
then there's like money and then there's the time and there's the risk. There's always risk with
surgery. But still, I would say in general, like, choosing not to do it is the bad, the wrong choice.
Yeah. And I don't feel like in situations, especially like with cochlear implant, that
you're, that's your true objection that I think surgery is unsafe, right? That's not, I don't
think that's even the objection they would give. They would just say, I don't want my kid to have
them. That's it. I'm the parent. I think choosing not to do it is the wrong choice as well. But I
think that the parents autonomy and wishes should be respected.
What about the Amish kids? Dying with splinters?
Yeah. I mean, it sucks to be that Amish kid, but they signed up for it by being born into an Amish
family. As long as you're willing to acknowledge how unfair that is, and run with that to the
bottom, then that's fine. Okay. And I would also mention that, although I think that being, that
being able to hear is better than being deaf, it's not like a huge negative to be deaf.
That's true. It's a small. It's a soft example. That's that. I mean, you are losing,
some major components of happiness. Some people like music, and we won't have that.
It's also weird because while I'm like, it's okay for the Amish kids to die of diseases,
even though that sucks, if there was a religion that tortured children or sexually abused them
or something, I'd be like, nope, your religion gets to die now and all your children are being
taken away. But if nature abuses them because of their religion, then it's thereby magically okay?
Yeah, I don't know, man. All right. Well, it's because of the virtue ethics side of things,
the intuition that most of us have, even if we are not virtue ethicists,
that it matters what kind of person you have to be psychologically in order to do those things.
Yeah. I mean, I can easily imagine a couple who love their daughter walking up a volcano to throw
her in, right? I mean, you can be, I think, a psychologically healthy person just with a bunch
of stupid ideas and do bad things to your children. I mean, I don't know where Aristotle
would draw the line there. I really don't think that cultures that brainwash people into child
sacrifice are simultaneously preserving their psychological health. Maybe not across the board,
but as far as how much they love their kids, I think that if you really thought, I mean,
it's going back to the priest killing babies, right? Well, yeah. So if the priest really loved
babies and he really believes what he is preaching, that seems like a great thing to do, right?
And it would, if anything, mean that he just loved them enough to do it.
Yeah, that he was willing to sacrifice his own eternal afterlife to save so many babies.
And also he'd be really screwed up psychologically.
Yeah. I mean, to take it to a real example of that happening, I was raised Jehovah's Witness and I
don't, I think they may be getting a little easier on the blood thing, but while I was
raised Jehovah's Witness, you couldn't get blood transfusions because that was a sin.
And there were a bunch of kids that died. There were court cases that went to the Supreme Court.
Can we, can we force the kid to get a blood transfusion over their parents' objections
and even over the kids' objections? Because the kid's like, I don't want to sin against God.
Don't give me no blood. So yeah, I mean, that actually does happen. It's the modern equivalent
of throwing someone in a volcano. You're killing a kid for no good reason aside from this like,
spiritual bullshit. Yeah. And I, I think they're psychologically unhealthy for doing that,
but I don't necessarily know if that's a popular opinion. Like for the most part,
people will be like, no, they're just having their religion let them do their thing.
I don't want to turn this into this whole big anti-religion circle.
Most of the court cases where the kid is not old enough to make that decision on their own and
the parents do not get to kill their kids. So we're going to force the blood transfusion on them.
Solid. That was really helping. That was the case, but I didn't want to ask in cases the
other way and I don't get bummed out. So yeah, I mean, that to me makes the most sense, right?
Like we talked about like with the kid getting a vaccine. The kid doesn't know and like the kid,
you know, a five year old is not old enough to like be a Jehovah's Witness, right?
Don't have to be told they're Jehovah's Witness, but not old enough to be one.
I, there was a story when I went to church once about a kid who was, went on, you know,
on trial to project the being forced to get a blood transfusion for religious reasons.
And the judge turned the kid and said, name the first five books of the Bible.
And the kid couldn't do it. And he was like, no, don't believe you. You got to get a blood transfusion.
And since then, like all of us memorized the first five books of the Bible were like,
Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, yeah, you know, because you never know when a judge might ask you
so they can force a blood transfusion on you. That's hilarious. Yeah.
And I don't even think that's a particularly good test, but no, no, it's not.
But that was what we heard in the, in church.
