All the decisions that matter.
Well, not even.
I mean, like how I treat the people I love matters.
All the ones that can end in disaster.
Yeah, exactly.
All the ones that like literally will end in the world.
So like, it'd be really cool if, you know, all right, there's an asteroid coming and we can,
as a, as humanity scramble and see if we can take care of it and solve it.
But if we can't, we're all dead or, you know, God could just step in and move it.
And so it doesn't clutter there.
But then it doesn't matter.
Why not just not even bother trying to stop it?
Because, you know, God will take care of it.
Well, all your efforts are just an exorcism.
It's your size in play.
It literally doesn't matter if you do anything or not.
All your efforts to save the world.
Like I would rather, I would rather have that choice taken out of our hands
than have the overwhelming likelihood be that we would fail to do it.
That's right.
I would.
I mean, I guess because I think for me, like my terminal bad value is the end of the human
species or the end of the end of sentient life in the universe, right?
I think it's actually quite immoral to say I want there to be the chance of horrible
things happening because I need to be a hero.
Yeah, dude.
What the hell?
I got my white savior thing going on again.
My bad.
Actually, in the, I think it was in the fun theory sequence that
Eleazar Yakevsky wrote this part of an article, this sentence.
Like he talked about how he is a hero.
He really wants to be important.
But he also says, you know, should we then have put a baby at risk and the mother at
risk of the baby dying or whatever it was?
I forgot the scenario.
Involved a mother, I think.
Should we have people put at risk so that we can save them?
No, no, we should not.
And I feel that, yes, you probably are really on the wrong side here.
Really?
You're going to get a lot of angry listening feedback this episode.
You're really attracted to the hero scenario, to the point where you're tempted to put
people in danger so you could save them.
I am not going to admit to that on the microphone.
I didn't necessarily take your position as like, I want to be the hero, not even you
personally, but just like the idea that.
Humans should be saving themselves.
Yeah, or that there's no safety that makes us the ultimate arbiters of our well-being.
That is, I can see the appeal on some level.
I think there's a loss of dignity.
Yeah.
I mean, there's also a loss of dignity in everybody dying, right?
Right.
I mean, yeah, I guess then it comes down to what's more important to loss of dignity
or everyone dying.
That's sort of.
I think maybe this is my version of your bodily autonomy thing.
That some things are more important than good consequences.
We were talking earlier about that logical.
Yeah, not non-consequentialism.
Some categorical imperatives that are important for their own sake,
even if they have bad consequences, shit.
I understand you now.
This is awesome and awful.
I hate understanding other humans.
So I'm going to take this even to a more controversial level
and hopefully we'll get lots of hate mail and then you'll be like,
sorry, Shelly's never come back on the podcast.
Now I'm really excited.
Not because you'll never be back,
because I'm really excited to see what you get to possibly be that inflammatory.
Okay, so it's along the lines of don't make people need you so that you can be the hero
and be needed by them and so you can swoop in, right?
Yeah, it seems like a bad thing.
So don't make children because the definition of a child is someone who needs to be
parented.
I was going to say the whole teach a man to fish thing.
And then it makes me think of that Ron Swanson quote,
give a man a fish and defeat him for a day.
Teach a man to fish and he'll feed himself.
Fishing is not that hard.
He's an adult.
So yeah, okay, so you're bringing this to-
So imagine that you can create new people in the matrix, the uploaded world.
Are you going to create them with adult minds?
Or are you going to create them as people who need to go through a childhood and become adult?
Not all of childhood was terrible for me.
I mean, but the parts that make it, definitely a childy, right?
The parts that make it a childhood and not just existence?
There was a fantastic novel called The Golden Age, I think, by John C Wright,
who later went crazy.
But at the time, he wasn't, he was crazy at the time too,
but he was crazy in a different way.
Anyways, in this novel, they live basically in a sort of uploaded state
and they can interact with reality too,
but they can create their own worlds.
And there is a character who creates her own world where everyone is a child who is
psychologically dependent on her and will never grow up.
And it's kind of horrific.
It's like the children that locked their,
or the belts that locked their children in the basement, right?
Psychologically retarding millions of people
because she likes being this mother character.
And it's considered a huge crime.
They kick her out of society and everything,
but that reminds me of what you're saying.
I'm not okay with that forever.
I'm not okay with that for 18 years.
I'm probably not okay with that for a month.
Not okay with that for a month.
Yeah, I would say if there are certain processes that have to be gone through
in real time in order to actually form a mind,
then go ahead and have those lived through.
But otherwise, let's pop you up to adulthood.
That's sort of what I was going to say,
that as long as it's currently necessary,
that I'm totally on board with it,
kind of like if I needed surgery to save my life,
but it was going to make me bedridden for a month,
I would be totally fine being dependent on somebody.
Obviously, I wouldn't want them to hurt me,
so I had to stay in bed for a month so they could take care of me.
That sounds like a different thing.
I do see what you're saying.
There's no particular reason it has to take 18 years to get to being an adult.
So why draw that out for 18 years?
And at that point, how long is it immoral to force people to be children?
Let's maybe apply this to the current reality,
where of course you don't have the choice to create people as adults in this reality.
But there could also be some argument that maybe you in particular,
I don't know if you're a good example in the ash,
because you're not sure if you want to have kids,
but just pick a certain person.
Do you in particular really need to create a new human,
in addition to all the other ones that are being created right now?
Yeah, but I mean,
you can make that argument for literally every person on the planet.
Right.
I get the feeling she's going to.
So where I'm going with this though,
is like what the person really wants in most cases,
I suspect, is not that they want to add another person to the population.
They want specifically a child.
Am I wrong?
I want to do one thing.
First, I wanted to say that as far as in the simulated world,
I do see no point in raising people through painful infancy and all that nonsense.
I mean, if you could spring somebody,
then again, all right, I just want to touch on that.
I don't want to belabor that point,
but it just occurred to me.
I was going to say if you could spring them in fully sentient adults,
but then where would all their background come from?
Like their sentience, all their memory, their history,
a lot of stuff that makes you a sentient person is like,
having familiarity with having had thoughts before.
So like.
That's a book called Diaspora by Greg Egon.
You've read like absolutely everything, right?
You've got a book for every point.
That's awesome.
No, that's great though.
But how much of that do you need in order to?
Yes, it was a pretty short process.
Yes, maybe the minimum.
And you could load them with like a basic template or something that,
you know, whatever.
And maybe you could have some guidelines as far as how to tweak it.
If you wanted it to be like your new friend or your new,
your offspring in some way or something.
All right.
So that said, in the current world of people wanting to have kids
for the sake of having kids,
like because they want to be parents, they want to have children.
Yeah, I feel like they don't necessarily want to just have
another person in the world.
And maybe they want like after the kid grows up,
the kid will take care of me or something.
I don't like that idea either.
I totally agree that they aren't doing it for altruistic reasons
to perpetuate the human race.
They're doing it for selfish reasons.
But I think one of the key reasons.
Someone's got to have kids.
And I mean, that's as good a reason as any other.
Well, but if, if you were going for the best reasons,
then the pattern of who has kids and who raises them and all that
would be very different.
But just, just from like maybe a psychological perspective,
I do suspect that I want to have a close intimate loving relationship
with someone who is weaker than me is a big draw.
Perhaps the primary draw for a lot of people.
I don't know.
I don't know if that's the case.
I think you're also saying that would also apply to pet owners though.
Yeah, that is incredibly, yeah.
Well, all right.
One, defending pet ownership.
I'll say that another reason to be a pet owner is to,
