in, in our, in the universe is rewarding in a sense that we're figuring out how the actual
universe actually works. But if, if we got emigrated to some, you know, digital world,
all I'm figuring out is what the programmer dreamed up, right?
Like Shelly, you would take the blue pill. Well, I would upload, but also just because you upload,
there's, it doesn't mean you cannot interact with the physical world. You can use like
robot hands to, to pick up rocks and cameras. If I could interact with the physical world,
I'd be much more okay with this idea. And I bet you could interact with it even better,
like in more fidelity and, you know, I see, I, I assumed that your position was that a virtual
world completely cut off from the real world would still be preferable to the real world.
It would still be preferable, but I don't, I see no reason to rule out having both.
No, I mean, if we could have both, that'd be great. I would, I would not mind like having my
own little virtual world and still being able to like download into a robot body or something
and run around here. But if, if, if I was,
Imagine you could just run out, run up to a real volcano, like a reality just in a different
interface. Yeah. No, I think that that's, that's a very different scenario than I was imagining.
I was imagining the one from a story willing to called friendship is optimal.
Which is, I think we might have mentioned before, somebody writes this, like my little pony AI that
it's like, what was the Celestia was the king, was the queen pony. I didn't see my little pony.
I don't know. Celestia is the queen pony. So basically she's going to maximize
human happiness through friendship and ponies and, or optimize humans.
Yeah. So your whole life is then afterwards lived as a pony in pony land.
Right. And that's, that's something I'd object to. Now, if I could,
if I could go live in Skyrim and still, you know, cool, I'm going to go jump in my,
my simulator and I see me or not my simulator, but my, whatever, my robot pilot suit
and jump into a robot that lives here on earth. That'd be cool. And I think that'd be fine.
I mean, I feel like I'm losing a lot less that way.
When you want to interact with reality, you can do so. And I imagine that I would spend
like 70% of my time in virtual world.
Yeah. In the, in the, I, when we talked about this earlier, I thought you,
I thought you were, uh, saying that it would be better to be in a virtual world,
completely cut off from the real world than in the real world.
Well, I mean, by definition, it can't be completely cut off from the real world because
it, it exists like the computer. Yeah.
But your existence could be cut off from it in every meaningful way,
like other than like the electricity you're running on.
It could. And I imagine that there probably be some people who would prefer it that way.
And I think that's totally fine.
Yeah. So I want to clarify that in the story that I was modeling our previous discussion on this
on where we discreet more strongly in the My Little Pony fanfic, you can't, uh,
and that's like using the word emigrate because that's what they called it,
where you basically, through, uh, destructive means,
chopped your brain up and put, and then, you know, put your conscious,
your whatever yourself into this, this fake world and there's no going back.
So that, that would be different than.
I don't remember in that story, do people do the ponies who have, you know,
ended up in Ponyland get to, to send messages back to the humans or?
I think so. Yeah.
I think that you can talk to people who went there because like the other,
I'd spend a few years, but the other thing that they had was like video game pads that
like kind of like a big Nintendo switch where you're playing this game and it was like an
MMORPG, but the people there were some of the more real.
I think what you were saying that, that some people would choose to do that,
I would purely out of respect for bodily autonomy, think that they could do that.
It should be possible, but, uh, I would feel like it is tragic.
It would be kind of like suicide.
I don't think it's particularly tragic.
It's not that much different from someone who lives in Manhattan and never leaves Manhattan.
I would disagree.
I mean, part of it would just be knowing that nothing really is real.
Ha, Enya likes reality too.
I am a fan of reality.
Well, one of the things you see in all sorts of movies that are like about living in a virtual
world, like whether it be the matrix or the 13th floor or whatever, is that as soon as people
find out that they're in a virtual world, they want to get out.
They're like, I would like to be in the top level of reality, please.
Thank you.
Well, it's because there's so much that the information they don't have access to,
they don't know like, the whole thing is a lie, right?
They didn't know that they are in a simulation.
Who knows who's controlling it?
Who built it for what purpose?
You know, that's actually a really good point in the matrix if, because like how much the
real world sucked, if they had the capacity to build a matrix themselves and say, you know
what, let's build the simulation of Earth 50 years ago where it didn't suck and we can all
live there, they probably would have done that.
That's literally what they did, dude.
Remember, they first tried to make a paradise, but no one would buy it.
No, that's what the robots did to the humans.
What I'm saying is that the humans' robots aside could have decided this was good for
themselves and did it to themselves on purpose.
And they wouldn't have had to be lying to their whole society.
And they could have just like, you know what, we all know that our bodies are rotting back
in the shitty world, but we're going to be here where there's like food and, you know,
shelter and stuff and no killer robots.
So I think that that would be one thing.
If you're in there, I mean, yeah, if you're in there and you know it's not the real world,
part of that might ruin your immersion, but I think taking that away would be a different
level of, I don't know how to tackle that problem, right?
So like raising kids in the matrix, not telling them, by the way, this world's fake.
That'd be interesting.
Oh, that would be interesting.
And maybe like on your 18th birthday, parents like, by the way.
That's just mean.
Well, I mean, you couldn't tell them when they were a baby.
Why not?
Because they wouldn't understand English yet.
I mean, but okay, but you could grow up with this, like learning as much as you're capable
of learning.
Okay, I see.
Kind of like as a small child, I probably understood that like,
my hometown wasn't the entirety of the world.
And like I knew other places existed.
And I'm sure like, you could explain to a five year old in the matrix in this fake one that,
or they're all fake, whatever, in this hypothetical one that wasn't based on, that's not the movie.
That, you know, yes, this is where we all live.
The real world is a little different, but it's not as cool.
That's why we all live here.
And then as they get older, you teach them more about it.
So I guess we're all agreed that it would be cool to have virtual worlds that we
can go to as long as we weren't confined to them.
And we could pop back into the real reality.
Especially if I could plug into it, like, I mean, yeah, absolutely.
I think that'd be fun.
Like, again, playing Skyrim, except not playing and shooting fireballs with my own hands.
That sounds fucking awesome.
But I also think that there may not be a whole lot important going on in the physical world
that, you know, like, mainly, hopefully, this whole thing is being run by Benevolent AI.
And it's taken care of, like, making sure comments don't hit the mainframe.
So that would make me really sad.
I don't feel like I'm in a Disneyland.
Also, is there anything valuable happening in the simulation that's not happening in the real world?
You said, like, you didn't feel like there was anything, what, important or valuable?
Like, if all the people left and went to the simulation, like...
The reason that would bother me is because...
Can you please stop saying it?
Okay, Sarah, go ahead.
No, I just feel like any learning, for instance, you want to learn about zoology.
You can download the information into your brain.
And you don't have to, like, make sure there's a real bunny for you to go look at.
But real bunnies are so much cuter than just, like, clicking a button and learning all about bunnies.
I say that having observed a bunny, like, two hours ago.
And they're really cute.
And you can enjoy a simulated bunny just as much, if not more,
as a bunny in the physical world that has a bit of a weak leg and maybe...
No, I mean, that's slightly hungry that day.
No, you're making a good point that, like, the real world sucks.
And that there wouldn't be sad bunnies in the simulation where there are sad bunnies now,
somewhere a bunny is getting ripped apart by a hawk.
And so I see what you're saying.
What is it that you want to see in the trees?
Do you care about the trees?
I think that's more of an argument for why nature should be bulldozed,
which we should maybe get into at some other point.
And I disagree, by the way.
But the thing that would really make me sad about all humanity retreating into servers
like that and having the AIs, like, watch over them and make sure that
comments weren't hitting it or anything, would be that everything...
We would have checked out of reality.
Everything of importance is now belongs to the AIs.
They interact with matter and the base level universe, and we don't anymore.
So they are the only agents left.
To, I think, counter that a little bit.
I see where I sympathize with where you're going,
but I feel like right now, or in that world, it would be undesirable
because everything belongs to the AIs.
Right now it belongs to no one.
Well, right now we are the most agenty things in the universe that we know about.
Well, that sounds like just an argument against building smarter agents.
It can be, yeah.
But you're in favor of building smarter agents.
I am, more or less, but I don't know if I am if they...
If they usurp us completely.
Right, so Matt is a big fan of the culture series by Ian Banks,
and some of the books in it are really good.
And it's been described by a lot of people as a utopia.
People cannot die unless they want to, except for some very fringe cases.
And the AIs take care of the humans and make sure that we have everything we need.
We can live as long as we want.
We can do basically anything we want with our lives.
And I saw someone on Reddit describe it as a hellish dystopia.
And I was like, please explain.
And actually, it wasn't me that had to type that
because someone had beat me to it.
And the person replied,
because humans don't do anything meaningful in the universe anymore.
The AIs are the only decision makers that matter in the universe,
and the humans are just kind of fapping about,
and what they do with their lives doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter now.
I think that the things that matter the most are interpersonal interactions.
And there's no reason for the AIs to come in and do those.
Those, the things that really matter will still be done by us, which is friendship.
That raises two things.
One, that I do agree that an earth without humans and just me would be boring.
I mean, it wouldn't be, it'd be better than nothing,
but it wouldn't be desirable.
The other thing is that what if the AI was making some NPCs
that were like more engaging in every way to your psychologically than other humans?
Oh, God, that'd be a nightmare.
Right. That sounds like it would suck.
I think that the same general principle that tells the AI don't wirehead me
would also tell them, don't create fake people to interact with me.
Because that is basically a form of wireheading.
You know, in that the interaction doesn't mean, doesn't mean anything.
But you think it does.
No, I'm kidding.
But yeah.
Going off the argument that you cannot create a P-Zombie,
that anything that looks like a P-Zombie is actually conscious,
that would be impossible to do, right?
