Hi, welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Eniash Brodsky.
I'm Steven Zeeber.
I'm Shelley.
Hi, Shelley.
Hey!
And today we are going to talk about transhumanism.
Ooh.
It has a spooky connotation, but I challenge this boogie.
I would say that all three of us would consider ourselves transhumanists.
That's correct?
I definitely would.
Yes.
Cool.
So what do we consider ourselves?
Not using the word transhumanist.
Oh, son of a bitch.
I'd be like, a consistent humanist?
Yes.
I think I just re-read the simplified humanism post before this.
Yeah.
But I don't want to hijack this because Shelley eventually brought it up, so we want to...
Oh, well, the simplified humanism post by Eleazar Yudkowski is really good introduction
to transhumanism, and the idea is just that if you want good things for people, you may
even continue to want good things beyond what's considered normal or baseline.
I believe the two things that he spoke about in his simplified humanism post was old age
and health.
That if you see a four-year-old on a train track, it's the ethical thing to save them.
If there is a 45-year-old who is sick, it is the good thing to make them healthy again.
And likewise, if you see a 100-year-old on a train track, it's good to save them.
And if there's a 140-year-old who feels like he has a cough or something, it's good to
cure him of that, and there's no limit to that.
There's always more life, more health is better, period, no matter how old you are.
And it's really weird that some people think that there should be a point where suddenly
it's better to be dead.
Right.
So it's weird from where we're sitting, but I don't know if that's fair to people who've
never heard of the idea.
The idea of radical life extension has this knee-jerk reluctance to it that while I don't
agree with, I think I could sympathize with just because it does sound weird in the future
and all that stuff, but I don't want to say it's just weird because it is, but I want
to give some, if anyone was repelled by that way of raising it, rest assured we're sympathetic
sometimes.
Yeah, deathism is widely held by a lot of people if they bother to think about it.
I don't want to turn this into a let's talk about things that we hate episode, but I saw
an article very recently at the Daily Telegraph, I think it was, where someone wrote about
who was it?
Mark Zuckerberg recently invested $3 billion into curing all disease, which is wildly optimistic,
but at least he's trying, right?
And they wrote, oh, by the way, Mark Zuckerberg, this is the worst idea ever.
What about when people stop dying and we overpopulate the planet and then everyone dies from being
scrunched up too close together or some shit like that?
I was like, fuck, like literally just knee-jerk.
Oh, curing disease is bad because people would live longer.
That is what the argument was.
I'm like, get the fuck out of here.
You don't deserve to have a voice.
The argument from overpopulation, I think, is a pretty quick go-to for a lot of people,
which I mean, is willing, like I'm willing to engage that, but I think it's pretty quick
to knock down.
I think it's just what people come up with immediately to complete the pattern.
But I mean, A, there's a lot more space on Earth than we're currently utilizing, and
B, the list of possible habitable spaces in the universe does not end with Earth's surface.
So there's all kinds of room out there for us to stretch out into.
And I've always been of the opinion that, yes, this would be a problem, but there are
many ways to solve this problem, and possibly the worst possible way to solve this problem
is literally kill everyone that is currently alive.
Actually, I think I remember that being a quote from you that I've used other places
that of all the problems that death is supposed to solve, it doesn't solve any of those problems
well, which I remember hearing from you in like a little talking heads thing that you
did with PZ Myers, Eli Diodkowski, and David Brennan.
That's right.
So we'll have to link to that because that was fun.
OK.
So I guess we've started on one aspect of transhumanity already, which is life extension.
And maybe you can go over some of the objections, like the one where overpopulation
is one of the most common objections.
Another one is that people think that you'll get bored or you won't value your
life as much.
I mean, I guess that's possible, but no one's like stopping you from killing yourself
if you get too bored.
That's sort of always been my thing is like the idea of compulsory living forever
sounds sounds like it could go really bad.
Yeah. So I'm all about like just being able to check out whenever I want.
And if that's in 50 years or 50 million years, you know, I'd like that window.
And I think a lot of the especially religious objectors to life extension
would really come down hard on the side of saying,
death should creep up on you gradually without your consent.
But why?
But why is a very good question?
And more specifically, why religious people?
Oh, because, you know, like suicide being not good.
And just taking life and death into your own hands is what a lot of religious people don't like.
Yeah. But I mean, religions have evolved so much as as technology has come.
I'm sure one of the next big steps once immortality was achieved would be like,
oh, hey, actually, it's all right to kill yourself in certain situations.
Like you got to go get the priest's blessing or something.
And then he's like, yes, it is OK with the big GZ.
Do your thing.
You'll probably put it just like that, too.
He probably wouldn't use those terms.
And I sort of apologize to anyone who's offended.
Um, if you're going to talk about Catholicism as a particular example,
Catholicism has still not condoned birth control,
even though individual Catholics may have movements.
The official Catholicism has not, I predict, never will.
Hasn't the Pope officially condoned it?
No. Oh, he's he has said things like it is for your own conscience or something.
He he's basically said things like
a lot of things that are considered sinful
still won't may not prevent you from going to heaven
if she's tried and give live a good life up in other ways, right?
Like this is the pope that said even atheists can get to heaven.
Right. Yeah, I like this pope a lot.
He's he's good for a pope.
Yeah, absolutely.
I think his perspective, though, is like maybe you'll have a deathbed
conversion or repentance.
And so, like, even if you're doing all these things, you can still go to heaven.
And I don't know, maybe if with enough time in a purgatory,
you can get there even if you didn't convert on your deathbed.
I'm not sure what the official Catholic doctrine on this is.
It could be something like that.
It's probably something like, hey, man, we don't try to speak for God in all things.
So who knows what's possible.
I didn't know that posthumous conversion was possible.
And if it is, I would think I'd probably convert fairly quickly.
And I'm not sure it's exactly about conversion, but like you still have sins
on your soul to work off in purgatory.
But like no one goes straight to heaven in the Catholic mythology.
Oh, well, if that works out, then Jesus got straight to heaven.
He had to spend three days in hell.
Yeah, but I mean, I'm sure it was cake for him.
No, I'm sure that was probably the nice part of hell.
Just the part where like you're trying to fit a sheet over over mattress
and it just the last corner keeps popping up the whole time.
That's that's Jesus as hell.
Yeah. Sorry, that was probably way out there.
But this whole tangent was just my way of saying like, I think there are
definitely some religions that you can't expect to embrace immortality
or or suicide in the future.
And yes, some religions will definitely always cling to certain things
that will never change.
I think the indictment against suicide and religions was a fairly smart move
because if you believed everything that the religion teaches minus the suicide
getting to heaven as quickly as possible sounds like the best way to live your life.
Right. Yeah.
So it's like the first second that you accept it and have the means
you just kill yourself and get straight there.
Yeah. So saying saying you can't do that is great
if you're a memetic fitness for your religion.
The most the most altruistic thing a priest could do is murder all the babies
as soon as they're born because like, boom, straight ticket to heaven.
Well, I mean, not straight because no one goes straight to heaven,
but at least you don't spend a lot of time in purgatory
because you haven't sinned too much yet.
All right, so this might depending on your religion,
some babies just go straight to heaven with no time in purgatory.
So yes, you're damning your own soul to hell,
but think of how many people you're saving.
It's totally worth it because you only can go to hell once,
but you can get a lot of babies into heaven in a lifetime.
So this might be a digression, but you're you might know the answer.
I don't really get what is it that babies have sinned for?
I thought that wasn't the whole thing that Jesus died for everybody sins.
Well, yes, which is why it's possible to go to.
OK, see, this depends a lot on which actual religion you're talking about
because there are many flavors of Christianity.
Right.
But one of the big things is that everyone is born with original sin.
But I didn't.
So Jesus died for all of our sins, except original sin, including original sin.
But before Jesus died, you no one could get into heaven period.
Oh, so he got there. Now it's possible to get there.
You could have done better than that.
No, so.
Are you saying you could be a better Jesus than Jesus?
I would have said, you know what?
That whole hell of business is kind of fucked up, right?
Most religions do consider the crucifixion of Jesus to be retroactive,
but you do have to be baptized in many religions
in order for that to apply to you.
Weird. All right.
The whole I mean, and there's a lot of them.
We agreed way back in the day.
This wouldn't be like an anti-religion podcast.
Yeah, I'm going to just point out that that makes no sense to me.
Well, I mean, it's not supposed to necessarily make sense.
It's supposed to form a community, which is very different from making sense.
Well, but it's also supposed to make sense.
No, really, they're going to say it's supposed to make sense.
It really is supposed to make sense.
You think? Yeah, I think if it was supposed to make sense,
they could have done a much better job.
Well, I think that they're, I mean, you're to be fair, you're the expert.
No, I'm not.
Well, you're the only one who came from a fundamentalist,
like Christian background.
So I mean, a lot of theologians throughout history
have done a really good job given what, you know, they had to work with.
That's true. Yeah, given their limitations.
