Good way to make you memorize the first five chapters anyway, or the five first five books.
Yeah, footbooks. Yeah.
I had another thing actually looking forward to transhuman wise that, well,
I don't know if we want to object or if we want to discuss more of like the philosophy of like
why it's desirable. Is there any other objections that like just I'm not a transhumanist because
that are worth entertaining? Like it's unnatural is a popular one. But to me,
I think I've said this before, but my tongue in cheek response to that is like, I wear glasses.
Yeah. I don't even think it's tongue in cheek. That's a solid response.
Yeah. But it, but it, I guess you're right. I like it, but it does seem to violate like,
well, no, that's fine. Cause that's just, you know, that's outside the body or something.
And it changes when you get it inside or it's like they can draw new lines for natural. But
yeah, like if I was going by what's natural, I couldn't have driven here today. So, well,
then again, none of us could have driven here today because we'd all be walking.
So I mean, cars, cars are transhuman in the sense that you're moving beyond what nature gave you.
Yeah. I mean, I've had my eyes lasered. I've had chunks of the inside of my throat scooped out.
My ex-wife had her appendix removed. There's, there's a lot of people that would have,
would be dead if it wasn't for, you know, medical advances like that.
And there's no reason to stop.
I agree. I just, I'm wondering if there's anything else that they're worth entertaining.
I don't want someone to get all the way through this and be like, you know what,
they didn't, they didn't address this obvious comeback, but I can't think of what that might be.
I would think maybe one of the things people have somewhat of an objection to is the eugenics side
of things. Yes. Since that whole comes with the Nazi baggage.
Yeah. I mean, is there a strong eugenics component other than like the things that we've kind of
talked about, like forcing people to upgrade or not? I mean,
yes, because you can't consent to having your genes tinkered with before you're born, right?
But it is not consenting to being born anyway. I'd rather be born with all the,
you know, all my parts working as good as possible.
I know there's a lot of people objecting to, it is kind of a transhuman ideal that you aren't,
no one has to do this obviously, but that you would want to have the best genetics possible
either by, you know, reverse engineering yourself with CRISPR or by choosing them
for your kids, the better ones to make them taller, smarter, more attractive, whatever.
And some people have problems with that. One of the objections is that it may increase
inequality if certain modifications become available, accessible to only certain people,
only the rich people, I suppose. I knew I was forgetting a good one. Thank you.
I might come back more, my reply to that has always been, that's always been the case for
everything in history. Rich people had cars first, rich people had the ability to fly first,
rich people had cell phones first, rich people always have huge advantages over non-rich people.
That's the whole point of being rich. So that'll, that'll always be true. And
eventually it gets cheaper and more affordable and more people are able to partake in it.
Cell phones are a good example of that. They started out as like a toy for rich people and now
what, everybody but the bottom billion people on earth, maybe bottom two billion have access to
cell phones. I remember seeing something that like, even like Somali pirates coordinating,
you know, in the middle of the third world are coordinating by cell phone, right? So I mean,
it's, there's a lot of people who never had landlines because they couldn't afford the
infrastructure, but they have cell phones. And that's what 25 ish years before it went from like,
you know, handful of people have them in New York before like everybody had one.
Yeah. I still remember when it was still a sign of being a douchebag if you own a cell phone,
because it meant you were rich and you were like, look at all this money I have on this fancy phone
I can use in my car, like wait till you get to a payphone motherfucker.
It is theoretically possible, although I think unlikely, that massive advances in technology
would grant so much power to an elite that they would actually be able to just completely wipe
out or enslave a lower class to the point where that like, none of the good stuff would filter
down to that. True. Did we ever talk about the, we did talk about the drone thing, right?
I don't know, but I would just want to refine that point with what I was thinking that
this is a different class of upgrade, you know, being able to talk to people from not your house
is only kind of cool and useful, but being able to be twice as smart as your neighbors,
especially your poor neighbors, if you want to keep them that way and keep yourself in the top,
that could be dangerous and scary. I mean, the comeback to that might be there's no stopping it.
Right. I mean, but that doesn't make it desirable.
Even if we stop it here, they're going to do it in China.
That's, I mean, that's the other thing too. And I think that was the thing,
even with like a genetic modification of embryos, right? That they're like, fuck, it will do it.
Yeah. All the, all the bioethicists in the West said, nope, can't do it.
A lot of our government started passing laws and 10 years later, China was like,
Hey, here's our first embryonically or genetically modified embryo.
So in 30 years, they're going to have this race of super humans.
And we're all, I mean, depending on how it turns out.
Yeah. But if it goes only to be 60 years, if there's still the only ones doing it,
they're going to have some time to tinker out some of the bugs and they're going to be
just crushing the Olympics and, and every standardized, you know, cognitive test.
Dude, who was the guy, um, the Chinese basketball player, the really tall dude?
I just saw him on TV like two weeks ago and I can't remember his name.
Oh man. This is what comes from not following sports.
Apparently he was a, uh, Chinese selective breeding experiment.
Really?
Yes. They got all the tallest people in the country and got them together
and paid them to like have children and did that for a while.
And he was the result of that.
That's kind of interesting.
Yeah. Well, one of them, I mean, he's not the only person who was born.
He's the apex of that experiment.
Right. Sorry. Well, so I interrupted earlier.
Someone was saying something.
So what, one of my actually legitimate worries about
many different possible modifications to humans is that it'll just be screwed up.
Like you want to do X, but you'll end up doing Y and it'll be terrible.
And, and it maybe it'll be too late to really pull back from that, that change that you introduced.
I kind of slightly fear.
Did you ever hear our age of M episode with Robin Hansen?
I kind of slightly fear that future where we do figure out how to emulate people in software.
And then, uh, God, there was this great book called, uh, the quantum thief, I believe,
where, uh, there's various factions throughout the solar system that have taken control,
but one of them are just these eight people, which is, uh, have taken over.
I don't remember if it was a gas chance or the inner planets,
but they're basically a descendants of earth and they're eight guys because,
or eight people anyway.
They weren't all men who just repeated themselves at infinitum.
There's like entire multi-billion clusters of them all working together.
And all the other humans have been out competed and died off because
they were not the most efficient people.
And, and I'm worried about that sort of Hansonian thing happening where
everyone who is not the most efficient people just sort of goes away.
I'm not, I'm not like worried about them wiping us out in a genocidal war or anything,
but just stop breeding cause you don't have enough money for kids and such.
And only those who are super productive in their awesome conglomerations remain.
On the plus side, Robert Hanson's age of Emily lasted a few years.
Yes.
So it's not like we're going to die out through the generations.
Right.
But I just see that the general point still, still lands.
Um, that is a reasonable concern, but I, I wonder if that's the, like the,
the rebuttal to, you know, AI research, like, oh, what if it went badly?
Yeah, but people are going to do it anyway.
So we should try and do it as best we can.
So this could be like that, but I mean, how do you, I mean, I guess testing this,
you'd have to do slowly and carefully.
But I, I mean, then the, then there's obviously a safety penalty.
People are doing it slowly and carefully are going to do it slower.
And then the people who are like, fuck safety,
we're going to just pedal the metal this and see how it turns out.
I think that kind of brings, brings the whole thing back to the idea of a singleton.
A, uh, familiar with the concept of singleton.
Okay.
Where there is just one entity that has complete control over what can and cannot be
done, basically like a sort of tyrannical government that it decides no, no one is allowed to
enslave children or to have more than two copies of themselves or whatever,
because of eventually it'll result in this horrible thing.
Like the only way you can stop, as we were saying, this race to the bottom of let's get AI done
first, because it'll make us win, no matter how unsafe it is,
is to have someone controlling all the governments and all the people in the world
and saying, if we see you doing this, we put a stop to it.
A, a, a unchallengeable sovereign.
Yeah. I mean, I'm not really sure what to say about that.
I mean, is, is there any other way to prevent these sort of scenarios other than having that?
Because as long as you can have one person somewhere that can break the law
and make a super smart AI that accidentally destroys the world, you got a problem.
Right. Well, AI is a special kind of problem because that does propagate quickly and can
do things badly. If all that happens, say if we want to do fun gene modifications on embryos,
and it goes badly and you raise kids with IQs of 250, but they're like super miserable or they
have other crazy side effects, well, then it sucks to be them. And then that's all that happens.
Yeah. But if you make really great kids with IQ of 250,
your culture takes over the world in a few generations.
Good. Well, I mean, maybe. I mean, if they're legitimately happy, then
it's true. Yeah. Yeah, everything goes great. That's kind of.
But it's sort of the argument you cannot have any North Korea's on the planet.
Everything has to be under the control of one governing body that decides whether or not you're
allowed to do these things. Well, I mean, in like the AI example, I think
an approach to that would just be to try and get as many really good people on your team as
possible and work really fast and win the race. You don't necessarily have to go around
shutting down the other people. Well, once you win the race, then you have to prevent other people
from. After you win the race of creating that AI that's going to take off, then that will to
be taken care of. Then we will have our singleton. Yes. Hope we programmed it well.
Another thing I'm really looking forward to with like, or I mean, one thing that I look forward
to positively with regards to transhumanism is like upgraded meat suit. Yes. I don't like
physical bodies kind of suck. Yeah. I mean, well, I guess let me take that back. Having a physical
body can be great, but having the one you're born with often sucks. Yes. Even if it even
there's no real problems like you still like, you know, have to use the bathroom and eat and
sleep and all this boring, you get tired, you get irritable pain in the ass. I have gotten
to the point where my body is starting to break down in certain ways. Did you ever see the incurable
shitty ankle bit by the Louis CK? Yeah. Yeah. So after the last time we moved from like hauling
all the heavy shit up and down the stairs, my need was just hurting for like a week, right?
So I went to the doctor and he's like, here, here's some medicine. I'm like,
I don't want medicine. Can't you just surgicalize it and make it good forever? And he's like,
nope, that is an overreaction. Here is some medicine. So I took the medicine, I went home,
and I Googled what it was. It's the same medicine that give people for arthritis.
I do, I am not old enough to be taking arthritis medicine. This is bullshit.
On the plus side, I want my new meat suit that isn't all crappy and worn out.
In your particular case, since you are young enough to not have, you know, chronic arthritis,
what it could do is reduce the inflammation in your knee until it has time to get itself
better. And then that's how it treats itself. I was given arthritis medicine and not okay with this.
You're almost dead now. Right. I might as well just pack it in.
So Steven, maybe this is a good time to get into the upload versus not upload thing because
you're just talking about how, how crappy it is to have a body, but I thought you were against
uploading. Well, I meant how bad it is to have this body. I would like an upgraded meat suit.
It looks like a term. No, sorry. I agree.
It's not great for us either, Steven.
Yeah. Shelly and maybe Enyaush and I disagree on, or at least I softly disagree. Do you want to
lay out the scenario? Don't me too. No, you go ahead. And correct me if I'm wrong. So there's
one of the, one of the other possible ambitions of transhumanism, which like to say transhumanism
has, you know, X, Y, and Z ambitions is sort of like saying Catholicism has X, Y, or like,
Christianity has whatever X, Y, and Z things. It's not, it's not that faction and like the
factions that are factions don't hate each other with as much vitriol as like the Protestants and
the Catholics, but there are disagreements. Like not everyone wants AGI, not everyone wants IQ
increases or whatever. But one thing that I don't, I'm not necessarily on board with yet is,
well, you're not in favor of a forced emigration either, but I have reluctance to the idea of
like simulated worlds that people move to or otherwise abandon this world to get into.
The way that I think about it is I have like this weird sentimental attachment to reality
and that substituting that for something that's cooler but fake. I don't know if I can articulate
exactly what it is about that, but I don't like that. You'd be okay with vacations to fake world,
right? Just like you currently watch TV and play video games. Yeah. In, in as far as that,
I didn't anticipate them or at least didn't have good reason to think that they would like
modify my preferences to where like real world sucked afterwards, right? Dude, I got that even
with video games sometimes. Yeah, same here. But at the plus side, I know that I can't move there,
so it's not a problem. But I mean, what, what about it? Do you like about the real world? Like,
is it the people? Cause what if all the people left and went to, to virtual world? It's literally
the realness. I don't know if that's a good answer or not. But would you want to just be
wandering around an empty planet by yourself? No, I'll be boring by myself, but that's not,
that's, I mean, that would be a different world than one we're in by, by a bit. But I,
just the idea that like, you know, like discovering the laws of physics here on earth
