Yeah. Yeah, I guess I guess my argument is
if you were really dedicated to making sense,
you would reexamine some of the basic premises
because you can't make complete sense out of what you got.
But you're right, given what you got, some of them do a decent job.
And if their goal wasn't to make sense, they would spend more time.
They would they would just wave their hands.
But if someone points out, you know, a logical contradiction or some confusion,
they'd be like, you know, it's not supposed to make sense.
Yeah, they would just say that they wouldn't write books
or they would say you have to have faith.
Well, they often, I think, do say that,
but it comes at the end of, you know, book link through bottles, right?
Right. Sometimes. Yeah. Yeah.
All right. Where were we? Back to back to our objections to immortality
or life extension, the religious objections,
the ones where the only way you could die is if you killed yourself
and that's bad and the ones where you wouldn't appreciate life.
Some of them are what one in particular is that if you get old,
then you won't be able to change your mind.
And then you'll just have a whole bunch of like
calcified opinions hanging around forever.
I think that is, again, one of those problems
that is worst solved by death by killing everyone who doesn't change their mind anymore.
I mean, maybe there will be a period of centuries or millennia
where a lot of people don't change their mind, but I figure at some point
we will figure out a technology to help people change their minds again
to increase brain plasticity or openness to new experiences or something.
And I think there is actually some pretty good evidence that age by itself
doesn't as much as you might think,
set your opinions or keep you from learning.
A lot of older scientists are still doing great innovations in their old age.
They're questioning past scientific results.
There they are learning new things.
I think it is a lot of maybe the limitations of some older people
or just due to like the beginnings of dementia, perhaps are.
I hear a lot of older people are actually a lot more flexible than younger people are.
Yeah, they they have more experience.
They don't they aren't as filled with the fervor of true belief
that you have when you are very young or that some people have.
I was victim to that.
I think there's a couple of things there that one,
many old people have had the experience of changing their mind a bunch of times
and it was less painful for them to do it one more time.
The other thing that today's old people don't really represent
what old people will be like in 70 years from now,
because they grew up, it was very easy to be an old person up until like 15 years ago
and never have internet.
Right. And so I mean, not the internet is the gateway to opening your mind,
but it often can be.
And so like growing up in a worldwide community rather than like the community of your town,
I think make opens is probably one avenue to like making people more plastic
in their belief, rigidity.
I like where you're going with this.
I do think that change, cultural change has happened very quickly
in the last hundred years, and that may have presented
an extra challenge for people to remain flexible in their old age.
I know I've said this to people before.
I'm not sure if I've said it on the podcast before,
but one of the reasons I do consider the rationality movement important
and I want to spread it is because I think a lot of the rationality movement
is about changing your mind and how to change your mind correctly,
how to be open to new evidence.
And since I want to live for as long as possible in the trillions of years
and I want that for as many people as possible,
I feel like this is a very important skill slash social technology
that we will have to be able to implement on a wide scale
because having everyone stuck in their current mentality forever
is probably a bad idea as we discover new things.
We probably will want to change your mind on things.
And so since I think rationality is such a good way to
pass that skill along of being able to change your mind and adapt to new information,
I think it's important to pass along to people.
Like I see I very rarely see people who are rabid in their beliefs
on in the rationalist community and as much as I do with like just
my general friends out in the public, they they they're like,
yes, I believe very strongly in this one thing and I will never change.
And sometimes I'm like, I mean, I agree with you on that thing
and I am happy you hold that belief.
But on the other hand, the and I will never change thing kind of worries me.
And also, why you got to demonize everyone that disagrees with you?
They can have honest disagreements.
This is why we talk about things.
I've run into that a lot in the last year.
Maybe it kind of depends on what you're disagreeing about, though,
if you're disagreeing about a claim of fact.
Oh, it's kind of weird to strongly believe in.
Yeah, it's more about things like social issues and then moral issues
and how to approach the world, not actual claims of fact.
Those are much easier to do.
Yeah, I know I think of examples of people that would say, I, you know,
I resent any investigation into this fact because I want this to be true
or not true or something, right?
Not typically like rationalist people, but that's definitely out there.
Well, some of them are like incorporating claims of fact, things like I
maybe that the death ism could be a good example.
Like I strongly believe that being immortal is bad for humans.
And that incorporates some some empirical claims as well as moral claims.
And someone said like they'd never change their mind on that.
I just whenever someone says something like that, I'm like, hey,
how about instead of killing people, we teach the rationality?
It's a much better solution.
But killing is so much easier.
I mean, yes, there's that.
Yeah, I mean, sort of killing one person is so much easier.
Once you got to start organizing a genocide, it gets harder.
Well, letting people die is very easy.
That's true.
All you got to do is not do anything.
Yeah.
And part of I think transhumanist mindset, maybe just like maybe
rationality mindset, the kind of overlap is like, just because it's hard,
doesn't mean like that we should do it or that we shouldn't do it, rather.
You know, if it takes more effort, then it takes more effort.
You know, buckle down, get it done.
The if you're in the 16th century and you come across smallpox, you should cure
smallpox and the fact that you can't sucks, but you still should if you could.
And it was, I guess I shouldn't have been so surprised when I found out that
people objected to curing smallpox back in the day.
But I was very shocked.
Not heard of that.
I mean, I don't know how many people, maybe just a few.
I don't know, but the fact that anyone, yeah, some people were writing things
about like trying to avoid the wrath of God and this is a sin.
I was going to make you pause and say guess who was opposing it, but you
probably you probably could have guessed.
I actually, that would not have been my first guess.
That probably would have been my second guess.
Who would be your first guess?
My first guess would be people who say that it makes the human race weak to
allow the weakest immune system people to survive instead of being
weeded out by smallpox.
That's a good first guess.
I like that.
Probably both, I don't know.
But yeah, I only heard it in the context of religious people.
Yeah.
Like, and.
I mean, they were the people who were most against organ transplants too,
right?
Most against anything that like saves lives and makes the world a better place.
Sorry.
I hear they were the most against throwing buckets of water on fires.
The fire is God's will.
Exactly.
He wouldn't have let your house on fire if he didn't want you to burn to death.
You should, you should also not go outside the house.
Okay.
So your, your blog is called that is bad.
Yes, it is.
Do you want to need to talk about how that, that came to be important enough to
you that you would name your whole blog that it was mainly from talking to people
who, who basically had your opinion, not, not necessarily even that it was good
for consequentialist reasons, like we got to avoid overpopulation or whatever,
but who just simply embraced death as a moral good into itself, that it makes
life meaningful and that it is an important phase shift that every human
has to go through.
And what would you do with your life if, if you didn't like have the
experience of watching a loved one die?
It wouldn't be as, as meaningful of a life or something.
And, and I was like, you know what, fuck you, I'm just going to say straight
up as, as an axiom that death is bad period.
And I will not, I will not entertain any arguments to the contrary.
Sounds like you're dangerously close to saying, I'll never change my mind about
that.
I mean, if someone was torturing me and I knew that the rest of my life would
be tortured, then I would prefer death.
Sure.
And I was worse than death, but just in general death is a moral bad thing.
I totally agree.
I was just being tongue-in-cheek.
I'm kind of exactly in your camp.
I, I don't think that, uh, I mean, so like you said, what would you do?
Like the idea that, you know, your life is finite, loved one's life is our
finite makes you appreciate the more, A, I don't know if that's true.
Cause we don't have any counterfactual worlds to compare that to.
We might, we might be more open to appreciating the more if we weren't
constantly thinking, well, they'll be dead, you know, either tomorrow or in 20
years, um, or however many years.
Hey, I don't know if that's true or not, but B, I'm not convinced that
makes it worth it.
So even if, even if I cared about people, I love a little less, but I got to
care about them for a billion years.
Yeah.
Um, it still sounds like it comes out positively that way.
So I, I think really the main problem with all of these is that it just
sounds like it's, it's arguments that people have heard and just rehash
without thinking about it, which is the problem with a lot of, you know, new
ideas or ideas in general.
And there's just, for me personally, there's so many things I want to do.
And it's depressing as hell that in 80 years, you only have time to do a few of
them.
It takes a long time to master a new instrument or a language or an art
form or something.
And, and there's just so many things I want to try and become good at.
And, and you don't have enough time to do all of them.
Cause you know, life currently is finite.
So every time you go down one pathway, that is all those years you will not
have to dedicate to another pathway.
And it kind of sucks that you have to just choose a few things.
