like I wouldn't ask someone to go make me a new animal
so that I can take care of it.
I'll say, well, this one's alive.
And it's, it's, it's currently living in a cage.
It can live in a bigger cage.
Although a lot of people do breed pets for,
for the sake of being pets.
Yeah.
And that's interesting.
I don't know.
I'll table that for a second and touch on the parenting thing.
So I don't know, I don't know if that's an,
I doubt that's an expressed preference of many parents,
but I don't even know if that's a background preference.
I think a lot of it, part of it is like,
we as humans, many of us either are like,
have many of us want to have kids because we're programmed to.
And to the extent that many of us,
we're all, many of us, almost all of us are programmed
to want to have kids, but many of us choose not to
because we've made the decision to overcome that programming.
I think that.
I guess, okay.
If a lot of people just don't think about it and just do it.
So it would be stretching it to say that that's their reason.
They just had kids because that's what you do.
And that's probably most people.
I think that's how I came to exist.
That my parents weren't like, you know, well, let's see,
we've got a plan for retirement.
Well, if we have kids, they can,
they can subsidize our, our, our life in our last,
you know, decades.
I don't think that there was ever a conversation like that.
I don't think there's ever a conversation of like,
it'd be really cool to have this infant human dependent on me.
I don't think there's ever,
I think it was just like, this is what adults do,
but that's not a good reason.
Do you think about it?
Yeah.
Uh, I think a large portion of people have a strong,
perhaps hormonal desire attraction.
You could call it baby hunger,
or maybe for some people it's toddler hunger, right?
I love that you use the term hunger.
Yeah.
Makes it seem particularly gross.
Yeah.
And, and yeah, it is a particular like desire for closeness
with this particular category of human,
which I think a lot of people have.
And I think it's because like the essence of the,
the child child likeness, which attracts them,
are the things that make children, you know,
in need of being rescued by a hero,
which we would call, you know, a parent.
Part of that might come from our,
like we might find the idea of rearing that appealing,
because it's part of being a parent,
and we're biologically programmed to want to be parents.
But, um, A, I can't remember,
Katrina was on the fence about wanting to have kids,
and she was leaning towards definitely wanting to have one.
And I can't remember if she expressed an opinion on whether
or not she loved the idea of rearing a child.
Although I get the feeling that she definitely said that
I think she thought she'd enjoy being a parent,
but I would love to get her take on that particular point.
Well, I did try and, uh, question her about this.
We didn't really get too, get too much into it.
We had, I had to leave.
But what she said, and what I've heard a lot of other people say,
is that they have an intuition about the quality of the emotions
and the love that would be there with specifically a child.
Right?
And I only have heard that sort of thing.
And I only named names because she's the only,
like, rational person that I know who wants to have kids.
I was trying to think of, what would,
what would a rational Steven who wanted to have kids think?
And I'm like, I don't know.
I'll have to ask Katrina.
So, yeah, part of it is like,
I think you'd find it extremely rewarding
because you're, you'd be rewired and you'd love,
you know, having a baby or something.
But that's actually interesting.
I don't know.
I, I have heard it is a, like, like you said,
a very unique, just based biologically rewiring sort of love thing.
I guess I, I try to get people to imagine scenario
where their child was enhanced to the point
where it really didn't qualify as a child anymore.
It didn't need parenting.
And like, would they still have that emotional tug
towards that situation with those enhancements?
If, if like, if they went up to adulthood
in the course of one month, I really doubt it.
I think a large part of it is the sacrifice
of putting so much of your life into this other child.
It's kind of like people bond going through horrific things
in bootcamp.
A lot of it is about just putting people through horrible shit
so they bond with other people.
A lot of it is just investing the time and the energy
and all this sacrifice.
And that's what creates the emotional bond.
And if someone just grew up in the course of one month,
you don't sacrifice all that much.
You don't have all this time to build the emotional bond.
I think that that's probably true.
I don't know,
Shelley, just to make sure I understand,
I don't want to misphrase you.
You're, you're claiming, you're, you're putting forward the idea
that you think that might be subconsciously
a majority motivating factor for parents.
For those who think about it,
and yeah, have emotional reason for doing it
as opposed to like, I'll do it because I'm told to
or I'll do it because I never thought about it.
I, that might be true.
I'd like to get some, I'll have to think about that
and we'll have to ask some smart parents.
And you're saying that's a very bad reason to have kids.
I think that's a weird reason to have kids, for sure.
I think it's a cringey reason.
I wanted to put forward another reason
I think a lot of people have kids after self-reflection
is that I can make a better version of me.
And that's not so much that like,
I want the idea of like having it be dependent on me,
but like, if I could redo my own childhood
and give myself all these awesome benefits,
well, since I can't do that, I can do the next best thing
and raise a kid and give myself,
give my offspring all the benefits I would have given myself.
If I were to have kids,
one of the kids I would want to have would be a
straight up clone of me, just to be like,
see if I can do a better job than my parents.
Wow.
What?
I think it'd be an interesting challenge.
I think that's part of the point though,
because you want to make something better than yourself
and the only thing you have to go on is like,
well, I know I had this,
and so I can do the parts that I liked
and not the parts that I didn't like
and add some stuff that I think I would have liked.
Yeah.
Right?
Maybe, I don't know.
That was cringing all over the place right now.
But I'm not sure why.
I'm kind of cringing at this.
Well, again, it's the mind being tailored
for the purposes of another mind, right?
Well, in the event that we were just to generate them
fully sentient and then emerged,
we'd be, unless you're saying we'd have to do it
only with a shuffle button,
like we'd be doing it anyway.
Well, you could like tailor them to fit into the society
rather than to be like the ideal friend or partner
or son or daughter of a particular person.
So a constrained shuffle button
would be the only ethical way to do that.
I'm not, I'm not meaning that to be funny.
No, I'm just saying like,
there wouldn't have to be any shuffle button,
but it could just be less narrow in the targeting.
I mean, what, so I guess that,
how narrowly do you want to define like society though?
Like what if you were wanted to be a great scientist
or something or to be a great musician or whatever?
Like, is that too narrow?
Oh, I guess I was just imagining like an AI
is taking care of one trillion people
and it was like, okay, we're going to create one more person
to add to this one trillion.
And what would be that optimal addition
based on everything in the whole entire society?
So the AI would be building another optimal person?
That'd be kind of cool.
Yeah.
Right? Or would you have a problem with that?
I mean, that's maybe my least bad scenario
of creating a person.
Yeah.
Is there any good scenario
for creating a person in your opinion?
That's like the scenario
that I would consider as being maybe okay.
Is there any good scenario?
Like, because you said it's your least bad
and to me that sounds like the optimum way
you could possibly create someone.
