really solve the problem you're talking about? Now, the multivitamins don't solve that problem,
in part because they're not coming. Those vitamins, were they embedded in the pizza somehow,
like in the actual foods that the pizza is made of? Then that the body's hankering for, say, vitamin
C, or the suite of B vitamins, or whatever. It might have been met, but sort of these things
in isolation, it's just not how biology works. It's not really how an omnivorous diet works.
So we're omnivorous, and part of the beauty of this flavor feedback system, I mean, that's what
this is all called, Nate. It's these feedbacks between flavor. Our body takes that in and goes,
oh, you know what, you're still missing x, y, and z. Head out to the buffet and try again,
because the cells need more of this or that. So the multivitamin thing, unless there's,
vitamins are great if there's an acute deficiency. This is what scurvy was all about.
This was a sort of one-to-one correspondence between vitamin C,
cures scurvy. So then we thought, oh, well, maybe we can apply vitamins, other vitamins in that way,
but it doesn't, not all vitamins work that way, nor do they work with human biology that way. But
if you have an acute deficiency and you know exactly what it is, yeah, vitamin could probably
take care of that. So in your book, you wrote, one of you wrote, once we realize our bodies
themselves are ecosystems, it changes how we consider health and wellness. Can you explain
what you mean by that? So ecosystems are complicated places, whether in the ocean,
or the soil, or a forest, or a meadow. And when you, if you study biology, ecology,
anything, you can go out there and you can, you can try and study these bits of the ecosystem.
But sooner or later, you come away with the realization that it's not any one part of this
ecosystem that is, is really the takeaway. The upshot on ecosystems is it's all of the processes
and the organisms and the players that are in relationship together that are really determining
whether or not that ecosystem is functioning normally. And we don't need super function out
of an ecosystem. We just need normal function, like the way say, you know, a wetland can capture
pollutants and help control erosion. And so the body ecosystem, we just need a normal omnivorous
diet free of, say, residues left over from conventional agriculture. We need our plant
animal foods to be suffused with the nutrients and compounds that crops need for robust growth,
but also defenced. We need our animals to be on diets that suffuse them with a balance of fats
and an array of other nutrients. So this is all normal, all of this flavor feedback between
plant and soil, between animal and plant communities that they're eating, you roll that up into the
human diet, and our flavor feedback system is working normally on an omnivorous diet. So that's
eating, eating a lot of different foods. So this is going to be a six hour podcast. I hope you
guys don't have dinner plans. Let me ask you this, have you, since you wrote these last two books,
have you changed your own diets based on what you learned and researched and wrote about?
And what is your, do you grow any of your own food or do you shop at farmers markets or can you,
can you speak to that briefly?
Take it away, Dave.
Yeah, we sort of changed our diet really as a result of this series of books in two steps. When
we wrote the Hidden Half of Nature, which is the book that was looking at the relationship between
microbiomes and their host organisms and laid out the parallel between what goes on around the
roots of a plant, what goes on in the human gut, and sort of cast the root system of a plant as an
external digestive system. That related to sort of, well, that reframed our thinking around seeing
our bodies as an ecosystem. And that led us to think about, oh, how do we feed our microbiome?
And we had thought that we had a really good diet. But we were probably eating,
you know, not enough plant matter, eating too much bread and cheese, which I love and still love,
but don't eat quite as much of as anymore. So we essentially started trying to eat
more with the idea that sort of, you know, filling half of a plate with greens or vegetables as a
routine matter during dinner. And our omnivores, as she mentioned, will eat almost anything.
But we changed the proportions and the sourcing of what we were doing in that, as a result of
writing that book, in terms of realizing that we're not just eating to feed ourselves, but we're
eating to support a microbiome that really wants all that fiber that my doctor was always telling
me to eat, and that I was wondering, oh, why, you know, that once you understand that that's what
actually makes your microbiome healthy, so it can help make you healthy, I started going, oh,
it's kind of like, you know, when we have a dog, you need to feed the dog food that's appropriate
for the dog. Well, your microbiome needs appropriate food for it as well. And so the care and feeding
of that internal menagerie turned out to be something that structured how we thought about
eating. And we also, in terms of thinking about knowing how farmers actually raised the food
that gets into us, led us, and particularly Anne, to do more of our shopping at farmers markets,
where you could ask, well, what are you doing? What is, what is the soil like on your farm? And
so she has her favorite farmers that she likes to get stuff from from the farmers market.
And then as a result of writing what your food date, we took another sort of leap in changing
because we started looking at what the diet of livestock matters, not only to sort of the energy
costs of animal agriculture, but actually what gets into our food and the balance of fats in our
meat and dairy products are very much dependent, it turns out, on whether those animals were eating
grain-derived feeds, things like, you know, corn-derived feeds, seed oil-derived things,
the kind of things they get in the feedlot, that tends to enrich a meat and dairy with omega-6
fats, which, roughly speaking, are pro-inflammatory. And livestock that was eating dominantly or 100
percent grass-fed sources, sort of pastured in and not living in a feedlot, they tend to have
meat and dairy products that are rich in omega-3 fats, which tend to be anti-inflammatory.
Now, to be fair, you need both omega-6s and 3s in your diets, but you don't want an overload of
omega-6s, which is what we get with a diet full of seed oils and conventionally raised feedlot fed
livestock, whether you're eating meat or dairy. So we went to buying 100 percent grass-fed meat
and dairy where we can get it as well. And we did notice health benefits that flowed from all these
dietary changes over a number of years. Of course, it doesn't help that we're getting older either,
but that's we're sort of fighting an uphill battle here.
You both look great. So I've had many guests on. I had Robert Lustigan recently about
the ills of processed food. And so it sounds like what I'm hearing from you is there's at least
a two-step process. One that I'm getting more comfortable with is to have more vegetables,
more plants. Broccoli, Dick Gephardt is a friend of mine. He has intermittent fasting,
and he breaks his fast at 11 in the morning with vegetables in cold water that he has in his fridge,
like cauliflower, broccoli, radishes. And he's done it for years, and now he really looks forward
to it. That's hard for me, but I understand the logic of having a lot of roughage fiber plants.
But you're suggesting there's a second step in addition to changing the proportion of,
you've mentioned bread and cheese, to more vegetables. The second step is finding out
where those vegetables came from. Because at a normal grocery store, the broccoli and
the cabbage and other things that I'm buying were grown with conventional agricultural
processes. So the soil and the micronutrients might be different than what you said that
Ann goes to the farmer's market and asks, what were the processes of the soil? Am I right? There's
two different steps. Yes, that's a very clean way to think about it. There's basically the choice
of what you eat, and then there's the choice of what your food ate, which is the whole point of the
title of the new book, is to encourage people to think about that second step. Right, because
say Dick Getpart's radishes, cauliflower, and other things that he's eating to break that fast,
he could eat all of those quantities and those particular vegetables that he wants. But what if
the farm that produced those has soil with inadequate levels of mycorrhizal fungi so
that all of the things that he thinks are in those vegetables are really not at the levels
that are really good for his body. Okay, so this opens up a ton of questions. So let's just say
that everyone knew and everyone read your book and everyone understood this. We don't have the
amount of vegetables and fruits grown with the right mycorrhizal relationships in the soil
microbiome to serve that demand yet, correct? So there would be a scale problem.
It's actually worse than that. We don't have enough fruits and vegetables grown in any way
to actually provide the minimum daily or require recommendations for the human diet in the US.
We don't grow enough in this country to actually feed that, and that's before you get to the question
of how they were grown. But your point is right. We do want to think about how they were grown
and get more fruits and vegetables into our diets. But it's a real challenge for agriculture to meet
with our focus on commodity crop production, focus primarily on grains. We need to diversify
what we're encouraging people to grow. And you know, farmers need to be able to sell what they
raise. So if we're thinking about that, we all ought to be thinking about taking steps to maybe
diversify our diets a bit. And your point about processed foods is a big one that we go into in
what your food ate in some detail. But in terms of what would be the healthiest prescription
for a modern diet in the way that and I see it would be a diet that's rich in fruits and vegetables
grown in soils from healthy fertile soils. So fresh whole foods grown in healthy fertile soils
and livestock that have been actually grazing rather than eating corn derived
feedlot rations would be a very solid recommendation for healthy eating.
So this is going very well. I'm learning a lot. It's very interesting. I'm very confident. My
listeners are also learning a lot. And now is the point where I'm to ask you about agricultural
regeneration practices. But before I do that, I'm going to go down a rabbit hole,
because I'm curious. So you've, you've heard about like fecal transplants where someone is
missing something and they like share the poop of someone in their family or something and it,
it injects some it's something that affects the microbiome. It's why my coach from India
says that we're supposed to commune with a lot of other people and chanting and cooking together
because we we indirectly share our microbiome and people living by themselves. Most of the time
their their immune system starts to not function well because they're not sharing the microbiome
of others. So question number one is, how true is all that? Can we, can we interact with others
in our own microbiome? But my ultimate question is, can we do the same with soil? Can I take
a cubic yard of amazing, fertile, rich, live soil with mycorrhizal fungi and all the the
things you were talking about and dump it in a field that isn't poisoned or anything, but there's
very little, there's organic matter, but not a lot of life in it. And does that act like a soil
equivalent of a fecal transplant or what can you say about all that? Yeah, okay, I love it. You're
picking up on the root, the root gut epiphany. And so yeah, that that's, that's a good example. So we
have this, you know, wonderful soil, chock full of life communities, microbial communities are
functioning. And we've got some soil, you know, in a nearby field that's struggling, you know, we
need to get it back up on its proverbial feet. So yeah, you can inoculate, you can get a sample
of this fantastic soil, inoculate the other soil with it. And so it's sort of, it's sort of the
equivalent of, of a little bit like probiotics. So we're taking one, it's a culturing process,
right? So it's sort of like the way you leave, you might make sauerkraut, you leave it exposed
to the air, microorganisms get in, they be in the culture thing. So you're moving it from one field
to another. What's key here is you can't just do that and walk away. Those organisms that are in
the good soil that you've just transferred, they're used to a certain kind of lifestyle. And that
lifestyle is one in which farming practices supply an abundance of organic matter, hopefully
minimal chemical and physical disruption. And hopefully, you know, also that great soil came
about in part because cash crops as well as cover crops were grown year round. So exudates are
flowing. So that microbial community that you've just transplanted, you've got to feed it, and you've
got to care for it. So that's how you can inoculate soil. But it's kind of like planting a tree.
You don't just plant the tree and walk away. There's care and there's feeding. And it's
goes the same with fecal microbiota transplants in humans. Initially, research has shown that
you can get rid of really nasty pathogens with a fecal microbiota transplant. But if you want
the microbial community that you transplanted to stick around and continue providing those benefits,
you've got to nurture and care for it. In other words, you know, all life, no matter what, needs to
be nourished. And that nourishment is related to sort of a specific diet given that organism, you
know, whether plant animal or person. Excellent. Thank you. Okay, so this has been a great
intro. Now moving on to the what to do about it part. Can you explain the pillars, the three
pillars of agricultural regeneration, which you cover in your book?
Yeah, basically, you know, after I wrote dirt, we were left sort of wondering, you know, can you
actually rebuild fertile soils on active farms? And we wrote a lot about our experience at our
home garden, where and did that to our soils in the hidden half of nature, where we started thinking
about microbiomes and all these connections between microbiomes and host organisms and the
parallels between the human body and plant roots and all that. And at the end of writing that
book, we were left with the question of, well, how can we do this on real farms, you know,
on profitable farms around the world? And that led to writing growing a revolution,
which set the foundation for what your food ate, by looking at what are the what are the
practices that farmers who had done to their farms, what and did to our yard who had who had taken
degraded, thoroughly worn out soils, and brought them back to a high state of fertility by mostly
by reintroducing biology along the lines of either inoculation, but dominantly practice change.
So I visited farmers in Ghana and Central America and across North America and who had already done
that. And basically asked the question, well, what did they do? And what were the commonalities?
And it turns out that the common elements in across all those farms were that they were
minimizing disturbance of the soil. So they were either going no till or very minimal tillage
and minimizing chemical disturbance. So minimizing the physical and chemical disturbance,
they don't disturb the life, in other words, they were planting cover crops, keeping living roots
in the soil at all times to help promote that exudate production, but also to shut down erosion,
because a shield of plants is the best way to fence against erosion. And they were also growing
a diversity of crops, they weren't just growing one or two crops, so they weren't doing monocultures.
And some of them had very diverse fields, some of them had kind of sort of diverse fields,
but none of them had monocultures and were just growing one or two crops.
What is the diverse crop contribute to the biology that Ann was talking about earlier,
as opposed to a monocrop?
So what happens when you have a diversity of plants in the field is that that soil is receiving a
diversity of exudates, a diversity of those compounds that plants are leaking into the soil
to help recruit their microbial partners. And the trick is that each plant will be releasing
a different exudate cocktail. So you get a very diverse set of exudates, which recruits a diverse
set of microbes, which if you think about like a baseball team, if everybody on the baseball
team was a catcher, you'd have a horror, you'd never make the World Series, right? There's an
advantage to having specializations when you work in teams, and microbiomecology is pretty much a
team sport. Pathogens tend to be sort of single organisms that do single things. The beneficial
organisms tend to work in communities. And so you can think of them as a team, and a team needs
different players to play different positions to provide different functionality. And that's what
the diversity gets you. So the minimal disturbance is kind of like, you know, you're not disturbing
their house. The cover crops is you're helping to build organic matter to feed them. So you got
food and housing. The third piece is partners and collaborators. And that's how you can get a very
effective and diverse community of soil life through those three principles of minimal disturbance,
cover crops, and diversity. But those three principles happen to be pretty much the opposite
of what we've taught in modern agronomy for, you know, almost 100 years, where we've encouraged,
you know, aggressive mechanized tillage as a routine operation, we've encouraged the over
application of synthetic of agrochemicals for both plant nutrition and plant defense,
as opposed to relying on their natural defense systems or helping to support their natural
defense systems. And we've been growing things in in monocultures or functional monocultures
of things like a corn, soybean rotation, a two crop rotation, which is an invitation for pests
to come into the fields as well. So it's a very different, these three pillars are a very different
way of thinking about how to treat the land as a in the active farming. And many people involved
in regenerative farming would offer up a fourth pillar as well, in terms of reintegrating animal
