There is a saying that two heads are better than one, and I couldn't agree more on this episode of the Great Simplification.
I welcome
geologist David Montgomery and
biologists and Beakley to discuss soil-life interactions, the microbiomes of our gut,
nutrient deficiencies in our diets, and the key pillars of regenerative agriculture.
David Montgomery is a professor of earth sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle, where he
researches the evolution of topography and the influence of
geomorphological processes on ecosystems and on human societies.
Ann Beakley is a biologist and landscaped architect who has worked in field biology, watershed restoration,
and environmental planning and public health.
In addition to David's popular and award-winning book Dirt, The Erosion of Civilizations,
David and Ann have co-authored
the Hidden Half of Nature,
the Microbial Roots of Life and Health, as well as a recent book published last year,
What Your Food Ate? How to Heal Our Land and Reclaim Our Health?
Please welcome husband and wife soil biomexperts David Montgomery and Ann Beakley.
Welcome, David and Ann. Well, thank you.
Yep, thank you, Nate.
A biologist and a geologist combining forces in life and in literature to write about a very important topic,
which is soil regenerative agricultural and our food system.
I really look forward to unpacking this with you both today.
Well, thank you. It's happy to know. We're glad to be here talking with you. Yeah.
Did you guys know that this was your ultimate path when you met these topics? Or did you
fall in love and get married and then decide to study soil and food and such?
Well, ironically, the one class that we had together in graduate school was a soil science class.
Now, whether that was a premonition of things to come or not, I don't know, but it certainly wasn't
planned. There's a long story behind how Ann and I got into thinking and writing about soils.
And their connection to the longevity of civilizations and our individual health and so on.
But I think I can say with some confidence it was not planned.
No, definitely not.
I taught a class for eight years. I haven't taught in the last two years called Reality 101,
a survey of the human predicament. And it was intense climate change, oil depletion,
all the things that are ahead. And the students that took it were speaking the same language,
right? They went through emotionally and intellectually this experience. And so I
do think it sets you apart from your peers. So the fact that you two met in a soil
science class kind of ultimately makes sense looking back.
Well, it wasn't actually how we met, but it was the one class we did have together.
Yeah. And kind of oddly enough, I'm not sure.
I can't recall exactly why we thought that class at that time for both of us when we were in
graduate school, but we did. And it was a good class. I liked it.
Yeah. Well, I know why I took it. It was at the end of my grad, my PhD experience. And I decided I
needed to know more about soils as a geomorphologist who is studying the evolution of the surface of
the earth. So it was sort of my last shot at getting a little bit of solid grounding in that area.
I had no intention of sharing this story, but there were a couple classes in college where I
was taking this class. And if there was a woman that I wanted to get to know better was on the
registrar list, I signed up for that class, not saying that was the case in years. So getting to
your soil question. So my work is about energy and how our society is energy blind. We don't
understand the importance of energy to our lives, the fact that we're all alive during the carbon
pulse. But really, you could make the same arguments about soil and food. We are soil
and ecology blind. So maybe we could start out, David. The first book, I think your first book,
it's certainly the first of your books that I've read, Dirt, The Erosion of Civilization. Maybe
you could unpack that a little bit as a foundation for the rest of our conversation.
Can you explain briefly the connection between agricultural productivity, soil degradation,
and as you just mentioned, the decline of civilizations?
Sure. I mean, one of the things I should point out at the start of this is foundational to sort of
all discussions about the past and future of soil is it's basically where our food comes from.
Something like 97% of our food directly or indirectly comes from the soil, sort of filtered
through plants and then livestock into us depending on what we choose to eat.
So the way the soil works to help us grow crops is really fundamental and foundational to supporting
agricultural societies, which most societies at post-ice age have been. So when we look at
soils, it's sort of a foundational deal. And I started writing about the erosion problem after
I'd been working around the world as a geomorphologist, the kind of geologist who studies
what shapes the surface forms of earth's topography. So, you know, studying erosion was kind of my
bread and butter, but natural systems. And what I realized working all over the globe is I was
starting to see patterns where societies where the land had been degraded, where the soil was
degraded, where it had been eroded off, or it lost a lot of its organic matter, lost its fertility,
that the populations were relatively impoverished and that that could actually have been a long
that the soil degradation that led to that could have happened a long time ago in places
that we know today is like Syria and Libya, for example. And so I started putting together the
idea to be fun to research and think about what the role that soil erosion had played in human
history. And the farther I got into it, the more I realized I was actually writing a history of
farming, because that was the mechanism through which land degradation had played out. And the
one sentence summary of the Dirt Book is that societies that don't take care of their land,
that don't take care of their soil, don't last. It's a recurring pattern and theme in human
societies and civilizations. And we have a pretty bad track record, frankly, at a planetary scale,
in preventing soil loss and degradation as a result of agriculture. And the Dirt Book was
really an attempt to pull that history together and to look at possible lessons for the future,
because we don't really have anywhere else to go to farm new fresh, unfarmed soils these days,
we have to figure out how to make agriculture sustainable. And not just sustainable in an
economic sense, but in an environmental sense, relative to the ability of the land to actually
keep producing food for the future. And that's what really got Anne and I onto this path of
thinking and writing about both the backstory of problems of soils in past societies, but also
what we can do about it today. And that led to some much more optimistic books that have come
out a little more recently than the Dirt Book, where we've learned of the stories of farmers
who have been really turning around the problem of land degradation and rebuilding healthy fertile
soils at a geologically astounding pace. But that's getting sort of further ahead of the narrative.
So the Dirt Book was really a look back at what's gone wrong in the past.
So let me ask a couple questions about that. First of all, for new listeners that haven't
learned much about this topic, what is your definition of the difference between soil and dirt?
Oh, that's a great question. And you know, and I did take a little bit of heat from
some soil scientist colleagues for calling a book about the history of soil erosion dirt,
because the one thing you're never supposed to call soil and soil science is dirt,
it's not a respectful term. So you can think of dirt as soil where you don't want it. It's on your
shoes, it's tracked into your house, it's on the car mat in your car when you get into it afterwards,
stomping about in the mud. That's one way to think about dirt is soil where you don't want it.
Another different way to think about it is that soil is much more than just the mineral components,
than just the geological part of it. It's really the merging, the marriage of geology and biology.
And so you can think of soils as having both a living component, the organisms that are living
within it and helping to cycle nutrients and keep things moving and getting those minerals out of
the geological realm and into the biological world. But it's also a place where once living things,
what we know of as organic matter, is actually quite important as well, because it helps to
provide the fuel that drives that underground economy that differentiates soil from dirt.
So that living half is what I think is so fascinating about soil to me these days. And it's
partly why Ann, who's a biologist, and I got sort of thinking about working on this together,
is that when you think about soil as an ecosystem, as opposed to an object,
you really start to think about it differently. And the way that it gets influenced by our
agricultural practices, by our cultural practices, really start to come into a different framing in
a different light when we think about it as another ecosystem we need to worry about our impact on.
So dirt is the inert component, and it could have zero percent organic matter,
or it could have 3% or 5% or 10%. But once we add the mycelium and the small insects and the
microorganisms, then dirt can be labeled soil, yes?
Yeah, I would say that the real difference is life, the impact of life on the soil and the life in
the soil, that really comes together to make it something very different than just a pile of minerals.
And are there lots of places in the world that don't have life in the soils now?
Yeah, one of the prominent places that has less life in the soil or a different mix of life,
different communities of life in the soil, which matters as much as whether there's any life at
all, are agricultural fields, you know, the places that we rely on to feed ourselves.
The globally we've lost roughly about 50% of the organic matter in most agricultural soils,
on average, you know, results on your farm will vary, it's highly variable, depending on context,
of course, as most things are in geology and geomorphology. But we've done a real number
on degrading the soils that we really depend on to feed ourselves, and that's of,
has been of concern in the past, and we're not the first people by any stretch to write it and
think about this. But it is one of the fundamental problems facing humanity today, it's kind of on
par with the climate problem, the freshwater problem and the population issue, they're all
intertwined and they're interrelated. But of those, I actually think the soil one might be the most
solvable, because we already know how to do it. But that's again, getting a bit ahead of ourselves
in this saga. So, one more question about your first book, and then I will switch to your co-author
and wife to ask about your recent book. You said it was unexpectedly a history of farming,
the erosion and the impact of loss of soil in prior civilizations. But what would happen like
in Pakistan or in Australia a couple years ago, they got two feet of rain in one day,
is that enough to erode the topsoil and change things from a non-anthropocentric sort of way?
Yeah, I mean, erosion is a natural process. If erosion wasn't happening to reshape the surface
of the earth, we'd eventually not just, we wouldn't run out of soil, but we'd run out of
nutrients in the soil because we need to basically keep cycling nutrients out of fresh rocks into
weathered rocks into soil to replace things like zinc or iron that plants need to for their health
we need for our bodies. So, that some erosion is happening is a very natural thing. With that
example of that Noah's flood kind of rainfall that you're talking about from those examples,
there's going to be erosion even in natural systems. The real issue is how much erosion,
how often. And so, when you get a large rainstorm event like that, I'd say on a freshly plowed
field where there's no roots holding the surface together, you're going to get an enormous amount
of erosion. But you can also get it in a very average rainfall when you have a freshly plowed
field. Nature is pretty good about clothing herself and plants and that's a very effective
way to shut down erosion to very low rates, not to turn it off because life itself depends on
erosion for refreshing the elements that make us all up. But vegetation helps to limit that process
to a background rate that is sustainable. And when we have bare freshly plowed fields and we get
even modest rain on them, you can erode off a century's worth of soil formation in an afternoon,
but when you get two feet of rain in a day or something like you were talking about,
that's just off the charts. And so, one worry is that if those kind of events become more common,
we might want to rethink the way that we lay the land out in advance of those kind of events.
Last question for you. I recall reading your book like 10 years ago and in the early chapters,
you talked about Charles Darwin's fascination with earthworms and I don't remember the math,
but you speculated how long it would take with no humans around for the soil to be regenerated
naturally with worms and biogeochemical cycles. Like how long does it take to grow an inch of
topsoil without interventions? I actually did a review of that in the proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences that summarized the data that I was looking at when I was writing dirt
on that very issue. And if you look globally, the average pace of natural soil building is about
2% of a millimeter a year, two one hundredths of a millimeter per year. Your fingernails grow faster
than that. I mean, that's a slow rate in terms of nature building soils. If we look at the other
thing I looked at in that same study was the average road of topsoil erosion today off of
conventionally managed agricultural fields. And the average rate there was about a millimeter
and a half a year globally. And there was a recent study that just came out from Evan Taylor and
Isaac Larson at UMass Amherst that basically found a similar rate 1.8 millimeters a year as an
average erosion rate across the American Midwest for the last century and a half. So the numbers
are pretty robust that that pace it takes only about two decades, 20 years to lose an inch of
topsoil. And at 2% of a millimeter a year as a natural soil building rate, it takes 500 to
1,000 years to replace that inch of topsoil. That's one of the problems right there. The other
problem, of course, is the loss of soil organic matter and thereby soil fertility. But if you lose
the soil itself, which can happen in just a few centuries of farming at that kind of a pace,
that's a very effective way to impoverish societies well into the future. But you can come into
problems with soil fertility much faster than that by degrading soil organic matter as well,
which modern farming practices do. So I'm very worried about oil depletion the next 10 or 20
years because we've built our lifestyles around it. But the next couple centuries soil depletion
could arguably be much more impactful to the generations that follow us.
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. And it could have impacts this century as well. I mean, it's one of these things
that, you know, we're not actually going to run out of soil, but we may run out of enough fertile
land with healthy enough soil to feed everybody if our population keeps going up and we keep
degrading the land that we are growing our food on. And you know, an open question and a very fair
question I think is whether we want to place blind faith and technology to solve the problem,
or do we want to take advantage of ecological knowledge we already have in hand about better
ways to farm that could actually solve that problem for not only humanity over the long run,
but for those of us who are alive in the 21st century. We've got a few decades to really fix
this problem and we could do it, but we're not yet on track to do so. I have lots of questions
there, but I want to give your co-author and a chance to say hello and give us a summary of your
latest book the two of you wrote together. I believe it's your latest called What's Your Food
Ate? How to Heal Our Land and Reclaim Our Health. It focuses on nutrients in our food and how
industrial inputs have been undercutting the nutrient density in our food. And for the average
person watching this program, can you outline for us what their food likely ate?
Yeah, well nice to be here, Nate. Thanks for thanks for having us. And as far as that question
goes for listeners and viewers, it all depends what is in your food, maybe that you had for
breakfast or lunch or dinner, that all depends on the practices that the farmers used to raise
those, grow those crops and raise animals. And what David and I uncovered in the latest book is that
all of this gets kicked off by this series of relationships that are nested in the soil.
And so as a biologist, I'm really interested in all of this soil life and in their interactions
with one another as a community. So there's a ton of research out there
that goes back decades and some of it is also very recent. And kind of the bottom line on all
that research, Nate, is that the organisms that are indigenous to the soil, that live in the soil,
play a huge role in how crops take up mineral elements is one example. And so David been talking
about the importance of erosion and, you know, we need to get zinc out of rocks and iron out of
rocks and so on. And it's the microorganisms in the soil that help shuttle those mineral nutrients
out of these broken up rocks into the roots of a plant. And then from there, the plant can take
