husbandry into cropping operations. And you can think of animals in that sense as something that
can help to process the crops double by consuming it and turning it into manure, and returning
that manure to the land. And it's not just the nutrients that are returned, but a cow is also
actually a an inoculator. I mean, their manure is full of microbes from the rumen that can then
make it into the soil. So there's a number of connections all rooted in how you would cultivate,
if you will, the beneficial life in the soil is by feeding them, housing them, giving them a
community to work with, maybe giving them the accelerant of a faster organic matter breakdown
through livestock on the land. And so regenerative farming systems employ all three of those
components. And the three major pillars that you identified are really the foundation for what the
UN calls conservation agriculture. It's a system of farming that depends on doing all three,
no till, cover crops, and diversity. And there's very few studies that have looked at how that
all three combinations, all three of those principles work in combination. But those studies
that have looked at that find big effects from the combination, much bigger effects than if you
just went to no till, or if you just rotated your crops, or if you just planted cover crops.
There's a lot of synergy that comes through this new system, and it's all through cultivating the
life in the soil as an ecological system. It's a radically different way of thinking about the soil
as the foundation for farming. So I seriously have a lot more questions. I don't know how you
guys are doing for time, but let's just keep going and just flag me if you have to stop.
But this is clearly going to probably be a two-part thing. I'll have you back later.
Let me ask you about no till. So a couple years ago, I stopped with the land we have back here,
with the corn, soybean, and now we're putting barley, grass, with bees, and stuff. And it's
no till. So people that are vegetarian and they just choose to eat wheat and grains and things,
the industrial practice is every year you get those big combines and those machines,
and they till up the soil. Clearly that's killing worms when it's all dug up. But is that disrupting
the soil? Is that also killing the homes of all these tiny little myceliums and micro-critters
that are helping the plant? And then they have to start all over until next March it's tilled up
again. And this cycle is just not ever giving them a chance to build a stable home.
Pretty much, yeah. That's what's going on in it.
The effects and the impacts of that vary, and it varies with crops. With an annual crop, like say,
a cereal grain, it's probably not as bad as if you're doing those kinds of practices running
through vineyard. So grapes are perennial crop or an apple orchard. You've got these trees with
root systems all over the place. And you can't just go slicing up those root systems. That's
going to be pretty bad for the plant. So if you're going to do that kind of a practice, it's better
to do it with annual crops and perennial. But that said, what it also means is that you're
starting out every growing season with this huge disruptive event. And that sets the microbiome
communities off in a different trajectory. I would say organic farmers, the very best ones
that are really on top of their organic matter management and how much they're applying and
what form, they've been able to kind of thread their way through this tillage problem because
organic farmers till a lot because it's for weed control purposes. And they managed to have,
like I said, it's our very best organic farmers. It's not all of them. They managed to do okay on
soil health. But it's only because they are paying a lot of attention to how they're preserving to
the extent they can and constantly adding organic matter so that the microbial communities that are
left after the tillage have the best possible chance of reproducing, getting those numbers back
up and getting that conversation going right away with their crop partners. You fall down on the
organic matter and organic can become an industrial level process. So where does this
organic matter that these farmers that you just said, the best organic farmers are adding? Where
does that come from? Yeah, that comes from organic farmers that are using animals as a part of their
cropping system. So Dave had mentioned before, you get a ruminant animal. So that's a cow's goats
and sheep are ruminants. They are basically walking compost heaps. Now as a gardener,
that is what I want. You can have these big windrows. This is a big long pile of compost and
you're turning it with your tractor and you're providing all that material. And I mean, that's
a job in and of itself for anybody who's done that. What's vastly better than that in terms of
energy inputs and convenience and your time and your labor is to have walking compost heaps
that are dropping compost out of their back ends onto your fields, which is right where you want
to get all of this stuff. So that's one source of organic matter. Another is cover crops.
These are exodates. Exodates are carbon and other compounds and that's a form of
organic matter that's different than obviously animal manure. So that is another source. And then
also just leaving mulches and residues of dead plant parts on top of the soil as a mulch. That's
another way that organic farmers and conventional farmers, some of them, will return organic matter
to the soil. So on the scale question, something I worry about is our current industrialized system
is a 10 to 14 to 1, depending on the boundaries, energy sink that we use 10 to 14 fossil calories
to deliver one food calorie to our plate. A lot of that is like you said, it's the pesticides,
it's the nitrogen fertilizers, the ammonia, etc. So what is not often spoken about, and I looked
this up and I got the reference from a guy named David Montgomery, is that there's a decline of
around 20 to 60% loss in the organic content in global soils, something like that. And so there's
a double edged sword here, right? There's the risks in the future of having less fossil fuel
inputs as oil declines. But then it's like the heroin addict needs another fix, our soils
are having less living systems in them. And the organic matter is been cut in half or a third
from where it used to be and we're going to have less inputs. So isn't that a huge risk? And how do
we get ahead of that for those people working in agriculture? Yeah, I know that that is a huge risk,
as we're basically, if you imagine a post oil agricultural future, we're going to have to
figure out how to get along with far less use of things like synthetic nitrogen fertilizers
that are very energy intensive to produce. But we're going to have to do it and maintain agriculture
in a system that doesn't have all those things. So we need to basically figure out how to
generate a very intensive agriculture capable of high yields in a way that doesn't degrade the
ability of the soil to actually maintain those yields without fossil fuel inputs. And that's
the real challenge in a nutshell. And the same kind of things you would do to rebuild soil organic
matter, the farming practices that would do that sort of help to fix all those problems,
right, because they will use fewer will be less reliance on fossil fuels, but will also encourage
and enhance our ability to grow large amounts of crops without that reliance. And so if we make
the longer we maintain conventional agriculture in degrading soil organic matter, we're just digging
the hole deeper that we're going to have to figure out how to get out of. Now, the good news is I
think that we do have methods in terms of regenerative agriculture that could supplant
conventional methods today. And we've got a few decades to manage that transition,
but we don't have a few centuries to do it. We need to do it this century. And so, you know,
our interests in helping to combat and mitigate the climate issue really line up with our interests
in being able to maintain the fertility of our soils because they both argue that we need to
transition towards this more new, this more regenerative style of agriculture that is less
fossil fuel dependent and can rebuild the organic matter content of our soils.
So, like many areas in society, this discourse seems to be polarized. There's like two interest
groups in agriculture with diametrically opposed views on what the right thing to do working on
food systems. On the one hand, you have folks doubling down on very modern, very tech intensive,
more mechanized systems with the Gates Foundation is promoting in Africa for yields,
you know, efficiency, etc. On the other hand, you have permaculture, agriculture,
agroecology people, many other names working on this, pushing for more diverse cropping systems,
replacing external inputs, and embracing but also updating traditional systems. Do I have this right
and what is your take on which approach should be pursued and how do we steer that conversation?
I think you're right in terms of casting the conversation is usually pitched around those
two end member views. But I think it's the wrong way to look at it. I think the right way to look
at it would be towards reorienting agriculture towards soil health building practices. And those
are technology agnostic, right? There's technological solutions that can help with that process.
But there's also an awful lot of what I like to call ancient wisdom in terms of the ideas of
cover crops, crop rotations, those are not new ideas. These are simple practices that many traditional
societies around the world embraced because it helped them sustain the fertility of their land,
even in the cases of societies that were plowing the hell out of it, like I wrote about in dirt.
The Romans are all about manure and returning organic matter to the land, but they plowed
eight or nine times a year. They really went overboard on the tillage. So where I think the
future of agriculture ought to lie would be on merging modern technology with ancient wisdom.
But what I mean by modern technology are things like no-till planters. John Deere has this amazing
technology to help farmers plant no-till, but it needs to be coupled with the wisdom of doing
cover crops and crop rotations and adopting a fairly different system of agriculture.
So I tend to view it that the over-reliance of thinking of one or the other ends of that
currently polarized spectrum is sort of missing the bigger point that we ought to unite them around
where the technology that we do embrace in agriculture going forward needs to be oriented
towards building soil health. And if it's not, then it's probably inappropriate technology for
sustainable agriculture. And yeah, yeah, I mean, that's essentially the way I look at it.
And I mean, what's ironic to me, Nate, about some of the things that are going on and what you
had mentioned as being sort of tech intensive visions for the future of agriculture,
it is ironic and just completely befuddles me as to why some of these ideas
don't really even consider the soil. Because sure, there's some things you can grow hydroponically,
but that's not going to be the majority of how we produce our food in the future. It is going to
be soil-based agriculture. And so technologies that sort of don't support or do research in or
trial and do demonstration farms on things like we've been talking about, whether that is this
idea of inoculating soil with beneficial microbes and then nourishing that in a soil that's maybe
depopurate or lacking those things. If we're not doing research on this vast world of plant
communication with the soil microbiome, as well as flavor feedback processes that are happening
between animals and the kinds of plants that are available to them in a past year, technology and
science and research that doesn't sort of merge these two things and be asking questions about
what technology is relevant to the biology that is inherent and innate in soil, plants,
animals and people, is a technology that we need to push off to the sidelines. That kind of technology
is not helping us. On the other hand, the more we dovetail with how our bodies work, plant bodies,
animal bodies, soil body, then we're going to get to a vision in a future in agriculture
that will be, I would call, a wisdom-based vision instead of intelligence, increasingly
artificial intelligence-based kind of a system. So I have on that note, I have one more content
question and then if you have a few more minutes, I know David has a PhD defense coming up. I have
some personal questions to wrap up, but yes, this is yet another example of intelligence being bound
by wisdom, but how can we shift the system if our entire economic system is based on a single
goal, which is monetary profits, when from a sustainability standpoint, from a propelling
human futures for centuries and millennia to come, soil and soil health, as David has pointed
out many times, is going to be one of our most important variables. How do we as a culture start
to bump that up the priority list when all we care about is dollars? Is there a way?
Yeah, because the economy as a whole suffers similar problems. We live on a finite planet,
so infinite growth is an impossibility and the basic problem behind economics. So what do you do?
You basically put sideboards on things. So when you look at things in terms of if you're dealing
with the market economy, you think about people's monetary incentives that they will be attuned to
as they go through life. And so in dealing with farming, you're talking about how are our agricultural
subsidies arrayed? Are we rewarding farmers for doing the right things by their soil or are we
subsidizing them for doing the wrong things by their soil, which in fact we are doing today?
So we could think about regulations, incentives. We could think about opportunities for essentially
trying to reward farmers for putting carbon back into the ground. I think there's actually real
opportunities for political alliances between urban dwellers who are very concerned about the
climate issues and rural residents who are struggling trying to make a living on farms where
it's hard today because farmers are caught between high input prices and low commodity prices that
they get for their crops. They're kind of in an economic squeeze play. There's a lot of policy
initiatives that could help to try and reframe the incentives that both consumers have and also
in terms of what farmers face. And one of the biggest things that we're kind of missing is again,
one of the big points that Anne and I made in What's Your Food Date is that when we think about
agricultural policy, if we track that all the way through to how we raise our food influences our
health on individual levels and then integrate that to a societal level, we look at our healthcare
costs in the U.S. today where seven out of 10 of us suffer from some type of chronic illness,
one of the biggest levers we have for undoing those costs and the human suffering that is
entailed for them is changing our diets and the way that we raise our food that our agricultural
policy really is health policy when we think of it in a broader framework. So that's one way to
start thinking about how to reframe that. And one of the things I was very encouraged by in the
research for the last two books is it looks like some of the economic incentives for farmers are
starting to line up with the ecological incentives for our society in terms of these regenerative
practices actually being more profitable for farmers today even without restructuring many
of our incentives and subsidies. That's a positive sign forward, but you know, it could use a little
more support in the policy arena. Excellent. I'm just super passionate about this topic and
I want to learn more and you too are fonts of wisdom and intelligence. So I'm going to have to
have you back. But as is my habit, I end these interviews with some personal questions. Maybe
you could each give brief answers because I know you have to run more broadly beyond your
four books and your career choice. Do you have any personal recommendations just as a human
being alive at these times to the listeners of this program who are aware of our food,
climate, economic, geopolitical predicament? These topics can be really,
we, if we drench ourselves in the hopelessness that too often I think comes along with
conversations and discussions like this, you, it's not good for us. It makes us, it makes us feel
well hopeless. So I'm always for at least once a day getting outside and finding
some moment of wonder or awe out there because I find that it, all of a sudden my thinking
can turn and I instead of dwelling on so much of the negative stuff, I can start to see
a little bit of blue sky and where we might go with solutions and some of the policy stuff that
Dave was talking about. I kind of, I think it's really important to get back to, I don't really
know, it's a bit of a reset. It's a bit of like we got to clear the doom and gloom out if we
actually are going to pursue some of these other things that really need to happen in terms of
setting up framework, policy, lifestyle, lives, societies, built environments and all of that.
You've got to get to the right headspace to begin thinking about that. And we were recently on,
I can't remember the event, but it was too much about the negativity and, you know, the crises
that we're in because they, these are solvable. We have intelligence and wisdom to solve the
climate thing, the food thing, the oil thing. It's just that we, you know, are locked in political
and economic systems that are like sort of this ball and chain on us. So I'm all in favor of at
least once a day get, get outside and find some awe and wonder. I mean, you can, you can reset in
as little as a five minute walk. I mean, depending on, on where you are, springtime is a great,
a great time of year to do that too, because it, spring is about renewal. And it, you know,
at least in our neighborhood right now, and being a person enthralled with botanical world,
I can't wait to get out and what's changed out there today. Oh my gosh, this thing is now out
and it's singing its song. And, and I love that. And it makes me feel fresh and ready to approach.
How are we going to solve these other problems then?
I love that too. I incorporate that in my life. What you were just saying, the challenges that
most people are ecologically and energetically unaware of these things. So we still have to
do the education, but a lot of people like yourselves are already aware of that and your work,
