your role in your sleeves up working on, okay, how are we going to respond to this?
David, how would you answer that question?
Well, you know, in a kind of similar fashion, I would say that I run into a lot of what I would
call climate despair or climate anxiety among undergraduates on campus these days.
And I advise people, you know, don't give into it. Instead, channel your energy towards actually
fighting to change the system and to produce a positive, positive change in directions. There's
a lot of really interesting and innovative things going on that are just starting to get off the
ground that could help with many of these things. And, you know, dedicating one's time to furthering
those is a very worthwhile proposition. Giving in to climate despair is a recipe for
is a recipe for inaction and not changing the status quo. So basically, keep fighting is one
way to think about it. What do you care most about in the world briefly, you can each answer?
That's a hard question. I think for me, it just sort of stems from my background in
in biology and in the world of gardening and everything. And one thing that's super important
to me is that we we hang on to the intact ecosystems, the intact and functioning ecosystems
that we still have. And the reason I think that's so important is that that is how nature is supposed
to work. And when we chip away and and start to be, you know, unravel those things,
we lose talk about losing wisdom and losing knowledge and losing intelligence. That is
what I don't want to lose any more of, because so far, Nate, you know, every time in all of this
research and writing, the more you get into how plants are communicating with soil, animals with
their diet, it's so it's it's as complicated as it is clear to me that when things are normal,
things are right in an ecosystem. That is how the world and nature works. And we
we need to hitch ourselves to that, if we want to continue, you know, persisting on this planet.
So I'm all about understanding that stuff, and then taking care of it, taking care of it.
David. Yeah, well, this may sound corny, but I'll kind of endorse what my wife just said.
You know, I think that in the big, the very big picture of things, what I care the most about
is that we don't degrade this amazing gift that we have of this planet that we live on and the
natural abundance that we've essentially inherited from geologic time, we've risen to dominance
globally in terms of the globally dominant species. And I don't want to see us lose what
actually makes earth incredibly unique and precious in the grand scheme of things, for all
we know, it's the one place that we know of with with life, we inherited it with an amazing
diversity of life. And we're living through what may be a very real bottleneck on that diversity
and abundance of life. And I would like to see us do everything that we can to come through with as
much nature intact on the far side as possible. And agriculture is at the center of those arguments.
Yeah. You both are my people in your sentiments. Last question, if you could wave a magical wand
and there was no recourse personally to you or your status, what is one single thing that you
would do to improve human and planetary futures? Well, I'll go first on this one. I would wave
my magic wand and make regenerative agriculture the new conventional agriculture in the sense that
everybody was doing it. And I second that. And I think I have a few things, Nate. Can she wave
the wand a few times? Okay, first wave is let's tackle poverty and let's tackle poverty through
educating girls and women everywhere. Because when everybody does better,
the entire global population can do better. And I would stop all wars. And I'll, those are my two
big wand waves, education for girls and women and stop the violence and war where it's occurring.
Those are our big wishes. I agree with you on that. Are you guys working on another book by any
chance? We are just about through the Oh my God, I'll never write another book phase of bookwriting.
So if you were to come back, if you were to come back, and I did a poor job of covering
all the questions that I planned on asking you just because I'm a kid in a candy store with
two people like you. But what is one topic that you would like to take a really deep dive on
that is very relevant to human futures could be super esoteric academic topic? Do you have
brief ideas on that? Well, I always like talking about microbiomes in the soil and the human body.
And in part, you know, I say this a lot in public talks, but you know, long before agrochemicals
and pharmaceuticals, we had what we ate, where we lived and our microbiome. And that's taken us
far as a species. That's been 99 if not more percent of life as a human. So I like to think
about the implications of that, where we are now, and why we may want to be thinking about
diets for the soil and diets for people. Excellent, David. Yeah, you know, I would be happy to have
a longer conversation about the feasibility of some of these regenerative agricultural practices
and sort of how it is they can be scaled up some of the other ancillary benefits that flow from
them. And the experiences of farmers in different parts of the world because there's no magic bullet
in terms of regenerative farming. So there's a lot of arguments say about what it is, what it means,
how to define it. And it, you know, I tend to subscribe to the view that it's farming practices
that build soil health through intensive farming. And the experience of farmers around the world
are really different in terms of how you might achieve that. So it'd be actually be fun to talk
about, you know, the many flavors of a regenerative agriculture, what is the future and what's the
prognosis for the future of agriculture? Can we get through some of the roadblocks that people
like the people who sell nitrogen fertilizers are undoubtedly going to start throwing in the way?
Excellent. Thank you both so much for your time and for your work. And I expect you're both going
to be very busy in the coming decade as more people take off their soil blinders and look at
how everything is connected on the ecosystems in our fields and in our bodies. So thank you both.
Well, thank you, Nate. It's a pleasure talking to you. Thank you, Nate.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit TheGreatSimplification.com
for more information on future releases.
