over and send that zinc or iron or whatever the mineral is to wherever it needs to go.
How do they shuttle the minerals from the rocks to the plants?
Well, there's some very helpful fungi that participate in this process. The large group,
there's different groups of fungi. Those that are the transporters, sort of David and I call them
the truckers and the miners of this mineral world in the soil, they are mycorrhizal fungi.
So these are not the kind of fungi that are breaking down organic matter. They have these long
thread like structures that are a part of, you know, their fungal bodies that run all throughout
the soil in a healthy soil, I should say. And it is through those fungal hyphae that iron, zinc,
phosphorus, even other kinds of compounds, you know, for which we don't have a full and complete list,
they're running back, they're running from some distant location in the soil through these hyphae
all the way to the roots of the plant. So you can sort of think like once these mycorrhizal fungi
enter the root zone of a plant, it's sort of like the doorstep, you know, they've kind of
knocked on the door and let the plant know, hey, I got that stuff. And there's symbiotic
relationships. So these are relationships that benefit plant and microbe alike, because fungi
aren't doing this for free. They are getting nutrition that their bodies need from the plant
when they drop the goods off at the doorstep. So zinc, iron, phosphorus, other compounds get
dropped off. The plant has been manufacturing an array of sugars, proteins, fats, and that picnic
basket of goods is left at the doorstep for the mycorrhizal fungi to take up. So this exchange
is going on just ceaselessly and endlessly in the soil. And so that's how at least the microbial
world is interacting with our crops to suffuse them with nutrients.
How long have we known this, what you just described?
Well, in the book, we write a bit about some of the early organic agriculture pioneers in the UK.
So this is Sir Albert Howard and Eve Balfour. Now back at that time, of course, they didn't have,
you know, all this DNA analysis and superduper microscopes, but they were some very observant
farmers. And they could see that when they increased organic matter on the fields,
that their crops would do better. When they paid closer attention to how they were grazing their
animals and what those plant communities, what kind of condition the plant communities were in,
that the animals were eating, that animal health was better. And so they surmised that organic matter
played a role in this. And Balfour and Howard in particular thought that the key lay with fungi.
They didn't know about mycorrhizal fungi. They knew fungi decompose things. So at least,
you know, I want to say, you know, for the last 50 or 100 years, people have been thinking
about these kinds of relationships. And it probably goes back, you know, a lot further because you
start to look into people like Louis Pasteur and Robert Koch, the French and German microbiologists,
respectively. So these are the folks that were on pathogens and human disease. And so
they knew the microbial world was capable of a lot from fermentation to disease. So it's not
like you can pinpoint one, you know, one time to say, aha, we didn't know anything but then overnight
we knew. It's been a process, you know, like all of science, things sort of accrete and accumulate
and the picture becomes clearer about what is happening. And this is certainly the story with
respect to soil health and its role in agriculture. So I want to let you finish giving an overview of
your book. But as usual, when I am really interested in a topic, I come up with like 10 intervening
questions. So what you're kind of describing is I've read a lot about the human gut microbiome,
which we can talk about and how important that is. But it sounds like the soil in my backyard
also has a microbiome, which is changing depending on what I do or don't do, etc. Is that an apt
analogy? Yes, that's a totally apt analogy. What we know about microbiomes in the human gut, in the
soil, in the whale, in the cow, wherever these microbiomes are, they have co-evolved with their
host organisms. So normally we think of co-evolution or maybe that's, you know, maybe a better way to
say that is pollinators and flowers are one of the most common ways that we think, oh, look at that,
the hummingbird beak slipping down into that tubular-shaped throat of a flower to get food.
That's co-evolution. What we know about microbiomes in their host organisms is that
they are just as co-evolved and that these co-evolutionary relationships go back a very long
time. I mean, for example, with the human microbiome, we're, if we didn't have the microbes in our gut
and on our skin and everywhere else that they are on and in us, we wouldn't be able to digest our food,
our health would not, we would not have a robust enough immune systems to survive for very long.
So it's been going on a long time, Nate, and if these relationships, you know,
evolution works in a way that if something's not working out, that relationship kind of dies off.
And the relationship that organisms have with their microbiomes are constantly changing,
depending on the diet that, say, I eat or you eat or in the book, we kind of refer to
the soil as having a diet. And so that diet for the soil, that can either be things like
a lot of synthetic inputs, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, or the three big fertilizers, or
it can be a diet of organic matter. And when the diet is organic matter, there's not only that
nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium coming through to the plant, there is a vast array of other
compounds and molecules that are also made available to the plant. So the plant is microbiome,
we're communicating about, you know, you know, the plant needs more of compound X, the microbiome
hears that, so to speak, there's a lot of chemical signaling going on,
can fetch that, you know, we call these fungi, we call them the
fetching fungi, certain bacteria, I call them nitrogen nabbers. So these microbes are acquiring
things, delivering them. And then as I had described before, they're getting these
compounds from the plant, these compounds have a great name, Nate, they're called exudates, right,
just think exuding, flowing out of the plant into the microbe. So that's kind of an overview of how
some of these basic mechanisms work. And when you begin to study this and go more deeply into it,
it becomes quite apparent why ag practices affect these relationships. You have tillage and plows
and various farm implements and even gardening tools for that matter. And they're slicing and
dicing up the soil physically, or a lot of chemical inputs are scrambling the words and the language
and the conversation. And it becomes very difficult for a host to communicate robustly,
accurately, and to the benefit of both itself and its microbiome, if communication is messed up.
I have so many questions. So let's just use rough ballpark. The majority of our food in the grocery
stores in the United States, we can focus on the US or North America for now, was produced somewhere
for industrial agricultural system. Yes, there are farmers markets, and there's some niche
systems where we're doing things more, no till more locally grown, etc. But so you could make
a case that what our food ate, mostly is nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium without all of these other
actors in the mix, right? Yes, I'm afraid to say yes. And what does that mean for
their role in exuding nutrients to us and leaving nutrients at our doorstep in the food? What are
we lacking as an account of this? Yeah, so plants are not just these sort of brainless sitting ducks
out there in the soil. When they are given, you know, piles and piles of synthetic inputs,
they respond by, well, let's see, I've got this particular in nitrogen, phosphorus,
and potassium, they are the sort of the, you can think of them as the macronutrients that are
needed for plant growth, somewhat of the equivalent of, you know, proteins, fats, and carbohydrates
in the human diet. Those are the three things we need, the macronutrients. Plants get the NP&K,
and they're like, wow, let's see, I could put more energy into growth, you know,
big leaves, big fruit, big vegetables. But in order to do that, I'm going to cut back on my
exudates, because I've gotten all this nitrogen from this other source, I don't really need to
make exudates, I can put the energy I would have put into making exudates into bigger plant,
bigger growth. So when a plant starts making these exchanges, sort of these trade, they're
really sort of trade-offs, making fewer exudates to be able to take advantage of the big pile of
nutrients right in front of them, it shorts the soil microbiome of nutrients and of the
things that it needs. So what these fetching fungi do, and the nitrogen nabbers do, and these whole
communities of microorganisms, they kind of get starved. They're malnourished when crops
are primarily fed a diet of NP&K, because the plant's not providing as much in the way
of exudates. And what this means then is with these microorganisms being malnourished and
lower in numbers and community structure is perturbed, the plant's not getting all of these
other compounds that are also important for its health. In the case of the botanical world,
there's a certain thing to think about here, and that is that plants, we know themselves,
make a huge variety of what are called phytochemicals. So all that means is plant-made
chemical. It's everything from, say, beta keratin to in our squashes, anthocyanins in our berries.
There are thousands, if not tens of thousands of phytochemicals. This is how plants survive
their sitting duck kind of lifestyle. Insect herbivores, mammalian herbivores come at these plants.
They consume a little bit of it in a robust, healthy plant that is having a great conversation
with its microbiome. The microbiome can help the plant interpret signals for making more
phytochemicals that push back on pathogens, that push back on herbivores. And these phytochemicals
that are important for plant health, they are in our diet. But these crops need to have a certain
level of challenge, if you will. We don't want couch potato crops. That's really bad. It's bad
because they then don't have a good defensive system. And that defensive system, in part,
consists of a lot of phytochemicals, and they benefit our health as well.
Speaking about co-evolution, this is almost human-based selection that we are having plant
biologists and plant breeders working for big corporations that are optimizing for plant growth
and yield, which indirectly is causing a shrinkage of these micronutrients, these phytochemicals
you're referring to. But it's still, they're succeeding because if there's enough NPK,
we get the plant growth, but the micronutrients are maybe missing. And can you give us some data
on the micronutrients missing in the average diet and why that's important? And is that what I just
described? Is that what's happening? Yeah, that pretty much is what is happening, although there's
a couple other things to consider here. So when we breed for yield and when we breed crops
in which there's sort of genomic expression is really matched up with acquisition of NPK,
it's a really different kind of crop than one that has a genome that is more geared toward
communication with soil life and the microbiome. And when you have that, you can grow a lot of
that particular plant, but it comes at a cost, first of all, you've got to buy all these inputs,
the actual nutrients. What it also means is that the plant, if it's making, if it's putting more of
its energy into growth and not so much into phytochemicals, somehow you have to compensate for
the defensive function of all of those phytochemicals in a plant if you've skewed it toward yield.
And the compensation for all those defensive phytochemicals is pesticides. So you have sort of
two really big groups of inputs in ag. You have the stuff that makes plants grow, crops grow,
and then you have the inputs that are necessary to compensate for plant defense against pathogens
and herbivores. So there's something called a dilution effect. You grow all of this biomass
on a plant, a bigger potato, a bigger corn cob, a bigger bean, whatever it is. And because the
plant has put so much energy into growing its macronutrients, it tends to have less
in the way of phytochemical diversity and phytochemical abundance. So that's kind of the
basic problem with a practice of growing our crops heavy on inputs. The growth ones and the
pesticides that compensate for defense. The other thing about that is plants are not having as robust
a conversation with their microbiome, say these fetching fungi. The fungi are sort of, you know,
maybe picture them a little bit. They're a little bit lost themselves in the soil if they're not
communicating with their plant. And if there's not a call for zinc or iron, which are two really
important micronutrients, then the levels of those micronutrients and others, you know, manganese,
selenium, boron, these micronutrients are really a good example of something that you need a little
bit in the human diet. But that little bit has an outsized effect on the health of the person,
the plant, or the animal. And so that's why these, that's why it's thought that you're skewing crop
growth toward yield. And that is having an effect on micronutrient phytochemical. And as we write
about in the book, there's a few other important compounds that are either making their way into
the plant body or not as a result of agricultural practices. So the soil story that you two are
unpacking here is in many ways a microcosm of our economic system, is that our macroeconomic
system is focused on GDP and profits, but we're really not looking at the micro well-being of
our citizenry and, you know, our health and our security. And it's all focused on the bling and
the high level shopping centers and GDP and things like that just came to mind. Question,
do we have evidence that the average person has less zinc, manganese, selenium versus 50, 70 years
ago? Have we studied that? Yeah, we go over some research in the book that dates from some research
that was done in the UK that was looking at average declines across a series of crops and also
looking at animals. And that research was looking at, I can't recall exactly, looking at an array of
micronutrients from iron was one of them because I remember the declines in iron in beef were quite
high. There was also, calcium was in there, Dave, I don't know if that's on the top of your head,
perhaps. Yeah, there was, this is a couple studies out of the UK looking at declines, historic declines
in the mineral density in particular fruits and vegetables in the UK. And they were 25 to 50%
kind of range losses. There were some that were even higher. There's been other studies in wheat,
in particular in terms of iron and zinc contents and wheat and zinc deficiency is actually a huge
problem in the global south, in the areas where people have been dependent on green revolution
varieties of wheat, for example. So there are studies that have looked at that. There have been
fewer studies that have tried to actually connect that to direct human health outcomes. There's a
lot of things in between sort of the health of the soil and the health of an individual person,
let alone the health of the aggregate public health of a whole society. But so what we tried to do
in what's your food date is break it down into little links sort of between how farming practices
affect how micronutrients get into crops, how then they get from the crops into our bodies,
and then the medical literature, what do those things, the antioxidants and anti-inflammatory
compounds that phytochemicals become in our bodies or the roles they serve in our bodies.
The medical literature is full of evidence that that's affecting human health. So when
you put all those sort of little connections together from different disciplines, you can
trace the path right from soil health to impacts on human health. But the number of studies that
have tried to demonstrate it directly are fairly small. So we tried to court and tried to bring
all that info together. So I'll ask you to just speculate on this, but if someone is hungry and
they eat a pizza or some nachos or something, and then they're still hungry and they keep eating,
is that possibly because they got the macronutrients, they got the carbohydrates,
the protein and the fat, but in their diet somehow like in the soil is missing these
micronutrients that our bodies are craving somehow manganese or selenium or something
that we're missing. What do you think about that, either of you?
It's not really speculation, Nate. There's a ton of research and evidence that
yeah, there's a ton of, there's a good deal of research and evidence out there that there are,
just as I talked about all of this chemical signaling that goes on between a plant and
its microbiome in the soil, that very thing is happening within our bodies. So you take in that
pizza and okay, you've met your sodium intake within about two bites, okay? So the body is
not hankering for any more sodium. You probably got a pretty decent amount of fat, so don't really
need any more fat. All the sausage and pepperoni, yeah, met the protein. So the body's not really
hankering for that, but the body might be hankering for, let's say this was a type of pizza that
didn't have tomato sauce. So the body's like, well, I could really use some lycopene. That's
one of the main phytochemicals in tomatoes. So this is all happening, I need to say,
on an unconscious level, right? I mean, we joked about having voices in our head at the beginning
of the show, but think about this. There are voices in our bodies
that are at an unconscious level, so to speak, and they ourselves are communicating with our nervous
system, with our brain to influence our behavior, to keep reaching for pizza, because we think that,
wow, if I keep eating more pizza, somehow maybe down the road, I'll be getting enough lycopene,
enough manganese, enough of anthocyanins. And of course, you're never going to. All that's
going to happen is you're going to keep taking in more calories, but the calories are not going to
have the full complement of nutrients that the body is hankering and calling for.
So using that logic, if I ate a pizza in this example and took a daily multivitamin,
might I crave that third slice a little bit less, or do the multivitamins not
