making the money, which you don't have anyway.
Yeah, it's, it's bankruptcy time.
Yeah.
It would fix people's current shitty policies that don't afford them the
opportunity to receive proper care.
So that would be my life prior to this.
Yeah.
Well, a lot of, you know, preventative health care just doesn't get done
because people don't have the money or the time or the incentives to go see
doctors and that inflates health care costs down the road because they're
not getting things treated or, you know, receiving vaccines that could have
prevented them from receiving a certain illness, et cetera.
So it would let doctors stop working like factory workers.
And it would fix that issue where people are reliant on their employers
for their health care benefits.
That's the main reason I'm still working.
Because you need, because you need the, the insurance.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I can look at how much it costs to, to self-insure.
I'm like, there's no fucking way I could do this.
It is what keeps a lot of people enslaved to the working for the man and
not working for themselves.
Yeah.
And when I was looking to continue the policy that I had at my last job
on the non-employer coverage option, it was $570.16 a month.
Yeah.
So it was good coverage, but not, I think that's, and that's the case,
that's the case that the, the second highest expense behind like rent or
mortgage behind living is health insurance for the average American,
which is insane.
It's not even the cost of medicines, the cost of like trying to not lose
your home and your, your life, your, your life.
I know people who've gone through medically, medical induced
bankruptcy or whatever, where, yeah, double hernia.
All right, cool.
Well, I guess we can get by on one car, you know, whatever.
Assessors determine how many cars your family needs and if you
get to keep your house and stuff, right?
And just because you got sick.
It's ridiculous.
I go to the doctor maybe twice a year.
Sometimes not even that.
And I have to, if I were to pay for my own medical insurance,
be like $700 a month, just so that I can go bankrupt anyway,
because the medical insurance doesn't cover everything.
Yeah.
I don't see the point in it.
And yeah, it would give people the flexibility to find the jobs they
actually want and to, you know, go into business for themselves,
doing things that are more valuable possibly than the bullshit job they
may have to have.
And that's, that's one thing that he emphasizes.
He's, he keeps going back to in a lot of his, his dialogue is that this,
it's very entrepreneurial.
And he's like, look, this lets people more do what they want.
And if they want to start a business, you know, like, again, the $1,000 a month,
it's, you know, it's not enough to keep you afloat necessarily,
but it's enough to buffer if your business starts out small.
Yeah.
And so like, at least a few people.
What if you want to move, relocate, switch a job, actually develop your life
in some positive direction?
A lot of people end up stuck.
Yeah.
Or, you know, it would give people the opportunity to pursue creative,
like art and creative outlets.
Let people who are caretakers for family members who have elderly or ill family
members do that without like having to die or, or not being able to do it,
which is terrible.
And it would encourage people to volunteer more and participate in their communities
more where people end up not doing those things as much anymore,
because they just spend their lives working.
Yeah.
It's hard to see how there's downsides.
I'm sure there are, but we'll.
I think the cost mainly is the downside.
Yeah.
That sounds like an acceptable cost to me.
A kind of irrespective of the number.
There's a way to make this work.
We're a very wealthy country.
That like segues pretty well into the human capitalism.
I think you just to quickly counterpoint that, I think until you run the numbers,
you can't necessarily know that.
Well, given the rough estimate that I've heard of like 1.5 trillion for UBI.
As far as the impact that the Medicare for all would have on the health insurance industry
and what that would do to costs, I haven't, I don't have good numbers for that.
But you're right.
Yeah.
The costs could be impossible.
And somehow the situation we have now could be better than that.
So I find that unlikely, but that could that could well be the case.
You're right.
Okay.
You're sorry.
Oh, no, it's fine.
Yeah.
Human capitalism.
Yeah.
What is that?
Because I don't the term doesn't seem to mean anything to me on its face.
Gang says our current emphasis on corporate profits isn't working for the majority of Americans,
especially with the development of automation and AI looming.
So we need to move to a new form of capitalism, human capitalism,
that's geared towards maximizing human well-being and fulfillment.
Oh, okay.
So this is basically, he wants to fight the Malochian tendencies,
Malachian, of corporations to value money over people.
A couple of examples of that would be like an airline refusing to honor your ticket
because they can get more money from a customary repurchases last minute,
or a pharmaceutical company charging extortionary rates for life-saving drugs.
He wants to switch the measure of the economy from the GDP in the stock market to
measures ensuring human thriving.
Examples of some measures would be median income and standard of living,
health-adjusted life expectancy, mental health, childhood success rates,
social and economic mobility, absence of substance abuse, etc.
Suicide rates too.
Oh, was that on there too?
I, well, if it wasn't, it could be.
It should be, if it's not.
Yeah.
I think that was maybe tied in with the mental health.
Yeah, probably.
So I remember the thing about GDP is that if we have a trillion-error owning every car in the
country, our GDP will be great as a country, right?
Even if we have a bunch of people unemployed and a lot of people are killing themselves
because they can't afford to eat.
So GDP will soon become an obviously measure of the success metric of a country.
So.
Yeah, it's the whole what gets measured gets managed.
He also wants to reign in corporate excesses by appointing regulators,
paying them competitive wages so they stay in that role,
but then prohibiting them from going into the private industry afterward,
because regulators need to be focused on making the right decisions rather than just getting more
money.
An interesting comment that Congress and the president should be paid a lot more,
but also prohibited from moving into lobbying afterwards or, you know,
working for the industries that they regulated and passed laws for or against.
And I thought that was an interesting premise.
I didn't think about it very much, and I'm sure if I spent a few hours,
I could come up with things to say on it.
But on its face, I was like, that sounds reasonable.
Yeah, on its face, it sounds really sensible.
It just keeps you from working in your own self-interest rather than the interest of the
people that you're representing.
Yeah, which is supposed to be your job.
Yeah.
You know.
I think that's one of the things that, okay, there's so many things to dislike about Trump,
but one of the things that really gets me is that he seems to be using this mainly as a
way to enrich and promote himself.
Yeah, I mean, put that on the list, right?
Right, yeah.
I mean, it's, we could go on about it.
Right, I'm sorry.
No, no, no, you're right.
I should probably just come out.
No, no, leave that in.
It's just, it's one of those things that like, the reason I get quiet and kind of like,
yeah, because it's like, yeah, if that were the only thing, that would be great, right?
Yeah.
And it's like, so, you know, where do we, I mean, he takes $3 million trips every week to his
private golf course and like, he makes no compunctions about hiding the profits.
And, you know, sure, he gave up all his businesses, but he gave them all to his families and like,
to the Trump, what, brand and not, you know, they made Jimmy Carter sell his peanut farm,
right?
Yeah.
Oh.
Like, because he was gonna be biased president if he, you know, he'd be biased towards peanut
farmers if he had, if he had a stake in the industry, which is, which is ridiculous.
And let me rephrase that.
It's ridiculous to, to enforce it with Jimmy Carter and his peanut farm and not do it with Trump and,
and all of his, yeah.
So like, the, the, the idea of like, yeah, you can't have a private stake and stuff that
he'll be managing as president, that makes sense.
But, but to, to say that, that Jimmy Carter's the risk that he, that he would ruin the country
by incentivizing or by benefiting himself as a peanut farmer, and that Trump doesn't
run the risk of doing that is madness.
Yes.
Sorry, human centric or human capitalism.
Yeah.
There was one more thing.
The government should issue a new currency called the digital social credit.
Oh, this thing.
Yeah.
This was interesting.
This is a currency that it can be converted into dollars and is used to reward people
and organizations who drive social value.
Converted into dollars, the best I heard when I heard him talking about it with someone,
I don't remember who, was that like, maybe businesses would honor it.
You could get a, use it for credits or something.
Has he said that he can like, literally convert it into dollar currency directly?
That's what he says.
Interesting.
And he says this new currency would allow people to measure the amount of good that they've done,
and it would incentivize organizations to target human centric goals rather than
increasing profits.
That sounds really confusing.
Does that mean like an influencer like Jenna Marbles or PewDiePie would have all this social
