his first day in office, he'd want to pardon everybody who was put in jail for
a nonviolent drug crime.
Nice.
He says that it would be a very busy day, but he'd love to go to every
prison and high five everyone on their way out.
He's like, yeah, it'd be crazy busy, but it'd be the best day ever.
He also said he wants to decriminalize, decriminalize small amounts of opioids.
So people who are right now, I mean, it sucks if you're using opioids, uh,
especially just to escape from life, but you shouldn't be thrown into prison for it.
Oh yeah.
I think, yeah, non-violent, nonviolent drugs, right?
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah, it would sure be nice if, uh, we could just finally get past that.
That'll be another thing that we look back on.
And that's another non-UBI, non-tech thing, just a little human centered thing.
Yeah.
That's what you're talking about.
And it's just, it's just weird.
And it's, it's surreal when you take like an outside view to look at this and
like, yeah, no, the current situation makes perfect sense.
We need to keep this under control.
Um, cause it's, I mean, we've, we've talked about drugs stuff in the past, but
like, you know, the fact that weed is illegal and alcohol isn't, and I don't
either, I don't, I don't smoke weed or drink all that much.
I, I've never, I've never owned a pipe and I've never bought pot.
So like, I'm not, I'm not defending this cause I love using it.
It's just like, I've seen people on pot and I've seen people drunk and I'm like,
why is this one okay?
Yeah.
Um, tradition.
Exactly.
But how fucking stupid, right?
So are you living in Denver County?
No.
Oh, okay.
Why?
Because you have until Tuesday, if you're in Denver County to get your vote in
your ballot in, that's for decriminalizing psychedelic mushrooms.
Oh yes.
I've heard about this.
Fingers crossed.
Oh, I haven't heard about this.
Oh yeah.
In Denver there, it's on our ballot right now that, uh, to decriminalize
psychedelic mushrooms, it would be the lowest priority among Colorado law
enforcement and no money could be spent on enforcing that.
Yeah, I totally agree with that.
They're one of the safest substances you can consume.
I mean, um,
it might make you vomit.
That's about it.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I, yeah, it also, I don't know, um, what it's going to look like with
people being in a really altered state, like being in public, having freakouts or
trying to drive or something like that.
So that might be interesting, but I feel like they, aren't they legal in Amsterdam?
I think pretty much everything's legal in Amsterdam.
Well, and I don't think this would, this would invalidate the laws against like
public intoxication, right?
Yeah.
Like right now you can't be drunk and driving in public either.
So it's like,
and you can't be like obnoxiously drunk in public.
Right.
Um, so this would be just the same thing.
Like if you're going to trip outside, trip quietly, politely, just like when,
when you're wandering around day drunk.
Yeah.
So, um, I don't suspect those numbers to go up all that much.
They might, but I mean, no one, no one, I've never taken mushrooms.
If it's anything like others psychedelics, no one's going to take these and be like,
I should start driving.
Like they're going to take this.
I'm like, I'm so glad I can't move right now because I was driving.
I would kill myself in a hot second.
There's probably going to be some bad things that happen.
But I think that the positive, I think the benefits of legalizing it and not having
people go to jail over a possession of something that's safer than aspirin.
Yeah.
All the horrors of the drug war are not worth it.
Yeah.
It's back to the whole regulation, uh, discussion.
I think the, the pot industry in Colorado has raised so much money over the last few
years that they're like, all right, the schools are taken care of.
Let's start looking at homeless shelters.
And it's not surprisingly not really.
Yeah, I could, I read something just about this.
I didn't say, well, cause the money is being funneled in creative ways.
Well, I mean, so it's earmarked for that, but I know that they're at least expanding
what they're planning on spending the increased tax revenue on, including
homeless shelters, but what is sitting around not being used yet?
Yeah.
The money can only be used for certain things and some schools are not really
seeing any benefit because of it, because of how the laws are written.
And maybe a couple of years.
Yeah.
I mean, when, when was pot legalized like three years ago?
So three or four, four, five years ago.
Oh, it would have been, it would have been Obama era.
So it just seems like forever ago or it varies.
My, my perception of time is weird lately.
I mean, it's legal now, so it's always been legal, right?
That's right.
Yeah.
I don't remember every time it ever, it ever wasn't.
It's amazing how quickly we adapt to things.
Right.
I don't have much else.
I kind of wanted to talk about the other two points in his like three big platforms,
uh, which was the Medicare and the human capitalism.
Yes.
Uh, the Medicare for all would be a public option or similar program, providing
healthcare to all Americans.
The idea behind that is it would shift the way doctors are compensated to promote
holistic and empathic care, which means, uh, doctors currently are incentivized to
kind of have a factory system in their offices where they just bring as many
patients in as possible, see them as quickly as possible.
Doctors work crazy hours.
They have a lot of responsibilities.
Uh, and a lot of patients fall through the cracks there.
So Andrew Yang, uh, you can find out more about this on his website too, but he
was talking about a system, uh, I think it was for like Inuits.
I might be confusing that there was a system that he really liked where they
were doing this holistic and empathic care where they're spending more time with
patients and, uh, getting psychologists involved in trying to really combine the
treating mental and physical illness, which tend to be strongly correlated.
So I like that.
And, uh, this would also create incentives for and invest in innovative
treatment methods and methodologies, which is not explained.
And I'd like to hear more about how he plans to do that, I guess.
All I know is that, well, I know two things, I guess, one of the only
things I know is that every other first world country on earth has a public
option system where everyone is just covered and they all have better
healthcare than us.
And I don't know why we haven't implemented that yet because our
healthcare system is completely fucked.
Yeah.
So this, this would do that.
And I would be very happy.
And the other thing I know is that when I was on Medicare for, uh, eight
months, it was the best medical care I've ever had in my life.
Yeah.
Primarily because I could just go to a doctor when I needed to go to a doctor.
And that made a huge difference.
Like nowadays I'm like, could go to see a doctor, but, uh, that's going to cost
me a bunch of money.
I have an appointment set two months from now anyway.
I'm just going to hold on until then.
And when I had Medicare, I was like, okay, this will cost me $3 cash.
I can go.
I, I, when I needed physical therapy, I actually got better because I could go
to physical therapy.
Every other time in my life when I've needed the physical therapy, I went to
one session, paid my $70 and then went home and did the rest of the stuff
myself forever, right?
And when I was on Medicare, they actually like walked me through a program where
like after two weeks, they're like, okay, now you can start doing this instead.
And oh my God, it made so much of a difference.
Yeah.
And I think, uh, it's Jess's point, oh, that she brought up about like a more
holistic healthcare approach too.
Um, doctor's jobs are going to be automated away too.
Not, not the, not necessarily the person that you go see to tell you what's
wrong with you, but the like,
the diagnostic process and then also, um, a lot of them are already like, I see
a psychiatrist, uh, via the web and a lot of doctors are switching to the, what
is it like telecommunication style, um, therapists and whatnot.
There's not very many procedures that like you do need to be in person to do.
And I think there's going to be fewer of them, the better technology we get for
like self-diagnostic tools.
Robotics surgery is becoming a thing.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Like doctor's jobs will, again, there'll be purpose for
probably trained humans, but I think less and it won't be as valuable a
profession when whatever the next version of Watson can, can tell you what's
wrong with you when you walk into the room.
So yeah, that'll be cool.
And what is, what is a human centric capitalism?
Um, there's a couple more things about the Medicare.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah.
Um, Yang says that Medicare for all would fix the problem of people going
bankrupt when they get sick or injured.
Oh God.
What is it?
Like 50, 50% of Americans can't afford a $500 expense that's unplanned.
I don't know what the percent is, but I think it's, I think it's something
along maybe 45% or something.
If it's anywhere near that high, then that's really upsetting.
And it's, it's, that's roughly the case where a lot of people roughly
wanted paycheck to paycheck.
Yeah.
And so the idea of like, Oh no, your car needs repairs.
That's a financial ruin from like, if not most people, like a, at least a
third, maybe 40% and even, even if you like, have a medical
procedure that's $5,000, right?
There's some people where that's ruinous too.
Not only do they not have anything close to $5,000 in the bank, but then
you have weeks of recovery.
You have all that time that you can't go to work, which means you aren't
