It's probably the reason why Tumblr went all crazy anti porn.
Now a website can be whole held.
I can just be deleted.
Yeah.
Well, the website can be the owner of a website can be held.
In criminal contempt, like go to jail.
If anyone on their website did use their website for anything that might be sex
and money related, prostitution related, wasn't, wasn't Tumblr's thing that it
hosted child pornography for years and that I'm pretty sure that was a big part
of it.
You had a, a, a ULA that said you can be 13 to use this place and we're not going
to check if you post nudes of yourself.
And there were tons of nudes of children on there for years.
So like porn hub's fine.
You can still post your own amateur content and porn hub.
Yeah.
Again, I don't know the ins and outs and you know, way more about this than I
do, but I'm just thinking like the, the, the Tumblr thing, I think was largely
due to the fact that they went unchecked for the bunch of stuff that we all
probably agree is not cool to have on the web.
Right.
But the rest of your point stands.
Yeah.
Like, except for the part where you're running all the way to saying that they
would sell out, I know you're being hyperbolic, but where they would sell out
anybody, not anybody, but they would sell out me if it was an advantage,
advantageous to them.
If for some reason I was a hated minority and people didn't care about me.
Okay.
I like Archer.
Great show, right?
The cartoon show in the very first episode, though, they have a dead
hookers in the trunk joke.
His friend at the time says, aren't, don't we call them call girls?
And Archer goes, no, when they're dead, they're just hookers.
Right.
Which ha, ha, I guess that's funny.
But again, it's like sex workers don't count as people.
Even up to a few years ago, it was okay to joke about how they aren't people.
I, I knew some sex workers, probably still know some sex workers in my life.
And I'm not okay with that at all.
And so it, it really bothers me when someone's like, okay, here's people
that no one cares about, they joke about how inhuman they are, let's make
their lives even worse and less safe.
That's what they were doing for political advantage.
And so if I was someone that society didn't care all that much about and
considered borderline, unhuman anyway, then the politician that voted for
soft host assist that would be just as happy to vote for something that would
make my life more dangerous for whatever little political advantage.
So I guess two things.
One, it depends on, you know, the era, not defending the Archer joke, but like
the, the joke that like X person isn't human.
I've spent a set on the show that like when somebody's handing me coffee at
the drive through, they're not like a person to me.
They're a coffee delivery person.
They're a coffee delivery machine, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Um, so like in that sense, it's dehumanizing.
Um, and so othering people to the point of nonhumanness isn't
necessarily a sign of psychopathy or, or anything like that.
There isn't a whole culture about how it's okay to laugh about dead coffee salesman.
No, probably not.
And I, I guess I didn't know a lot of people in the dead hooker comedy community,
but was there any impact that was positive to this about like actually
doing anything about sex trafficking?
No, no, was, was there any things worse?
Was there any, was there any plausible way that it could have even law enforcement
came out and said, this will make our jobs harder.
It will make sex trafficking worse.
And it has.
Okay.
All right.
I mean, I was going to say, if it, if it did make sex trafficking harder to do,
then I was like, Hey, you know what?
That sucks.
Maybe including all this, you know, uh, what do you call Puritan bullshit about
prostitution is the only way to get make it, get it bipartisanly passed.
Then it's like, all right, that's the cost we paid to, you know, to help with
some slavery issues, right?
Um, but if it didn't even do that, then that's super annoying.
And it's forced things back under, deeper underground and has made things worse.
Womp.
Yeah.
All right.
Well,
so anyways, long ass tangent.
None of that is relevant to why like Andrew Yang, aside from the fact
that he didn't vote for it, which I realize is only because he's not a
politician and he didn't have the opportunity to vote for it.
But from the things I've read about his personality, he seems like the kind
of person who wouldn't have voted for it anyway.
Yeah, or at least he would have had some kind of thoughtful process behind
why he did or didn't vote for it as opposed to knee jerk of like sex
trafficking, gotta vote against that or it'll look bad.
Sex trafficking is the current satanic cults.
Well, yeah, and I guess like he said, it is political expediency and
whatever, all that stuff, but that's just politics, which again, it sucks.
And that's a drag.
But like, if anyone's like, Hey, no, we can't do this, they'd be thrown
through the mud and be like, look, that person's, you know, pro sex trafficking.
There's six people.
I think it was six people that voted against it, extremely small number,
but there were a few.
Yeah.
And I'm sure if there were big figures, they would have got a bunch of shift for
it, I don't know if they were big figures.
They could have said, Hey, this bill is bullshit.
And this is why I guess it's just, you know, it's, it's politics in the
biggest scale, but even like at a low, at a low scale, you know, the standing
up and saying, this is a bad idea.
And I'm going to side with the criminals are going to side with the drug
dealers or something.
You're going to, people will take the advantage of that to say, look,
they're a terrible person.
We shouldn't, we should get them, we should take away their power.
Well, I mean, and that's exactly what happens and how you get to look
this person side with the Jews.
He's a terrible person.
Yeah, prefer more people to stand up for their actual principles.
I did too.
I'm just saying it's not, it's not, I don't get me wrong.
I'm, I'm very much for that, but it's not a sign of a monster or, or a, a, a
gas chamber loving asshole, no, no, no, no, no, to endorse that.
I think, but now I think evil is pretty banal in it's not monsters and mutants.
It's people who are just doing some expediency things here and there and
sometimes things get run away, you know, with that.
Uh, so I don't, I don't think any of these people are evil.
I just hate them for not being at least a little bit good.
All right.
Well, we'll, we'll, we'll table all that for a while.
Cause I, I have a lot more to say about that, especially giving the
upcoming election, but, um, I like Andrew Yang too.
Okay.
So I think that's great.
Yeah.
Um, so no, Andrew Yang, the reasons that I'm excited for actual Andrew Yang, in
addition to not having any, um, viable, uh, other people I can vote for is that
he seems to be kind of more or less our people.
He comes from Silicon Valley entrepreneurship culture.
Oh yeah.
Just like the rest of us.
Well, he is very concerned about future tech, uh, issues that are coming up.
And as far as I can tell, he's the only candidate who actually can see the
looming AI apocalypse coming and is trying to do something about it and meet the
future head on instead of just doing the normal road things that everyone else is
doing, like, Hey, let's work on the economy and keep the military strong and
do whatever it is that we do.
Yeah.
Let's maintain the status quo, maybe make things slightly better.
Yeah, exactly.
He's a, he's not disruptive ways.
He's, he's like, with, as an asteroid is streaming towards the earth, all the
other politicians are worried about unemployment rates and, and crime rates,
which are also things to worry about, but no one's looking at the asteroid.
And he's like, we should do something about this fucking asteroid.
Yeah.
And I, I think it's great.
He has, um, a literacy with tech and with, I don't know, a level of in touchness
that I can't, because the last three years have taken, you know, 50 years.
I can't remember if, if, you know, this has been around before, right?
Where, um, you know, I think Obama made, he definitely made noises about
like automation and stuff.
And in fact, they, like the White House, you know, had that memo, like his last
month in office about, you know, by 2030, we estimate what 25% of jobs will be
automated or something.
Oh.
Like they, they conduct some study about, you know, like waitress jobs, retail jobs
and driving jobs.
Yeah.
Like all of those are going away in the next 15 years, next 11 years by, by, by
a lot of estimates.
I think MIT had a concurrent study that also agreed that came to that same
conclusion.
So, I mean, he's aware of it, but yeah, Yang's big on that.
He's got, I mean, he's not, and he's not just that they're complaining either.
He's got solutions, which I like too.
Yeah.
I mean, for starters, he's proposing creating a department of technology and
a secretary of technology, which I'm shocked that no one else has done this
yet, considering how freaking important that is in, in the current day.
Yeah.
Our current president like conducts his policies, like directly off Twitter and
yet like.
And then our secretary, or what is it?
The, um, the head of our information security council or something, whatever,
uh, Chris Christie, I forget what his title was.
Um, when he had that tweet that he forgot to put a space between the
period and the next sentence and the next word that HTML can render that as a
hyperlink.
Oh.
And so somebody bought that domain and like, you know, said like Trump sucks or
something, just put that on there.
Awesome.
Um, and he's like, I've been hacked.
It's like, you don't know how a hyperlink works.
And this is the guys, you know, our, our, our chief in this area in the country
or in the White House.
So, um, yeah, it'd be nice to have tech leader people actually in charge of tech
decisions.
Yeah.
