this is one of his, I think, least well communicated posts. And it's not just him
flexing how well like he understands all this stuff. It's, I don't know. I mean,
in there's, there's I think maybe necessary math for the point that he's making. But
my understanding is that the point that he's making is that like a prior probability isn't
just like your initial guess based on nothing. It's your running back to the earned example.
Yeah, there were three earns or there were three cases rather, one where the earn contains five
red balls and five white balls. The second one would be a random number generator is
deciding which balls are going to be red or white at a certain probability. And then case three was
a monkey throwing balls into the internet random. Right. So if you hand me an earn and ask me before
I draw a ball out what I think the color will be with what probability without telling me which
earn it is, I, I could, I guess I would say roughly 50% just because I have no idea. But
that's not really a prior. That's like a complete just guess. Right. And then if you told me which
earn it was, then I could say, okay, I'm guessing it's this. And then he, you know, he says I could
write a quick Python program that gives me the actual estimates. The first one had five red and
five white. So he was saying that if in the like first round of guessing, if you asked me to guess
whether the ball that gets pulled out is going to be red or white, regardless of any of those cases,
because they're all about 50, 50, you would say 50%. Then when you start pulling balls out, then
you have to update each time because if it were case one, for example, every red ball that gets
drawn makes it less likely that the future balls will be red because there's now fewer red balls
left in the year. And there's only five red and five white. And the next one is Laplace's law of
succession, which you can check out in Wikipedia. And then case three is return point five, because
the monkey threw balls in at random. So they're always going to random pulling out red balls.
So it goes with this long explanation of why if you had like a true probability estimate prior of
the background, it would encompass all like 10 to the 24 possibilities of the way the balls could
be ordered in the earn, right, the way that you pull them out. Like what are the odds of you pulling
out four red ones in a row? Well, that's going to be concentrated in this part of your gigantic
grid, right? But like with every other post of his, I feel like there was a point and I learned
something. And in this one, I wasn't sure what I was supposed to learn. I still don't know what it
means for a prior to be a mathematical object or, or what he was getting at with this particular
block of text. Yeah, I, I'm okay calling this one a wash. There's a good conversation in the
comments where a lot of people are just like, can you clarify this? You know, I feel like
you're ruining the word prior already has a good definition of why are you throwing that away?
Because it's too confusing for this. And I would say check out the comments and
just say this one was weird. We don't have to talk about it for that long. So, okay. I mean,
I'm okay with that. Do you have anything you want to add, Jess? No. That's fair. All right. So
what is the intuitive understanding of a prior? Like, because we can talk about that for a minute.
A prior is what I always thought is the, the belief you already come in having
or even the belief that you have after some updating, but like it's your new prior
information, right? So every time there's a test, you'd now have a posterior, which becomes
your new prior for any further tests. Yeah. And a lot of these, I'm sure it's his writing that I'm
because that's both the Bayesian stuff I read isn't like, you know, the results of like a diabetes
or breast cancer test or something. Like what are the odds that I think I have diabetes right now?
Like none. Very low. Like, then if you tell me, all right, well, the base rate of diabetes is
one in 50,000 or something. All right, well, I guess those are my odds then. Then you give me a
test and it's comes back positive. I'm like, all right, well, what's the odds of a, of a false
positive times that by the, by the, by the other factors like MIT and the demographics that typically
have diabetes or something. And it's like, you update based on those numbers, but like your
prior to start out is just like this kind of fuzzy, I don't know. And so it's in the hypothesis
testing chapter, but that's a rationality where Harry's running through his head thinking about,
okay, well, we'll call the odds of any wizard surviving their death, you know, like one in a
million. And, you know, after attempting a resurrection ritual, one in 10,000 or something,
but he's just like making these numbers up. That's because he has nothing to work with, right? So
he's setting high priors or like, I guess low numbers, but high, these estimates, just to like
have some numbers to envelope, you know, get an estimate on whether or not Voldemort's alive,
right? So that's the kind of thing you can do. But without, without information, you're just,
you're just completely spitballing. And that's completely acknowledged in the chapter too.
So yeah, but at least it gives you a way to start thinking about the problem.
Right. Because if you say, I have no idea, therefore, I can't, I can't think about it. I
can't even approach it. That's useless. I've heard someone say that anything worth thinking about
is worth thinking about with made up numbers. When, when you don't have real numbers available.
Yes. Yes. I like it. Perfect. All right. That's the point of this post.
Okay, then. So going on to one, which I found much more interesting. Lotteries, a waste of hope.
A waste. A waste of hope. But I could win.
Eliezer comes down firmly anti-lottery on this. And I am with him maybe because that's just how
I was raised. So I already got the emotional feeling that they're awful. But Eliezer says,
some lottery advocates have tried to defend lottery ticket buying as a rational purchase of
fantasy, paying a dollar for a day's worth of pleasant anticipation, imagining yourself a millionaire.
So this is the powerball lottery thing, right? Not your average, like, so a dollar
scratcher, I think you have like a one in four chance of winning your money back.
Which still you're exchanging money for, like. Yeah. First person to have a percent chance of
nothing. But those are way better odds. And I wanted to, I want $300 in a scratcher once. So
for all my, did you really? All my lottery investments, I'm ahead. So I'm done buying
lottery tickets because I've already, I've already won the lottery and that I've come out on tops.
Yeah. Yeah. If you have one in four chance of getting your money back, then basically every
time you buy one, you're spending 75 cents. Yeah. Okay. Just, just for the heck of it.
But what's, what's fun is I was making like $9 an hour at the job, at a job that sold
lottery tickets. I'd buy a couple of nights because I was crazy bored and I needed the,
maybe he just doesn't understand what it's like to be desperately poor and bored. But like,
and like, then there's, oh, maybe he does, but like, I'm just staring at him all the time and
like, all right, well, fuck it. And yeah, then I want $300 bucks. It's like, all right, cool.
I'm not buying any more. That's it. I won. I mean, I've heard people say lotteries are
taxed on people who are bad at math, but I've always understood the math of lotter, of the lottery.
And the, the few times I was actually really, really tempted to play the lottery, it's not
because I suddenly had like some kind of math stupidity come over me. It's because I was desperate.
I was like, I don't know what else I can do. At least this is something. Yeah. So it's,
it's a tax on the desperate, which is again, taking advantage of the most vulnerable.
I have been to casinos before and played slot machines. It was kind of,
it's kind of fun going to the casino. It's a neat environment. There's like good restaurants and
bars and like entertainment there. And if you go with friends, it can be kind of fun. So it's kind
of like, yeah, well, I was kind of, not if you're playing slots. I don't play slots, I'm not sure,
but yeah, if you're playing cards, they do. So it kind of like was, I'm using this money to
purchase this experience to like socialize with friends, be in this wacky environment where like,
they made this indoor representation of like the Taj Mahal or whatever the heck.
Still not like, I felt very uncomfortable there too, though. It was something that I would do
occasionally and be like, haha, that was the thing. But also casinos, yeah, are places where like,
you see some really desperate people that go there and just get addicted to pulling the slot
machine lever. I've seen those people and that's weird. They'll come in and they clearly like live
on that stool and there are like regulars. Yeah, if they live in town, they'll come in every day
and spend, you know, whatever, a few bucks or something. Yeah, I forget the name of it, but
it's like the pigeon experiment where they have the, if you pull the lever and it regularly gives
a pellet, then they'll just pull it when they're hungry. But if they randomize how many pellets
they'll get, then they'll just, yeah, they get addicted to it. They also develop weird superstitions,
the pigeons too. They'll think like, well, last time I got a pellet, I turned like in two left
circles or two counterclockwise circles, I'll do that every time. And you can train pigeons to
really weird shit by giving them pellets out of control thing or at random, they'll develop their
own weird things. Yeah, that's my thought with casinos is like, it's a weird place, like, you
know, to go have an expensive time if that's what you feel like doing. I think your odds of cards
are typically better than with slot. Well, they definitely are worth it than with slots, if you
know what you're doing. You can do penny slots. You can do penny slots. But I usually just go there.
I would spend like 20 bucks. Yeah. And it's way too to just go in and like, where else can you
smoke indoors? Another reason not to go to a casino. But I bought some cigars last time at a casino
that you could smoke at just because I felt like I was breaking the rules. So this is so eccentric
and weird. So it's that sort of experience. Yeah, I enjoy having weird experiences and I feel like
it was worth 20 bucks. Yeah. But we're not talking about casinos. We're talking about the lottery.
That's right. Well, that's why I'm having trouble understanding why lottery tickets kind of generate
that same feeling. I guess it's a very like muted version of that feeling of the pulling the lever.
It's like they said, like the commenters said or a commenter said anyway, some people are just paying
for a fantasy that they enjoy. Right. And he goes on that in the next post. But yeah, I think what
address I'm understanding you're bringing up casinos is like, because this has none of the fun
of a casino. This is not an experience. You buy it to go home and lose. You do that every day.
Yeah. So that is weird. Before we move on really quick, is there a number where if the lottery was
at a trillion dollars, where you'd buy tickets? There has to be, right? There is, yes. And I have
done it for a few times when the Powerball just went to the point where I was a net positive.
I did too. Fine. It would have been like 10 years ago. I bought a couple of tickets because it was
like $480 million or something. And it was like, it was some ridiculous number. And I was like,
all right, whatever the number is that's high enough for me to spend $2. And then I bought them.
And I didn't know how to check who won, like what the numbers were. Right. So I never checked.
And so it probably wasn't you. It probably wasn't me. I could sleep soundly knowing that I wouldn't
have won. Well, because if there's ever a jackpot winner and no one claims it for a few days, it
starts being on the news. They're like, somebody has won $200 billion but hasn't claimed it yet.
Who could this mystery person be? Yeah, it was funny though. All right. So back to our actual show.
Yeah. So he has a problem with this saying that it's buying a fantasy because he says,
you're occupying your valuable brain with a fantasy whose real probability is nearly zero,
which makes the lottery another kind of sink, a sink of emotional energy. It encourages people
to invest their dreams, their hopes for a better future into an infantismal probability. If not
for the lottery, maybe they would fantasize about going to technical school or opening their own
business or getting a promotion at work for a dollar a day, things that they might be able to
actually do, hopes that would make them want to become stronger. Their dreaming brains might in
the 20th visualization of the pleasant fantasy, notice a way to really do it. Isn't that what
dreams and brains are for? That's good writing. Yeah. But how can you compare that to the artificial
sweetened favor of limitless wealth? Yeah. And this is the post where he says the human brain
can't devalue the emotional force of the pleasant anticipation by a factor of 0.0001, whatever
it is. He doesn't actually come out and say it's so low that the activation, it should activate
less than one neuron in your brain to be equivalent, which I know I mentioned that a few episodes back
about thinking about God. And I swear I got that from the lottery post, but he doesn't say in here.
Maybe he says in a different one or maybe the next one, maybe a commenter said it. I know
I didn't come up with that myself. Yeah, that sounds really familiar. I'm going to give you 25%
chance that that's an original lineage that you just... No, no. I heard that somewhere. Yeah.
I thought when you said that, I thought it was from this post too. Yeah. So maybe, yeah,
I didn't read the comments though. But yeah, basically it's... All right. So do we have much
else to add? Because I've got a good leading question into the next one. Oh, now go for your
question. I mean, so for a dollar a day, because you can't go to technical school for a dollar a
day, but you can buy a lottery ticket. So what else can I do to give me the same... If hope makes
me a little less miserable every day, what else can I buy with a buck that would give me anything
of value? I mean, anything that's worth a buck, really? Well, let me... I guess if I already...
Well, the next post is called an improved lottery. Oh, you could buy this improved lottery ticket.
I see what you were trying to do. I'm sorry, I didn't catch that layup. Is that the correct
sports term? Catch the layup. I think the layup is supposed to go in the basket. I know the layup
is a two-person thing, then you've got to help each other out. It's something like that where
like one person throws and the other person dunks it or some shit. Oh, maybe it is. I think you're
right, because you lay them out. I don't know sports, man. God, we're such nerds. That said,
basketball is one of my favorite sports to watch. It's the one that's actually got some exciting
stuff going on almost all the time. And you can see the play object, the ball. Like hockey's fun,
they're moving a lot, but I often lose sight of the puck. Right. That said, speaking of casinos,
my favorite thing to watch, and I've mentioned this before, but there's a bar right next... Well,
I didn't mention this part. There's a bar right next to my house that we kind of just discovered.
And once in a while, they have cards up on the TV. And I love watching high stakes poker. If there
was a service that I could... There maybe isn't, so I shouldn't say anything because I'll probably
get it, so I'll point me to it. But if it was $10 a month that I could have the high stakes poker
channel and nothing else, I'd probably have that. Because I don't want to pay for a cable package
just to watch this once in a while. But it's really fun, and I can't find a good upside. Just
watch it. Really? They don't have it on YouTube? I found some YouTubes, but the ones that I could
find that were like... I like to just have it on the background for a few hours. And the only ones
I could find like that was some asshole talking over this thing. I could leave it on on mute
like they're doing the bars. It's like the video game reviews. Hey, guys. It's me, Evan, and today
I'm going to talk... Oh my God, stop. It was like he was doing a podcast talking about these people,
but it was like... That was my one experience watching a four-hour video. But anyway,
cards is fun to watch if you're me. I don't know why. That's as into sports as I get.
Okay. Well, that's like a cerebral sport. You're into the sports where you don't actually move
your body. That's right. The less motion, the better. You move your hands a bit. Chess. You know,
chess is right up there. Right. You don't even need a body to play chess nowadays. That's right.
There is chess boxing. What? I've heard about this. Is this like Wazoo's chess? No. Go to YouTube,
type in chess boxing. They play chess, they get up and hit each other, and they go back to playing
chess. Yeah. Three minutes of chess in three minutes of boxing because the boxing round is
three minutes. It's amazing. Yeah. And the winners, whoever checkmates the other person,
or knocks the other person out. Which is the best. Can I also do a sports tangent?
Yeah. One of my co-workers is trying to start a league for extreme taser ball.
Extreme taser ball? Which I looked up and yeah, it's a sport that involves this ridiculously
large ball. It looks like a big beach ball or something, and tasers. Do you tase each other?
Oh, you tase each other. Oh, my God. That sounds like a good time kind of. I would try it.
Yeah. I'm kind of scared, but I've also tended to try it just so I could tell people what sport
I play, and they can give me horrified looks. Don't those things hook into your skin?
No, you're thinking whatever, stun guns. Those shoot out little cords that you pull the trigger
and electrocutes you. Tasers just have the arc of electricity that you can hit somebody with.
You want to know something fun that I believe I learned from reading rationalist fiction?
What? It's the other way around. Stun guns are the things you hold in your hand that you zap
someone with personally, and the things that you shoot at people are called tasers. Even though
you don't, like, the stun gun is a personal weapon, right? It's a melee weapon. It doesn't shoot out,
but it's called a stun gun. The Tolerious. Okay, I got it backwards because it makes more
sense the other way, but I guess history had the other way. That's hilarious. And I think that's
