Perhaps they are British.
I defined a job in the clean meat industry.
Yeah.
I think that regularly listening to the podcast, as well as various audio stuff by
Enyosh, significantly strengthens my connection to the rationality and EA
communities and helps internalize their ideas.
Thus, you definitely deserve some credit for my decision.
So thank you.
That's awesome.
And I wrote back and said that means a lot.
And I'd make sure to share it with you guys.
And that's why I do the show.
Like thank you for telling us.
We're not going to, we're not going to, you know, I don't want to be like the person
that changes people's lives in big ways.
But a force, a force for good in that, you know, if somebody, my life was changed in
many ways by the smallest factors, I told somebody, the guy who got me into
computer industry that like, hey, I did this because of the thing you recommended.
He's like, holy shit.
And he was really made uncomfortable by that because he kind of said this off-hand
thing.
And I was like, yeah, you'd think for it.
And he's like, that is an uncomfortable line of responsibility.
And I'm like, that's life, dude.
Yeah.
You're going to be touching people's lives left and right.
I had someone tell me that they put off marriage because of the episode that we did.
Am I allowed to name that person?
Okay.
That is correct.
So, yes.
So Jess mentioned that they put off marriage because of my marriage option.
And that was like, okay, I'm, it's, it's a little scary to be like,
someone made that big of a decision because of something I said,
what if it was the wrong decision?
Now it's all my fault.
No, it was the right decision.
And you made a really excellent argument.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you.
But not good enough because you're coming to my wedding.
So, yes, I know.
But, you know, it's, it is kind of scary having people make decisions based on something you
said, because you don't want to be wrong.
And then they'll hate you forever or, or you'll just feel guilty.
But on the other hand, I mean, that's, that's why we do this, right?
So, yeah.
But I do want to say we always thank the patron for making us feel appreciated and awesome.
And it is true.
They always do.
Again, thank you for this week's patron and thank you to all our patrons.
But like just talking back with us on the subreddit always warms my heart a little bit
because I'm like, oh, people listen to this and they think about it.
And sometimes they even have come to tell us back, you know?
So feedback is also an appreciation of a sort.
It, it makes me feel like I'm part of a community and that what I have been doing is valued
in, in a way that, I mean, money also does.
They both do it in their own different ways.
You've said before that money is the unit of caring, but so is time.
Yeah, yeah.
And yeah.
I mean, I, most of my dialogue with post-podcast stuff is the people of real life who messaged
me who listened to the show.
And that's valuable to me.
It's interesting that, you know, it's, that's the point of a podcast, you know,
unless it's like a story that you're telling or whatever.
But that's the point of this podcast is conversational things.
And if you have conversations with us or with each other or with people in your lives, that's,
that's really great.
Yeah, it's kind of what I was thinking about when you're talking about
publishing stories.
And I just liked the idea of like, yeah, if we had UBI, then people could just publish
stories and put them online for free.
And then more people could read them.
And then it would be a much better experience for you as the author,
because people will be reading them and commenting, and it would be out there.
Okay.
We are unfortunately out of time.
So we're going to have to wrap this up and get back to the other feedbacks later on.
Sounds good.
Cool.
Because we do have a few more in here that we want to hit, but that'll be next week.
But now we're doing at least one every week, every episode.
Yes.
They don't build up as much at least.
That's right.
Cool.
Cool.
Alrighty.
Well, thank you, everyone.
Thank you guys for being here with me as well.
Thank you, everyone.
Looking at you too.
Yeah.
And we'll see you all in a couple of weeks.
Awesome.
Thank you, everybody.
