true because I have a stun gun that I lost the Targer for in 2009, so it was $20, but I want to
buy another one because what's fun about them, then we'll finish the stuff. What's not fun about them
really? What's fun is they're super loud. Yeah, that noise is just frightening. So even if the
person isn't like, what am I saying? The noise itself is a deterrent. It's like, you know,
it's crazy crackling loud electricity that is uncomfortably loud from across the house. So you
pull this thing out, and you don't have to hit them to freak them out. I've never been hit by
a stun gun, but I imagine that I'm more scared of the sound than I actually would be by the
effect of being hit by it. You say that, but yeah. It depends how hard and where they get you,
but yeah, you get in the abdomen, it'll flex everything and you'll fall over, so. Oh, all
right. Well, never mind that. I don't know if the P yourself rate is at 100%, but it's not at 0%.
All right, what were we talking about? The new improved lottery. With no tasers. With no tasers.
So the new improved lottery ticket also only costs $1, but it pays out at random once every
five years on average at a random time. You don't know exactly when it's going to pay out,
just sometime in the next five years, it pays out. That adds to the hope factor.
That adds to the hope factor. And more importantly, it lets you fantasize about it all the time,
as opposed to just these predetermined moments on certain evenings, where you buy the ticket one
time, so this is not quite Eliezer's exact words. He was more eloquent. But Boss comes in,
demands something annoying. Instead of getting to work, turn on your phone and you stare, hoping
for that call. Because there is an Epsilon chance that at that exact moment, you, yes, you, could
be awarded the grand prize. Even if it doesn't happen this minute, there's no need to disappoint,
be disappointed. It could happen the next minute. And so you got that perpetual fantasy of like,
I could win right now. No, now, no, now. Yeah, you don't have to tune in at six or whenever
they draw the balls and check, yeah, so the hope lasts all day. At any moment, your phone could
buzz. Also says, you could go even further. The new improved lottery could even show a
constantly fluctuating probability distribution of the likelihood to win. So it's not always the
same likelihood at every second. And they could have the likelihood of particular numbers being
higher at certain times. So think of how much fun that would be. Right this moment, minute,
the chance to win occurring is nearly 10 times higher than usual. And look, the number 42 that
I selected for the mega ball has nearly twice the usual chance of winning. You could feed it to
display on people's cell phones, so they could just flip open the cell phone and see their chance
of winning. And they could stay glued to that screen all day. They would never need to dream
about anything else, which really puts into perspective kind of the whole they're selling
a dream to people, right? Yeah, it's a very pointed way to re rebuttal that point. Yeah,
like this is a fucked up horror world where no one's dreaming about anything else in their lives
except this tiny lottery chance. I also, when I read this, reread this, I kind of got the feeling
that holy shit, this is a lot like writing. Because when you write short stories, at least,
you write a short story, and then you send it off to a paying market. And then you wait,
you check your email every day. Maybe you check it two or three times a day, because you never know
when that email is going to come in saying, Hey, guess what? Your story wasn't quite right for us.
And, you know, there's that small chance that it'll say your story is great. We would like to
publish it and let all our readers see how awesome of a writer you are. And if that doesn't work,
then you take it and you go to the next magazine. And maybe they will give you that. So a lot of
writer's life is that you're paying for a lottery ticket by writing a story. So with, you know,
dozens of hours of labor. And then for months and months, you can live in that, you know, fantasy
and eventually get rejected. But still, months of fantasy time.
But do you have fun writing?
I do have fun writing.
So there's some value to that, too.
Yeah, yeah, there is.
Like unless, like, so like, unlike the casino, going to the gas station to buy a lottery ticket
isn't like a fun experience, like for a lot of people, right?
Right.
So at least, at least there's something else that you're getting out of it.
And I also think this is kind of like the effect that makes Twitter as popular as it is.
People could reply to you at any point or retweet your thing at any point.
You never know when something might go viral. It's just,
like this, this random payout thing is pretty huge.
And yeah, we are seeing a take off.
And this is before.
It's fairly ubiquitous to a lot of mobile games explicitly use that kind of psychology.
And as opposed to it came out before Twitter and yet that that function is built into the platform.
And I realize that kind of a lot of life is like this.
Like there's a lot of times where you don't know if what you're doing has
is going to result in what you want to happen, but you go and you do it anyway,
and you hope for the best.
I mean, there's no way we're going to get rid of that.
Yeah.
But living your life on those hopes is.
What if you have UBI and then you are writing and you're just releasing your works online
for free because you have that income?
I mean, like, you know, you send a text message to somebody like, do you want to go on a date?
The waiting for a reply, that minute of hope.
Like you're not going to get rid of every minute of like, you know,
that anticipating a hopeful response to your efforts.
I don't think I would want to get rid of anticipating a hopeful response to your efforts.
It's just the, I think the thing that is bad about lotteries is that it's basically zero.
Your chances of winning it is essentially zero.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Me too.
I wasn't making that point that I think it's a bad thing.
I was just saying that that level that we could do away with the bad parts,
the bad ways to feed that thing.
And there's three real parts that left in your life, right?
Oh, I see.
Yeah.
But there's, and there's a lot of life like that where you're like,
I don't know if the harvest is going to be good or bad this year,
but I'm going to go ahead and plant my crops anyway and hope for the best.
And like a lot of life is just doing what you can and hoping things work out.
And I kind of get the impression we're almost like built for this sort of world where you put
an effort and you don't have a guaranteed return and got a hope for it instead.
Yeah, we have inner pigeons.
There's, we do for sure, but I think that something like planting your crops
has a higher probability of getting some kind of return out of it than the zero,
essentially zero chance you have from the lottery.
The same thing with asking someone on a date online, maybe that's like a 50-50 chance
that they'll say yes.
And even sending a story in is like, you don't literally have like a basically zero chance
of getting published.
Right.
I mean, the lottery is definitely the extreme stimulus,
the super stimulus version of taking things that we're naturally wired for and just going
fucking wild with it to take advantage of the human wiring.
Yeah, and particularly like in the case of casinos or mobile games,
to take advantage of people who have addictive personalities.
Well, I think all of us have addictive personalities.
Yeah, but some people have it much worse than others.
That's true.
Yeah, many of us would get bored sitting at the slot machine pulling it out,
for four hours a day after work every day.
And most of us, that sounds like hell.
And yet they've got, there's a number of factors,
but probably one of them is that they've got nothing better to do.
So they sit there and just like sit there, keep hoping, you know.
Yeah, it tends to target like vulnerable populations.
Yeah.
I tend to think this is one of the reasons that video games are popular because
they have a guaranteed reward.
If you put in the effort, you get the thing and there's none of this like,
oh, maybe I'll put in a ton of effort and never get anything out of it.
And I mean, that's less the case nowadays with the games that have the random reward thing put in.
But for a lot of games before, before the more recent spate of,
what do they call it, casino games even?
There's like a loot, what's the word for it?
Loot lottery?
Yeah, yeah, loot lottery.
Gachapon?
Yeah, yeah.
Like Destiny.
So you'd have to coordinate like a 90 minute raid with, you know,
six or 10 people to get a 2% job rate for the cool piece of loot.
Yeah, tons of things like that, yeah.
But there was a time where like, if you go out and you grind mobs for X hours,
you get Y experience, which will eventually lead to you being better.
Many games are still like that.
Yeah.
And yeah, what makes them attractive is that like,
video games work that way and life doesn't.
Yes, exactly.
You can go out, work hard all day and do whatever you can.
And then your kid gets malaria and dies anyway.
Right.
So, yeah.
The controllable aspect of that is, you know, nice as well.
And save files.
When are we gonna get those for real life?
Yeah.
Eliezer ends with saying,
if you believe that the lottery is a surface,
it is clearly an enormously overpriced service,
charged to the poorest members of society,
and it is your solemn duty as a citizen to demand the new improved lottery instead.
What I love is that like, that's the closest he gets to saying like,
fuck you to the commentator who put that out there.
It's like, all right, if you believe that, here's the logical extension of your belief,
and now you're clearly an asshole.
Here's the horrorscape you want.
That's right.
We've only got like 10 minutes left, guys.
We've got to thank this week's patron.
We do got to do that.
And then we've got at least time for maybe at least one feedback.
All right, let's do one feedback.
All right.
So this week, or this episode, I say a week.
I think to save the confusion, we'd start doing this every week, but we'll see.
Maybe once we've all retired?
Deal.
Okay.
So this episode, we're thanking Michael Ruchenna.
Thank you so much for your support.
We really appreciate it.
I do the same mumbling every time.
And now I do the same apologizing for mumbling every time.
You rock.
Thanks, Michael.
Pretty soon you could apologize for apologizing.
That's right.
Yeah, Michael, you're awesome.
Everyone who listened, you're all awesome, and all of our supporters are awesome.
But Michael, especially this week.
Today is your day to be appreciated.
Heck yeah.
Yay.
Now you can play this to your friends so they can know how awesome you are.
And that you help bring this podcast to them.
So this came in from a Oren Millman on Patreon.
So they said, please validate us.
Said Jess in the REACH episode.
Just so you know, you're all really awesome.
Yeah.
Smiley face.
I know.
And on a more personal level, in the last days, I have quite, I have quit.
Wait.
Quite.
I've quite resolved.
That's right.
Perhaps he is British.
