capital that they could turn in for like Amazon reward points?
From the example that I heard given, it was something like if an old grandma is in her house
and she needs some help with putting up shelves or something, right?
And her kids are busy or they live far away.
They can't do it.
But the guy down the street, he's collecting this thousand dollars a month.
He's not really doing much of anything, just sort of helping people out now and there.
Here's the grandma needs some help.
So he comes over, spends an hour, puts up her shelves, and then gets some social credits for it.
So he just he takes a Instagram photo of himself putting up shelves at his neighbor's house and
like gets.
I don't know because I mean it's not as far as I could.
That's the part that sounds weird is I have no idea how you attract that and how that would
be not just regulated but even measured.
I like the idea of like getting incentivizing people to like help their neighbors and help
other people that need help with their spare time.
But I don't know much about this aside from the few things I've heard.
Yeah, my impression was more that it was organizations who they were looking at, you know,
those targets of increasing the standard of living and mental health issues.
So I think it's rewarding people who are actually targeting the goals that we want to see targeted.
Although, yeah, I don't know.
I'm not sure if where did you get the example of the grandma?
I think he that was the Freakonomics podcast interview.
But maybe I'm understanding this idea wrong.
I mean, the organization thing makes a lot of sense, but when you put it that way,
if you're giving an organization social credits and then allowing them to change those into money,
why not just give organizations money like we sort of already do?
Well, because they'd have to do something good to earn it.
Yeah, but I mean, we give like homeless shelters tax money.
Yeah, but we don't give Amazon bonus money just for being a big company.
But if they happen to build homeless shelters, we might give them extra extra points for it or
something, right?
Or we could give them money.
Yeah, or money.
I think it's converted into dollars, so it is basically money.
But the thing is that in this case, that I have to actually do something to earn that, right?
Yes, but I mean, that's the case either way.
We could be like, hey, any organization wants to build homeless shelters,
here's this $1,000, or here's a thousand social credits that you can turn into dollars.
I see.
We already do one of those.
I guess maybe if it would be like maybe a bonus tax break or something, I'm not really sure.
I think we don't understand this policy.
I definitely don't because I should read more about it.
I remember I was saying something too about there should be some metric to at least say that it
matters. How much social value does it add to the world to stay at home and raise your kids?
Right, right.
And it's actually a lot.
Not just because it's hard work and it is, but the fact that you're raising people who will
eventually join the job, join the workforce and add to the economy and stuff.
So there's an actual dollar amount that you're generating for the country when you stay at home
and raise kids.
That is a very labor-intensive job.
Yeah, and so like don't be wrong, it's not just labor intent. It is. It's crazy.
I'm just trying to figure out how we could automate raising kids to realize massive gains.
Matrix style pods.
Yeah, and when they turn 18, pull them out and be like, the real world is exactly like what you've
been exposed to. We didn't change anything at all, but you were in the pod where it was a lot cheaper
and faster to raise you than having a individual mother for every two to three kids.
Welcome to the real world, jackass.
I think it's not just that it's hard work, but I think the point that he made on the
Rogan podcast, and I'm equating that because I heard it most recently, but he might have made
some of the same points on Sam Harris' podcast, was that this, again, being the business-oriented
guy that he is, which I think is one of the things that makes him appealing. It doesn't
make him just like this bleeding heart, like isn't that hard because it is.
He's like, no, look, it actually is like producing a ton of value for the country.
And this is the kind of thing that when you pay for it, it costs an arm and a leg because
it's very hard and produces a lot of value. So why isn't it valued at all when people
sacrifice their lives to do it for free? So that's, I think, not just a reflection of the
difficulty of the task. The thing is, it is valued. It's not like those people starved to death.
It's just that the costs are passed on to the other people in their household rather than
an employer or the government. Right. Yeah. But wouldn't it be cool if you could raise kids and
not like be, you know, again, it's like, that's what people say in bad relationships, right?
I mean, don't get me wrong. It'd be really cool if you could raise kids for free.
It's just like being hamstrung by your employer for health insurance.
Right. And it's like, now you're hamstrung by your abusive spouse because they pay the bills
and you don't want your kids to die. Or like even in a less extreme example,
there's kind of the two-parent trap where you basically need both parents to work in order
to afford a house and everything. And then you have to outsource the care of your children to
a nanny or babysitter, which like both of you are working in order to afford. Whereas if there
was some kind of digital social currency for having someone that, you know, could stay home
and take care of their kid, I feel like that would be a shift in the right direction.
You'd be pretty cool. I don't know much else to add to that. I want to learn more about this digital
social currency part of this stuff, but I didn't read much about that yet. So.
Yeah, I've read a bit about it and I'm a bit confused by how it is going to work.
Yeah, I want to dig more into it as well.
He is polling high enough to enter the debates. So people ask me these questions so we can see
his answers. And one of the major things that drives whether you can get into a debate or not
is how many donors you have at under $200. I have given him $1 and maybe I'll give him more,
I don't know, but I gave him $1 so that my name is added to that list.
That's what it was. It wasn't poll numbers. It was the minimum donor number. So he has reached
that threshold. Yes. Yes. But yeah, for a buck, you can keep him on these, I don't know how these
metrics work, but I do like the idea. I'm not a politician. I don't know enough about this.
I'm not a political scientist, but it makes sense that there should be some barrier to where like,
you know, if I ran for president, it should be fair that no one take me seriously until I get
some actual support. So it makes sense. And I like that it's a minimum number of donors and
not a minimum dollar amount. That sounds like that was something that we first saw the trouble of
right away. I'm glad that's not a thing. Yeah. All right. So yeah, Andrew Yang, he is one of us
and I like him. I like him too. I think that I like that he's establishing measures of human
flourishing rather than the focus on finances. That's my favorite thing. And he's pushing the
correct policies, such as UBI and the Medicare, despite the fact that it's going to be incredibly
difficult. I appreciate that, you know, he's shifting the overton window towards we need to
talk about these things, even if he doesn't get elected, which I hope he does, but I'm just really
happy to see politicians that are insane. It is really cool. Yeah, like I said, whether or not he
gets elected, like he's now at the point where he'll be on TV talking about these things to the
country. And so this will be in the public awareness. Hopefully. Unfortunately, if he doesn't get
elected, we're talking about this again in 2024. By then, we're going to be coming up on way too
late, but at least the conversations will be started. So fingers crossed. We'll see how that
goes. At the very least, he can get on TV in 2031 and say, I told you so losers. The more people
that we can push this this info and idea into the better and he is doing that. He's like, hey, UBI
is a thing. Automation is coming. This is a good way to head it off. Even if I'm not elected,
know about this idea. You guys are all going to be coming back to it soon. Yeah, it's great.
And other politicians are going to have to respond to it. Yeah, exactly. All right,
let's go on to our less wrong posts. Sure. But before I forget, yes, I've got two
side topics to indulge both about cinema and television. We haven't seen him give me yet,
so you can't talk about it. That's fine. Okay. One's really fast. The Netflix show I've been
talking about the last few episodes, the Santa Clarita diet, isn't being picked up for season four.
I heard about that. I immediately thought about you because I was like, Stephen loves this show.
And I'm pretty sure it's popular. Apparently, it's not popular enough to pick up for season four,
but it was hilarious. I loved it and that's bummer that it won't be on because it was.
I'm sorry. Yeah, I mean, I'm not, I wasn't dying in love with it, but it was great and it would
have been more fun if it went on. But so Endgame did come out and I won't talk about it. I've heard
it's pretty darn good. It was pretty darn good. Really soon. That's my summary. I won't talk about
it here because I talked about it for two hours on the doof, doofcast. Congrats, dog. It was great.
Yeah. Awesome. That came out yesterday. So Friday the third, say the fourth.
Today is the fourth. Yeah. So Friday the third.
It was when that episode came out. Yep. Cool. So it's out. You can guys go check it out at
the wonderfuldoofmedia.com. I saw that it was out and I did not listen to it. Good.
The first 19 minutes of spoiler free. Okay. So if anyone-
Does it still have Stevens in it? Yes. Okay, cool. But I guess quick disclaimer,
my, well, two of them. One, I was recording on my computer's microphone because my
headset that I was using has great ear part but bad mic part for recording. It's great for phone
calls. So that's a drag. And also I was way chattier than I think I think I took it more
than a third of the airtime. Mainly, sorry, Matt. I cut you. I like I responded to a lot of Scott's
prompts and didn't give Matt a chance to and I felt bad like halfway through and I just
kind of kept doing it. So. Felt bad but not bad enough to stop. But bad enough to apologize.
Yes. It was great. And when we all, when I drag you guys to Endgame, we can all talk
about it and then you guys can listen to the whole episode. So. Yeah. All right. Cool. Yeah.
Please drag me to Endgame. Yes. I want to see it. I never have been to a movie by myself. I don't
watch TV by myself. It's just easy to be like, uh, deprioritize this thing and it's easy to do
if somebody else is there to be excited about it. I'm all over it. I have no trouble being
excited enough to get you there. Yeah. I accidentally saw a preview for Joker and now I
actually want to see it. Oh, really? So like I might actually go to see more than one movie this
year. I'm actually curious. Well, you're going to see more than one movie because you're going to
see Endgame and I dragged it to Captain Marvel already. So. Oh, that's true. I already forgot
about Captain Marvel. That's fair. You didn't like it. And. So I might see more than two movies
this year. That's right. I saw the trailer for Joker. I know this isn't a movie podcast, but
I, it looks great. Oh, it looks interesting because Joaquin Phoenix is a great actor and it
like it'll be interesting to see this guy's backstory. But I guess I never really cared
about the Joker's backstory. Part of his, part of my appeal to him like in Dark Knight was.
You don't know the backstory? And it doesn't matter. Yeah. Yeah. And that's like the fact
that he keeps giving this made up story about how he got his scars. Like that's perfect because he
is, he's not a person with a history. He's just this. He's like a chaotic element.
That's exactly it. Yeah. Yeah. He's a force of chaos. I would not consider whatever backstory
they come up with in Joker to be canon anyway. I'd be like, this is one apocryphal story
of how the Joker came to be. Cool. Yeah. The legend of the Joker. Yes, exactly.
What among many? Yeah, that's kind of cool. I kind of think of him like Jack Slash from Worm
in actually a lot of ways. Like I think Trump, or excuse me, I think that's important because
there's a power classification called Trump that's not really understood, but it like
interacts with other people's powers. Okay. And Jack Slash has that. His overt power is fairly
mundane, but I feel like Joker has a Trump classification. Yeah. Because like his weird
plans just keep working and he never gets hurt. And it's just, yeah. So he's the Trump-powered
person in the DCU. Cool. Okay. We have other stuff to talk about that's more in line with the show.
Well, more in line with the spirit of the show. We talk about too much of this for not to be
in line with the show anyway. That's true. That said, if you don't listen to the Doof Media episode
until you've seen the show or seen Endgame, or at least listen to the spoiler-free part.
Fine. And I also give this an admonition in the episode. But really, if you don't know what
happens in the movie yet, don't spoil it for yourself. It's so much fun. And the trailers
did a good job about not showing the core plot elements unlike every other fucking trailer
out there. I avoided all the trailers just in case. Yeah, I haven't seen any either. I watched
one after I saw the movie. Okay. Don't get it wrong. I managed to get into my seat without
having seen the poster for the movies. Nice. Yeah, it wasn't as hard.
Did they walk you blindfolded through the theater? I just looked down at the ground.
I've heard of my gaze and if I saw the poster, I just didn't focus on it. It was fun. This time
it was more fun than it was. This was more fun this year than it was last year where I was like
crazy on guard about it. This year, I let my technology do a lot of the work for me. I put on
Reddit filters. I put on filters on YouTube ads that they wouldn't even recommend videos
of the word Avengers or Captain America in the title. You know what I think would be a great
Facebook feature? To be able to tag your posts with this is a spoiler for this movie or this
episode or whatever. And then people can opt out of seeing those posts. And once they've seen the
episode, you know, toggle a switch where now they see the post so you can have conversations with
people. Here's the thing. I have been forced to only talk about like Game of Thrones and
Avengers movies with people in real life face to face. Because if I posted on Facebook,
someone could see it. Yeah, Facebook has the awkward thing where you can put a whole bunch of
periods to drop your text behind the scene more. Yeah. But it's awkward and clunky. I think I
forget which platform has this maybe discord. Tumblr has that feature too. The ability where
you'll just see like black boxes. Like you'll write the word spoilers, you know, click to
read it and you just yeah, read it. Yeah. Like Facebook could easily implement something like
that. And I think it would resolve a lot of disputes with friends. It's like after I finally saw
the season three episode three of Game of Thrones this season, I wanted to talk about it with people.
But like everyone had already talked about it that was going to and on Facebook rather and
everyone who didn't wasn't doing spoiler posting, right? I was like, I would have loved right now
to be able to toggle that switch and have all those see episode three posts pop up so I could go
through them and talk about them. Instead, I was forced to actually see people in the real world
and I hate that. Man. Actually, I kind of like that, but I just liked having to wait.
We could record the show remotely, but we don't because it's fun seeing people.
Exactly. Yeah. All right. So we have other Bayesian conspiracy things. The less wrong post.
First one was priors as math as mathematical objects. And I pulled out nothing in this post
because I didn't understand it. Great. I was just going to be like, all right, someone explain this
to me. Okay. Did any of us understand this post? The important thing that he's getting at and like
