Welcome to The Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber.
And I'm Jess Dickey.
And not to get all political or anything two years before there's even going to be
a vote, but hey, let's talk about the presidential candidates.
Just one for today.
Just one for today.
Because I, well basically this started because I posted something tongue in cheek and everyone
was like, what?
Why?
And I'm like, okay, fine.
I really like Andrew Yang.
Me too.
Okay.
All right.
What was the thing you posted?
I posted.
Can you give us a background?
I just posted on my blog.
I just a simple two line thing post, I guess.
All right.
I'm going to come out and say it.
Anyone who doesn't vote for Andrew Yang is a bad person.
I missed that.
Yeah.
And that was, that was just kind of a call back to the old, old, um, less wrong post
of LDSerck saying, I'm just going to come out and say it.
Anyone who doesn't get cryonics for their children is a bad person.
Which is actually, you know, like a serious thing I could get behind.
But uh, I was, I meant to tongue in cheek, right?
And then everyone was like, that seems really strange coming from you.
I, I have a hard time seeing you calling people morally bad for their political judgements.
I was like, okay, people are taking me way too seriously.
I should expand on this.
Um,
Or people just don't know you well enough.
Or possibly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, uh, I linked to an article saying, uh, Andrew Yang comes out as ex-goth or something.
Which is
I did see that one going around.
Yes.
Yes.
It's pretty wonderful.
Wait.
Andrew Yang came out as ex-goth.
He says he's ex-goth, but can you ever truly be ex-goth?
No, the, the, the makeup and stuff just sinks in and becomes part of you.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So he is, he is, um, pretending to be a normie for a while, I guess.
God, if he, if he came out with like black lipstick and I like to give his inauguration
speech, I would probably solve with patriotic pride.
Yes.
Yeah.
We finally reached there.
It's been a long time since I've actually been excited for any presidential candidate
ever.
And the reason I posted that was because I was actually excited for Andrew Yang.
As my quick pitch to why you guys should vote for him, even though he's sure not to
win the primary, but vote for him in the primary, then I guess at least, uh, this sounds really
weird to say.
I, the more I read about him, the more I think I like him personally.
And I know people are always saying, you shouldn't vote for the guy you want to have
a beer with, right?
Vote for the guy who's actually capable at running the country.
And for the most part, I agree with this, uh, but I think people's personality is also
important because you can't predict all the shit that's going to happen in four years.
You could be living at like the height of American peace and prosperity and suddenly
someone flies two planes into your two biggest towers and now the world's going to chaos.
And no one could predict that and how you, who you are as a person affects somewhat how
you're going to react.
Well, and also like, isn't the kind of person you want to have a beer with that I'm trying
to think of somebody that, that I wouldn't want to hang out with who I'd also want to
be president.
Maybe Hillary Clinton might be an example, but I think it'd be interesting talking with
Hillary Clinton for, you know, as long as a couple hours.
Yeah, she's not the person I'd chill and have a beer with.
Yeah.
Although it would be, I wouldn't pass up the opportunity, you know, then again, I wouldn't
pass up the opportunity to have a beer with Trump either.
And that's, that's more out of just like, for the spectacle to finally be able to say
things that, you know, I've always wanted to say, I just want to observe him like, is
he always as weird as he is when he's, I mean, he has to be right in public appearances.
He's so weird. He's probably even weirder in non-public appearances.
I mean, he allegedly drinks like 12 Diet Cokes a day and like orders McDonald's every single
day and has delivered to the White House.
Like that sounds like a weird dude, even if he wasn't president, right?
That's a Sun very American.
It sort of does, but like, that's not even, I don't have any friends who eat McDonald's
every day.
And nothing, not like a judgment thing.
It's just like, that's, that's, that's judgment.
Yeah. So just like, you know, I, for whatever reason, hitting like,
low hanging fruit with his food choices, like, you know, well cooking an expensive piece
of steak and then putting ketchup on it.
Like that's, that's weird, right?
Apparently you've just touched one of Jess's issues.
That is a pet peeve of mine. Yes.
Ruining expensive food.
No, I, um, I like cooking and I have an ex who I would like spend a long time marinating
a nice steak and then like cooking it.
And then yeah, he would put ketchup on it.
And I was just like, why, why would you do this to me personally?
But what if they like it better with ketchup?
Yeah, you can get a cheap piece of meat that doesn't take the long.
Like you can, you can put ketchup on anything, right?
And it tastes the exact same.
It's so, so overpowering.
Well, whenever I go to a bar and I ask for, you know, a Coke and vodka,
people ask me, what kind of vodka you want with that?
I'm like, get me the cheap stuff.
I'm putting it in Coke.
I won't be able to tell.
That's what the Coke is for.
Yeah, exactly.
But if you, but if you mixed Coke, if you drink Coke, like with, you know,
three parts Coke and one part $60 vodka, we think you're weird, right?
Right.
But I mean, that's the thing.
Like what if you're having a really expensive whiskey that's been aged in a
barrel for however long they do the whiskey things?
I don't know shit about whiskey.
And you mix it with Coke.
Okay.
You could overpower with Coke and ruin it, right?
Or you can add just a little bit of Coke, just like to enhance the flavor.
And maybe that's what he was doing with the ketchup.
It's not like he was smothering it with ketchup, right?
He was smothering it with ketchup.
Oh, anyway, let's get back to Andrew.
Well, I just, I feel bad about shaming people for what they like.
Me either, but let's just be fair.
Trump is not a person of moderation of anything, right?
So you can be, you can, you can bet without looking at anything.
It's probably too much.
And I'm only, I'm always willing on the food because I remember this was like a
thing for years when Obama put Dijon mustard and it was like, how, how
un-presidential or something.
Have you ever had mustard?
Yeah.
I don't know why, but.
Okay.
And a tan suit thing that was, you know, on the news for months.
So you mentioned it's been years since you're excited about a candidate.
Was it like 2008?
The last time you were excited or was it before that?
With the original Obama run?
Yeah.
I was somewhat excited about that too.
I don't, I don't, I don't think I knew anybody who wasn't so
up top and how exciting that was.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I was also turning 18 because I'm secretly a baby.
So I was definitely, I was excited for Obama, but not quite the same as this
because there were other options that didn't suck in 2008.
Whereas like, I cannot vote for most of the democratic primary candidates,
candidates right now, because they all voted for foster sesta.
And I have a hard rule that I will never, ever vote for anyone who voted
for foster sesta.
Unless they're running against Donald Trump in the primary in 2020.
I will never, ever vote for anyone who voted for foster sesta.
That's super annoying.
I know.
I've had a number of people say that and I guess I should address it at some point.
I just, to me, someone who voted for that, it shows their absolute lack
of character and the fact that they're willing to sacrifice whoever they need
to, especially the most powerless, if it'll get them political advantage.
And to me, that says they would be more than happy to usher me into the ovens
or wherever if they needed to do it to win an election.
And I'm just not okay with that.
I wait a second.
Can you define what foster sesta is?
I know you talked about it on other podcasts, but just in case people
are listening the first time.
Oh, and wondering why you're running straight to the Holocaust.
So what makes that the same as Hitler lining people up in Auschwitz?
Because it is singling out the most vulnerable in our population for further
abuse and degradation of their lives.
Can you define what it is?
Foster sesta is the bill that supposedly is supposed to make human trafficking
illegal, which is dumb because first of all, human trafficking is already illegal.
But it was touted as we all think that sex slaves are bad.
So you should vote for this.
And literally everyone who's ever been in the sex worker industry, anyone
who's known any sex workers, anyone who knows anything about women's issues, went
to the lawmakers and were like, Hey, what this actually does is make the lives
of sex workers much more dangerous.
It forces them back into the streets, back into under the the quote unquote
protection of pimps.
It takes power away from people to choose their clients and to be safe and makes
everything risky again.
Was prostitution legal for a while and I missed the memo?
It was never technically legal, but there was online resources where you could
advertise and where you could screen your clients and things like that.
And Foster sesta not only get rid of that, it gutted a lot of internet
protections for even people who aren't doing anything with sex or with
pornography.
