If you, if you're making $1,200 a month on government aid, then, if they offer you
a thousand, then they can say, no, I'm going to keep what I've got.
And that's, that's an option.
But if you're making $800 a month on government aid, you can take the
thousand instead, but not in addition to.
So he, he did this on the Rogan podcast, which was fun.
You know, the, the math, every American that's 18 plus times $1,000 a month is
what, $3 trillion or something.
So he's like, no, it gets down to like 1.5 really quick.
And he, he, he burned through that and it's five minutes spiel.
I don't have full faith in his numbers.
I think they're not bad, but I mean, for example, Amazon pays zero in taxes.
Right.
For a company that pulls in ludicrous amount of money.
And yeah, he wants to capture some of that.
Uh, I don't know how realistic it is, but on the other hand, I also think it's
more important to be talking about the idea right now than to be trying to hammer
down every single number.
Like part of it was, uh, part of his numbers were once everyone's getting a
thousand dollars a month, there's going to be less people who have to show up
in the emergency room because they couldn't afford their $50 medication.
Right.
And so we were going to see substantial savings from that sort of thing.
And from other knock on effects of people having enough money to live.
And to buy stuff and to buy stuff.
Yeah.
And yeah, part of it was also the, the, uh, you know, if you give poor people
money, they put it back into the economy right away.
So that helps speed up the economy.
But again, that's more of a theoretical, we don't know exactly how much it'll
help.
And so putting a number estimate on it is kind of wishy-washy, right?
It's like, maybe you'll get that, maybe you'll get less, maybe you'll get more.
Who knows?
But yeah, he's got some interesting numbers.
Yeah.
He thinks that implementing this UBI, I think he's calling the free, the
freedom dividend.
Yes.
He said market tested better.
And it's much better too.
It sounds very patriotic.
Right.
No, it's my dividend for being a citizen of this country.
That's right.
He says that he believes this would permanently grow the economy by 12.56 to
13.10% or about 2.5 trillion by 2025.
And that it would increase the labor force by 4.5 to 4.7 million people.
Um, his math behind that is not on his website, but it's probably somewhere else.
It'd be interesting to check up on it.
I'm wondering what's in his book that I haven't read.
It might be in his book.
Yeah.
And we'll do a, I think we'll do a full length episode on UBI.
Probably coming up soon because we're talking about it now, but.
Yeah.
We had a really good question sent in.
Um, was it from the Reddit about UBI?
Yeah.
I think so or an email.
Um, want to cycle back to that.
Yeah.
We'll, we'll definitely hit that at some point.
Cause there's one up, I mean, it's something I'm interested in and I'm not an
economist, but frankly, it sounds good to me.
So, um,
He's also proposing what I like to call a income tax on robots, but which is more
commonly known as a VAT tax value added tax.
But in one specific case, he literally calls out, uh, the robotics, the robotic
trucking industry is going to be making saving about a hundred, 68
billion dollars a year.
If they replace all their truckers, let's tax a portion of that and give it back
to the truckers that are being displaced from their job.
Because even if you tax that at 20%, they're still saving well over a hundred
billion dollars a year and that money can go back into the truckers.
It's basically another way to fund the UBI.
Right.
He says a gig would have carbon taxes because it would, because it sucks to
have the climate go crazy on us.
And those carbon taxes, instead of just being a drain on everyone, which, uh,
can cause riots, as we saw in Paris, uh, he goes into the freedom dividend.
So the extra taxes that people are paying on carbon will be paid mostly by
the heavy users like industry and we'll go to back to everyone.
Which sounds kind of fair.
Yeah.
And that's, that's always what bugged me is if one company managed to get the,
be patent on all the self-driving cars somehow.
So not just trucks, but Ubers and all of those.
You know, there'll be a time maybe in 20 years where like owning a personal car
will be like a weird eccentric thing that people do or just old people do.
I can't wait to not have to own a car.
And, or to not have to, first of all, drive a car myself and secondly,
drive a car myself with other humans on the road with me.
We're so bad at it.
We suck at driving.
Why do we think this was a good idea?
It was, it was a quick idea to have, I guess.
But I mean, and there's, there's perks, but yeah, it's insane.
And we're going to look back and be like, that's so weird.
We love people drive cars.
And it's so weird that so many people die all the time.
And then at some point there'll be cars like that don't have steering wheels
because it's like, all right, there's, there's going to be no situation
where you're better at this than I am.
Ape, you just keep your hands off and you can sit in the back.
Be happy to not have to find a place to store this huge piece of machinery
for 99% of the time when I'm not using it.
That costs hundreds of dollars.
Well, yeah, you're paying insurance and stuff, $100 a month.
And yeah, so, you know, if I could order a lift and they're all over the place
because there's parking lots are now just for, I'm assuming, public vehicles,
then I just get into it and punch in where I'm going into my phone.
And it takes me there.
And it's probably crazy cheap because I'm not paying anyone to drive it
and insurance to be cheaper on that stuff too.
Then why would I pay to have my own car and manage all that stuff and fix it
and all that?
So for the insurance.
Yeah, there'd probably be places where it's still advantageous to own your
own car, like in rural areas where there isn't much service.
Sure.
And, you know, if you're, it's a dirt road or something.
I've got friends living on dirt roads and, you know, like, yeah,
that that'll be harder to do, whatever.
But in 20 years, who knows?
But I was saying is that if one person owned all of that, you know, we would
have 5% of the public out of jobs.
It's 3.5, I think is involved in driving at some capacity, right?
We've got all those people just out of income and then somebody, you know,
a trillionaire and it would be insane not to find a way to capitalize on some
of the stuff that they're making off of that, right?
Just because they're, you know, they're, it's my, it's my inner, what do you
call the like, a Glotarian?
Yeah, I guess you have to, at some point, figure out how to all the, the wealth
that is going to be created by the robots doing all the labor and
redistributed to the humans.
Agreed.
Yeah.
It sounds, it sounds straightforward.
Um, and a UBI is one of the better ways to do that.
In my opinion, it's got to get implemented at some point before we have full
automated, full automation, so we should probably get started on it.
That's the thing is we're looking, we're looking at like 11 years for some of
the, for what, 20% of jobs, right?
Which is not full automation, but at some point there's going to be almost no job
a human can do that's productive.
Right.
And at that point, what are we going to do?
Starve to death because the machines can do all the food growing.
It seems kind of dumb.
Yeah.
Get rid of a lot of these fake jobs that we currently have.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Um, also poverty is a thing that exists that this would help alleviate
considerably.
Yeah.
And, and Harris had his, his thought provoking intuition pump of just like,
you know, the trillionaires hiding behind their razor wire walled compounds and
all the poor, hungry people just banging at the doors.
Cause it sounds like just to make sense to get ahead of that rather than just
wait for it to happen and see what we can do afterwards.
Right.
Cause that's, that's, that sounds like it never worked.
And before the trillionaires had to at least pay enough other humans to defend
their land and that pay would have to include enough to pay for those humans,
friends and family, right?
Cause otherwise I'm not going to defend someone just so that my brother can
starve and with fully automated, everything they can create guards that'll
don't need pay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We'd be, we're, we're on track to get fucked here.
And Yang sees that and is trying to do something about it.
Right.
And no one else really is.
I mean, he has other non-tech related things that I like too.
He, there was one thing that he mentioned about, uh, immigration that I mean,
so he's, he's pro, you know, he's not pro open water.
I mean, he's pro knowing who's coming in and out of the country and stuff,
especially if everyone who lived, everyone who's a citizen gets $1,000 a month.
Right.
Um, but there was another thing that I liked that he'd said, Hey,
if you come here and go to college, uh, rather than like go home and, you know,
compete with us in the world market, we'll give you a green card.
Like just stay here and keep working.
We trained you up.
We want, we want to take advantage of that.
That sounds, I'm not a, I'm not an expert, but that sounds awesome.
At least as an intuition to me.
So, and I think I haven't heard anything that he said that's crazy that I don't
like everything that he, maybe probably said at least one thing.
That I dislike because everyone will.
I'm just saying on the, on the Rogan and the Sam Harris podcast.
So four ish, four and a half hours of content.
He didn't say anything.
I'm like, Oh man, that's a drag.
I wish you weren't on that.
Right.
Um, he also said that he would want to decriminalize, he would want to, like on
