Like cybersecurity stuff too.
Um, thinking about like the Russian hackers, the, I had something else and
I forget.
No, it's good.
Yang's literacy on the influence technology in our lives and they're in a
way that like, uh, social media platforms have gotten away with basically
everything to this point by just saying, oh, we're just a platform and people
sign up for it and they can, we, so we can do whatever we want.
And, you know, they, they submit their data to us and they said, it's okay.
And he's like, yeah, that's really weird.
We wouldn't sign up.
We're like, we wouldn't be okay with that literally.
I know us in our lives.
We can't let that keep going either.
So we've got to start holding them accountable too.
Yeah.
He's, he's proposed the policy of everyone owns their own information.
Uh, the privacy issue.
Yeah, that was the thing I was trying to think of that.
The companies have to tell you what information they're collecting on you
and what they are doing with it.
And you can tell them no, which would be pretty cool.
Yeah, we should own our own information.
I wonder how that'll ever pass.
Cause I mean, something like that, they, you can ask them to give it to you,
which one, again, my book club gets so fucking pissed at his phone.
He's like, I can enter my contacts into my phone, but it will not tell me what I
entered into it unless I agree to these terms of service, which I refuse to
agree to.
So he now cannot get that.
I mean, he already knows the information, but he's fucking pissed off that he can
enter it into the phone, but the phone won't give it back to him.
That's weird, right?
Yeah.
You know, there are non like social media example in phone examples, like, uh,
I have a credit card with the chase and somewhere in my 40 page agreement says,
like, Hey, we're going to give your information to, I guess, like everything
that you buy and when you buy it and where we're going to give all the
information to whoever wants it and, you know, Experian and the other big
three credit agencies.
Yeah.
The big credit agencies.
We're going to give it all to them.
So I got an agreement.
I don't have an agreement with Experian.
Is it Experian?
Am I saying that right?
Yeah.
Experian's wonderful.
Um, uh, but they, they keep talking about credit score.
If they have a data leak that I didn't know that I had to contract with them and
my information's out, well, that sucks.
And that's, that's, that's my problem now.
Right?
Yeah.
Um, so it would be cut.
And when, when did that act pass?
It was recently in history where I'm allowed to get a copy of my credit report for
free.
Yeah.
Um, was that in the 2000s or late 90s?
It doesn't matter.
It was, it was way too late to be like constable.
The fact that I had to pay somebody to be like, all right, you guys are using this
fucking magic number to determine my life.
Can I please see it?
And they're like, yeah, sure.
Give us $200.
And that's, that's a weird way to go about doing this.
Right?
That's sicking you hostage.
And before we jump on, uh, on words, his department of technology, he specifically
called out would look into AI existential risk related items and keep the White
House appraised of them.
That's pretty cool.
That is pretty fucking cool.
How what other candidate even knows what AI existential risk is?
Yeah.
I think if anyone wants to, to hear a bit about like how he, how he talks and how
he's engaged on things and he's, he talks like a politician because he's,
he's trying to, but he's also, he doesn't talk like a normal politician because
he's not been inundated with the, you know, his whole life, but he was on the
Joe Rogan experience for like three hours.
He was on Sam Harris's podcast.
I heard him on Freakonomics, which was a really good episode as well.
Yeah.
And I mean, it's just, he, he's down to earth and that's not like, that's not a
good, that's not a quality of why he should be president, but it makes him
fun to listen to.
And I guess by that, I mean that he's in touch.
Yeah.
I think being a good communicator is actually a really good quality for a
president to have.
Yeah.
I just meant like his relatableness is something that I think is a good quality,
but not necessarily one that is necessary for being a good president.
But, you know, I remember like when Mitt Romney was trying to, like he was one
of the, the poor folks that they wanted to vote for him and be like, oh yeah,
NASCAR, I have some friends who own some teams or, you know, or it's like, uh,
all right, cool.
Thanks.
That's, you know, you really get it.
Yeah.
You know, you spend more on lessons with your dressage horse and all
earned my entire life.
So like that, that level of like disconnect is super annoying, but it
doesn't necessarily invalidate him as a, as a good president.
Right.
Um, I mean, the fact that he's a religious nut job who wears magic
underwear might, but, uh, it, honestly, if he ran it, that's my thing.
And that's, I get where you're coming from taking this stance.
So with the, uh, with that bill who, that I can't remember what it's called.
Foster sister.
Foster sister.
But like, if Mitt Romney ran as a Democrat in 2020, I'd vote for him in a hot
second if he, if he won the primary, right?
I mean, it could be literally, it could be George Bush, or I guess, no,
because he ran twice already, right?
But whatever.
Um, it could be the first George Bush.
He only won once.
He's dead, but, uh, wait, is he George W, George, uh, HW Bush, the dad?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, damn it.
When'd that happen?
Uh, a couple of years ago.
Oh, okay.
Or no, wait, yeah.
It was a couple of years ago because Trump wasn't invited and then went
anyway to his funeral.
It was fun.
Um, wow.
All right.
And it was cute.
Cause like he crashed a funeral.
George, George W.
Bush and, uh, um, I Clinton, Michelle, Michelle Obama, um, they have like
this cute little relationship and like apparently whenever they see each
other, he like sneaks her candy.
And so there's a video like panning over the audience of the funeral and he's
like handing her like a piece of candy from his pocket.
Um, so like, you know, little things.
Anyway, yes.
Yang cares about AI and technology and automation, but aren't cool.
He cares.
What's he going to do about it?
What's, what's his, what's his brilliant idea to help, to help solve this problem?
Uh, well, the three letter summary is UBI, uh, which is sounds like a
sexual transmitted disease.
Can you, can you explain what that is?
A universal basic income.
Oh, that sounds like way worse.
The socialist, you get out of here.
All right.
Well, never mind.
I can't vote for a damn comedy.
Well, um, his three big policies are that he supports UBI.
He has, he wants to have Medicare for all and he wants to have human-centered
capitalism.
So they all seem a bit socialist.
Yeah.
And he, in fact, he would be running socialist if he, if, if that was any more,
if that was not, if that was not less viable than being as fringe as he is running a
Democrat.
So I don't, I don't know if he would, because he is a capitalist, right?
He's an entrepreneur.
Well, he had said on the Rogan podcast that he's running Democrat cause it's
two-party system.
Right, right, right.
So I'm sure he would be running as whatever he could to get attention to UBI.
I mean, he knows he's not going to win as far as I can tell.
And his major goal at this point looks to be shifting the Overton window to
include discussion about UBI and the Overton window for people who are, I guess,
unfamiliar is a fancy term for what is in the realm of the politically acceptable
to talk about, to do, like, uh, hosting a communist revolution is not anything
that anyone in government is even willing to entertain right now.
UBI is kind of outside that window as well.
Yeah.
So the idea, and he, and he said something to that effect.
I mean, he does, he thinks that there's a chance he could win.
I mean, people have come from behind before and he's getting a lot of traction.
I mean, again, just being on Rogan's podcast means that I don't know what 10
million Americans heard him and, you know, got to at least get exposed to him.
So, you know, the more of that that goes on, the better.
I'm going to vote for him in the primaries, but oh, wait, I need to
register as a Democrat before I can wrote in the, wrote in the primaries.
Right.
I'm not sure Colorado recently changed how the primaries work.
Oh, that's right.
It's different this year.
All right.
Well, I'll double-track.
Yeah, I'll have to double-check as well.
But the, yeah, he's proposing a UBI, which is only $1,000 a month.
So I'm not sure, not quite livable, but would help a lot.
Yeah, it's like $12,000 a year for everybody, regardless of your income bracket.
For every 18-year-old or older citizen.
Right.
And anyone who isn't already accepting government aid.
Right.
