because with respect to the origin, this configuration has much more than one unit of real estate.
Not only is every coordinate more than 0.5 units away from zero,
but the larger number of dimensions means that there's more total real estate when you add it
all up. Specifically, you can compute that the radius of that inner sphere is about 1.24. The
intuitive feel for what that means is that the sliders can roam over more territory than what
just a single unit of real estate would allow. One fun way to see what this means is to adjust
everything so that all of the real estate goes to just one coordinate. Because this coordinate can
reach beyond 1, what you are seeing is that this 5-dimensional inner sphere actually pokes
outside the box. But to really get a feel for how strange things become, as a last example,
I want to jump up into 10 dimensions. Remember, all this means is that points have 10 coordinates.
For a sphere with radius 1, a single unit of real estate must be shared among all 10 of those
coordinates. As always, the point of this corner sphere closest to the origin is the one where
all 10 coordinates split the real estate evenly. And here, you can really see just how far away
this feels from the origin. Or, phrased differently, that inner sphere is allowed to have a very large
amount of real estate. In fact, you can compute that the radius of the inner sphere is about 2.16.
And viewed from this perspective, where you have 10 full dimensions to share that real estate,
doesn't it actually feel somewhat reasonable that the inner sphere should have a radius more
than twice as big as all those corner spheres? To get a sense for just how big this inner sphere is,
look back in two dimensions and imagine a 4x4 box bounding all four circles from the outside.
Or go to three dimensions and imagine a 4x4x4 box bounding all of those corner spheres from the
outside. Way up here in 10 dimensions, that quote-unquote inner sphere is actually large
enough to poke outside of that outer bounding box, since it has a diameter bigger than 4.
I know that seems crazy, but you have to realize that the face of the box
is always two units away from the origin, no matter how high the dimension is.
And fundamentally, it's because it only involves moving along a single axis.
But the point 11111111111, which determines the inner sphere's radius,
is actually really far away from the center, all the way up here in 10 dimensions.
And it's because all 10 of those dimensions add a full unit of real estate for that point.
And of course, as you keep upping the dimensions, that inner sphere just keeps growing without bound.
Not only is it poking outside of these boxes, but the proportion of the inner sphere lying
inside the box decreases exponentially towards zero as the dimension keeps increasing.
So taking a step back, one of the things I like about using this slider method for teaching
is that when I shared it with a few friends, the way they started to talk about higher dimensions
became a little less metaphysical and started to sound more like how you would hear a mathematician
talk about the topic. Rather than skeptically asking whether or not 10-dimensional space is a
real thing, recognizing that it's exactly as real as numbers are, people would actually probe
at what other properties high-dimensional spheres have, and what other shapes feel like in terms of
sliders. This box situation is just one in a number of things that feel very crazy about
higher-dimensional spheres, and it's really fun to think about these others in the context of
sliders and real estate. It's obviously limited, I mean, you're a bug on the surface of these
objects only getting a feel for one point at a time and for the rules of movement. Also,
geometry can be quite nice when it's coordinate free, and this is the opposite of that. But it
does give a foothold into thinking about high-dimensional shapes a little more concretely.
Now, you could say that viewing things with sliders is no different from thinking about
things purely analytically. I mean, it's honestly little more than representing each
coordinate literally. It's kind of the most obvious thing you might do. But this small move
makes it much more possible to play with the thought of a high-dimensional point,
and even little things, like thinking about the squares of coordinates as real estate,
can shed light on some seemingly strange aspects of high dimensions,
like just how far away the corner of a box is from its center.
If anything, the fact that it's such a direct representation of a purely analytic description
is exactly what makes it such a faithful reflection of what genuinely doing math and higher dimensions
entails. We're still flying in the clouds, trusting the instruments of analytic reasoning,
but this is a redesign of those instruments, one which better takes advantage of the fact
that such a large portion of our brains goes towards image processing. I mean, just because
you can't visualize something doesn't mean you can't still think about it visually.
