Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Miniasz Brotski, I'm Stephen Zuber, and I'm Chase
Barkley.
Welcome back, Chase.
Hi, Chase.
Hello.
Thank you.
So today we are going to talk about something that we have run across recently, what to
do when you are in an argument and people start getting emotional.
Recently, yes, in our entire lives.
What?
You said it happened recently, like, oh yeah, this just happened like last month.
Well, it's been happening the month before that, and yeah, constantly.
But I mean, in both sides, like both, if you're intro, intro, this is the word you really
like, interlocutor.
Interlocutor.
Interlocutor.
I don't know if I like, I use that word, I'm not particularly attached to it.
Okay.
I first heard you using it like, I've seen it in text before, but the first time I heard
it's come out of someone's mouth, it was you, and I was like, oh, that's neat.
I guess maybe the person you're in dialogue with.
Yeah.
Yeah, but that's so many syllables.
No, I know.
I like that word.
I just hadn't heard it used before in real life.
I'm lazy.
I like short words or like less syllables, I guess.
I feel like the answer to that question depends a lot on what your goal is.
Like what is your goal in talking to this person?
Because depending on who they are, the answer, the right answer might be just stop.
Yes.
That's usually the right answer.
If it's something you don't particularly care for.
That's what you care about.
Yeah.
I think we'd have to be more specific as in when it's like you're at your local rationality
meet up and you start getting into something and it gets heated, then what do you do?
So really quick, the specific prompt is how to handle emotionally charged arguments.
Yeah.
Okay.
So arguably you'll have to have.
You're in it.
Like you don't have to have the argument, but you don't want to just necessarily cut
off contact with this person and you probably might be in a room with them for a little
longer.
Right.
It's not random person on the street that can be like, whatever, chump, I'm out of
here.
You mentioned the rationality meet up.
Does this happen at the last meet up and I missed it?
I don't think at last meet up, but every now and then, you know, things can get a touching
and nerve.
Yeah.
Which is usually good.
Yeah.
It usually brings up stuff that doesn't otherwise get brought up.
That's not the kind of emotional challenge I have a problem with.
I think it's like, I mean, it's cool to be emotionally driven by your position.
If you had something that you care about, as long as you're doing it in a good way,
right?
You know, like we talked, one of our early episodes was with Jason, who had this position
that he thought it would be morally desirable to drive the earth into the sun if he could
and kill everybody.
And I thought that was a pretty horrible thing to believe.
And like just the idea that like, I don't know if he actually believed that.
I think it's just something like people say to be edgy.
I think I might have said that before, but to the sense that if I take him at his word,
he wants to kill me and people I care about, like that's a horrible thing.
Because I can have the conversation, right?
But I think he wants to kill you in the abstract sense.
That's my point.
It's like he doesn't really, he believes it, but only on paper.
Right.
Like he wouldn't murder you, but if he had the option to make all humans stop existing,
he would take it.
I don't know.
I guess I'm skeptical that he actually even believed it that much.
But somebody does.
Yeah.
So yeah.
All right.
There was a point where I would have agreed with that.
So it's certainly possible.
That's weird.
I mean, you know, even if I don't want to live, like I don't want to kill people that are
like nice that I care about.
It's the whole generalizing to, to everyone, like all of humanity is awful.
Life is pain.
Anyone who says otherwise is selling you something.
And so why would you want to continue pain?
It's already been going on for however many millennia.
Just keep the cycle of horror going.
No, stop it all right now.
Hmm.
All right.
I see where you're-
It's not been my reasoning back then.
I see what you're saying.
And I guess, yeah, if you're coming from a certain perspective, you know, I could see
how that line of reasoning would be seductive to some states of mind.
Not that I'm saying Jason actually thinks this.
Maybe he was just being a juror or whatever, but he kind of got the feeling he was at least
a little bit sincere.
Sure.
And yeah, I don't want to call him out and not believing what he said he believed.
I just, I'm sure I've met people who would endorse that, but not actually do anything
about it.
Right?
Like that, I don't know.
Anyway, that's sort of, I'm giving that as an example of a time where I was emotionally
charged in an argument, but I don't feel like it was a problem.
No.
It certainly was at the first exposure when you guys, when you pitched having him on to
talk about this, I was like, are you fucking kidding?
This guy wants to kill everybody.
So I did have an initial knee jerk reaction, but then we had a couple of days to prep for
the episode and I was able to abstract myself from my feelings on it, which is I think what
you're supposed to do if it's something that you feel like your emotions are getting in
the way of your position.
Like I actually, this is one technique I've been wanting to bring up forever on the show
and in life because, and I haven't actually had the chance to do this in real life other
than like in my head.
But like, if we're talking about something, man, it'd be fun to do a mock example that
if we disagreed on anything that we could argue about, then we could, man, is that worth
doing?
If you think there's something that we disagree about strongly, then sure.
Hmm.
I mean, depending on how much we want to pause the recording, luckily, we have an amazing
senator, Kyle, who will be happy to cut all this shit.
Okay.
Depending on how much you want to pause that, I mean, just, just give me something I can
probably argue at a reasonable level.
Let me grab.
Julie Galef has an open questions project.
Oh, yeah.
There's only 13 of them and none of them are very emotionally charged.
Basically the kind of things like, I saw a lot more than that in their Facebook thread.
Oh, that was a different thing.
At least, I mean, maybe she's going to add those to this list.
This is just on her website.
Basically, she was looking for important open questions that like well informed, sensible
people disagree about, which is kind of a fun thing to do.
And I think typically, so I was going to grab one of these as an example, but none of them
are very interesting, or at least interesting in the sense that I can imagine anyone caring
enough to like emotionally care about the answer right now.
Well, I mean, we could bring up something that I saw people get heated over once.
How do we feel about Jamie and Cersei?
All the hearts.
I'm making the little heart hand sign right now for people who can't see.
I don't know who that is.
Yeah.
So you don't watch Game of Thrones?
Oh, good.
You can be, you can be exposed to this idea.
Didn't I answer this like a half hour ago?
I have not.
I have not watched it.
I thought you just weren't current.
No.
Zero.
Oh, okay.
All right.
So.
Yeah, it looks good.
We can try this out.
Jamie and Cersei have an awesome relationship on the show, and they're also brother and
sister.
Except for the time that like he raped her and she sort of forced herself on him.
They have a weird dynamic later on, but.
You know, it's awesome for story time.
So here's the 10 second version.
They are, it's like whatever, middle-aged technology, fantasy standard set up.
They are a rich noble family, and they are brother and sister, and they fuck all the
time and have kids together.
So given that like three or four of them turn out to have lots of problems, that sort
of endorses.
I actually only one of the three.
Well.
Which you still don't want 33% of your population being fucked up, but.
There.
Yeah.
So no, this was a bad idea on a genetic level.
I'm not trying to defend that at all.
My math is wrong.
You're right.
I forgot that.
I thought there were more kids, and I thought that the other ones had problems.
But other than being like a pushover, which probably isn't a problem, it's just on a
good king.
Yeah.
They did fine, and that girl just died.
Spoiler alert.
Everybody dies in the game of thrones.
She died last year.
That's past the statute of limitations.
It is.
Okay.
So I would never in real life condone that sort of relationship.
But the question came up if two consenting adults wanted to have relations and were sterile,
