and they were brother and sister.
Is that still morally repugnant?
Should they be prevented?
Should they be prevented from doing that?
Or are they grown ass adults that can make whatever decisions they want as long as they
don't bring children at the world?
This is purely hypothetical in the real world because there's not like sterility police
we have.
Right.
Hypothetically, they are sterilized for purposes of this thought experiment.
Of the question.
Yeah.
So this was actually the first time I encountered this was when I was in my teens listening
to philosophy lectures on CD back when I was hipster and had CDs.
I remember this was brought up as an example of like the yuck reaction where people disagree
with things because it's yucky, which turns out to like underlie most opposition to things
like gay marriage or I guess not even like, well, the marriage is part of it, but they
disagree with that only because it involves gay sex.
And that's what's icky to people.
So they disagree with it for that reason.
So I liked it as an inoculation for getting you primed on things to like realize that
ickiness isn't a good enough reason to disregard an argument.
So I was surprised that we had somebody at the meetup who was vehemently against it.
And tell me if I'm straw manning his position, but it was like, there's a power imbalance.
And I'm not sure where the power balance took place in this relationship.
Well, he was taken back to childhood.
If you're having sex with your sibling.
Yes, that in family structures, there's always power imbalances and generally the older sibling
having a lot more power than the younger one and can coerce them into things.
Weren't Jamie and Cersei twins?
Yes, they were.
So would that invalidate his position completely?
No, not necessarily.
We weren't talking about Jamie and Cersei specifically.
I don't think one could still have more power than the other, especially in the medieval society.
The males usually have more favor from the father.
So that was actually my main counterpoint to his argument, which I thought was weird,
was that there's a power imbalance in every relationship.
His argument he admitted extends to like dating your boss or like your senior co-worker,
because they have higher status than you at work, which is interesting.
So actually, I kind of want to stop because we are necessarily doing the incest argument right
now, right? We were just bringing it up as an example of something that gets people emotionally
charged.
I am, but I want to just point out why I felt his argument was stupid.
Oh.
Because there's a power imbalance in literally every relationship,
unless you have like the same physical feats and strength.
If you chose the same feats when you leveled up?
Well, I mean, like, I mean, we could maybe...
I know what you meant, yes.
Yeah, exactly.
If it was a character sheaths in the same way.
The specific word choice was amusing to me.
Yeah, I mean, like, unless me and my girlfriend can bench press the same and have like the same
degree of fighting ability, there's a power imbalance, right?
And like, so he sounds like he's against basically every relationship where you're not
measuring very carefully, like your body weight and things like that.
And I don't think he's making that argument, but it sounds like he is.
No, I don't think he was making that specifically.
I think that there, and I kind of see his point on this,
that there is a very specific type of power imbalance that comes in family relationships
that is, and can also with like boss, boss and underling relationships.
Is that the right term?
Underling.
Yes.
Minion.
Worker.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
So it's specifically social power, not physical power?
Yeah.
And, and more so the things that go on in families.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I guess for anybody who's feeling like grossly offended at like the idea of incest,
I'm not, I'm not super pro incest, but I, for the sake of making an argument, the, the
comeback is like, people will say, well, no, their kids will turn up messed up.
And then you reply, well, no, they're both sterile.
They, they checked.
They literally can't have kids.
Okay.
Well, you know, what if the families are good upset about it?
Like their families are dead.
There's no one to get upset about this.
Like once you knock down all their oppositions,
you find that their true reason is that they think it's gross.
And that is the way to get, I think into a place where you can talk about it and kind
of be free of emotion or at least know what you're talking about.
And that's really the, the, the technique is to try and figure out what you're actually
disagreeing about.
Of course.
And well, it sounds obvious, but it's not.
I mean, it's very hard to do.
It's hard to do, but it's also hard to like, even sometimes realize that's what you're,
like that you're not arguing what you think you care about or what you actually think you're
talking about.
So like the, the Trump border wall for between the US and Mexico that they want to put up,
that's not really about keeping immigrants out.
They'll say it is and they'll fight that.
But then if you point out, like, you know, a lot of them come over by boats and walls are
not like impossible to get around.
They'll say, well, it's still worth it or something, right?
They're not going to say, oh, I never thought of the idea that they could stick boats.
It's probably not worth $24 billion.
So they're, they don't really care about, well, they, they on paper seem to care about
keeping immigrant, illegal immigrants out of the country, but they're real cool and putting
the wall up.
I guess it's just like as a gesture saying we're not it for it, you know,
what do you think a sign would do fine or whatever, but,
But do you think that if you are like emotionally, getting emotionally involved in something and
you feel yourself getting upset, the hard part is even feeling yourself getting upset,
but do you think you would be able to, at that point, get into those sorts of what is our core
disagreement?
So the way that I would do that, A is, yeah, you have to have some level of mindfulness to
know when you're being, when you're feeling upset.
You know, if you're paying attention to how you're thinking and what you're thinking,
then that should be kind of become apparent.
Like, man, I'm getting in the way of this.
Okay, hold on.
Let me take a breath.
All right.
Here's what I want to do.
And then you grab a piece of paper and you write down the border wall will keep out immigrants
and you put that on the table between you and the person you're talking with.
And then you're talking about the, the, the proposition on the paper.
You're not talking about a belief you have in your head.
So it feels less like a personal attack.
And I feel like that, so I've done that like in my head, I haven't actually written out
the belief yet, but it'd be fun to do that in a real, in a real argument.
That was Julia Galeff.
That's why I kept, that's why she came up earlier when I was looking up her, her open
questions project.
Julia Galeff is the bomb.
She's awesome.
So I don't know if that originated with her or not, but that's where I first heard it.
But yeah, then that way you have a distance between you and the belief, because then it's
not your belief.
It's, it's just right there on the table.
That's what you're talking about.
And whether that rises or falls doesn't like when people are defending their beliefs,
they feel like they're defending themselves.
This kind of gets rid of that.
So I think it's an awesome way to go about it.
And I don't know if it would work.
Like, I think a lot, many times it is very hard to tell when you are getting, well, it
can be hard to tell if you are getting emotionally involved in something.
And for that, it really is useful to have a friend that can point that out to you.
Be like, I do, you're, you're kind of getting charged up about this.
But the worst problem is lots of times when I'm getting charged up about something,
I don't care that I'm charged up.
I'm like, yes, I am.
And for good reason, sir, allow me to continue with the fisticuffs.
And I think by proxy, even that, that paper method helps solve just a little bit of that
because it allows you to by proxy measure how far off the original topic you've gotten,
which maybe Italy sometimes is a good measurement of how emotionally involved you've gotten.
Like I think it's a decent proxy measurement because a lot of the time it gets wildly off
topic.
It really does.
And so that's what I like about it too, is then you have it concrete.
And then when they say, well, look, I just want to stop the drug flow coming in from Mexico.
It's like, ah, but that's a different thing than what we're talking about here.
Do you want us to do a new piece of paper?
We're talking about specifically whether this will keep people out,
not whether or not it'll stop the drug traffic.
So it helps keep the conversation grounded.
It helps you keep your eye on the ball.
But yeah, having somebody be able to point out if you're getting charged is good.
And then being the kind of person that can take that proactively is good.
And if you're the kind of person, if someone pointed out,
hey, you're being charged in this argument and they're like, fuck off,
then that's not the kind of person that you're going to have a good emotional argument with,
right?
I, yeah, I may not have been the best person to have good emotional arguments with in the past.
Personally, I think one of the best things you can possibly do is just walk away for a while.
Because when you're in the moment, you just want to hit right back with something.
And it not necessarily even think it through very well,
which can get you in trouble as well.
Especially while recording.
Especially, yes.
But I think there needs to start because right now there's a social norm that if you got up
and walked away, it's because you got all huffy and you have lost.
And oh man, look at the guy that just lost control.
He couldn't even stay at the table.
And I think what really, really would be good to start having it changed to be like,
oh, look at how much self-control he has.
He knows now is a good time to step away,
take five minutes to walk around and regain composure and think through things.
Because more than anything else, there are many times I wish I would have just been like,
you know what, I'm going to step away from the keyboard for two hours
and then come back after I've had some time to think about this.
Yeah, I think that endorsing that sort of social convention would be super desirable.
Because yeah, if you felt like you're going to lose face and thus forfeit the argument,
if you get up from the table or whatever, then you have an incentive not to.
And then you just keep things, keep spiraling.
But again, that requires an honest interlocutor or person you're discussing this with.
And also can be hard if you're into it.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, I don't know.
Because I also kind of enjoy that sort of thing.
I've called it, I mean, internet fisticuffs or like a lot of times debate,
