because if the citizens really wanted to, they could say, well, no, we don't,
because we can shoot you back.
Shouldn't most people who are super pro-second amendment also be against this hyper militarization
of police, which I see a lot of the, I don't see that opinion very often.
I don't know where the overlap is there.
I imagine some of them are.
Most I've met are pro-both.
Huh.
I don't know.
Then I would say they're being inconsistent unless they have made a good case for it.
I'm not sure what it is.
I don't, I know almost nothing about the subject.
I was just curious if you guys knew anything.
I don't, but I think I brought this up in the first place because I was thinking about cases where
uh, people's real motivations for defending a position aren't what they say they are.
Oh, okay.
So like they'll put forward a very reasonable sounding argument that I think on its own does
have merit, but they're just putting it forward because it's the most palatable version and even
if that turned out to be completely false.
So like for example, my position on guns is like, I don't actually own one, but if I,
I'm still on the fence about getting one for the house, but like I have my,
I have my authorization to get my concealed carry permit should I decide to do so.
Because I do sort of think that, you know, if I'm in a movie theater and someone starts
shooting people, well, it'd be kind of cool.
Like the, what gives that guy the advantage that he can put pieces of metal across the room
really fast.
He doesn't have to be near people to kill them.
Like if I could return that magic power back at them, that'd put me in a hugely better position,
right?
People do worry that like, oh, then you have two untrained people shooting into a crowd.
And A, the goal is not to be an untrained idiot firing blindly into a crowd and like,
if I'm going to risk hitting somebody, I'm probably, you know, I'm, if there's someone
between me and the gunman, then I don't need to worry about being shot because I'm going to shoot
that person probably.
I think people greatly underestimate the chaos of an actual firefight situation.
Probably, but I will also say that I think people also radically underestimate like what
training some people do.
Like it's not, I'm not an expert, but I've fired a few hundred rounds maybe.
Like it's not hard to shoot even like if you're, like if you're in a panic situation and you're
moving and stuff, yeah, it's going to be a way more difficult situation.
But if you're moving, you probably don't need to be stopping to take a shot, right?
So like rule one of surviving violence is try and get away from it.
Like that's just, it doesn't matter if you're an MMA fighter and a steel team six style gunman.
Like if you, if you want to maximize your chances of getting out of a violent situation safely,
you just try to get out of it safely.
You don't, you don't try and take the person down unless you have no other choice.
And that's, I mean, that to me, that's why I like the idea of having guns for home safety.
And I'm bringing this up as an example of something that people get charged about, right?
Well, speaking of having to take down other people, what do you do when the person you're
talking to gets really emotional about something?
Oh, you should do them for talking about this conversation.
So, but I was going to say that really quick and how I know this isn't the true reason for
a lot of people from defense is if there was like a non, non-lethal alternative to a gun,
like a super taser that would go through clothing and fire just fast as a bullet and you didn't
have to spend, you know, a bunch of time reloading per shot.
Phasers set on stun.
Perfect. I would have that in a heartbeat.
And I've talked to the people, two people that I know who carry gun or who have and carry guns,
who would, who, you know, I asked them, like, do you have a from defense and this sort of thing?
I kind of dazed and changed them along and set them up for this question.
And so, okay, cool. If I had a non-lethal alternative that was like a phaser, you know,
I don't know if I used the word phaser, but something like that.
I think I used the word super taser.
They'd said no, because it doesn't go bang, basically.
Like they, they like it because it's fun and it's powerful and it is.
It's kind of like a guilty pleasure.
If you've never shot a gun, I recommend going with a professional and trying at some time.
It's, I mean, if it's your thing, if you're terrified, don't, don't do anything uncomfortable.
You also shouldn't be terrified of it.
I do think that everyone should fire a gun at some point in their life,
just to get a feeling for what it actually is.
I mean, I don't like driving, but I would feel pretty unprepared if I didn't know how to drive.
As it is, I don't have to drive that much, but I mean,
if I literally couldn't get a car going, what if something happened?
What if, you know, my primary ride or whatever was having a heart attack,
I can, I couldn't get them to the hospital.
That sounds super irresponsible of me.
So I know that that's not an analogous thing,
but the level of preparedness for things that you're uncomfortable with is the general point I'm making.
So you are talking with someone about an issue that is important to you,
but you see them getting highly emotional to the point where you,
you're worried about, you know, how, how the friendship will continue if this keeps going on.
For sure.
Or are you even worried about that sort of thing?
Are you just like, stop being so emotional?
I mean, I gave you an example of something that, you know,
like the profile in case I was raising it as like,
isn't this an interesting counter example?
You know, when you think about it this way, isn't that sort of,
you know, thought provoking?
This person just didn't enjoy that argument.
And I was like, okay, you're not, you don't get off on a good,
you know, challenging argument like I do.
That's totally fine.
It was something that I really cared about.
I mean, so like, I'm trying to think of an example.
For the most part, I'm not around people that I have,
I guess I don't have that many super off-putting positions to people that I'm around a lot.
The gun thing might be close,
but even then I don't know anybody who would say,
I can't have this conversation with you.
They might say, I disagree with you, but whatever.
If it was something that I really cared about,
and I'm trying to think of something like a core value
that someone could reasonably challenge.
Well, just someone said that you can't challenge them on this thing
because to try to challenge a factual question would make you a racist.
Oh, sure.
Okay.
So like, not so much about a specific proposition then,
but about a general approach to inquiry.
So like, for example, I feel like it's a scientific question,
whether or not some demographics of humans are smarter than others.
And if someone started going off new and saying,
if you even raise that question, you're a racist.
And I wouldn't even necessarily say like it's racist,
like it doesn't have to be racial based.
It could be that, I don't know,
there could be some correlate between height and intelligence.
That's exactly what I was going to say, right?
Like there definitely are correlates between like genetics and height.
Yeah, but not about intelligence.
And all the science that, any science that purports to show that
is junk science that's supported by racists.
And you wouldn't be bringing this up if you weren't a racist.
And not saying.
And not, well, not since you started racist by definitions, right?
So in that case, like,
since I'd not super attached to any beliefs like that,
because I don't know if there's like,
there was some super crazy evidence that came up
that was just overwhelmingly compelling.
And people were shutting that down.
That would be sort of disconcerting
because it's like, that'd be like denying global warming, right?
It's like, no, look, this is a problem
that we need to like work on how to fix.
Just pretending it's not there isn't going to help.
I can't think of a, maybe intelligence is like-
Are you like, is the global warming thing important to you?
It's important enough, like the lines of thinking
that let me come to the conclusion
that global warming is real and a problem.
I'm not close with anybody voluntarily that doesn't believe,
that doesn't have,
that couldn't follow the same steps that I did.
So like I am friends, like, or I'm not,
oh yeah, I'm friends and close with people who are like,
you know, enthusiastic Trump voters.
And so like we have some fairly different core values,
but you know, there's other kind of people
that like I spend a lot of time with on voluntarily.
And when we do, we're cordial,
we don't talk about that stuff for the most part.
Like if I had a friend who was, I mean, I don't know, like-
You're tight with your brother, right?
Okay, what if your brother said that all the science
showing that global warming is happening is junk science
and it really isn't happening.
You don't got to worry about it.
And if you were trying to try to bring up any sort of studies
or research that showed it was happening,
he would say, you know what,
those were all studies done by homophobic assholes
and I can't believe you're even bringing this up.
So-
Do you hate the gaze, Stephen?
Right, that's a good intuition pump
because I'm already feeling,
I'm already registering an emotional response,
just imagining that vividly.
It would mean that I couldn't be friends
with my brother anymore.
Not because we disagree about global warming,
but because we disagree about the rules of thought
that let me think that global warming is a thing.
Because you could change that out
for any other proposition, right?
And it could even be something that I mean,
even if it was something that I agreed with,
I can't think of a way to phrase that in a way
that would be the reverse of that,
but he happened to be right.
But let's say it was, or yeah,
I mean like, you know, so a gun safe,
or you know, citizens having access to guns.
It feels like, yeah,
because we need to be able to shoot all those,
you know, I can't even,
I got to remove my brother from this
because it's too like emotionally charged
to use that as hypothetical.
But say somebody was like,
I agree with you, Stephen,
we should be allowed to shoot down
all of those insert bad people here
because they're like secretly a Nazi or something, right?
All the Muslims.
Yeah, so like, if there's some asshole
and like, that's their reason for it.
