if they're name calling right away,
if they're poorly rephrasing your position,
you know, like so if, if Chase was poor gun or was anti gun,
and I said, I think guns are an okay thing for sane adults to have.
And you're like, oh, so you're okay with kids getting shot.
Like I might get annoyed because like that's not what I said.
And that's not what I'm defending.
And for you to like,
go around telling people that Steven's okay,
the people with kids getting shot,
that's not a fair interpretation of what I'm saying.
Not saying that you would, but you're in the wrong.
And I think, I think I'm on the same way,
which is as far as I know,
though someone I'm sure could confront me
and probably prove me wrong,
I don't have too many things that I wouldn't be willing to argue about.
But someone being willfully ignorant
or just being willfully antagonistic
or just completely logical,
that'll get me much more riled up than any,
I think any opinion they could hold would,
if that makes any sense.
Absolutely. No, I think that's exactly how I feel,
that it's less about my attachment to any belief
because my attachment is more to the truth,
what's actually happening.
So if I'm wrong, as a matter of fact,
I actually want to know that
because even if it's something that I'd be uncomfortable learning.
If I learned that, I don't know, something personal,
like if I learned that white people
were just had like way more racist tendencies
or misogynistic tendencies than other races or something,
I'd be like, oh, that sucks.
I guess I need to work extra hard at mitigating that.
But it wouldn't be like, you know,
oh, don't look into that box
because that box might have a bad scary thing in it.
That's, that to me is more the sacred cow thing
and more the, I'm not getting hung up on that,
but I've been thinking about that topic too
because I don't know if I have any of those.
I do have moral beliefs that are pretty hard to shake,
but I think that rests on an empirical question
that I'm refusing to look at.
Yeah, if you ever found any of those,
I'd probably have fun debating over it.
I think it'd be fun.
And I mean, you know me sort of okay,
do I have anything like that
that you can think of that Steven's pretty touchy
on this thing and like he,
because there's a good chance like,
I mean, I'm not doing it on purpose.
I'm not lying when I say I'm unaware of it.
There's literally nothing that comes to mind.
Maybe if I really thought about it, but...
This could be a fun episode to dive into.
If any, if you guys can think of anything,
I would love to like sacrifice one of my sacred cows
or be shown to be a hypocrite.
If that works too, then, you know...
Or you can just practice your stepping away
and calming down techniques for an episode,
which takes us seven hours to record
because you have to keep leaving.
Right. Yeah, that'd be fun.
I mean, I'm like, maybe it's just the flexibility,
but I'm not that attached to any like,
you know, non-moral belief.
Man, now I'm trying to dig around in my head
and think of one of them.
And I can't, I mean, obviously I don't have a bucket in my head
labeled sacred cows.
So I can't pull one out and think of one right away,
but there are things I care a lot about,
but nothing that I refuse to investigate.
Nothing that I would say,
I know I will not hear your evidence.
There are things that like,
I won't waste my time looking at your evidence.
Be like, look, turns out women are really stupid at something.
And I'm like, you know what?
That's been looked at, you're stupid.
If it turned out where like,
a lot of uncomfortable social science was coming out,
that was like, oh man, look at this,
turns out people who are under six feet tall have this thing.
I don't know, whatever it is, right?
Like, I mean, I would be willing,
I'd be more willing to look into something
if there was reputable engagement on it,
but not if it's just cranks.
All right, so we wrap up.
I mean, I wish if we get like immediate feedback,
just someone could ask a question.
Yeah.
You know, Steven, you didn't really cover that very well,
or you didn't make any sense.
We took a break part way through to go look
at the International Space Station.
So I got kind of derailed,
but all right, yeah, we can dive into feedback.
Unless Chase, did anything to add?
I felt like.
No, no.
I think I already mentioned it.
The one thing we did argue about,
I said a perfectly bad example
by like immediately steamrolling over your responses, but.
The profiling thing?
Yeah.
Well, no, I mean.
I think we agreed because we already did,
but I did the thing I just did where I cut you off.
That's fine.
If we hadn't agreed, it would have been infuriating.
Well, you're arguing in good faith.
I mean, I can understand enthusiastically talking
over somebody if you're wanting to get something out.
If you consistently did it,
or if I asked you not to and you persisted,
then that would get annoying.
But I didn't find that the least obtrusive or unsettling.
If anything, I found it interesting
that you opened up a different avenue to that
that I'd never considered.
Because you're much more like large scale
socially minded than I am.
I mean, you talk about like, you know, like the EFF.
The, is that your jacket?
Oh, awesome.
Fantastic.
So like, I mean, large scale social issues
are not the kind of thing that I'm great at thinking about.
Like I just have like, oh, wouldn't it be interesting
if like this was a little different?
And you're like, actually, if you think about that society
would fall apart.
Like those aren't things that,
that next step isn't things that come to my mind readily.
Yeah, I was just saying that it was a really bad example
of how to have this discussion
with someone who's not already on your side.
Which is not what I was trying to do.
I was setting up the example of a bad way to do it.
Which is to be brief, to talk over someone's response
and to not fully listen.
Like that's exactly the opposite of what you want to do.
Okay, I finally, I think see where you're coming from.
You're saying that if we were coming from different positions
and we were coming, I got a new issue.
I'd like to think I wouldn't talk over you as much.
But I'm not confident in that.
Nice, well we'll try it sometime.
Okay, no, I got you.
And sorry that if everyone else got that the first time
it took me three tries, that was on me, okay.
I'm ready for feedback.
Alrighty, well, the one thing that I did want to bring up,
which I am glad that Chase is here for,
although by the time this episode goes live,
it's probably going to be like three months
since this became a news item.
The lawsuit for the printer cartridges,
the people that refilled, was it Lexmar?
I don't know.
Okay, so there was a, this is going all the way back
to the digital rights episode that we were doing.
There was a lawsuit brought by a printer company
who I think was Lexmar or something along those lines
against a smaller company who was taking their old ink
cartridges, refilling them with ink,
and giving them back to consumers for a small fee,
much less than a new print cartridge that Lexmar
charges for sold.
Yes, the, go on.
They had this, this came to conclusion.
Yes, yes.
Or I don't know if it's going to go up to an Evert
hire court, but I think it was at the Supreme Court
at this point, wasn't it?
Yeah, okay.
The problem was that Lexmar had a bit on their ink cartridge
that got flipped from one to zero, I believe,
when the ink cartridge ran out of ink.
And at that point, whenever you put into the printer,
the printer would say, sorry,
you've already used all the ink on this cartridge
and I will not use this cartridge for anything.
So even if you refilled it with ink,
you couldn't use it anymore.
Your printer would not recognize it.
So in addition to refilling with the ink,
they flipped that bit from zero back to one.
And got hit with the DMCA claim, of course.
Exactly.
And they said that changing one bit is okay.
And yeah, they're able to continue doing that.
