with the whole Google Memo thing, right?
Only vaguely, actually.
Oh, okay.
But if you give me, I will trust your opinion
if you give me the facts and solidify my opinion from that.
I was just curious, I was hoping you'd read it.
I was curious whether you thought the majority of people
are hostile to that opinion put forth in the memo
or if the memo was particularly bad at putting forth its opinion.
Oh, so I would have actually happened to read it.
Yeah.
Because I mean, certainly one of those two is the case.
And I can see some arguments for how the memo really
had issues with what it was presenting.
But on the other hand, I don't know.
And then I saw an interview with the kid.
He's like 22, fresh out of college or something.
Yeah, right.
He's idealistic and sweet.
I'm like, oh man, I'm so sorry that you got thrust into this role
because you were obviously not the right person to do this.
And I don't know.
It seems like, did I hear correctly that the memo was not,
it was originally just intended as a response to their request for feedback?
That's what I've heard.
I didn't actually read the thing either.
And I can actually phrase this in a way that I think
you don't have to have read the memo to answer.
In your opinion, maybe you've seen some dialogue on Facebook
or on Reddit or something.
Are people arguing against the poor quality of effort
and scientific rigor and argument brought forward in the arguments?
Or are they upset in arguing at the fact
that this guy made those arguments at all?
Yeah, I think it's definitely the latter.
It's kind of Enya's point, which is,
the people almost upset that it's being discussed.
So that makes it sound like those people aren't even open
to talk about the content of it.
The fact that this point was raised.
And the point was roughly that there's some
underpinning difference in men and women.
I didn't read the thing.
That made men more suited to work in places like Google.
Yes, but it also kind of meandered and rambled a bit.
And I mean, looking back on it,
this is why I say that when it comes to touchy things,
it really should be handled to left to professional persuaders
or whatever, because it's such a touchy topic.
An amateur should not have expected to be able to touch that
and keep his job.
Well, maybe in his defense,
he wasn't trying to make a public position with this,
and they just asked him.
I think that's also kind of sad,
because I like being able to talk about the empirical side of things,
but it is a very touchy topic in our culture.
Yeah.
And to be clear, my only exposure to this was reading,
not even the post, but Julia Gailiff linked to it on her Facebook,
but I read her the first two paragraphs
of her several paragraph thing on it.
I'm not on Facebook that much.
It does something along the lines of his central claim
seems to be something along the lines of there are,
there's some genetic predisposition
or something that was not socially a factor,
but a non-social factor that made men on average,
maybe more likely or more likely to succeed at places like Google.
I'm more interested in the field.
And so Julia Gailiff, and I totally agree with her,
said that that sounds to me like at least plausible enough to look into.
It's not like so outlandish that, you know,
oh, it looks like women can't do math.
Like if it was that, then like, all right, look,
that dude's just wrong.
And he's not even making a point worth looking,
worth looking anymore into,
because we've kind of settled that question.
Whether or not women prefer people-oriented positions
or like, what was the alternative people-oriented?
People versus things.
Yeah, people-oriented positions
or thing-oriented positions.
That sounds like an investigatable question.
And, you know, then you can look at social factors
and see how much one plays into it or something.
But I'm not saying that that's true.
Don't take me out of context.
I'm saying is that sounds like an investigatable question.
But if anyone is like having this, you know,
kick reaction, like, I can't believe you would even say
that's worth looking into,
you fucking misogynistic sexist shit-lord pig,
that's the kind of like,
unapproachable arguer
that I'm referring to when I say like,
some people just can't be met even halfway
because they're not willing to get,
they're not willing to meet you an inch.
So, like, if some people just have ideas
that are off the table, you know,
another popular one is that, like, there could be,
and this touched on in the episode that we had
about transhumanism,
where we're talking about like,
whether or not your coherent,
acceptably volition would be, you know,
similar enough across all of humanity.
And so when Shelley said that, you know,
it's possible that there's been some enough
distance between different groups of humans
that their CEVs are different,
you know, how do we map that onto
whether or not humans' CEVs as a whole?
And I was like,
so you're saying that there's a genetic difference
between different groups of humans
that have led them to have,
like, that are vast enough for our,
like, core values to be that different?
And that goes against the,
like, the strong leftist position,
and this is not me being a dick.
I'm not sure that was your position, though.
No, she was raising the question.
I'm just saying that that line of questioning.
Well, I mean, I don't even think it has to necessarily
be genetic because if a strong AI comes into
its full power in the next year or something
and starts taking the CEV of everyone alive,
it doesn't, the genetics certainly plays a part into that,
but culture and socialization plays a lot into it as well.
Totally.
I thought-
The CEV is determined by who we are at the moment,
which includes all our lives up to this point.
Right.
I got the impression that she was making a genetic argument.
Maybe I misinterpreted, but somebody could.
I don't think you could find the CEV of any race
just by looking at their genetics or any species, rather,
just by looking at their genetics.
Well, we couldn't because we're not super intelligent,
but I'm, I can see that too.
But I, someone might be able to argue, no, no, no,
it just turns out that, you know,
whatever tall people have this different core value
than short people or something.
How people have a core value of padding short people on the head.
And having high doorways, that's my core value.
So-
The doorways aren't that big of an issue.
High shower heads.
That's the problem.
Yeah.
Even I've been in showers are too short,
and I'm five eight.
So yeah, my, well, I was raising that because there's,
there's as far as like other examples of sacred cows,
sounds majority of, and it kind of is,
but not if you're of the mindset that like,
it's good to learn about these things,
or learning like what your, what your sacred cows are.
You could call them like your untouchable beliefs
or your unquestionable beliefs.
I feel like the goal of this by being rationalist
does not have anything like that.
I disagree.
I have some sacred cows.
All right.
Well, I want to get to that in a second.
What I was going to get at though is that,
correct me if this is something that,
you know, maybe some feedback on,
but like the idea that there can't be a genetic component
to anything that we care about,
or that they're, in fact, isn't, we don't have to look.
That sounds like a sacred cow.
Yeah, that's a problem.
So, and I should say so, right?
It feels to me like, if you're saying that sexism is bad
because all people are equal, and that therefore implies that
if anyone is not identical, then sexism is justified,
which I know what is wrong with your philosophy.
Sexism is unjustified even if people are radically different.
Yeah, I totally agree.
I mean,
even if there's genetically huge differences
between men and women, and I'm not saying there are,
but if there were, sexism is still bad.
I like tall people and short people
because it's a fairly non-inflammatory way
to make the hypothetical, but that's a fair point.
And that's the thing that people say,
like, no, no, it's wrong because they're the same.
It's like, well, if they weren't, then it would be okay.
Right.
That seems to be what that line of thinking leads to.
And that's not what anyone wants.
