That's not even probably what they want,
but that's the extension of the argument that they're making.
So what is some of your sacred cows?
I'd be interested in poking at one.
Well, I think the biggest one is that all people
are deserving of respect and have moral weight
and should not be killed.
Like, just by virtue of being human,
there is a core human dignity and respect that you are afforded
unless you do something really horrific to, you know, void that.
So either that's a sacred cow of mine
or I'm just looking at this and that doesn't sound
like this kind of category of thing that's a sacred cow.
Well, that's not a thing that you can prove empirically
or fight against either, right?
That is just a thing you believe.
So that might be, that might be what separates it,
that it's not an empirical belief, it's a moral one.
And so like, you can't, I can't bring you,
I can't go out, do a cool study and bring you this paper
and prove you wrong on that, right?
No, it turns out that if you're over six, eight,
I don't know, whatever, right?
Your moral worth drops off exponentially.
So like that, I think maybe the,
and maybe sacred cow wasn't carefully defined,
maybe it has to be an empirical,
an at least in potential empirical belief.
Does that sound, I mean, do you have any that are empirical?
Like, you know what, I don't want to open that box
because if it has the wrong thing, I'll be sad.
But there's a lot, there's tons of sacred cows,
like literally a sacred cow that is not empirical in any way.
I think sacred cows have to have an aspect of the moral
because people don't really care all that much about
the empirical side of things.
I was going for the faith side of things.
Okay.
Like the, that's the opposite of empirical,
but some, I'd still classify those as sacred cows.
I guess maybe, maybe there should be a different word for it
because I'm thinking that there's,
there's something special about the category of things
that this is my untouchable belief,
but it's anchored on a true or false reality claim.
Oh, I guess there could be,
for people who believe in the supernatural,
that a God or a loving being exists
might be a sacred cow of theirs.
That's, yeah, that's kind of what I was saying.
Because that is potentially something
that could be proven or disproven.
And depending on the person that you're talking to.
Right, depending on their definition of God and such.
But that would be something
that some people might not be willing to investigate.
The way that I'm thinking about it,
a sacred cow isn't something like
good people go to heaven and bad people go to hell.
It's like, good people go to heaven
and bad people go to hell.
And I'm not going to look in this book
that shows me who's in heaven and who's in hell
because I don't want to be proven wrong or right.
So it's the difference between not being
willing to accept empirical evidence
and not even being willing to discuss it?
Or that discussing or looking at the empirical evidence
is immoral or something.
Yeah, that kind of falls under not being willing to discuss it.
Yeah, but I think even, yeah, it's,
it's, that's why I think it wouldn't discuss it.
Because they, like, because they're afraid
that if the answer proved them wrong,
it would challenge their core belief.
Whatever this belief is.
And they, they aren't willing to risk that.
So then instead of saying, instead of just saying that,
they're saying it's immoral to look, to look in that book
and see if I'm right or wrong.
I don't know.
Are you willing to entertain the idea
that some humans might not have moral weight
and aren't deserving of respect?
Just for whatever skin color or intelligence or whatever?
Or we can say height because it's nice and safe.
Or height, sure.
Like, again, I don't know if that's,
I'm trying to separate that kind of thing
from the kind of thing that has a true or false answer,
in reality, that we could in principle find out.
And you can't just like hold a cool meter up to somebody
and be like, oh, you have 7.8 units of worth.
And be like, oh, it looks like tall people
have like less than short people or vice versa.
Are you willing to entertain a discussion
with someone who does say that this group of people,
whatever they are, gingers are not worthy
of being considered human
and having the same respect and rights as the others do.
Like, are you willing to have a conversation
of that sort with somebody?
We've had conversations of that sort.
Gallant wrote in with all those arguments about minorities.
We talked about that for like a whole episode once.
That's the kind of argument.
Again, I do want to the point that I am separating that from the-
But it's not something that I would ever budge on, I guess.
I mean, yeah.
I think I even said, like, I'm not anticipating
that you could even bring forward evidence
that would change our mind.
But man, if I can't remember any of a specific claim,
something about how like poor people are more inclined to,
whatever it was, I don't know.
But if any of those were testable, I wouldn't like-
And if he said, look, I don't know, someone that's not a-
What's the professional word for it?
A crank.
Someone who's not a crank wrote this paper.
It's pretty short.
You could read it in 20 minutes.
He provides a very compelling evidence.
I wouldn't not read it because I feel like it'd be immoral
to learn that information.
I feel like that's the sign of a sacred cow.
Even if poor people turn out to have
terrible impulse control or whatever
and not as much prefrontal cortex,
what is it that override called?
The ability to override your impulses.
I know.
I just heard it being a human.
I just heard it as well, not too long ago.
But even if it turns out that poor people do have that,
in a lesser ability to do that, and it is genetic,
it still wouldn't change my mind
that all people are equally deserving of respect.
I agree.
And so I think-
And the fact that-
So I didn't-
But that doesn't mean that-
So yeah, your moral position on how much people matter
isn't the kind of thing that you're not willing to examine
because you would look at the evidence for that
and you're like, oh, wow, there is something here.
We need to adjust society to make things better for this.
You wouldn't say, we can't look at that
because if that's true, that's horrible, right?
So that's that to me-
Right, because it doesn't matter to me if that's true or not.
It's not going to change how we treat people.
Well, it might actually matter.
Oh, look, and it turns out that we could actually fix this
by giving all four-year-olds in the first world
the marshmallow experiment, right?
All right.
I mean, yeah, we could maybe-
But so the only way we could determine
a way to fix any sort of problem that was like this
would be to investigate it as scientifically as we could.
To say that that sort of investigation is immoral,
that's the sacred cow part.
To say that asking that question is immoral
and you're a bad person for asking it,
that's the sacred cow part.
And that's where the person's being uncharitable
and incapable of having a good discussion.
Does that get us too far?
No, I'm curious now what kind of listener feedback,
if any, that we'll have on this particular thing.
Keep in mind, like all these are hypotheticals.
I don't believe anything about that, you know,
with the, if someone wants to challenge on, like,
that guns actually aren't good for home safety because this
in your argument, something along the lines of like,
look how people accidentally shoot themselves or something,
or on purpose shoot themselves, I'm aware of that.
That doesn't really weigh into like my in principle argument,
but as far as like the, if anyone writes in and be like,
oh, you guys think poor people this or tall people that,
that's obviously, we're making hypotheticals.
I don't know, that is, I spent,
this is actually one of the few episodes where I had like,
heads up about what we were talking about.
Sometimes we'll just decide like when we get here,
or I didn't understand what we were supposed to be looking
into and looked into something else.
So I was thinking about this all week,
and I couldn't think of like,
where I reliably get upset about a certain topic.
I did have that incident, like I said,
about the minimum wage thing,
but that was less about the topic and more about the circumstances.
And so I just spent the whole time trying to think of like,
all right, well, where do my emotional arguments come from?
And it's less about the position
and more about the person I'm talking with.
If they are being uncharitable,
