So we agree that people should have access to guns,
but for very different reasons.
And I think that that's pretty much,
that's probably worse than them just being,
I mean, it's just, it's on the same spectrum
of like them disagreeing for insane reasons.
But like, this is almost bad.
Just like, oh, damn, I'm on this guy's side,
but he's on my side for like all the wrong reasons.
Like, I believe that I should be allowed
to be factually wrong about something
without that having an implication
on my moral character.
Like, if there really isn't global warming,
I can be wrong about the research I've read
and come to the wrong conclusions
without that implying that I hate gay people.
Right, I totally agree.
I should hope anyway.
Yeah, I mean, so that's my whole thing about like,
there's two points to make there.
One is that, yes, there's this virtue
of like being able to admit like,
not being attached to the belief,
just being attached to the truth.
And that's actually ties really closely
to the other thing that, you know,
if someone's going to deny all the evidence
that disagrees with their thinking,
they're not attached to the truth,
they're attached to their belief or their ideology.
I think the most harmful thing about that
is because I would want to know if I was wrong.
Like, if I am wrong about global research,
I would like to have a conversation with someone
where I can find that out
as opposed to being shut down with,
you can't have that conversation
because having it is homophobic.
And what am I supposed to do with that?
Maybe that's the best litmus test
for like whether or not someone's
wanting to have a good conversation
is you could just say,
if you were wrong about this, would you want to know?
And if the answer is no,
or it doesn't matter because I'm not wrong,
then they're not going to be good
to have a conversation with, right?
But that's such a teeny tiny subset.
And you still want to communicate your idea
to a lot of people who wouldn't necessarily
answer that question with, yes,
who would want to be,
who would want us,
who would say they would like to know
if they were wrong.
There still might be people
you want to communicate your idea to
without infuriating.
I kind of feel like when it comes to people like that,
you need someone who is either professionally trained
or highly gifted at communicating
with people that are hostile.
Or like, you could even...
Or not necessarily hostile.
Like there are a lot of people I could think
who wouldn't say,
Oh, yes, I'd love to be proven wrong.
Most, I'd be willing to,
most people wouldn't.
But I feel you could probably convince
most people given time and civility.
I don't mean all,
but more than half that global warming is real.
There's a ground of people who are still
in the range of having a civil discussion
who might not be immediately like,
Oh, I love being proved wrong.
Like there's a middle ground.
Yeah, I mean, and the middle ground
that's much more, I think,
commonly occupied is not that I love being proved wrong.
I do get a rush learning that I've been wrong
about something, but I might be weird.
But what I'm saying is that there's somebody who be like,
at least is like not axiomatically opposed to being wrong,
which is different than just not loving it.
So framing it that way is a very small subset
of the population.
But as long as they're like,
okay, being wrong is what I'm at.
Just that specific question is hard to ask,
I guess is what I'm saying.
I'm really worried that is the thing that amateurs
are just not good at and shouldn't attempt.
Like I...
I think being able to convince people
who you disagree with on a lot of things,
being able to come to the sort out
what you're really disagreeing on,
narrow it down, work it out,
and find that core point is super useful to do,
even with people who aren't really good at it.
But I feel like the people who are willing
to put in that kind of work
are the kind of people who are open to revision, right?
Maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe I'm only picturing the wrong kind of argument.
I think you're probably right most of the time,
but it can happen where you can still have that discussion
with someone who you totally disagree with.
I'm not totally disagree with them.
You guys could...
We could disagree axiomatically,
but the point is that at the end of this,
one of us should change our mind
if we're both...
If we both bring forward evidence, right?
Or at the very least...
Optimally.
Yeah.
So there's a difference like we can disagree.
I'm not just all around for circle jerking
and agreeing with everybody all the time,
but if they're going into the argument saying,
there's no way they're going to change our mind,
that's like, why am I going to waste my time?
I mean, I think a lot of people go into that
and a lot of people get their minds changed.
Like a lot of the time, like I have heard many times,
oh, there's no way.
Like there's no way you could change my mind.
And there's a non-zero number of times
where I've walked away and they're like,
oh, wait, I guess that makes sense.
It's like...
That's actually a good point.
So maybe they're not well-calibrating
how vulnerable they are to revision.
Who are these people?
Yeah, who are these secret scientists
that you know or these secret rationalists?
That's my point.
Is there not?
Like I think in general,
most people, if approached gently and slowly enough
in the right way, you can convince,
even if it's not a perfectly rational train discussion,
you can still get people on the right line to further.
I mean, some people are hopeless.
The moment you bring it up, they explode.
But there are, I'd say, a majority of people
you can bring to see a logical viewpoint
as long as you have the patience
and things that appeal to them that back up your argument.
So I have a family member who was,
I think I mentioned, a Trump voter and supporter.
And what I can do with this person is we can talk
and he can say, I see where you're coming from.
But I've never heard him say, you know what?
You're right.
Well, let me rephrase that.
Or at least let me consider that.
I've never actually heard those words.
I've heard him say, I've never thought about it that way.
But never conceded anything.
I mean, I'm trying to go through my entire history
of conversation with this person.
Probably minor points, but I don't think I've ever been
witnessed any major revisions.
But that doesn't mean that the time is wasted
because it can also be fun,
like a sparring match instead of a real fight.
But that also doesn't mean that it's not valuable
because then at least, even if they don't change their mind,
they walk away with an understanding
of where they're coming from.
But that's actually different than the sort of hostile...
Now you've got me all hung up on using the word interlocutor.
It's a good word.
So that's different than having a fully hostile interlocutor
where they're just not willing to engage.
And so those people might just be unapproachable.
And I think, but what I'm saying is I think
that that's a relative minority.
I don't think that I think that's far less than half of most people.
I'm sure it's less than half.
But that doesn't, I mean, in relative minority,
yeah, I mean, if we're talking less than half,
then technically sure.
But I can probably list off the top of my head five people.
And I only know like 30 people.
So that's a fairly large number of people
who are like that with some topics at least, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, with some topics.
So you have a question and I'm making a note that this is at 131
in case we want to come back and cut this out after.
So do you think you're familiar
