the point of debate isn't to get to a answer.
The point of debate is to beat the other guy.
It's verbal boxing.
And I really enjoy watching verbal boxing.
I would listen to the Intelligent Squared Debates all the time.
Just all sorts of shit.
But that is not trying to find truth.
And there's been, there's awesome ways to try to collaborate with someone to get to truth.
But debate is not one of those ways.
Right. Debate is for show.
Yes. And it's fun.
Well, it's fun.
Like I've seen some Intelligent Squared Debates and it's fun watching your side
get in a really good jab at the other side.
And I use boxing terminology on purpose, right?
So I don't know if you're up with it.
That's not productive.
And that's kind of not what we're talking about.
So like a discussion is different.
I mean,
But you can get sucked into that.
I was going to say, hold on.
You're going to have to just, just for me, explain that just a little bit.
Like I don't know if I'm not sure I could point out the difference between someone debating
and someone having a discussion, assuming they're both relatively civil
and both relatively, you know, reasonable.
At the risk of sounding pedantic, I'll say one is in front of an audience and one's not.
So like when you're watching Peter Singer debate Dinesh D'Souza on The Problem of Evil,
they're not doing this over coffee.
They're doing this in front of an audience, right?
So that's sort of what I meant.
Okay.
Because I was going to say, like for me, debate as a way to settle disagreements,
find disagreements and work on them is the best way I know.
But maybe I shouldn't be calling that debate.
I'm not a big fan of like deciding what labels you can use for words or not.
But it's true.
But if that label is ambiguous, like argue is a good word,
but that has a negative connotation.
So discuss.
I've heard it called a dialectic before, which is weird.
There's another term, collaborative.
It's collaborative something where you've
collaborative disagreement, maybe.
Maybe, but where you work together with people who have the opposite point of view as you,
but you are working on the project together and you will present your results eventually
to someone else together and you will both say, this is what we can both get behind.
And so you both work on it together.
Whereas debate is always, yeah, it is in front of an audience.
If you're talking about something on social media,
it is debate.
It is not trying to find truth.
If you're talking private message, could be possibly,
but certainly not if anyone else can see what you're saying.
Yeah.
If it's on the wall, it's in front of an audience.
And I'm not saying like it's impossible to have a good discussion in front of an audience.
Like for example, Sam Harris and Dan Dennett disagree about free will.
And they did a podcast episode together.
And in fact, they did, they attempted to do an exchange of essays,
which is fun because they're both super cordial and super nice people.
This debate read like, I mean, it read like smart high school kids like shitting at each other,
right?
So what it was was apparently, so Sam Harris put out this book on free will on his position,
which is like just strong determinism.
And then Dennett's been endorsing some flavor of compatibilism for a few decades.
And Sam had asked Dan to review his book and he's like, sorry, I'm busy.
And before he published it, and then instead of reviewing it beforehand,
he just wrote this scathing review.
It was like, oh, I'm so glad that Sam Harris wrote this because it illustrates all the wrong
points people have.
And so Harris wrote back and he's like, that was a pretty dick move.
Like to say like it's only value is how bad it was and demonstrated bad arguments.
That's kind of an underhanded dick move.
And I feel like your Rapaport rules failed you, Dan.
Like the fuck.
Anyway, so they had a very cordial debate on the podcast in which they'd kind of just like
both expressed what they're coming from and tried to articulate exactly where they disagreed,
which when he listened to it turns out, I don't, I think they're just playing word games.
Like, I don't think they have any difference of anticipated experience,
which is one way to tell if they actually disagree.
And they just seemed like they, on every hypothetical, they could build up.
They kind of came to the exact same conclusion.
Right.
So it's like, where do we, where is this problem that we're having?
I, it's not wasn't super clear.
Explain to me your difference of anticipated experience.
If, uh, like what that means in general.
Yeah.
How are you using it here?
So there's this concept of like making your beliefs pay rent in anticipated experience.
So like,
Oh, your personal, huh?
Like as in your personal anticipated experience, like ways you can,
or like things or things would expect to happen, right?
Does the question of free will ever fall into that?
Well, it depends, right?
So I guess you can't rewind the clock literally and check and see if they could do something else.
But, uh, for example, a determinist might predict that, you know,
an accurate enough science instrument could read someone's mind before they did.
Of course.
And turns out that, that happens.
So that is a way that that belief pays rent and anticipated experience.
They, they can actually make a prediction and test it.
You don't mean it's not just in daily life.
It's in just more like,
Yeah, it could be in both.
I think it's a broad thing.
I mean, like if I thought the speed of gravity was nine meters per second,
you thought it was 9.8, we could just go run outside and throw something off the roof and check.
Yeah.
And if we had, you know, good enough clocks.
Okay.
I just hadn't heard that exact terminology that way.
Yay.
Vocabulary, uh, that's part of the drag with like the community setup is that you get this jargon
that's like a convenient shorthand, which is nice for brief communication, but then you lose stuff.
And then you have podcasts to explain it.
Podcasts.
What was I saying about, uh, oh, so you can have debates in front of people,
but I think it has to be under like two people who really understand that's what they're doing.
I remember bringing up the Dinesh D'Souza versus Peter Singer argument because I was on an email
chat list that had mostly skeptics who liked Peter Singer's version.
And then like, you know, your token Christian who was like, I thought Dinesh did a really good job.
And his whole thing was like, he wouldn't respond.
Like when I watched the debate, I saw Dinesh never respond to the one point Singer kept making,
kept making ad hominem attacks.
So Singer was like, all right, let's grant everything on your side of the table.
But I'm curious why God killed all the animals when we flooded the earth.
What did they do?
And Dinesh never touched the point.
He said, well, Peter Singer's utilitarian ethics lead him to think that like infanticide's okay.
And so, all right, well, we're talking about, you know, specifically the problem of evil,
you know, the rest of my utilitarianism aside, that shouldn't weigh in on this.
So like, I liked watching Singer keep us cool and just point out like you're dodging the point,
bro, but someone else watched it and liked Dinesh's position.
Apparently they thought he swept the floor with him.
So I think it does depend on where you're coming from, but, and I'm probably biased here.
But I feel like that was not, I don't think any reasonable person could walk away feeling
like Dinesh did a good job in that argument.
It's like 10 years old is on YouTube.
What was I going to say?
Oh, you mentioned like that when you get heated on arguments, you know, sometimes you get,
you enjoy it.
And I remember feeling like that.
I used to live with my older mate is, I don't know, 10 years ago, it was more midline Republican,
but, or it was more, you know, the spectrum shifted a bit.
He's now fairly centrist.
But, you know, he and I agreed like a most things, but on a couple of things to disagree.
And we had really good arguments, but they were, they were to the point where like,
we never got mad at each other.
We always enjoyed it.
We'd like have a drink and chat, but we'd, you know, have two hours and we'd both be,
you know, into it.
And I find that engaging.
I find a good discussion engaging, you know, like my heart gets up, I feel excited.
But I don't know, maybe it's my general thing of like, not caring about stuff.
But I haven't, I, I've been charged in arguments, you know, like the one with Jason, there was
one that I can't gloss.
I can't like just say it didn't happen.
I got charged in an argument about a topic I didn't actually know that much about.
It was about minimum wage, which maybe we'll, maybe I'll do some homework on and we'll get
an expert to talk about.
I was less charged like about my, I was less attached to my position on it, which I didn't
really have one.
I had like this light thing that like, it makes sense to me that like paying poor people
more money, you know, so that they can buy all the food they need to feed their families
is a good thing.
And the person that I was talking with is, I don't know if this is the way to put it,
the richest person I know, like once complains to me, it's a bummer not having a job because
I have to pay for my, I have to pay my rent out of my trust fund.
And I'm like, oh, that's a problem that most of us have killed to have.
Like you're born with a retirement fund and you're going to tell me that like, you know,
in my position or my, my light, you know, feeling of like, you know, poor people should
be, should be making less.
Like that seems like a weird thing for you to say.
What, what a self-serving argument.
So it was less like, and that was the kind of thing that I was wrong about.
I shouldn't have been charged that way.
It is possible.
It's completely conceivable that like it's that hominem for like me to say that person's
wrong just because of their status and they absolutely should.
And it was more just me.
I was just like flabbergasted and that sort of just like cascaded for like the hour that
we had this conversation, but it's not like the kind of thing where like, I would be mad
if my belief turned out to be wrong.
It was interesting because I was, I was there for the conversation and you like didn't normally
when I think of people getting heated, they like start raising their voice and getting
animated and stuff.
And you didn't.
So I didn't realize that you were as emotionally charged as you were.
Like I've, with the incest thing, the person on the, on the, that was getting heated like
started speaking much louder and faster and gesticulating.
And I was like, wow, that is, that is someone who's really into their position.
It's also sort of his default talking too.
Maybe it's hard to say.
Well, yeah, that's true.
And I guess it's, I got emotionally invested in the sense that I had an emotional investment,
not that I got over the top.
Like I didn't yell, I didn't say, you're a fucking idiot.
