Like I don't, I mean, it was in the fact that I registered an emotional response,
but I, again, part of, I guess, maybe being a good arguers, having some mindfulness and
being aware like, Hey, you're being upset right now.
What's going on?
So how did you handle it when you were all emotional about it?
I didn't do well.
I, I think, I mean, part of it, this sort of cascades into, I think the hard part of this
problem, which I feel like if you have two reasonable people, it's, it's challenging,
but super rewarding and super doable to have an emotionally charged conversation.
But you have to have somebody who's like willing to engage honestly who won't, Mr.
President, your views, we've talked about rapper pours rules before.
Basically, the prime thing is like being able to restate your opponent's position so well
that they, this is overly ambitious, but the, uh, there's four rules of, of discourse that
Denden is a big fan of.
That's what I mentioned that Sam Shaddon or pointed out that he didn't, didn't follow
is you should be able to restate your opponent's position so well that they, that they say to
you, thanks.
I never thought of putting it that way.
If you can't do that, you don't really know where they're coming from.
Not that you have to do that with everything they say.
The goal is to like keep in mind that you should be at least able to articulate what
your, uh, what your opponent's position is.
Right.
Otherwise you're just making noise.
You have to be arguing against something.
Well, most times people are just making noise, right?
So most times, a lot of times when, uh, I see these sort of argument happening out in the
wider world, it's, uh, you are an evil bad person.
Of course.
Yeah.
Which is not obviously what, where the position that the person has.
Let's just be, let's, I'm willing to put this out there.
There are not that many evil people out there that like literally everybody you
disagree with is an evil person.
Right.
You can say they are, but I guess maybe your definition of evil is just anybody disagrees
with me.
But if you're going to, so like, you know, if you're going to say emotionless psychopath,
that's a pretty rare problem for humanity, right?
Like, I mean, it, it happens, but it's, it's like.
I see a lot of people just saying, Oh, well, you are, you know, you're a libtard or you're
a racist or you know, you're just, you are that category of evil and that is, that is
all the justification you need for your position is your evil philosophy.
So I think that's the thing.
As far as how I responded in that, in that instance, I didn't, I guess my thing was,
and I think I kept trying to say this, do you have to keep me, my memory is sort of
bad, but I feel like I tried to say like, I don't really have a strong opinion here.
I'm just amazed that that's your opinion.
And I don't think it went like the worst.
I didn't like, again, it didn't resort to name calling, but it kind of walked out of
there. It was like, all right, well, that was super annoying.
So I don't know, how did you observe my interaction there?
I thought it was fine.
Like it, so it's been a while and I don't remember as much as I would have liked to remember,
but it seemed that, you know, there was, there was some talking past each other, but
you guys were both making an effort.
Yeah, I think I didn't do the things that I mentioned that are awesome to do,
which is like abstract yourself from the belief.
And I would have liked to have been able to like just to ground myself and say, okay,
wait, what is your actual position?
Okay, why is that your position?
And I don't think I asked those questions, right?
Or if I did, I got distracted and bogged down, like,
there was some analogy involved that I, not worth going into that I didn't like.
And so I kind of got hung up on that, like that's a really bad analogy.
And why are you making your arguments with analogy instead of like with,
like evidence or arguments?
And so that, that sort of, you know, was something I registered.
But do you have any techniques for emotional charged arguments?
I don't think I have anything specific to add on.
But I'd be curious to see if this is just me or if there's anyone else.
For me, it seems like I'd almost be, I'd be interested in pursuing an argument like that.
Like they're so rare for me to find one that I,
that either matters enough or is directly actionable enough to be worth that type of argument.
Like, I'd like to look through Gaeliff's list, but and see if there are any.
But the more of those I can find, like that, to me, that'd be cool.
Like I feel like I can't find enough of those.
You can probably find someone out there who thinks that copyright and patent law is the
best thing right now.
And we should.
Yeah, right.
But who will sit down and like discuss it?
Like that's the key.
You can skim this.
If there's anything that's upsetting, you'll be able to jump on that.
So I want to, before we do that, also take it the other way.
What do you do if you are in an argument which you are not terribly invested in,
you're just sort of interested in it.
But you can tell that the person you're talking to is really getting emotional about this.
Oh, sure.
I can think of an example of that.
That's actually a good reminder.
Somebody I'm very close to that I spend a lot of time with, I was talking with them about,
and this is something that I'm not willing to like die on this hill,
but I still feel like there's an argument to be made for like profiling at the airport
in the sense that I look more like a terrorist than Betty White.
And patting down Al Gore at the airport is a waste of resources and stuff.
There's something to argue about.
Well, but like, I don't know if I am ready to, you know, again.
I think Al Gore himself probably gets a pass.
He didn't.
He got pat down.
Wait, what?
Like this happened, I don't know, 10, 12 years ago.
Are you kidding?
No.
The actual former vice president.
Let me, let me verify this before we put it on the air, but I'm 99% sure this happened.
Oh my God.
That's not.
That surprised me.
The TSA is.
So, so that to me seems like a complete waste, right?
Right.
Like we, we can be pretty sure that Al Qaeda didn't put him over.
No, no, no.
See, I'd argue on that.
That Al Qaeda would recruit a former VP.
That's not what I'm, that's not what I'm arguing.
But.
Oh, just for fairness.
That the show of fairness is worth the waste of resources.
It's not the show of fairness.
I can get into my full, my whole point here.
Sure.
I mean, in the broadest of summaries and the broadest of like government 101 high school level,
the reason it has to be on everybody is because we target it to a tiny minority.
They will never be a voting majority and you're infringing the rights on a bunch of people who
can never correct it by implying it to everybody in a democratic state.
It's basically the only way you can do something like that.
It's the only fair way to do it.
Not because it's a smart way to do it, but because we live in a democracy.
And we all know the TSA is entirely useless.
It's doing nothing but wasting time and money.
But if it was only targeted at a tiny piece, there wouldn't be any push to get rid of it.
And now there is a push to get rid of it because it bothers enough people.
And that's the whole point.
I basically agree with you.
And I also think that, that, that if we were to target only certain minorities, profiles,
whatever, the terrorists or whoever would just start recruiting outside of those.
They would find the old grandma that has a grudge against the US and make her.
Do you think that's at all conceivable?
Yeah, totally.
So you think that, that my great grandmother could be a pro maybe not mine because she was
awesome, but like someone's grandmother could be approached by people who want to,
you know, blow up a, a playing full of innocent people and be convinced to be like,
you should do this too.
Yeah.
We're, we're, I think we might be slightly slipping, which is not necessarily how
much terrorism TSA is stopping.
We can call that null to negligible.
Like it doesn't matter.
The more to the point is,
But I do think that certain people who you're 100% certain won't,
like when we say, when we say, when we say, when we say would be a good thing,
are we talking on effectiveness, stopping terrorism?
Are we talking on waste of money?
Are we talking on infringement of rights?
Where are we on those?
Are we talking about all three?
Like, I see what you're saying.
The TSA fails in every single category.
Oh yeah.
But which one are we arguing because there are different arguments for different things.
You're right.
So I was making more of the position that it would be faster for say,
disabled kids in wheelchairs to be allowed through faster and not be looked at out of
the wheelchairs and patted down and have the wheelchairs analyzed, which happens all the time.
And in fact, Sam Harris wrote a fun article where he was like,
he watched this happen or something similar.
And then he showed a video of another incident like this happening.
And he was like, meanwhile, I didn't realize I'd use the same handbag that I was taking on the plane
to, to once take to the firing range.
And I brought bullets on the plane.
So like, here's, you know, Sam Harris looks way more like a, like a threat than, you know,
someone who's so disabled, they can't talk in a chair.
And they're giving that kid extra scrutiny, right?
So I think, you know, this is again, not really the argument that I'm,
don't write in and like, have me defend this.
This is not my argument.
I think it's a good example of an argument we can disagree just for the sake of showing the terms.
Yeah.
I'm just, I'm telling the, I rarely don't see your point too, that people are more against war
when the draft can take anyone at all.
And once you're in all volunteer army, then they're like, well, they signed up for it anyway.
So whatever.
Yeah.
And that's a, that's a good point.
And that's also different from like how efficient is the TSA.
Right.
That would save money.
It might be more effective at stopping terrorists, but there are like externalities here.
Yeah.
And that's, that wasn't on the radar of the argument I was defending.
Yeah.
So then we're not disagreeing.
Yeah.
That's kind of,
We're just talking about two different things.
Well, some people would disagree with saying that's wrong or, oh, okay.
