It's interesting because the, so for some background,
I was reading Corey Doctro on this who was head of VFF for a while,
actually head of VFF Europe or head of VFF in general.
I have no idea.
Okay.
But Corey Doctro was working for the EFF for a while.
I'm not sure if he still is or not.
Also a sci-fi author, writes some good stuff,
who is very against DRM like this.
There used to be way back in the day,
publishers wanted to make it so that you could not resell a book
once it had been sold to you because they had copyright on it.
And not only could you not resell it,
this means you couldn't loan it,
you couldn't pass it on to your children.
They sold it to you specifically for your use only.
And the court said, no, there is a doctrine of exhaustion.
Once you have sold something to someone,
you have exhausted your rights to it
and they can do what they want with it.
And software is covered by copyright
due to a series of core rulings from the 70s, won't get into.
But by definition, anything with software in it
has copyrighted work inside of it because of this software.
So, which makes it basically everything nowadays.
There's almost nothing that doesn't have software in it.
Lamps, I mean, watches, I mean, the alarm clocks, I mean.
Yeah. And so anything that you want to,
you can just add a thin skim of DRM to it.
And now that we have passed the DMCA, DRM is sacrosanct.
Right.
It has the same rights that those people wanted in the past
that you cannot touch it, you cannot resell it,
you cannot do anything with it.
So you can add a thin skim of DRM to anything that has software
and all of a sudden you don't really own it anymore.
Exactly.
It is still owned by the corporation
and they get to decide what happens with it.
And it can stop you doing all sorts of stuff
under the guise of copyright law?
Exactly.
Like, and that's not what copyright law is for.
That doesn't help anyone that's not helping artists,
it's madness.
What was DRM?
Digital rights management.
I see.
A perfect example is that Philips has,
see with the ink cartridges, they made a mistake
in that it's only one bit that flips.
But Philips has more complex software on their lamps
and to change it, you would need to break their DRM.
Yep.
And that is illegal.
So they now have it that if you want to get light
out of your Philips lamp, you have to buy a Philips light bulb
because the software on the lamp will check
if there's the matching software in the light bulb.
Oh, for safety, I'm sure.
Of course, for safety.
So you can only get around that by hacking through their DRM
which is completely illegal.
So there's high level felony.
So yeah, you basically don't own your lamp anymore.
Philips gets to decide what you can do with your lamp.
And Corey's assertion is that we are basically being returned
to a feudal state.
That in feudalism, property was exclusively in the realm
of the nobility, the privileged few,
and everyone else was simply tenants on that property.
And that they're trying to do the same thing
because it is profitable as hell to be able to continue
to own a thing after you have sold someone.
And it sounds cute on a lamp, but when it's your car
and when it's your livelihood and when it's something important,
it gets a lot scarier.
When it's something that you depend on for something.
Yeah.
And so this was one of the things that filled me with hope
when the Supreme Court upheld that you could flip the bit
on the printer cartridge, which is not the same
as the DRM on something, but it's a step.
We're getting there and it looks like the fight is not hopeless.
It hasn't been lost yet anyway.
The idea of, I think when they pitched the Xbox One
several years ago, we're talking about how when you bought a game,
it would basically be remembered on your system
and then subsequently be useless to any other system.
And then PlayStation came out and was like,
we're not doing that shit.
That's insane.
And then Xbox is like, oh, well, fuck.
We're not doing that either.
Just kidding.
Thank God.
And so, well, yeah.
But then, I mean, it's hard.
When you raise the book example, the idea that someone
would ever try and push that would be against the law
for me to lend a book to a friend.
But it's the exact same thing that it sounds,
maybe just because I'm inculcated with the idea
that software is somehow magic, but certainly I shouldn't
be allowed to make money off of it.
I shouldn't be allowed to maybe turn a profit
because that sounds, well.
You shouldn't be able to make thousands of copies
of the game that just dropped and send it out to everyone.
Right.
But I mean, did I do that?
Like I couldn't make money.
That's just like the market.
Like if I bought 60 copies, didn't put any in the console
or whatever and like just, you know,
bought all the copies at Best Buy.
Like people buy it with new consoles dropped.
They'll buy as many as they can and sell them online
for four times markup.
It's hard for me.
Like that doesn't even violate any DRM nonsense.
But that's just, you know, that's different.
That's a side.
Four commercial use is usually pretty fairly defined
in most copyright cases.
Like there's a pretty sharp line where it is
for commercial and for personal use.
Sure.
I just thought it was interesting.
I guess the, what I'm going to get is the book thing
raising interesting intuition.
Like imagine, I don't know, some weird e-book that,
you know, you had to unlock your Kindle with your thumb print
and you could only read the book once.
Like so you couldn't even like, like I said, give it to your kids.
I mean, they tried that.
Well, what I'm liking about this too
is that there is a market pushback
when it gets severe enough.
Yeah.
Right.
So like nobody would have bought an Xbox One
if that was going to be the thing, right?
Oh, no, they would have still bought the Xbox One.
Well, they would have raised that.
Fewer people would have.
I wouldn't have bought one.
So they'd have lost at least one customer.
We're just not there yet.
I'll be willing to buy an extra generation console
that'll be standard.
Yeah.
And no one will notice because there won't be competition.
It'll just be the way it is.
Hmm.
It's been slowly slipping that way forever.
You want everything through Steam now, right?
Well, Steam can just go nope at any time, right?
You don't own those games.
You don't even, you don't even own them as much
as when the original publisher owned them.
You own less of them now.
And it's everything just slides that way.
It's the most profitable way to do it.
So maybe the Supreme Court decision here
will help protect us a little bit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's.
And at least, and as heinous as those are,
you can only play your game once and you can only
play it during the right time and you can only
play it while Drinking Mountain Dew.
That's at least, I can almost buy that as
something that deserves to be under copyright, right?
Right?
It's a war, it's a, it's a work of art.
It's a, it's something that needs to be,
that is easily replicatable,
but still has to profit the original artist.
At least I can, as bad as it is, I can buy it.
Not so much about my light bulbs and my changing my oil
and, you know, all the other, you know,
refilling my printer ink.
That's where it's just madness.
We're on microphones right now.
We couldn't make the podcast without them.
And what if they want to turn off our microphones?
Your 30 day trial period for the use of this microphone
has expired.
To eliminate this message, please go online
to register for your monthly subscription
to unlock all product features.
If they want to turn off our microphones or say,
what if they had a month licensing fee for your
recording software, which if there wasn't an open source
project, you probably would be paid.
I don't want to have to pay a licensing fee for the cable
that connects the fucking microphone to the goddamn mixer.
Oh, I bring this thing when like, you know,
