Well, I'm still saying it's wrong.
I'm just admitting that it's, it might, it might save money and it might find more terrorists.
You had a very good argument.
I feel like I kind of ran it over.
No, actually you ran over in a way that kind of crushed it.
I hadn't even considered.
So first of all, my, I'm not pro-profiling at the airport, but you,
getting back, we've gotten kind of far afield.
That came out as a prompt from what do you do if the person you're talking with is
emotionally, they're getting emotional and it's not something you particularly care about.
So, uh,
Well, even if you do care about it a bit, like I was,
Do I want to mention the crazy thing that happened in the last few days?
Does it matter if you care about it?
Like either way, if you, if you're trying to convince someone of a point,
I'm not sure your argument style should change,
depending particularly on how much you're invested.
No, but your endurance might.
And if I don't care about, if you're just gonna walk away.
Yeah.
Cause it's also like, what happened in this case, I was talking to somebody,
but I wanted to say, as far as rolling over my argument, you really did.
And that wasn't a dimension to the position that I considered that as long as it affects the society
as a whole, society can unite against this unjust thing as opposed to like just like
fought 1% of people if it's just bugging 1%, right?
That's always been the argument.
I've definitely, I'll give that some thought.
Again, I'm not pro, I'm pro thinking about things that challenge me.
So like this is something that I'll have to mull over and see if it stands up to this.
And I'm, I'm interested.
I wanted to say what I did with the situation where I was talking to somebody
who was getting emotional about this, because they were the position that like,
it's just unjust.
Like that's fucked up.
You can't just pick on one group of people.
And I was like, it's not even one.
And I fit more in this group than you do kind of thing.
Right.
But they were clearly having an emotional reaction.
And I was like, you know what, this really isn't worth it to me to like get you on board.
This like, to be like, all I was trying to do is like, doesn't this position have merit?
Isn't that interesting?
Cause I found it like challenging me because I felt kind of where, where this person was,
but I, I moved away from that.
But then it occurred to me, it wasn't really important enough to me to like make them upset
to get them to like, you're right, Stephen.
That wasn't an interesting argument.
Like that's, that was not worth it to me.
So that, that was how I handled that particular situation.
I had something very similar where I had a sharp disagreement with something,
about something that I do actually care about quite a bit that happened in the news recently.
Like, but not on a deep emotional level.
It's just, I think this is an injustice.
And there's a lot of complicating circumstances that make it difficult to talk about.
And the person that I was talking to had a very strong emotional reaction to it.
And I actually didn't realize this at first because it was done online.
And so, you know, harder to tell what the expressions and all that.
But afterwards, I, I regretted getting that involved in this because
I now know that there is some things that I can't talk with this person about.
And, you know, that's, that's a little sad, although there are certain subjects that I
know I can't talk about either because I get too emotional about them.
And I agree.
I think the thing to do in that situation is, you know,
unless it's really important to you that they be on your side on whatever this issue is,
sometimes it's an underlying thing.
Like they might think, no, this whole line of inquiry is wrong.
And you might think, or excuse me, this whole line of inquiry is immoral.
And maybe your position isn't even so much about that line of inquiry.
It's that no position, no lines of inquiry should be immoral or off topic or off limits.
That's sort of my position.
So the second sentence is you can't talk about that.
Then I'm like, then, then my whole, my whole emotional response comes not from the fact
that they disagree with me on the specific point, but it's like, wait,
why are some things off the table?
Why do you, why do you get to decide what we censor?
That's someone being illogical about this being way more than someone being wrong.
Yeah, that was my problem as well is that the fact that I was judged as immoral for daring
to speak about, to contemplate this sort of thing.
And I was like,
And see, I disagree.
You're right or wrong.
You're not immoral.
You'd be immoral if you're being a dick about it,
but I get the impression you probably weren't.
I didn't think I was.
I mean, I'm willing to bet that I probably wouldn't think you were either if I was able
to read the full exchange, but I might be biased.
But I mean, I doubt that you resorted to ad hominem attacks that you ever said,
fuck you, that you used all caps to lots of exclamation points.
Yeah, I doubt you even rephrased an argument uncharitably.
Trying to get to what our root differences were.
Yeah, and I'm saying all that because you argued like I do.
And I would try to, I would aspire to all those things, right?
Although that's actually, that brings me to a question I'd just like to ask you really quickly.
A lot of the time when I'm disagreeing with someone,
one of the first things I'll do is, as you said, I'll restate the argument.
And a lot of the time, because I fundamentally misunderstand their argument,
and that's why we're arguing, a lot of the time that will come off as a very
negative view of their position.
How can I do that without annoying them that I'm restating their argument in a really dumb way?
No, that's a really good question.
And I'm not an expert, but what I would say is that, so it'd be two things.
One, unfortunately, it seems like this just keeps kind of cropping up that like a prerequisite of
having a good discussion or argument or debate, whatever you want to call it,
is talking with somebody who also wants to do that, right?
If they just want to call you an idiot or prove you wrong, then they're not this person.
But if assuming they are, and you get to the point where you're restating their argument,
you do so in a way that you misunderstood, so it makes it sound like you're sitting on their
position, the way I get around that is saying, let me see if I understand this correctly.
Are you saying this?
And if they say, no, I'm saying this, like, oh, I'm sorry, I was confused.
That still sounds kind of dickish, though, because I could restate someone's-
Especially if it's in a public forum, especially someone's listening.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but are you saying we should murder children?
So I would caveat it with, I'm just trying to understand where you're coming from.
So this is how I understand your position.
Please correct me where I'm wrong.
And maybe with that caveat, it helps.
Or ask clarifying questions for your restate their position.
Because that's probably the safe way.
Yeah, so that would be what I'd try first, is to get as much information as you can,
so you're reasonably confident in your model and say, look, I'm sorry, I'm still not getting it.
Can you rephrase your position slightly just using different words?
It's not clicking for some reason.
But like, if I said, hey, I am against making guns hard to get for law-abiding citizens,
and Inyash said, what, you're for children having access to guns and shooting their friends at school?
Like, that's not even playing by the rules, right?
If you said, oh, Steven's against gun control, that might be misinterpreting what I said,
but that's a reasonable misinterpretation, right?
And actually, this is something that you guys might disagree on.
I am in favor of law-abiding citizens having access to firearms.
Maybe.
It's just kind of an assist city the way our country runs.
I don't think it's like, if I had a chance to reset, run it the way Japan does,
I don't think it'd be fundamentally worse.
I totally agree.
But in this country, I think, yeah, you have to.
Yeah, that's where I'm at, is that in our current climate, the cat's already out of the bag.
There are more guns than there are adults in the United States,
and I think more guns than there are people.
There are more registered guns than there are adults.
There's probably lots of unregistered guns.
Given that that's the world, and by making the average citizen have to wait a month
to get a gun or something, you're not going to keep guns on the hands of criminals.
There was something.
I took a concealed carry class last year, and it was sponsored by the NRA,
and everybody's super pro guns in this thing.
And the instructors were like, yeah, and it turns out,
magazines not only have 15 rounds in them because of whatever regulation
that was passed a couple of years ago in Colorado,
which made me think, the fact that they were offended at that made me think
that the real reason for having guns wasn't self-defense.
If you can't do it in 15 shots, you can't do it in 17, presumably.
I'm sure it's happened somewhere where somebody hit the assailant on the 17th shot.
Well, it depends what sort of situation you're in.
If you're just doing home defense, I don't know, maybe it's enough,
but I've heard that in real firefights, you put a lot of rounds downrange really fast.
Sure, absolutely.
But this isn't in a situation where somebody is going for a gun in their car
and you're trying to get them before they can point a gun at you.
I'm assuming. I guess it does depend, but...
I mean, maybe someone sees you coming down the stairs.
You miss with the first two shots.
They take off through your house.
Now, some of you are chasing them through your house firing rounds off.
You should not be shooting at someone or fleeing anyway,
that's actually just the loss.
Well, depending on where you are, I think in Colorado it certainly is.
Some places, if they're still in your house, they're fair game, right?
I'm assuming.
Yeah, I don't know.
I think I brought that up because this is one of those things where
I think there's a good case you made for it,
but the people that are making that case don't really believe.
Like, that's not really their position.
They like guns because of reasons I don't think are very good.
Like, they're fun and it's our second amendment right,
which that doesn't make any difference to me.
Like, I don't feel like I don't really care what's in the Constitution as far as gun control.
Oh, that's my point.
That's some mean...
But that's a stupid position to have,
because if that's the case, they're defending single-shot muskets, right?
So, I mean, if you read between the lines,
are they talking about full assault weapons?
Are they talking about literally like anything that can take down a tank?
That brings me to something I've...
I mean, that's a question for the Supreme Court.
Well, a question I've always had based on that argument is,
I was here as a counter to, you know, the hyper militarization of police and how it's,
you know, this defense against the state.
But how does that work?
Like, I've never heard a super fantastic argument for how that helps us prevent
that sounds like a different episode.
So totally, completely off topic.
Well, it's actually, it's not.
I mean, in one line, the response is,
it keeps them from being able to walk all over us without a ton of effort.
So, like, if the police have guns and we have guns,
well, they can't just say, well, we have guns, we have to do what we say,
