complex society destroying things,
crop up.
Then it's just like, yep, that sucks.
Super AI comes around before then.
Cause like, you know, on the list of like problems,
this is like number 18.
Well, now it is.
Yeah.
But it could quickly crop, could quickly climb, right?
Like I'm a super big fan and big advocate of this type of
stuff, and I'd still probably rank it barely in the top
five issues we have right now.
Top five is pretty important.
And it might be barely top five.
I mean, I think laying the groundwork for feudalism,
where we are just the, the things that run, you know,
mega corporations as these non-human entities that sort of
grow and take over the globe is, is a worrisome thing.
Oh yeah.
And that's like AI could be put in the service of these new
entities, which are not humans, and that we just kind of work
as the cellular automata that make them up.
And that's outside the scope of copyright law.
That gets into, I mean, we talked about it last time,
but just all of Facebook, Google, monster social networks,
which massively adjust what you see and what other people see
you say, like that's as bad as it gets so far.
And, and all this kind of goes in.
Yeah.
So anyways, that was the only listener feedback,
which was from me, I guess.
Because update feedback.
Yeah, update feedback.
Yeah, because we have recorded this episode just one
week after the last one.
So we haven't gotten new feedback yet.
Before we go, we would like to thank our Patreon
supporter Pavel Paltsev,
who has helped made this episode possible and brought it
to all of you.
Thank you so much.
That's awesome.
Thank you.
Yeah.
It's, it is the kind of thing that, you know,
makes this possible.
I don't, I don't know how to reiterate it.
I want, I want to enthusiastically agree
without just repeating what you said,
but I can't do that.
So thank you.
Awesome.
If you want to leave any feedback,
you can email us at Bayesian Conspiracy Podcast at gmail.com
or leave comments at our website, vbayseanconspiracy.com
or at the subreddit slash r slash the Bayesian Conspiracy.
Chase, did you want to say anything or plug anything
before you go?
Nope.
You can also leave a like or review on iTunes,
force your friends to listen to it in the car
or, you know, quietly since he doesn't have
a website or anything.
Just be thankful that Kyle Moore makes
our episodes sound bearable.
So thank you, Kyle.
Oh, Kyle's the best.
All right.
See you all in two weeks.
Bye.
Bye.
