I was just asking Daniel what he does for a living, you know, these questions get difficult
to answer.
So we can't really see you, but I think you can see us, just so you know we can't see
you.
So if you start sticking your tongues out at us or anything, we will have no idea.
We are staring into artificial suns, they're very bright.
Daniel, this is wonderful that we are doing this together and I'm excited because I have
no idea where this conversation is going to go tonight.
And we're touching into topics and stories that I think neither one of us certainly are
in the habit of bringing into our public discourse.
So both of us do a lot of public speaking.
Both of us are working with the concept of how do we potentially make the changes we
need to make to keep our species and several others around.
But this time we're taking this conversation somewhere slightly different.
And I'm excited about that because the question that is kind of underneath all of this for
me is the question that we sometimes ask in the warm data work, which is what is continuing?
What's continuing?
And in any kind of evolutionary process, there is a need for there to be continuance.
You cannot have continuance without discontinuance.
Organisms have to change in order to stay in the ecologies as they change, context change.
If you don't change, you become obsolete.
If you change too much, you become obsolete.
So how do we not become obsolete?
Now, this is, interestingly, I think, an intergenerational question.
And very frequently when we look out at the way in which change projects are structured,
they seem to be structured towards solutioning for the problems.
But this territory of what happens between parents and children, between adults and elders,
between grandparents and ancestors, this question is hardly ever in the room.
Where did we learn to have a relationship with nature, with each other, with the idea
of identity or idea of success?
Who did you learn to be at the breakfast table?
How is the person that you are now somehow arruminating a rippling of those generations
that came before you in ways that you, some of which you may be aware of, but many of
which you're not?
Who are you?
Who am I?
And what are the ways in which the person that I think I am and the person that you think
you are are actually holding each other into those systems that we spend our days thinking
we'd like to change?
Are we keeping each other in the perpetuating existing systems with our ideas of identity
and prestige, of what it is to be a parent, what it is to be taking care of an elder,
what it is to be in this society?
So this intergenerational question for me is really resonant with where's the change?
One interesting thing here is that both Daniel and I, and I don't know the stories, and he
doesn't know my stories, so we're writing skateboards up here.
We both grew up in really unorthodox ways.
And I think it's no surprise that we are both thinking about the changes in the world in
unorthodox ways.
So what can we bring?
What can we share?
What can we explore together in this territory that might be generative and useful and at
very least amusing for each other and for you?
So Daniel, I want to put you on the spot a little bit because I don't think that we
can have anything in this conversation if we don't have as an assumption the metacrisis.
So I think we could say that for a whole lot of situations that the assumption at this
point needs to be the metacrisis.
But if you were going to give us a quick version of this thing called the metacrisis,
so it's in the room so that everything else we're talking about is predicated on this.
How would you do that?
It's so great to see you.
Well, it's fun that we're doing this and that we don't know where we're going to go in the
conversation and everybody who I got to meet briefly coming in seemed like great people,
so this seems like a cool community.
I know the video quality wants it.
Is there any way this can turn down the tiniest bit because I'm mostly in full blindness?
Is so much better.
Thank you.
Is anyone not familiar with the metacrisis?
Just hands so I have a sense.
I'll try to do this very briefly then.
It's actually a fucked up thing to ask.
Sorry.
No, I don't mean for me.
There's an emotional existential weight of the topic for everybody else to just enter
and then not actually process, but whatever you ask for it.
So a big part of my work is looking at catastrophic risks facing the world, catastrophic and existential
risks.
A lot of people focus on this topic.
The lens through which I have focused on it is looking not just at catastrophic risks
in the areas, in the ways that we normally silo it.
So obviously militaries look at escalation pathways to large scale war, environmentalists
look at environmental risks, which there's some unifying frameworks to not just look
at species extinction or climate change or soil erosion, but things like planetary boundaries
that look at many different catastrophic risks.
There are groups like the big group at Oxford and Cambridge and others that look at exponential
tech risks, risks that could have never happened when we didn't have as powerful a technology
is emerging like the risks associated with synthetic biology and AI and nanotech and
cyber and drones.
So each of these risks also acts like a force multiplier for the other ones.
So if we look at the nature of the social media algorithms, optimizing for engagement
and the optimization for engagement often looks like things that scare us or upset us
or drive tribal identities, it's pretty easy to see that the social media algorithms drive
polarization.
The polarized population in a democratic society ends up electing a polarized representative
class causes gridlock in open societies, closed societies, authoritarian societies don't
have that issue.
So you end up getting a net movement as a result of that towards autocracies being more effective.
But you can see that the social media issue is like a crisis in itself, but it's also
a force multiplier for all the other issues because we can't solve climate change if half
the population disagrees with anything the other half the population wants to do or COVID
or anything.
You can look at climate change as a risk in and of itself, but also as a force multiplier
because as soon as you look at not just total venousification of the planet, but things
like extreme weather events causing human migration and refugee issues, I think Sweden
is very acutely aware of refugee issues currently and the fact that after Syria, nobody wants
climate change mediated refugees coming into their country and yet you're about to, you
know, UN predicts 300 million and some groups predict up to a billion climate change refugees
in the next handful of years, somewhere between five and 10 years.
So what does the world do with that?
Well, that acts as a force multiplier for resource wars, which can then become large
scale wars, which can become collapse to supply chains on and on.
So the metacrisis is looking at not just the individual risk but the cascades between them
and the underlying drivers that they all have in common, whether we're talking about climate
change or war or forever chemicals in the environment, we can see that perverse economic
incentive is a driver of all of them.
We can see that externalities where we're optimizing for one thing but causing harm
somewhere else is a driver in all of them.
We can see that multipolar traps where one group feels like it has to do the fucked up
thing because another group is doing it and if the other group does it, there's so much
competitive advantage.
So nobody wants to give up the nukes first because maybe the other guy didn't really
give up the nukes, right?
And nobody wants to price carbon properly because if Western countries price carbon
properly and China doesn't all it is, is a seeding of the world to autocracy running
the 21st century.
Nobody wants to agree to not build AI weapons because how do we know that the other guy's
not building AI weapons in an underground military base, so we're just an all out race
for everybody to build them, which increases the likelihood that everybody dies from them.
So if we can't solve multipolar traps or coordination issues, we can't solve any of the things.
The metacrisis is basically saying that there's not one or a few catastrophes facing civilization.
There is a whole series of them, many, many different escalation pathways that are the
result of very deep civilizational structures and that unless we change things like the
global economic system writ large, you can't have a, our global economic system requires
exponential growth just to even keep up with interest.
Exponential growth of a monetary system means exponential demand on energy and exponential
demand on materials, can't do that on a finite planet forever.
That means a level of change of global economy that we have no idea really how to do.
And the exponential growth was the answer after World War II to not having World War
III because the major nation states could all have more without taking each other stuff
because they took it from nature faster.
If you don't take it from nature, now you go back to zero some dynamics and higher orientation
for war.
So, and World War II was the first time we had catastrophe weapons.
So it was the first time after which you couldn't have the major superpowers war.
But we had one catastrophe weapon that was really hard to build.
So you could limit it to only two countries and now, you know, maybe eight or so countries
that had it.
But with AI weapons and with drone weapons and with cyber weapons and with bio weapons
getting increasingly cheap because exponential tech decentralizes power.
But that, we hear a lot of the good story of democratizing power for everyone, but democratizing
catastrophe weapons for everyone is a problem, right?
The ability to synthesize genomes for $1,000, which is three years away, in basements when
science OMPIN publishes all of the results of gain of function research.
How does the world make it through decentralized catastrophe weapons for everyone where even
accidents are enough to cause those issues.
So basically, humanity is at a place where it has to make changes that are unprecedented,
like not changes as big as the post World War II change and not changes as big as like
the beginning of democracy and nation states in the, you know, 16th, 17th century.
But more like a change as fundamental as the invention of stone tools with early hominids,
like it's a, because it's a change of evolutionary process itself, where as long as we're seeking
to optimize in groups at the expense of our groups using exponential tech, you get exponential
conflict, which self terminates in a finite space.
And as long as we're optimizing some metrics at the expense of others, you get exponential
externalities in a finite space.
Exponential externalities self terminate exponential conflict self terminates, which means with
exponential tech, we have to solve problems in ways that don't cause other problems, which
means we have to really think through all of the externalities much, much, much better.
And we also have to benefit some groups, not at the expense of other groups.
And that means we have to both have radically better conflict theory in which identity is
not bound to in groups at the expense of our groups.
And we have to have radically better complexity processing.
But this really does mean different identity and different relationship to what getting
ahead and progress and all those things mean.
So this is the stuff I focus on.
And how do we make it through all the catastrophes, where the control mechanisms we put in place
to avoid them don't become dystopic.
So we want a future that is neither catastrophes nor dystopias, but some third option in which
we can be the type of species that can safely steward the power of exponential tech, i.e.,
we are moving into a phase where we have the ability to make artificial intelligence that
is radically more capable than us of every finite game.
And where we have the ability to synthesize new life, the creation of new life, to destroy
whole ecosystems, to make whole new biosystems.
So we can't act like apex predators trying to beat the other guy and get ahead when we
don't have the power of apex predators that like a really upset polar bear or orca can't
destroy everything, right?
We have something more like the power of nature or the power of gods.
How do we become safe stewards of it?
So that's the stuff that I focus on.
That's the context because the catastrophes currently are impending on a short timeline,
not a very long timeline.
So Nora and I were going to have a conversation about, well, I don't know, but including things
like parenting and education and how we raise children, how we how we develop people and
the context of the current world situation is a really important part of thinking about
that, right?
Because if we're raising kids for a relatively stable future that's a lot like the past,
there's one way to think about what development should look like.
If we're raising kids for a radically different future where both, well, how do they deal
with types of change that are unpredictable, that can completely change the type of world
they can expect?
And what capacities would we want to develop in them that they can help actually design
