and build those new world systems is a really it's a it's a context for parenting and education
that is kind of requisite now and was never even a reasonable consideration in the past.
Thank you.
I mean, the idea that the older generation prepares the younger generation to be something
like well adapted to their world puts us squarely in obsolescence right now.
So if we are in going to repeat those previous generations endeavors to to help our children
to get better jobs to go through school to get better grades so they can be optimized
participants in the existing systems, we have failed them in the preparation that they are
going to need to actually respond emotionally, intellectually, physically, spiritually, psychologically
to the changes in the world around them.
I think some of us are already seeing this in our kids where, you know, between looming
threats of nuclear war and climate change and coronavirus, our kids are not blind to
what's happening.
They're holding things.
And already there's a tension around how do we talk to them about this?
Let alone, you know, as a parent, I, you know, it's my job if it's raining to be sure that
my kids are ready for the rain.
I give them their raincoat and their boots to put on.
I make sure they've had their breakfast.
I help them do their homework.
I get them.
And beyond that, there are a million messages in everything I say and do that have to do
with how you are going to become in the world around us, how we have collectively made sense
of what it is to be successful, to be well-adapted, to be a good person, to be a bad person, right?
To be any kind of person.
What's a person even?
So now I grew up in a household that was odd.
It was an odd household.
And my father, Gregory Bateson, who did a lot of studies on, actually, you know, helped
sort of bring systems thinking into the world and cybernetics and many forms of information
technology, lots of stuff in ecology and psychology and anthropology, was fascinated with this
question of how is it that we are perceiving the world and how does our perception of the
world inform the way that we create communication and response and community?
What's in that perception and how does it inform all of that?
So this sounds like it's this intellectual realm, and it is.
There's all sorts of fantastic work that you can read on this.
But I was a kid, so when he was teaching me about these ideas, he didn't teach them to
me as intellectual endeavors.
This teaching came to me as breakfast, as how you walk through the woods and you pay attention
to which organisms are in relationship to which other organisms.
It came to me in the way you phrase a question, how you look into the relationships of a room
before you respond.
And so I grew up in a different world.
And on top of that, it was the 70s, it was Northern California, we were living at Esalen
and all these other crazy places.
And in those spaces, there was this, there was an identified urgency.
In that era, it was more like shaking off the bullshit of the 50s, the really ossified
roles and what's a woman, what's a man, what's work, what's, right?
And breaking free, set the humans free.
Free love, free thinking.
But in doing that, they threw out all the rules, not just some of them.
And when they threw out all the rules, I wasn't always safe.
So what the environment that I was in was, I think the most important thing that was happening
was that I was watching adults learn.
I was watching them not know what they were doing.
And that was really important because that was the modeling, the second order modeling
that I carried with me.
It wasn't what they learned, but that they were learning.
And that they really desperately were in pain from the way they had learned to be in the
world and letting go of those shackles.
I remember listening to grownups in the seminar rooms at Esalen banging on pillows and they
were trying to let it all out.
And they were like, I hate my mother and I hate this world and I hate.
And we, the kids of Esalen, we would be outside the door and we would mock them.
And it would be our mother in there, right?
We'd be like, I hate my mother, I hate this world.
But we were just, you know, we were, what else could we do, right?
You have to mock this.
It was ridiculous.
They're punching pillows with tennis rackets.
But they were ripping the fabric of expectations in society and that's important.
And that was a really interesting world to be in because it was a world that didn't have
rules.
The rules were ripping.
There weren't new ones yet.
How about your world?
I was just reflecting that they probably didn't know at the time that a little while later,
roughly this time, we would look back at those few years that they grew up in post World
War II as the golden era that we really wish we could get back to, where a single father
working one job could buy a house, which hasn't been true in the U.S. since and increasingly
less so, and which the average median income and median cost of a house actually worked
out in a short number of years and there weren't mass shootings on and on.
And I think I also grew up with parents who oriented to the rebellious, progressive, visionary
side and pretty much thought of all tradition and orthodoxy as just all the dumb shit we've
done so far that makes no sense that we need to rethink of from scratch.
So of course, a big part of my process was realizing all the aspects of tradition and
orthodoxy that turned out the way they were for some good reasons, which doesn't mean
all good reasons, of course, the metacrisis I'm looking at is largely the result of where
it's not a functional system, but I remember when I first met Brett Weinstein, we had
a very interesting conversation about the sexual revolution of the counterculture movement
where he shared a perspective that then I've heard many people share since was the first
time I'd heard it with him, maybe about eight or so years ago, from evolutionary biologist,
anthropologist perspective on why the sexual revolution was net profoundly destructive
when that along with the civil rights movement and women's liberation and the environmental
movement were all things that I held as liberating type structures and it was just interesting.
And this other perspective I'm going to share quickly is not true, it's a part of the truth,
but it's important to understand the balance.
The perspective that he was sharing, which I think a lot of traditional people would share,
is that the system of kind of obligate institutional monogamy was something that had
emerged as the dominant system because it worked much better than all of the other systems at a
society level and that specifically, from an evolutionary biologist point of view,
it's like men in a society will do whatever it is that they have to do to mate and if the
society guards mating in particular ways, they're basically developing how men are going to behave
and if a guy can't have sex until marriage and in order to get married, he has to actually get
not just the woman who he's interested in to say yes, but the parents and the preacher and at the
community wedding it'll say if anyone here objects, which means if he's really been an asshole to
anyone secretly, they can object, means not only can he not marry but he can't get laid, that it's
binding his ability to get laid to his ability to have people who don't have an oxytocin rush
associated with him think that he'll be a good father and a good provider and a good citizen
and that there was a lot of wisdom in that and that as soon as and this is a place where physical
technology changes culture as soon as birth control decoupled sex from procreation so the
consequence of sex became a lot less in terms of the actual consequence and then the cultural
movement because if you didn't have that the cultural movement wouldn't have happened right
so then the cultural movement was able to say hey we can rethink this thing from scratch we have
fundamentally new capacities let's rethink the premises one of the things that happened was
and it seemed like a liberation that women could make choices themselves but then that also meant
make choices based on oxytocin dynamics that were not coupled to wisdom and long-term thinking where
guys could be assholes but have game be good at getting laid and it created an evolutionary
niche for assholes to get laid and that Reagan followed and prostitutes and blow and then the
pickup artist movement and his whole argument was none of that would have happened had you not
had the sexual revolution movement now there there is take a moment and laugh and I think the point
that it brings up to me that is interesting associated with what you started with on continuity
and discontinuity and then generational transfer is maybe one of the deepest cultural dialectics is
the traditional versus the progressive focus most of the time a focus that orients more towards
the continuity of traditions is what we think of as the political right it's more conservative and
changing stuff and one that orients more towards some idea of progress and novelties
associated with the political left and they're supposed to be in a mutually respectful dialectic
because each old part of the truth but from a very early left orientation that didn't understand
that dialectic the learning of the value of the traditional side for me was one way of thinking
about the traditional or conservative side is that it is actually like has a deeper unconscious
respect for evolutionary process saying that the systems that have worked for a long time were
the ones that made it through wars made it through famines made it through cultural revolutions there
were a lot of things that didn't work the ones that worked probably have a bunch of embedded
wisdom that we don't understand if we change it we might break them for reasons we don't
understand so the the conservative sociologist brings up chester tins fence all the time right
chester tins fences the idea that before you take a fence down be a hundred percent sure or pretty
sure that you understand all the reasons the fence was put up and that you might superficially think
there was one reason the fence was put up and you say that's no longer relevant you take it down
you find out there were 20 other reasons and so in a way you can say the traditional side
actually being more aligned with the recognition of uncertainty epistemic uncertainty which is
not feeling certain that the idea that we have of how to make it better is good right that it
might actually be naive and dumb and mess stuff up so let's keep the things that at least show
some sign of stability and I think they wouldn't describe it that way usually and then of course
from an evolutionary perspective the progressive side says yes and because we do have novelty
the thing that worked in the past of course can't work and so we do have to innovate and the
dialectic is let's make sure we understand let's really endeavor to understand with a lot of
benefit of the doubt and respect why the traditional systems have been selected for and try to
understand all the wisdom that isn't obvious as opposed to a quick rejection of it and then let's
see where it isn't fit for purpose let's see where it is and where it isn't and where it isn't how
do we add things that have congruency with the parts that are fit right so this is the balance
of continuity and discontinuity or tradition and progress yeah I think one of the ways in which
I have been really focusing on that lately is this visitation I had recently to Japan
and while I was in Japan I went to see some artisans that were there and I was introduced to
a family that was making incense and a family that wasn't doing fabric making and a family that
was making paper and these families had been doing these things for 350 years 750 years
1250 years and that's continuity and but in order to do that they had to make changes
now this was interesting to me because I the work that I do I'm also several generations in
and I have battled with that right when I was you know young people would introduce me and they
would forget to say my name and they would say this is Gregory Bateson's daughter and I'd be like
my name's Nora hi um but I fought for some sort of individuation because individuation was the
tradition of my time okay so this is a this is an interesting problem when individuation is the
tradition and that individuation in fact was very difficult for me everywhere I went I could never
not be Gregory Bateson's daughter and I still couldn't be Gregory Bateson so I was always
letting everybody down I couldn't I couldn't possibly be either um so it's taken me a long time
to actually begin to hold this multi-generational work that I'm in and to hold it in a way
that allows for the difference that the context that I'm working in as a woman in 2022 at you
know Nav with dental and you guys is really different than where my father was in 1972
or where his father was in 1902 all of us have been talking about the same ideas
about how context and environments help change and shift organisms basically
that everything we're talking about has been there for three generations at least so
one thing is is that in the past there was this oppression of the family where the first you know
you had to do what your family did and and that was oppressive you had to take on that that's
that career you had to you were limited by those sexual options you were limited by those spiritual
or religious options and um and so getting free from the family was really important because it
allowed for this beginnings of all these new ideas and ways of living um and then
here we are and it's gotten very messy and I have kids I have two kids that came from my womb
and my husband's got four kids and they you know are two different cultures Swedish and American kids
and they range in age from 16 to 29 and uh how do I help them to be in the world right now
in a way that allows them to be in relationship with the past
in all of the goodness and all of the flaws and allows them to begin to nurture a kind of
flexibility for what their future will be I don't think there's any generation that knows
how to deal with what's coming I mean you can like you were asking about how would you
if you were a mother in Ukraine five years ago what did you teach your children
and uh so this is I think a very serious question of how do we teach our kids something that we
actually don't know and it puts it puts us in a difficult relationship with that role of parent
um you know your kids failing math well you have to do well in math why
um that's questions getting harder and harder to answer actually um and you know I think for
me with my kids I first of all I I was pulled out of school and homeschooled for I think three
four years of my life my father had cancer and when my father had cancer we moved to
Big Sur California and the school was really far away and I used to just throw up on the bus so he
said why don't you just come I only have a little time left just be here and so I was homeschooled
and it was really unstructured there was no such thing as homeschooling then it was actually called
truancy at that point um and it was chargeable by law in fact it was illegal but nevertheless
we got away with it and we did math we would have these conversations about math we'd take walks in
the forest and he would tell me the latin names of everything and how it reproduced and I would
travel with him and I would sit in on his workshops and I was at Esalen and Joseph Campbell was there
talking about mythology and Alan Watts was there talking about you know religion and Carl Rogers
was talking about psychology and I got I got a pretty good education for a 10-year-old you know
um but then I went back to school my dad died and I went back to school
and it was like hell I mean I have to tell you like even the memory of those
