I'm trying to get at anyway is that like, I prefer to do that like in a controlled way.
Like I found my favorite comedian through a random shuffle on Pandora.
Okay.
And so like that kind of thing is great.
But I mean.
You have to go through a lot of crap before you find the few you like.
Yeah.
And like, I don't like onions unless they're like, you know, prepared in like certain
ways, but like just like big slices of onions on sandwiches or something.
I hate that.
Yeah.
I didn't like that the last 10 times.
I won't like that tomorrow.
Right.
So like, I think that level of picky, like I'm just saying.
That's not really randomness though.
That's always an onion.
That's true.
So I guess I'm, I'm just defending general pickiness there.
Okay.
Also, if you actually were open to everything and we're cool and liked everything, that
would be almost just like the other end of being wireheaded and just loving everything
that you experienced.
Like if you have no preferences, then everything is just blah.
It's just a sea of neutral in a way.
I think there's a difference between being open to trying stuff and, you know, being
and not having preferences.
Right.
Yeah.
Like you can, you can try a bunch of things and hate most of them.
And like that's still a preference.
You're just still trying new stuff.
Yeah.
I'm just like, why would I waste the time?
I hate doing things.
Right.
Things and stuff.
That's right.
But in the specific context that we're talking about is about how people who do mushrooms
in particular was the study.
After doing psilocybin one time, they permanently became more open to experience, which is one
of those major personality measurements that exist.
So I'm not super familiar with that, like how you measure that, but if I had to imagine
what it's like to be more open to experience versus less, is it just like a greater risk
taking?
Like this might suck, but I'm willing to find out.
Is that what that is?
I would assume so.
It's more like a, let's see what happens.
More exploration, less exploitation.
I mean, that might be part of it.
I think the only way that, I mean, here I am trying to think of years ago, remembering
reading stuff and psych, I think most of that's like self-report.
Like I tend to try new things.
I like to go out, you know, do stuff like that's like, like those are the sort of questions
they ask you on a personality assessment.
So I guess that would be more of a, are you driven to explore things by yourself normally?
Cause like I tend to go out is a directed activity.
Right.
It's not like just I'm open to things randomly happening to me.
It's I enjoy going out and seeing if anything is different tonight.
I can't remember any of the specific questions.
I think the things like that, and they might cover both of those kinds of things, but I'm
not sure.
Cause it seems like you could just sum that up as being willing to take risks.
It's like, but what's the difference between nothing that I can think of, but then it wouldn't
spell ocean as a good acronym.
So like willingness to take risks if you replace the O, yeah.
Or like willingness to take risks in the particular domain of experiences, but I mean, everything's
experience.
Yeah, but there's a difference between being willing to try new experiences and being willing
to, I don't know, rush some, what is it, what is a risky activity driving really fast?
That is, that is very risk tolerant behavior or like going to a new club or something.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I guess the new club would be more of a openness thing, whereas a driving recklessly and fast
is more of a just not caring about risks.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
That's a fair point.
Also, I dropped an acronym.
Ocean is spelled like it sounds.
It's the acronym for the big five personality traits that are easily Googleable.
Do you remember what they are offhand?
Openness, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and eroticism.
What's the N?
Eroticism.
Neuroticism.
Yeah.
Eroticism is one of the big five.
We can just drop a, what was the E, I can't remember.
Extroversion.
Yeah, we'll drop that and put eroticism.
Yeah.
The new big five, 2.0.
Better big five.
But you know, I am actually very open to experience when it comes to food.
I always want to try new foods, and yet I still have strong preferences regarding food.
It's weird.
I don't have very strong preferences regarding food, and I'm also not very open about new
food experiences.
I'm like, just give me the same thing I've always had, please.
It's worked well so far.
Interesting.
I'm kind of more in that camp too.
And it gets weird.
I rarely regret trying new things, even like if I hated it, I'm like, well, okay, I tried
that and knocked it off the list, but I hate the thought of doing new things.
Does that make any sense?
I don't think I'm quite lined up there.
My wire is across somewhere.
You don't really want to, but after you do it, you're kind of cool with it.
I'm kind of like that with literally everything.
I keep on starting a new TV show.
I'm like, all these new character names and plot stuff, and then I watched it.
I'm like, oh, I don't regret doing that for the most part.
Neophobia.
Yes.
Well, hopefully not super phobic, but neoversion.
This is not really a comment, but I wanted to bring up that after we recorded that episode
at Slate Star Codex, there was a blog post put up commenting on the weird inability of
the pharmaceutical industry to discover anything very groundbreaking over the last several
decades.
They just have little minor improvements here and there to the normal stuff.
The really big groundbreaking discoveries, the discovery that MDMA is good for treating
PTSD and ketamine, injections are worked really well for depression, were both found
out by random druggies using things to get high and just pointing out that maybe recreational
drug use has side effects in the positive benefits in the whole helping to treat mental
illness just through a bunch of people experimenting on themselves randomly, sort of thing.
Because of the pharmaceutical industry spent this much time and billions of dollars of
effort and can't find anything, but random hippies trying to get high finds it.
Maybe that's a good benefit to society.
It provides an incentive to explore if you get high.
Yeah.
The history of science has a great history of people who put their necks on the line
for science to see what happens if this happens.
This should work and then putting everything on the line to test it.
This is a little less intense than that, but I guess I don't know if I'm all for it.
That's probably too strong, but I have a soft spot for self-driven science, although be
careful of doing science in yourself.
Let's just...
Yeah.
It's a very inspirational story that Benjamin Franklin was like, hey, I think lightning
is electricity.
Let's see what happens if I fly a metal kite up there, but apparently one or two people
every year die trying to recreate that.
No kidding.
Yeah.
Probably a bad idea.
He got lucky.
He did get very lucky.
I think he also had some moderately okay precautions, but also very lucky.
That's amazing.
I didn't know people died still doing it.
What are they thinking?
Well, they're thinking this was a really awesome thing that Benjamin Franklin did, but I can
do it too.
There's a good Skeptoid episode on weird shit people do to themselves in the history of
science and some of them are way more dangerous and stupid than what Franklin did.
None of me is like, let's try that out.
They did it and they turned out okay.
The closest I might do just to see if I could attract a lightning bolt, I might tie something
on a kite and fly it in a storm, but then I would tape it and then leave and come back
and get the camera.
If the camera is blown up, I'm like, oh, I sure dodged a bullet there.
I have heard, I put a reasonably high amount of credence in this story that all of our
artificial sweeteners that we know of today, not like natural ones like Stevie or whatever,
but artificial sweeteners that are created in the lab were discovered by people having
poor lab safety practices and accidentally tasting the chemicals and be like, hey, this
is sweet.
Awesome.
A little terrifying if you work in a lab, I imagine.
I, Mr. Oliva, again, staying on the recreational drugs theme, apparently people were interested
in drugs.
Who would have thought?
Mr. Oliva says, I've always thought of music as a low key drug.
It's a way to make physical stimulus and use it to create a mental change or to take physical
stimulus and use it to create a mental change.
And I think I agree to that to some extent, but then Kelty Booty too, no, sorry, Kelty
Booty, too, says, yeah, I recently came to this conclusion.
I'm also worried.
What effects does music have in the long term?
Whomp.
You are the one person saving his brain, Stephen.
I listen to music.
No, you don't.
My model of view is forever the person who does not like music.
I came out less enthusiastic than the average person about music wants to, and he has in
his head like, you hate music, right?
You're like the Grinch of music.
That's right.
That's all the worst.
That's my real opinion.
I see the general thrust of what Mr. Oliva was getting at, but I sort of, I think we
talked about this.
There's that one word for drug that encompasses everything, apparently from music to like,
you know, 600 micrograms of LSD.
And that's just too broad, right?
So I mean, it's.
And if we want to stick with things that chemically affect your brain?
