Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and with us today
we have once again, Shelly, who is here to talk with us some more about the transhumanism
because we had to wrap up a little early last time, and also since we have been neglecting
listener feedback for a while, jumping into some listener feedback.
So let's start off with that, and then maybe we will edit this into the back part of the
show, or maybe we will just do things backwards today.
Backwards.
It's a crazy backwards day.
And the transhumanism is future, everyone will do everything backwards.
Oooh.
Have you guys seen Memento?
Yeah.
Love Memento.
Right after it came out, we could probably cut this out later, but right after Memento
came out, there was like this rash of everyone doing everything backwards, right?
There was a backwards Jerry Seinfeld episode, yeah, and all that.
There was.
I remember that episode.
Oh yeah, there was a bunch of things that just did things backwards, and it got to be
like, I knew someone was like, I am just sick, I think Memento's stupid because they did
backwards for no good reason, now everyone's doing things backwards, I was like, no, no.
Everyone else is doing it because it's a fact because Memento did it so well, but Memento
had to tell the story backwards because it's the only way you as the audience get the experience
of not being able to remember what just happened because you haven't seen it yet.
So you're going through it the same way he has, where you don't know what just happened.
I never actually saw Memento.
Oh my God, it's so good, I'll get around to it.
And it's like a circular storyline, so the beginning is the ending, which is why we're
telling it backwards also works very well.
Gotcha.
So at the end of the Seinfeld episode, it's like Flash's 10 years earlier, and all who
cares actually.
Okay.
Okay.
I'm doing listener feedback at the beginning, we'll not have that cool effect, just.
No, no, sadly not.
Unless we like, air it backwards, we'll have to play it backwards to listen, and since
no one has like a tape or like a button that does that, then it would just be some secret
encoded message.
Well, I mean.
And you can probably cut all of this, I'm probably.
Audacity can play backwards, like there's probably a fair bit of programs out there that can
play things backwards now.
Not like a podcast app though.
Maybe some iPhone one, I guess it's not really a useful feature.
People generally don't put backwards podcasts out yet, okay, so we have from based and confused
speaking about our recreational drugs episode.
That's an awesome name by the way.
Yes.
I heard a few times the implication that the frame of mind one inhabits during a trip is
somehow less useful than the one we have when we're sober.
And they tried to draw an analogy, imagine that the parts of your cognition are an orchestra.
Now at first you start using your brain as a baby or just banging around and making noise,
but eventually you settle onto a type of thinking that you could consider like classical orchestral
music.
And the intricacy of what you can perform there is incredible.
But when taking a psychedelic suddenly all that sheet music you've been using is switched
out for experimental jazz.
And the first time you try it's going to be extremely uncomfortable, but at the same
time there's going to be moments where you have this new interplay of sound that you
never tried before and will come up with revelations that are perfectly valid and completely rational
but would not have been available to you with your old way of thinking.
If now the orchestra that plays classical music as I function in my daily and rational
life reaches a problem that is causing me a lot of stress, I can access a whole nother
set of reasoning skills that are just as viable and logical, but from a very different angle.
And I think that is a very useful and incredible ability.
Did they say they used psychedelics?
Yeah, I assume so.
I can only assume so.
I would hope so.
I mean, my limited experience, my experience was not like that.
I imagine if you do it for an often enough, a few times a year, maybe after a few years
you can get to a place where you're still functional and just having a different set
of orchestra directions on your brain.
I think it's more like a kind of a face shift in those sorts of games where you can swap
the gravity or something.
Maybe you want to start with this one?
I feel like I have not experienced the higher doses.
I think what I do is about the same as what you did, Stephen.
So it's hard for me to say at those higher doses where people do talk about having some
thoughts that seem pretty irrational to me.
If that is something that you could just get used to and then start thinking logically
in those states too, but I don't know.
Were you unable to think things well in those states?
I don't know.
I don't feel like I was illogical or, like, you know how sometimes I'm like, I'm like,
sometimes when you're half, we're just waking up, your brain is still like pretty illogical
just in that moment and then you're like, what, why did I think that stupid thing?
I was like, still having a dream.
That's pretty much my only experience of lucid irrationality, I guess.
And it's hard for me to imagine being learning to think properly in that state either.
Maybe he has magic superpowers.
But trained superpowers.
I just read the rest of that comment and yeah, they said they'd used, they have a pattern
that they use that they're actually experts and they're not talking like speculating.
Okay.
That works for you.
Go for it.
None of us here have that kind of experience, so maybe it does take some training to get
into, maybe like transitioning to smooth jazz.
So I mean, the first time, you can't just play experimental jazz, not your first time
anyway.
It sounds like crap.
You can't.
But honestly, I can't play any instruments, so yeah, I could play the Clackety plastic
guitar.
I can blow a mean jug.
Can you really?
I mean, maybe?
How hard can it be?
I mean, if you want to blow a mean jug, it's probably pretty tough.
It fights back.
No, I actually meant it metaphorically.
I know.
So do I.
I don't know.
I'm running out of ways to chase this.
So I mean, I think that the general resistance to it though is that there's less, I mean,
so you're right now, anyone's lucid perception of reality is only taken in through incomplete
or otherwise transmitted and scrambled and re-unscramble sense data, right?
Like you don't proceed the world directly.
You get photons bouncing off the walls to your eyes and that's all processed to paint
this picture in your head that's somewhat close to how things actually look.
Otherwise, you know, we'd be walking into stuff all the time, but it's not perfect.
I don't think that using psychedelics makes your, maybe the people who speak about it
like inhibiting you as a rational thinker or something, talk about it specifically like
in the empiricist sense that your, especially your senses of like sight and hearing are
radically altered if you're on psychedelics.
If you're an expert, it's different, but for the amateur, my perceptions of like sense
data were not at like stop representing reality in any meaningful way.
So I think that's what people talk about like when you're not being like it's not productive.
But I mean, I guess I'm not sure productive is the right word.
I want to argue with you because I was sitting you at the time and you were basically functional.
You could walk around and not fall into things.
You knew that, you know, what you were seeing was an artifact of the drug and you could talk
just fine.
You seemed like a normal person having a very interesting journey as opposed to my senses
are not working.
Hey, I took a modest dose and B, I think a lot of that came through from me pretending
to feel like, look like I don't know what I'm doing a lot of the time, like when I'm
not high.
So I think I just translate over really well.
I mean, so yeah, from the outside, I did know that things like I didn't lose the knowledge
that I'd taken something that was altering my perceptions.
If I'd taken three times what I did, I variable may have lost that that knowledge.
And so I would just be sitting there having these great experiences and I wouldn't again,
maybe if I practice, I want to keep caveatting.
But that would be it.
That would have been a very different state of affairs for me.
I'd be watching the walls moving and, you know, everything vibrating or whatever and
have really no idea that it was unusual or what was going on.
There were times where I tried to like break down that layer of perception when I was,
you know, having that day.
But I get this sense that it would have been more complete had I been able to get higher
on that trip.
Do you think it would have shut down your brain that much?
Yes.
Okay.
I can only speculate that from like the glimpses that I had and like report the experience
from other people.
Probably this one's aimed at you.
Sorry am I posted.
Someone said something like, I don't want to be more open.
I know it's easy to think about this while when I'm not in the middle of the conversation,
but I really wish someone would have asked, how come?
How come?
Oh, well, I'm just like, in general, a picky person, I like being picky, I want to be more
picky.
You want to be more picky?
Yeah.
Okay.
I generally more enjoy and also more improve of the idea of wanting something first and
then getting it and then liking it rather than being like, oh, some random thing happened
and it wasn't what I've always dreamed of, but it was cool.
Like, I mean, that's all right, but I much rather be like goal directed and joyer.
I think I can back you up there.
I like it when things that I like happen by accident, but I mean, the alternative is
just like throwing the dice and having a bunch of bad experiences and occasionally landing
on one.
Like, yeah, I guess I could do that again.
Yeah.
And I don't, like I value information because it's useful, but I don't really value just
experience for the sake of experience.
And I don't, like if I had to choose to go in one direction, I would go more in the direction
of being even more picky than I am.
I admit that there's such a thing as too picky, but I'm not anywhere close to that for
my tastes.
So, yeah, I think that being more picky is sometimes a really good thing, especially
if you tend to make dumb choices a lot, which you don't, but there are people who do.
But I really, when you, Steven, you said just like throwing random dice and most of the
time you get crap and every now and then you get something good, I disagree.
I mean, yes, you do most of the time get crap, but the fact is, if you didn't throw those
dice all those times, you wouldn't find those few good things every now and then.
And I've had just like the most random acts of serendipity where like, I do not know what
I want to do for this scene.
And then all of a sudden like, I hear something on the radio and I'm like, that's perfect.
It's going right there.
And that's great.
And I mean, those things happen.
I think maybe what I'm, assuming that Shelley and I are on the same page, I think what
