know what, there's nobody who actually operates that way.
Like, so that was, that was my feeling is I was trying to answer the wrong question.
I should have asked, do these people actually exist?
No one thinks that logic and, and consistency don't matter.
Cause like, they still look both ways of crossing the street, even if they
don't think that, you know, things are real.
So they, they're not, they're not being consistent if they're saying these things.
So that's why I think it's just these empty hanging beliefs that might have been
a bit rambly.
So going off the topic of recreational drugs and stepping back one to the
non new, new, new tropics, how do you pronounce it again?
New tropics, new tropics, new tropics.
Okay.
Gadbeb, I guess, I'm not sure how to pronounce the name, uh, on the forums at
slash R on Reddit slash R slash the basing conspiracy says, I figured some
folks might be interested in some information I've come across in my
further reading on Midefinal.
Here are the most common side effects, according to the British national
formulary, formulary, do you guys know what a formulary is?
Sounds, it sounds official in British.
So the British national formulary, uh, common or very common signed effects
include things like abdominal pain, anxiety, appetite changes, uh, constipation,
depression, dry mouth, nausea, sleep disturbances.
There's a number there.
Obviously sleep, sleep disturbances.
That's the whole point of the thing.
Headaches.
There's a list of, of, uh, common side effects.
And then there were some uncommon side effects listed too.
And, uh, it says the common ones occur in one out of 10 and between one and 10 and
100 administrations of the drug.
So, uh, I just wanted to put that out there, that there has been at least
some research on the topic of the side effects of Midefinal and there's
some data out there so that people will know, I guess, sort of what they're
getting into.
Have you ever experienced any of these?
Um, trouble sleeping, maybe, but I mean, even after like you come down, you're
not like, it's not really a come down effect.
It's just like your sleep might be a little less settled that night.
Well, I like it because it's like more vivid dreams, maybe, but, um, I just, when
I read this, I couldn't help but like be an asshole and, uh, just think about like
that, that, so the list, you know, I should only like a bridge to the list of
side effects from it.
I mean, here's the list of side effects from Bayer brand aspirin, rash, gastrointestinal
ulcerations, abdominal pain, upset stomach, heartburn, drowsiness, headache,
cramping, nausea, gastritis and bleeding and, uh, black, bloody or tarry stools.
These are the rare ones, but he listed common then rare or they did.
Uh, coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds, severe, nausea,
vomiting, stomach pain, fever lasting longer than three days, swelling, pain
lasting longer than 10 days, heart problems ringing in your ears, upset stomach,
heartburn, drowsiness, et cetera.
Um, so I think I just, I, I found that list of, of side effects, super
uncompelling because that, I mean, if, if, if you're going to say a drug is safe,
it's aspirin for the most part, right?
When you use responsibly, that's sort of how I feel about.
Modafinil that, yeah, the list of side effects are scary, but like some of
those side effects for aspirin are horrifying, you know, coughing up things
that look like coffee grounds, that sounds like you're dying and you probably
are, but that's super, super rare, right?
So, I mean, these are ones that are supposedly common, but on the other hand,
a lot of them seem like things that are sort of psychosomatic, abdominal pain,
dry mouth, headaches, that kind of stuff.
They, they are things that I would be willing to attribute to other stuff
because they're so wide ranging.
It's not like consistently people who, who take this always get nausea.
It's just a large drowsiness.
Drowsiness is a side effect of Modafinil.
I think everything that keeps you awake can also, and some people make you
sleepy and vice versa.
Everything that makes you sleepy can, and some people make you unable to sleep.
The one thing, my partner's mom has that reaction, the opposite reaction to
like a, whatever that dryness agent in Benadryl is, it wires her up like coffee.
Some people are backwards, but like, like I said, half of those common ones
overlap with the, the common side effects from aspirin.
Yeah.
So I just, I mean, grain of salt.
The one thing he did say that I thought may be worth noting, and actually
he used the words worth noting, it's worth noting that it seems to reduce
the effectiveness of oral contraceptives, which is a kind of a big deal.
That is a big deal.
And I didn't know that.
And then actually I'm glad I was pointed out and that should be broadcast or at
least looked into and then broadcast.
This was it.
I think this was on the same episode still where we were talking about, uh,
making people crap.
Now I'm trying to get, getting our episodes mixed up, but, um, the, when
were we talking about, uh, raising people to new levels of doing better?
Uh, Mr.
Alivar says the marginal utility of rising to average is much higher in most
cases than the marginal utility of becoming better than average.
It's a difference between being independent and being very good at what you do.
What do you guys think about that?
Given that society is probably set up for the average case, you probably
are going to drop out of just standard functioning supported by society.
If you're below average, right?
Yeah.
So, yeah.
So on the personal level, probably there is huge marginal utility, but to be
able to get up to average, which is why people strongly support things to bring
people up to average, but not so strongly or support them to make them
better than average.
But that's, I think like Shelly said, that that's, that's just a by-product
of society being the way that it is, uh, that if like being below average is
punished less or being above average is rewarded more, or there was just like
less pressure by the way everything's built up.
Like you need to have some level of, I mean, some close to average level of
cognition, just to function in society, like to manage your budget or like go
shopping, those sorts of like, you know, day to day things and a million other
things, those are two really lame examples.
Yeah.
I think once that's taken care of though, then like getting bigger and
better is the logical path forward and desirable path forward.
Yeah.
Um, I would say that this really comes out when you talk about disability,
because like society is set up for people with certain mobility capabilities.
And to drop below that would be because of the way society is set up a really
big impact on your life.
Whereas if you can actually walk faster, right?
Or you're really good runner studies, not really going to reward you for that
unless you're like an Olympian or something.
That's a really good point.
Like if I couldn't walk, being able to walk would be a much bigger improvement
than being able to walk three times as fast and three times as long as I currently
can.
Yeah.
So yeah, I basically agree absolutely on the individual level, but I kind of
cheated on this by thinking about it a bit before I got here since I knew I was
going to read it.
And, uh, I think that on the societal level, it maybe flips because on society,
society as a whole can support a certain amount of people who are below average.
And it's not that big a deal.
It doesn't direct society down that much, but the real progress that pushes us
forward is done by the outliers, by like the super smart or super creative people
that come up with the new drugs or the, the, the Maxwell's equations governing
electromagnetism or something like that, that the, the frontiers that make us
better and, and push us to transhumanism are the really smart people.
So maybe it would be the other way around where it's more important to focus
on that high end and try to get people over into that higher edge, not for
anyone's individual good, but for the aggregate societal development.
I was going to say, as long as you don't like leave people behind, but then I
realized that that doesn't make any sense.
Like if, you know, if we could, if we could bring on the advent of, you know,
like a safe universe a hundred years quicker, if we lost a billion people now,
even though like I'm, this is not something I'd advocate.
That's the worst way to do it, but if that happened, it would be hard to say
that that was the wrong thing given how much suffering you prevented, right?
My, my inner utilitarian caught up with me before I could counter what you said.
I also think that the fact that standout individuals can advance science so
much is a artifact of the, the reality that we have science.
Yeah.
We have an in scientific institution.
We have the infrastructure of society.
Like could we, could we do any, I'm going to bring it back to agriculture, right?
We have, we have agriculture and we have like metal mines and you know,
all of that, those little details are what allow these intellectual leaps to come
to anything.
Imagine someone way back when he was a genius and like, what are they really
going to be able to, what kind of, what kind of advances or can they achieve?
So you're saying that the, the benefit to pushing above and beyond like the
average is only beneficial because like there's already an infrastructure in
place to make that useful.
Yeah, there's, there's an engine that can make use of it.
And if you were to lose, if society were to collapse, would, would 10 geniuses
be able to, oh God, no, no, the, the, the infrastructure is absolutely vital.
But on the other hand, I don't like what I'm about to say because it feeds
into the whole capitalist narrative of humans are just units of production and
are interchangeable, but if, if the whole point of institutions is that they
keep going on when the humans inside of them retire or die or whatever.
So humans are somewhat replaceable when it comes to things like working the fields
or working the mines.
One, one guy is just in terms of economic output, almost as good as any other.
Whereas it's very hard to replace someone like a Stephen Hawking or well,
not, you know, someone along on the leading edge right now.
It's, you can replace them, but there's a much smaller pool to choose from.
I also don't see Shelly's point as like necessarily a counterpoint to the
general position.
It's just that it's in contingency that's worth keeping in mind, but I don't
see it as like an argument against it.
Maybe it's not like a total argument against it, but just like the fact we
need, we need that, the average people in order for the, for the next 20 years
till robots are doing all these jobs.
So like you mentioned, you know, the average guy is, you know, can pick fruit
and dig, dig minds better than, you know, the same as the other average guy.
But, you know, we're about to be pacing us in that in the next few years.
And then, then.
And that's not to devalue the average guy.
I said before that every hero needs an entire support structure behind them.
Without, without the people there making the parts for his X-Wing, Luke is just a
guy swinging his dad's lightsaber around on a farm.
But it's also worth pointing out that like your self worth doesn't tie it up
like in your production to capitalism or to like any job, right?
It's easy to, having come from six months of unemployment, I can totally
relate that like, God, I feel worthless right now.
And I would like to think that if my jobs were, like if I lost my job to
automation, I would, you know, have, find some, and I, but I was still collecting
paycheck or something I could find meaning and I probably could if I wasn't
so worried about paying bills and stuff.
So that's sort of an aside, but I didn't, I think I earlier, I made it sound like
I was tying up people's self worth with their production and I didn't mean to do
