Well, I mean, at least, I don't know, it seems like having that one word to map onto all
those things just makes it kind of pointless, but I just, like the general point is there.
We use more extreme examples of like skydiving and people talk about like running and runner's
highs and, you know, you know, dwarfens are a thing that people get when they work out
and stuff.
So those are all like drugs in that same category.
It's an interesting point because yeah, when I think of drugs, I think of like chemicals
that you ingest to alter your biology, but a lot of people do say like, you know, endorphins
and adrenaline, those are both chemicals, just your own body produced them, right?
And people do BDSM specifically to get into an altered state, like I'm not going to say
everyone, of course, not everyone does that for that reason, but certain people do it
to get into the altered state.
Well, the altered state of.
For some people it's induced by pain or it's like a floaty, druggy state of being.
Sure.
Okay.
Yeah, I can see that.
Cause like, I mean, a lot of us do a lot of sex acts because they put in us in a state
of mind that we enjoy, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I guess they're.
There are a lot of old traditions of ex ex inflicting a lot of like non permanent damage
on yourself, just inflict pain in order to get like a spirit journey or whatever it is.
Yeah.
I don't know how self-flagellation became popular.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And some cultures have those like intense rituals like hanging yourself in hooks.
Yeah.
And I can imagine there's a lot of things going on there.
Just the, the knowing that you can get through the pain will probably gives you a great sense
of, you know, strength and, and resilience.
But also it probably does put a lot of people into this trans like spiritual feeling state.
This one I think was actually a good one to, to write about because we may have given
the wrong impression.
Not without incident says, I was really surprised to hear you all shitting on 12 step programs
for treating alcoholism just because people can moderate their drinking on their own.
Project match has been thoroughly discredited and more genetic contributions are contributors
are being discovered all the time.
We know now that some people respond better to different treatments and will have a very
hard time stopping without help.
I'm in no way trying to play down what Enias and others have accomplished by quitting smoking,
excessive drinking or other drugs.
It's super impressive.
And I would never suggest it was easy for you because of your genetics.
I just got a bit of anyone can quit drinking without therapeutic or pharmaceutical help
vibe.
And if that, and that was the argument I'd like to push back strongly.
And yes, I also, after he put it that way, I kind of felt like a huge elitist jerk because
obviously there's a lot of genetic contribute contributions and also just sociological,
you know, what support nets you have.
Oh, I, I really strongly do believe that a lot of people need treatment.
I just don't think 12 step is likely to be that great of a treatment for most people.
Yeah, I think I can dig up something on this and I will post it either way.
I remember either reading that the 12 step program as just as like the one they, what
is it, AA is less effective than similar programs that are like less religious.
Yes.
So it is super effective for a very specific type of mental architecture.
And for those people, it works wonders and they get really like deeply passionate about
it, but for most people, it is not the best way to quit at all.
Yeah.
So in that way, I'm, I'm against AA as like a required mandate.
Yeah, I'd be much prefer like a judge said, you have to go to some sort of program and
you'll figure it out.
Or the default was kind of harmful.
Yeah.
That's why I have a hard spot, I guess for AA, but that said, I, if we came off as anti
program for people, I'd certainly hope that wasn't a, or I'd like at least to correct
the record on that, that that's not, I think are any of our opinions.
If you need a program, you know, whatever works for you, go nuts.
And I will say that I believe 12 step does better than no treatment at all.
Like if it's a choice between those two, 12 steps is probably going to be the
winner, but compared to other treatments, it's hard to, to have, to find any evidence
that says that the improvements are due to the specific things that AA, you know,
the specific details of AA, rather than just that you're doing something.
Hey, I heard that for most, most types of mental architecture, it's not really that
much better than doing nothing at all.
And with AA, since they are both so overtly and strongly Christian or, or they
pretend they're not Christian and they're just some deity out there, but they're,
they're at least very strongly religious.
And most people can see, yes, it's Christian.
I sort of have an issue of that with that specifically.
I'm like, it seems like you are simply replacing the dependence on drugs with
dependence on your religion.
That the whole, I am worthless and I cannot do anything myself and I must give
up everything over to the higher power and they can save me is, I don't think very
healthy, again, for most people, for some people, it works great.
Yeah.
And even if it's not the most healthy thing, it's probably healthier than alcoholism.
So like, if that's what I'm just saying, if that's what helps you, then go for it.
You're right.
It is a specific kind of person would respond to that.
But that having been said, I, I take antidepressants and I have, you know, run
into some people that are like, stop taking antidepressants.
All you got to do is exercise and think good about yourself and that kind of
stuff.
I'm like, fuck you.
So there's, yeah, there is definitely both pharmaceutical and therapeutic
treatments that help people and that are very important.
And I don't want to say to anyone like, Oh, you just aren't, you know, pulling
yourself by your up by your bootstraps or anything.
As I, I did not mean to come across as giving that impression.
Those things are very valuable.
It's just that you don't always need them necessarily.
And I've heard about half of people end up not using them at all.
But then there's also, you know, the other half and the fact that it can help
people, even if they don't use them that much.
Many people, I was surprised by this, so I'm not going to quote any one person,
but there were a lot of people that wrote in to say basically along the line,
things along the lines of, uh, I have come to accept that I cannot really
perceive what's truly real.
And I recognize that my perceptions are just, uh, the only thing I have to go on.
I wasn't sure exactly how to reply to that or if we even want to get into it.
I think it could be.
I mean, is that like a whole, what's the question?
Like, I'm not being facetious.
Like what, what exactly is the topic that I'd dive into?
Like, yes, our perceptions aren't perfect.
But like I said, we're, they're not so wrong that we're constantly being hit by
cars, right?
So, but I've heard, I've heard some people say things along the lines of they're
so wrong that we have no idea at all what's out there.
Well, those people, I mean, throw something at their head and watch them dodge it.
Right.
Right.
Like, oh, you have something that is very, that is a very evolutionarily adaptive.
I can make it so that this cluster of atoms doesn't get hit in the head by things,
but are atoms even real and what's going on?
I don't know.
I don't know what to make of those sorts of arguments.
Like, obviously there's something that we can out there that we are interacting with.
And even if it's not the deep quantum state that everything runs on, it's there.
It's still a thing.
Yeah, I'm not super convinced by people who say things like that.
Like, I mean, they don't something, something making beliefs, pay rent,
something, something like, what, what are they possibly believing that has any
impact in the world with that?
Like, they, they could say these things, but they don't really do anything.
Do we want to throw open like a, if anyone wants to come on the episode and talk
to us about this particular belief thing?
Or at least, at the very least, right in a coherent version of, I'm not trying
to be an asshole, I just don't really understand what a steel man version of
that position looks like.
Do you have any?
I know, I don't.
Um, but maybe they're just pointing out the fact that it's not 100 percent.
Like there's always that slim infinitesimal chance that you're, you're totally
being deluded, but it is slim.
Yeah, I, that's probably, I mean, I think there's too many versions of this
argument to have some, have one response, like hit all of them.
But yeah, that's part of it.
That, you know, what if everything's like this, right?
Yeah, like what if you're a bullets in the brain?
Yeah.
Then like the answer to that is 1% doesn't mean that, like a 1% chance
something doesn't mean that it's reasonable to believe that thing or even
that it's permissible if you're trying to be rationally consistent to believe
that thing, right?
I mean, most UFOs that people see in the, in the night sky are, you know,
airplanes or shooting stars or something.
Um, I'm prepared to say all of them, but you know, since I can't prove that
whatever, uh, if I saw, you know, five planes fly by and then I see another one,
I'm like, I'll bet that one's a UFO.
Well, you can't prove that it's not.
There's, there's a non-zero chance, right?
Am I at all reasonable to believe that?
No, there's so much, uh, there's so many, so much burden of proof.
And there's so, that's such a grand claim to make that it just isn't
reasonable to put that forward.
Well, but when you're requesting the whole concept of proof at all, then
think things get a little shakier.
But what my response to that is just like, you have two choices, do the
best you can or give up on life, right?
And that's what most of the comments ended up saying is like, and I just
do the best I can, but I don't know.
I think back to Eleazar's post about, uh, having beliefs that are entangled
with reality, that when I believe that my shoelaces are untied, it's
because there's a physical thing down there, which a photon came from the
sun and interacted with it and then came shot off into my eyes and it
interacted with my eyes and those interacted by setting neurons, firing
into my brain.
And so there's this whole chain of causal events that is, you know, entangled
with the physical world around me.
So even if I'm not seeing the original quantum flux of things that are happening,
it's still a chain of events that is entangled with what is out there.
I think the, the extreme version of this question is that entanglement that like
there are no, I mean, could be like, are your shoes untied in the matrix?
Like yes and no, depending on how you want to answer that question.
So, I mean, again, I sort of find most of that just sort of uninteresting.
Not, again, not being mean, I'm not being dismissive, but that's what you
think and you're being chill about it.
That's cool.
I just, I don't find it, I don't know.
I think I went briefly through this period where I was thinking about that sort
of thing and then I just kind of was, I remember having this thing when I was a
teenager, I was trying to think of like, how do you persuade somebody that logic
and consistency matter, if they're doubting that logic and consistency matter?
And then I eventually realized, I think years after I like, just give up on
thinking, maybe months after I start thinking about that, that I was like, you
