like wireheading.
I don't know if we've given a good operational definition of that.
Maybe we did last time, I can't remember.
Pretty sure we talked about it a few times.
Fair enough, maybe I'm, for some reason, unable to draw to mind exactly what wireheading,
I know qualitatively what you're getting at, but I don't have a good definition if someone asked me.
Well, I like to talk about wireheading on two levels.
One is a very basic, simplistic, like artificial stimulation of your pleasure centers,
and maybe even so much that you can't focus on anything else but pleasure.
But then there's sophisticated wireheading where you will receive not just pleasure, but like
feelings of importance, love, excitement, etc., all from sources that don't actually
have to do with all just directly stimulated, so to speak, or from sources that aren't what you
would normally associate those feelings with.
For instance, if you're talking to a stimulated NPC type person and you have this deep, meaningful,
loving relationship with them, but they are not a person and they do not have those feelings.
All they see is welcome to corn area.
Or transcendent love, I'm thinking San Francisco from Unsong.
I feel like they had to stretch what the cause of that was a little bit,
but everything's weird in that story, so it probably works out.
So the latter is undesirable because you want your states of minds to be tangled up
with the way things really are.
Yeah, because I have, and I think most people, but maybe not everyone,
has actual preferences about external reality and not just experience.
Agreed, and yet I was the one who got the look last time for being sentimental about meat space.
You mean like your experiences regarding other minds, not like stuff.
I don't tend to have strong preferences about stuff.
I have preferences about other minds.
The stuff is just mainly for the purpose of the experiences,
right, but the other minds, that's what...
I think that also ties back into the CEV thing quite a lot because
I think there are people who would disagree with you.
That minds are not the only thing that are important,
and it would be very hard for their future extrapolated volition to match up with yours.
For the record, I am a big fan of physical stuff,
but I wouldn't say that it matters in a way that is relatable.
I think matters is doing some equivocation there,
at least in my minds and probably somebody else's.
It doesn't matter in the sense that if I took this really cool fossil
and smashed it with a hammer that I did anything wrong to the fossil.
It doesn't matter in the sense that it cares about what happens to it,
or that it matters in the sense that it's important to things with minds.
It doesn't have any worth just at the bottom of the ocean right now.
It's only cool as the fact that it's potentially findable by things that would care to look at it.
That's the part of the way that I care about how things actually are.
If I was in simulation and I was finding cool fossils every day,
or even just spread out far enough to where I kept finding it interesting,
that would seem less rewarding to me knowing that they were put there
for us to find deliberately.
That would be like finding a mining node in World of Warcraft.
I was thinking in Diablo where the bonuses and those fountains that grant
double XP or stuff are spread out just far enough to make it fun to find them every time.
I remember us playing this once and Rachel was watching and she was like,
and I told her previously that some half dozen people had died playing this game from dehydration
or starvation or however they died.
It seemed like World of Warcraft and other games,
but she was like, I don't get how this is not fun to watch.
But watch this just for five minutes and see what's happening.
Enemies are spread out far enough to where I'm stressed but not overwhelmed.
I keep getting bonuses but not so often that they're unrewarding.
It's almost hitting that perfect pleasure center crack.
That's not like a digression, so let's see if I can make it relevant.
In a simulated world, I can imagine it feeling like that.
Playing Diablo doesn't matter.
All right, I'm sort of butchering that analogy.
But I guess it's not...
Maybe I'm not doing a good job of articulating where I'm coming from,
which might mean that I'm not coming from a place that makes any sense.
Maybe you're talking yourself out of liking video games.
No, I'm wondering if I'm talking myself out of liking reality or a meat space.
And I don't think I am, but I'm doing such a poor job defending it.
I think it's interesting in a way that I don't feel like a fake version could be.
If I had a thing, and I told you, when I met Muhammad Ali,
he touched this particular thing and he can touch it too now.
I mean, so my brother went to Prague, I don't know, 10, 12 years ago,
and I asked him to bring me back a cool rock.
And he brought me back a cobblestone, like the, I don't know, two square inches.
He didn't try it out of the street, did he?
I think he did, which is a drag for the street.
But it's really cool for me knowing that this was part of history.
We can't put it back.
So whatever.
Or like, I also have a friend who went to IS for a rock from her too.
And it was a piece of like what do you call recently dried lava.
So that was cool to me because that has a history that I can appreciate.
And it's a different kind of history than the rock from Prague, right?
I would ask the AI to scan it, extract all information from it, and destroy it.
See, you two could not have a coherent future together.
Well, but see, like one is just like it's less rewarding to me knowing that it's duplicate.
Like, why destroy it?
Because those atoms can be used for other things.
Oh, oh, if it was yours.
Yeah.
Okay, you wouldn't take away Stevens though.
No.
Okay, all right.
I was like, why are you destroying Stevens rock?
Because I don't want him to have it.
It's vital to fulfill a prophecy.
So this is this is purely just like, I don't know, biological essentialism,
like written, you know, projected onto stuff.
But I think it'd be really cool to own like Isaac Newton's original notebook that he took his notes
in while building calculus or, you know, theory of gravity or something, right?
Having a copy that was made and there's 20 million in production would be less rewarding
than having the original that he held and turned to his own hands, right?
Like, even though they're the exact same or close enough and they contain the same amount
of information or whatever, something that is just part of my brain finds it really cool
to know that this was handled by, you know, a big moment in history and by a big person in history.
Here's a fun question.
What if someone made a atom for atom exact replica and took the two and put them in a box
and shook them and you could never again in the future tell which one was the original one?
Would they have destroyed something of value?
Pause, because I'm thinking about this.
Like, there's a George Carlin quip of if famous paintings can be forged well enough
to fool experts, what makes the original so valuable?
And the answer is for the art, I don't know.
And like, so again, yeah, you're right, nothing matters about this book,
especially if there's, you know, a duplicate that looked the same.
And do you still have the original book?
You just don't know which one it is.
Right. I mean, there was actually a study done and I looked it up once,
because I mentioned it, I don't know, a few years ago, because I heard about it 10 plus years ago,
where they offered, I think this was like skeptics and atheists, like, hey, if we could
take your wedding ring and put it in this duplicator machine that destroyed the original
and gave you a copy and $1,000, would you do it?
And so would I, which is weird because it's just stuff.
But I think it's because only I care about it.
And like, it doesn't have like a history beyond like my scope.
But a lot of people said no, because they liked theirs.
And even though like they, and so that, that was used to kind of make the point that like,
they thought there's something more to it than their atoms.
And maybe that some people were making that mistake.
I'm not really sure.
I mean, I can see how people might have this inhibition, maybe grounded in the sense that
there's something else about it that we missed.
And so we need the original in case we missed something about it.
And then, you know,
I mean, like a rubbing on one of the pages that wouldn't come through,
like, and it just hands translation.
Or you could scan it for some radioactive signature that would teach you something
about science or whatever.
Yeah.
And that's, that's true.
But that, that is distinct from what the point,
from like the sense that I'm making.
Yeah.
It is sort of cheating the, the thought experiment.
The thought experiment is that there's, they're literally identical.
Yeah.
My own personal answer would be that I think something valuable was destroyed.
But the only thing that it would be is humanity,
psychological attachment to a specific object.
Which is a worthless attachment.
Let's get rid of it.
Which at least we can say is a sometimes overemphasized attachment.
Yeah.
I'm willing to see that much.
I will say there's a lot of things I wouldn't sacrifice for that attachment.
Like I wouldn't let a baby die for that attachment.
Would you let a kitten die?
A cat?
A dog?
The answer is yes.
We're not friends.
So you can just lie.
I'm going to take the fifth on that one.
It depends what you're talking about.
I mean, I mean,
But, but the fact that there is that psychological weight invested in things,
I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing.
Like you said, it was a stupid,
a stupid psychological thing and we should get rid of it.
And I think it's a lot of times overvalued,
but I don't think we should get rid of entirely,
it entirely because it makes humans a little more complex and that
is fun, more permutations of humans that you can get.
Also, if we're worried about the like cognitive fallout from
shifting the dials on Dunbar's limit,
yeah, we should also worry about like how much this could fuck with people.
If suddenly they didn't care about like
historic artifacts or things that they previously found very valuable,
just because even though they're things, right?
I agree with that.
I think that's probably tied to a lot of other stuff.
Yeah.
So that's not a good chest circumference not to cross,
at least until we fully understand what we're doing.
I would want the AI to really investigate all these things
so that we can have more control over our psychology.
All right.
I can get behind that.
I mean, certainly nothing's off the table of what's worth looking into.
Yeah.
I look forward to altering my psychology in many different ways.
I'd like to be less biased, but probably there are also some biases
that I wouldn't get rid of it.
I'm more biased, I'm going to say that.
You might be a lot less rational.
Right.
No, I agree.
I mean, that's one of the allures of transhumanism is that
