there's no reason that these things are in principle off the table.
Like saying, I want to be happier right now means,
yeah, you can take this pill that will kill your sex drive
and make your hair fall out and whatever.
I'm not sure if that's actually a side effect,
but you can list off all the scary side effects of pills
that might also make you a little bit happier.
But if the idea that like, no, you could just put your average
hedonic whatever measurement on a scale of 1 to 100,
just bump that up by like 10.
If that was doable without any fallout,
or I think that is in principle doable without any fallout,
I want to have more motivation.
Like I want to suffer less from Eurasia,
where I eat things I shouldn't eat
because I'm trying to be healthier or something, right?
Little tweaks that you make to yourself
to make yourself much more psychologically happy and flourished.
I don't know if that's a word.
You demonic?
Yeah, thank you.
Those are the kind of things that I look forward to that.
And obviously like the hardware upgrades would be awesome too.
Uh, did you see my thing on Facebook?
I now have a short story collection that I have put out.
Yes.
Yeah.
All right.
Spoiler.
I bought one and I'm going to make you autograph it.
Oh, fantastic.
I even shelled out for the physical copy.
Cool.
So, well, yeah, that's awesome.
Yeah, and I haven't read all of them.
And I can bring back the one magazine
that has one of your stories in it since it'll be in that book.
Yes, yes it is.
Yeah.
So I have a collection out that people can buy as an e-book
or as an actual physical book
that has the five stories that I have published so far.
My collection is called Red Legacy and Other Stories.
And it is available at Amazon and various other places
where you can buy e-books and physical copy at Amazon as well.
Cool.
Okay.
But yeah, we've been going at this for a while.
So we should sign off.
We will mention to people that they can comment
if they want to on the subreddit slash r slash the Bayesian conspiracy
or at our website, thebayesianconspiracy.com.
Or if they don't want to comment publicly,
they can reach us at bayesianconspiracypodcastatgmail.com.
We want to give a mad shout out to all our Patreon supporters.
And of course to Kyle, our sound engineer,
who makes us sound great and saves us so much time every week.
Cool.
And if you don't have the ability to easily support the show
and you don't, whatever, for whatever reason aren't inclined to,
that's totally cool.
There are other ways to do it.
You can leave a review on iTunes or your other podcast apps.
You can share it on Facebook.
Share it on Facebook, on social media, Twitter.
You can trap a friend on a road trip
and force them to listen to an episode.
Hopefully one of the better ones.
Right.
Whatever you want to do.
Thanks for listening and we'll be back in a couple of weeks.
Bye.
Bye.
