Well, welcome.
My topic today I'm going to talk about 1177 BC, so let me take you away from rainy Bethesda
and take you back more than 3,000 years in the past.
More hopefully it's a little warmer and sunnier.
This is the late Bronze Age.
This is the period that is, I would say, nearest and dearest to my heart.
If I could be reincarnated backwards, I would choose to live back then.
I'm sure I would not live more than about 48 hours, but it'd be a good 48 hours.
So we're in the period from 1700 to about 1200 BC here, 500 years.
And you can see from this map the different colored areas are the different civilizations
that were around at that point.
Basically I call them, for shorthand, the G8 of the ancient world, because there's actually
nine, but never mind.
So it's close.
So we've got Minoans and Mycenaeans over in Greece, we've got Hittites up in Turkey, we've
got the Egyptians, which are coming up here in Tecanon, Mitanni here, Assyrians and Babylonians,
Cypriots here.
These are the great powers of the late Bronze Age.
They're all flourishing 3,500 years ago, give or take.
And this is actually a period that you know about.
You might not have thought you knew about it, but you do.
Because in this time period we've got Hatshepsut, the world's first female pharaoh, familiar
to anybody.
You've all heard of her, right?
Tupmosus III, her stepson.
I'm in Hotep the Third.
How about Akhenaten, the heretic pharaoh?
All right, okay, so he's in this period as well.
I am venturing to guess that most of you have heard of King Tut.
Would I be correct about that?
Yes, okay, so that's this period as well.
Ramses II, pharaoh of the Exodus, if it took place, that's another lecture.
Ramses III is going to be our boy today.
He's going to be the hero of this particular period.
This is also the time when we get the battle of Kadesh between the Egyptians and the Hittites,
1279, little thing called the Trojan War.
Heard of that?
That's at this time period.
In fact, this is the context for the Trojan War.
I do think it happened.
Again, that's a topic for another lecture.
My wife does not think it happened.
We argue about this at home.
Others argue over mortgage payments.
We argue about the Trojan War.
And then again, this is the period of the Exodus, probably about 1250 BC, if it took
place.
So you see, you already know this period even if you thought that you did not.
Now one thing that is special about this period is that it is globalized for its time period.
That is, it's not globalized like we are today, but from Italy on the west to Iraq and India
on the east, they are all in connection with each other.
They are all in contact from Turkey in the north down to Egypt in the south.
We get one of these social network diagrams.
That's what my wife does, social network analysis.
So this is courtesy of her.
You know the, what is it, six degrees of Kevin Bacon with all the movies?
Yeah.
Same thing here, except that this is what's called a small world, which means there are
no more than three leaps between any two pairs or any pair of people.
So if the Mycenaeans did not know the Assyrians, they knew the Hittites who knew the Assyrians
and you could get there within one or two leaps.
Now the reason this is important is that there's been very few times in history where we've
had such a situation.
Us today is one, them back then is another.
So this is why I would say that looking at what happened to these guys, even though it
was more than 3,200 years ago, is actually relevant to today because looking at what
happened to them might have implications for us today as well.
And what happened, well, they collapsed.
Just after 1200 BC, everything that had been going very nicely for several centuries by
this point comes to a crashing halt on either side of 1200 BC.
Everybody that I just mentioned goes down.
We get a dark age that lasts for between 150 and 300 years and basically civilization has
to reboot in this area.
So this was a huge loss to the world.
It is comparable to the collapse of the Roman Empire, which happened 1500 years later.
The main problem is we're not really sure what caused it.
So that's what I want to talk about mostly today are the possible explanations for what
caused that collapse and then see if maybe we should start going, hmm, yeah, all right.
So it used to be that it was a very simple explanation.
When I was in graduate school, when I was an undergraduate and for decades before me,
the simple solution was that the Sea Peoples had done it.
When in doubt, the Sea Peoples.
So who are the Sea Peoples?
Well, this is the Egyptian name for them.
The Egyptians actually, it's our name for them.
We call them the Sea Peoples.
The Egyptians talk about a number of different groups coming through the Eastern Mediterranean
and winding up in Egypt on the shores, attacking them not once, but twice over a 30 year period.
They come in 1207 and they come in 1177 and yes, 1177 is where I get the title of the
book.
It is the second time that Egypt is invaded by these people.
Now the problem is in fact that the dates change.
The Egyptologists keep changing the chronology.
So a better way to put it is the fifth year of Merneptah and the eighth year of Ramses,
the third and that way you don't have to worry about it, right?
On their inscriptions they say, in my fifth year this happened and in the eighth year this
happened.
That is why the, well, when the book came out two years ago, I got a nice note from
a senior colleague in New York City and he sent me an email and all he said is, congrats
on the book, the title should have been 1186 BC.
I wrote him back a two word email.
No, it's not what you're thinking.
I wrote back and said it was and in fact the original contract which I had signed with
Princeton back in 2007, the title was 1186 BC, but in the interim while I was working
on it the Egyptologists changed the chronology again.
So it became 1177.
Ironically since it's come out they've changed the chronology back.
So the next edition is probably going to be called 1186, question mark, something like
that.
All right, so what we get, the Egyptians tell us in both reigns and Monapta and Ramses the
third, but let me focus on Ramses the third here because it's more literally picturesque.
He leaves on the wall of his mortuary temple in Egypt, a place called Medinat Habu which
is near the valley of the kings.
In fact, I presume some of you have been there.
Anybody been to Medinat Habu?
No?
I think we need a field trip for sure, definitely.
All right, well it's over by King Tutstume, the valley of the kings on a wall of his temple
which is what you're looking at here on the left hand side and you see the drawing on
the right hand side.
He gives us a picture of the invasion and an inscription of what went on.
So he tells us the foreign countries made a conspiracy in their islands, all at once
the lands were removed and scattered in their fray.
No land could stand before their arms and then he tells us what happens, who they overran
from Hattay, Koday, Karkamesh, Artswa and Alashia on.
We know where these places are, Hattay is Turkey, it's the Hittites, Koday is where
Turkey meets Syria, Karkamesh, northern Syria, Artswa is actually western Turkey on the coast
there, Alashia is the ancient name for Cyprus.
Well these people are sweeping across from west to east, across Turkey, down the Levant,
across Cyprus.
They set up a camp in Amor, that's northern Syria, desolated its people, its land was
like that which has never come into being, they were coming forward toward Egypt, flame
was prepared before them and then he actually tells us the name of the peoples.
He says their confederation was the Peleset, the Tejaker, the Shekelesh, the Denian and
the Weshesh.
So he gives us, how many is that, one, two, three, four, five right there.
There's another six that are mentioned the first time back in 1207, two of them overlap
so there's a total of nine separate groups that come twice in those 30 years.
So where are they from, what are they doing, what happens to them, well we're told part
of that.
Merneptah says in another inscription from a couple years later he says, I overthrew
those who invaded from their lands, I slew the Denian who were in their isles, the Tejaker
and the Peleset were made ashes, the Shardana and the Weshesh of the sea, they were made
as those that exist not.
So he beats them and in fact Merneptah had beaten them back in 1207 as well.
So they come twice, they lose twice, they do not come a third time, that's it, alright.
Now the question is where do they come from and what do they look like, well what do they
look like is easy because Ramsey shows us the pictures, this is a picture of the sea
peoples.
In fact if anybody is going to dress up for Halloween, there you go, right though it's
actually I've got a cheaper way to do it, when I was in grad school the two people the
year behind me they came to our Halloween party with about 100 paper mache seas stapled
to their clothes, we said what are you, they said well we're sea peoples, so they won first
place, so true story, alright so that's what they look like, the problem is though where
do they come from.
So for instance one of the groups is Shardana, the other is Shekelesh, Tejaker, Denian the
names I just read to you, can you think of any place in the Mediterranean either eastern
or western that looks like Shardana?
Sardania, absolutely, so people think that maybe they're from Sardania or maybe they
went there afterward, one way or the other, how about Shekelesh, any place in the Mediterranean
got the same consonants, forget about the vowels with the same consonants, no not Askelon
though that is an interesting idea but no, somewhere near Sardania, Sicily, absolutely,
right so Sicily, Tejaker's a little bit harder we're thinking maybe the Troad or Cycles,
so either Italy or Troy, Denian, many people have suggested these are Homer's Danottans,
so the Mycenaeans from Greece, the Weshash, not sure, ancient name for Troy is Willousus,
so maybe that's where they're from, the only one that we're pretty sure we know and it
was actually identified already by Champollion, the guy that deciphered hieroglyphics, is the
Pleset, anybody care to take a guess where the Pleset might be, Philistines, the Philistines
and in fact the Bible says the Philistines came from Crete, so that would actually fit,
so we may be able to identify where these people come from but it's not for sure by
a long shot and in fact the original people talking about this weren't sure if they,
as I said, came from there or if they went there, alright and that has not been decided
either, what has been decided is that they said the Sea Peoples were responsible for
the collapse, 1207, 1177, that was the answer, Gaston Mossbrough and French Egyptologists
had already put this theory, it was a theory, actually it was a hypothesis, in about 1850,
by 1901 it was solidified and so every time an archaeologist excavated a site that was
destroyed they said see, it's the Sea Peoples, the problem is of course that's backwards,
it's not what you do, so I actually think that this is not the right answer, even though
there are some interesting parts to it, so for instance here's your Sea Peoples again,
the Philistines and we do have Philistine remains in the region that is now Israel,
also Lebanon, also Syria, this is degenerate Mycenaean pottery, it looks like somebody
from Greece came over, made it but the clay that they're using is from Cyprus or Rhodes
or the Levant, so it really does look like you've got Mycenaeans that join in and come
on over, so there is something to the suggestion that the Sea Peoples were real, the Egyptians
are not just making them up, but if we take a look at the inscription that he actually
leaves us, what Ramsey shows us and it's kind of hard to see but on the left you've got
the actual drawing, on the top right is an artist's rendition of it and then down bottom
a modern day parallel, what Ramsey shows us is that these people that are coming, they're
not like Vikings, they're not just raiding, they're bringing their families, you've got
the wife, you've got the kids, you've got the belongings, you've got the ox cart, these
are people moving, they're migrating, so instead of Vikings think of the Dust Bowl
from the 1930s here in America, everybody moving from Oklahoma to California, it's
that kind of thing, so the question then becomes, what could have started such a migration?
Now I also think that it's a little too simplistic to give the explanation that I was taught
in graduate school, they said, oh there was a drought and that led to famine and that
led to the movement of the Sea Peoples, that led to cutting of the trade routes and that
then led to collapse because they were not self-sufficient enough.
Now on the one hand, that's a nice explanation, on the other hand you'll notice it's quite
linear, you will also probably realize it's never that nice, it's a lot more messy and
so I think that this is not the right answer, I think it's too simple.
