And I'm also interested in the progress Project Veritas is making.
And most people want to have a one or the other perspective.
And I have a superposition of the two issues.
So I thought that a place to start, that'd be a great place to start.
Do you want to talk a little bit about how you saw the interaction and any background
that you want to bring to the conversation?
It's a lot to unpack here.
There's a million things to directions to go into.
But I thought that was a very interesting conversation and credit to you because after
having the conversation, you actually invited me to talk to you and to call you.
And that in kudos to you because most of the people I deal with don't even think that I'm human.
They kind of want to dehumanize me.
They don't want to engage me in a conversation.
So thank you.
I really appreciate that.
I think that a lot of people, it's ostensibly about the methods of what we do.
But in reality, it's about the findings.
It's actually not about the methods.
It's used as a kind of an excuse.
And in that particular Twitter thread you were referring to, this is a common theme.
It's the ethics of recording someone like David Wright was in a bar in New Hampshire.
And do we want to live in a world where our likeness can be broadcasted and transmitted
instantly to everybody?
A lot of people don't want to live in that world.
My argument is going to be and has been my whole life that there's a routine nature in
journalistic methods to both utilize deception and to broadcast things to the world that
are not as accurate as a camera would be.
There's a routine nature, first of all, of using pretense.
Journalistic deception is standard in the industry.
Reporters make you think that they're your friend and then they betray your confidence.
They appeal to your sense of loneliness or vanity and then they betray you.
They pull the rug underneath you.
That's what I meant when I said that's the paragon of investigative reporting.
And then when it comes to the actual medium itself, which we will talk about here today,
the camera is a more accurate version of the events in question.
So surely not just from a legal perspective, but from a moral one, we would consider it
unreasonable to place ethical restrictions on recording someone when we don't place restrictions
on someone writing what they said down with a pencil and paper and shouting it from the
rooftops five minutes later because the recording does the individual more justice than second
hand hearsay words or a different medium.
So that was the point I was making to you and I think we had a very honest back and
forth there and I appreciate it.
Well, thanks very much and it's a great, I think your tagline is something like be brave.
Be brave, do something.
And I think that it's brave to come into somebody's studio when you know that they've got a problem
with you from the get go.
So kudos to you, sir.
I think that you and I are so let me also just try to be radically different than most of
these interviews.
I've told you that there will be no gotchas and I'm going to stick to that because I don't
I don't like gotchas.
Your point perspective, which I thought was incredibly honest was that's an interesting
thing to say because gotcha is in some sense what I James O'Keeffe do with Project Veritas.
And so what I said in response was it's an interesting question whether or not the gotcha
problem that I see in the news industry should be doubled where you gotcha back to the gotcha
hers or you should try to set an example of cut that shit out.
Right.
And that's in part what I try to do, which is I try to go after institutions.
I try to not go after individuals.
And what I wanted to talk about in part is that because I see you and I as in agreement
that there is a serious problem with the sense making architecture that currently goes under
the name of journalism and it's not clear what that architecture is actually doing.
And I think it's clear it's it's more and more Americans and others increasingly are asking
is this even really what journalism was supposed to be all about as we start to see the mechanism
fail. Because I'm agreed with you that there's a serious problem.
I don't think that when I say I'm really disturbed by the methods that I'm part of the
thing that's trying to protect the institutions, which is I think what you're usually getting
from people who think you're the devil. I think what I'm really concerned about in part
is that you are actually damaging the enterprise that I'm interested in by pursuing it.
And in some ways I sort of view you as analogous to Donald Trump.
And here's here would be the argument. Again, it's a loose analogy. It's not a tight one.
We have a situation in which, for example, no one is allowed to bring up all of the problems
with immigration within the standard architecture of news. In general, there's only one role for
the restrictionist and that is the role of xenophobe, which is preposterous. It's idiotic.
It's beyond belief. The way in which that weird meme has perpetuated has been perpetuated for
at least 30 to 40 years where there's only one reason to oppose immigration and that's because
of a moral failing of the self can only happen by the news choosing not to report all of the
reasons one can be a restrictionist. So as an example of the comparison, I would say Trump
found a way to talk about immigration and restrictionism openly in a way that many Americans
could respond to because a lot of Americans actually want immigration restricted. On the
other hand, he tinged it with stuff he played with, whether or not he was actually openly racist
or not. You can make the argument that he went right up to a line and that he caused people
to complete thoughts in their own head that he didn't actually say, but he got very close to
some very ugly sentiments at the barest minimum. And in part, the method of bringing something
dangerous up in public tinged that perspective with a kind of meanness or unsavoriness that I
didn't think that it needed at all. So the vacuum was created by the media not functioning as it
should. Trump filled the vacuum and he also brought this extra little bit, which was an
unsavory tinge to the subject. In some sense, I would say I see you as doing real journalism,
hard hitting journalism. And that is to your credit. And then it is tinged with something,
which I see as very disturbing, which is kind of methods that make us all uncomfortable. And
I think you're quite correct to point out that journalism is itself openly a deceptive practice
as practiced by the institutions. And I want to just say, I also find the journalist practice of
trying to be your best friend and then stabbing you in the back, disgusting.
Okay. Good. Man, there's a lot to unpack there. Where do I begin? Let me just address the
characterization that I'm a gotcha person.
But which came from you. I didn't say it.
Fair enough. Fair enough. And I may want to correct myself here because maybe there's a
universe of gotcha.
Sorry, I may have said it in the tweet, but I didn't mean to say it.
Sure. No, I understand. So I think we don't even quote people. We let them be themselves. We
assimilate with the people at the bar. And when we're letting people be their natural self,
sometimes people don't have the courage to be themselves in public in the way that we record
people. And a lot of these people in the media that we've recorded, like whether it be Patrick
Davis at CNN or this guy's right at ABC, they didn't have the courage to say these things
publicly. And I happen to agree with these people, what they said. But when it comes to the methods,
you have a choice to make. You can either, from my perspective, deceive your audience,
or you can, for lack of a better word, deceive the person that you're interviewing,
such that you can tell the truth to the audience. And one is worse than the other, and you only
have these two choices. And that's what I mean. Gunter Waldorf was a hero of mine. He was a
legendary undercover reporter in Germany. He's still alive. He's in his 70s. And this man said,
and I don't like the way he utilizes the word deception, but he says, my task is to deceive
in order not to be deceived, to break the rules of the game in order to disclose the secret rules
of the power structure. And a lot of ethicists have basically said the same thing. And when it
comes to this sort of journalism, you only have two choices. You can hate the methods,
but then you're going to broadcast lies to the public. And telling the truth to the public
is paramount. The public has a right to know this information. So you can, this sort of the
beauty and bane of ethics is that I guess it's always situational, but we've reached a point
in the media. I mean, look at what's happening this week with this mass hysteria too. That's
another subject, but that the mass media has become so far gone, an industrial system of this
production that manufacturers consent that we're getting to the point now where I believe these
methods are universally justifiable because the media is so broken. And I have a choice to make.
I can repeat what they say to me at a podium or into a microphone, or I can use disguise,
which we believe is morally necessary. And I would even go so far as to say it's
actually immoral not to use disguise. If the only way that you can get to that truth is to use
disguise and other reporters throughout the 20th century agreed with me, many of these people are
not alive anymore. But at this point, it's gotten so bad that we think that these tactics are completely
necessary because we live in a country where the public's right to know is very important. We
cherish the First Amendment. We hold these truths to be self-evident. We believe in
the First Amendment so much that you're going to have to deal with the methods. You're going to
have to deal with the possibility that the person sitting next to you has a recording device
because we cherish these values. If you want to live in a different society, which doesn't
cherish those values, which leans towards secrecy and the public not knowing things,
then you don't have to deal with those methods. That's in short order why we believe that
undercover work, pretending to be something that you're not in order to extract truths from people,
are not just justified. They're morally necessary in this environment.
Good. So can we both say that were it possible to get at the truth without using deception,
it would be better to do it if that was possible in that circumstance?
Society of professional journalists, I think it was in the early 70s said,
because they always throw this stuff at me, society of professional journalists. I don't
know who the journalism gods are that came up with these rules. But the society of professional
journalists said, you only use it as a last resort. And I would submit to you that we're
basically there, that we have a last resort in our society. Wright was not deceived in that bar
inside ABC News. He was the undercover reporter, met with him and let him be himself. We didn't
really have to use that much deception to be honest with you. This is the tape that we released
two weeks ago, if your audience hasn't seen it. It's an ABC News veteran news correspondent.
He's an Oxford educated guy, a very, very, very intelligent man. And I happen to agree with
everything he says. He says, I don't have the quote with me, but he says, my bosses don't see an
upside in reporting the news. ABC owns Disney. They sell their Marvel Avengers products.
I agree. I understand what you uncovered.
Everything he said. So we didn't really use that much deception. We got close to him and
allowed him to talk, allow him to be himself. Very minimalist deception. Our deception pales
in comparison. So there's a relative deception question. And you're absolutely right. I mean,
I want to seed to you wherever I can seed you and I want to fight you wherever I need to fight you.
And then I'm happy to change my mind and I hope that I can change yours. We'll find out.
I have definitely had the experience when talking to a reporter who screws up a story. Come on,
you know the game, Eric. You're a sophisticated guy. You've been around the block. I'm supposed
to be your best friend. I'm supposed to lure you into a false sense of security. You're supposed
to divulge too much to me. I'm supposed to tell you that I understand everything from your,
and then I have to print the story because journalism is printing what other people don't
want printed or otherwise it's public relations. You know the quote, Eric, right? So I think it's
absolutely correct that what you're saying is true. Journalists view. Are you willing to name,
excuse me, are you willing to name examples of the people who have said that to you?
I can tell you that I got into a pretty bad situation with the Wall Street Journal at some
point. I can tell you that the New York Times put me in an article called,
they tried to outsmart Wall Street where they tried to shift the blame for the 2008 crisis
off of the CEOs and bank heads and onto mathematicians and quants, which was completely
deceptive and ridiculous and they used their physics reporter. Yeah, whose name is Dennis Overby,
and I thought that was a complete hatchet job. I can tell you that, you know, Nellie Bowles,
who I've become friendly with at the New York Times, tried to print an article about me as
a men's rights advocate when I didn't even know what MRA stood for. And I said, I don't even own a
gun. Yeah, I'm not afraid of that. On the other hand, I've talked to Nellie, you know, since and
we've come to a better understanding. I think Michael Phillips was the journalist who covered
me at the Wall Street Journal who did a complete hatchet job on me and I had to go through Byron
Collame. So yeah, I can name names if that's what you're looking for. That's actually what I was
looking for. And the point being is that, you know, we're not beat reporter. We're not, we're not,
you know, I'm trying to come right, right? I do understand what I think you're saying,
which is that the game of reporters is to be these sort of deceptive sociopaths, if you will.
And then you get to say, no, no, no, I'm not a sociopath. I'm a reporter. So if you have
sociopathic tendencies, in some sense, you get to work for one of these papers and then you get a
halo attached to your head, which allows you to do things which in other circumstances would be
completely deceptive. And in fact, your point to me, and I think this is great, and this is just
like super complicated, we're gonna have to take the time to do it, is that the style of reporting
that you do has gone out of favor in a certain sense because of the costs, because of the risks.
And that what you're doing is in some sense resuscitating an earlier form of journalism.
In a different medium.
In a different medium with a different tinge and a different institutional backing.
And so I think that this is an incredibly complex thing to be pulled apart.
Because in some sense, what happened to my way of thinking is that journalists used to hunt
institutions when they were heroes and kings. And then they went from hunting institutions
to hunting the individuals that disrupt institutions.
Yes, 100%.
And so my feeling about this is you want to know why the reputation of the press is in the toilet?
It's in general because what it does is it has changed the focus of its crosshairs
to noble individuals.
Let's talk about that for one minute.
Sure.
The thing that I've learned doing this is that the New York Times did a front page
a hit, you know, attempted hit piece on me literally one week ago.
And in this, it was about like spies.
Some people in the Intel community were helping train some of our people.
