Hello, this is Eric, and I wanted to alert you to a small experiment I think we're going
to be running in the portal.
For a while now, we've realized that many episodes have needs at the beginning of the
show.
In the first place, there's a need for some housekeeping, and in the second, there's often
a need to give some context and a short introduction to the episode so that our listeners can better
understand why we're running it.
Well, what we thought about is that maybe we should stop doing that haphazardly.
If instead, we just decided that there would be two segments, one dedicated to housekeeping,
sometimes light, sometimes more extensive, and in the second, we had a segment that actually
gives the context and an introduction to the guest or whatever the point of a monologue
might be.
I don't guarantee that it's going to work, and we reserve the right to go back, but we
are trying to listen to you and trying to figure out what is doable.
A second item of business surrounds the set of rather exotic circumstances under which
this week's podcast is being released.
As of this recording, I am now self-isolating at home under essentially lockdown-like measures
as a quarantine mentality sweeps across our planet.
One way of viewing this is to see it as a giant overreaction.
Now, I don't hold this view, and I don't wish to promote it, but the idea is that we
have learned to live with influenza, and this virus is similar in some ways to the familiar
flu.
I'm sure you've heard this from others.
I don't want to go into it and develop the idea here.
A second way of seeing this is as an incredibly rapid societal change in deeply-groove behavior
patterns unfolding over perhaps the last seven to 14 days in earnest.
From this angle, it is astonishingly egentic, as measured at least by the speed of change,
and thus, perhaps, it could signal the beginning of the end of the nearly 50-year dream state
we have discussed on this program that set in sometime in the early to mid-1970s and
signaled the end of the previous post-war growth regime.
Yet a different way of looking at the reaction to the pandemic is to view it as a slow and
inadequate response to a very serious situation.
To this way of thinking, the most egentic among us were worried about the situation
since at least January 2020, and they were simply getting no traction in talking through
why they were alarmed when attempting to convince the rest of us.
Of course, all three positions have some merit, but the first seems misguided to me, and I
think the last has the most substance.
Many people have asked me how I am sense-making in the current environment.
The answer is rather disappointing.
My answer is that I, unfortunately, appear to be among the most confused of my colleagues.
Almost everywhere I turn, people around me are nearly certain of things that contradict
what various others of my colleagues know to be true.
Unsurprisingly, most of these colleagues have settled on various strategies on which they
place great emphasis.
So then the problem is definitely ventilators, unless it is really reagents and testing instead.
Or perhaps nothing else matters like behavior modification, that is, if vaccines and treatments
aren't the clear way to go.
I want to share with you what I get from listening in on such private conversations with some
of the most respected names in health, science, and technology.
I'm sorry to say what I get is confusion.
I am sorry to report that after many phone calls and having read a fair amount, I have
not heard a truly coherent, comprehensive narrative emerge around this virus.
No one really trusts China to report on itself, and we don't yet have enough time with the
disease outside of China to speak about it sufficiently authoritatively.
So what am I doing personally?
Well, the first thing that I'm at least trying to do is to stop listening to the very sources
that fed me bad information, initially telling me not even to worry when I had the maximal
amount of time to prepare and to be agentic.
That kind of reporting is what I have elsewhere referred to as pure, journey-genic harm.
You can say that democracy dies in darkness with a fancy tagline, but it also dies in
civil society when you are the major news site and you write meaningless fluff pieces
on what are ultimately life and death issues, inducing people to undertake exactly the wrong
course of action.
Unfortunately, that means that I've more or less been forced to give up on a lot of
mainstream news, like the Washington Post or The Daily Beast, after they both condescendingly
warned us against reacting to the threat of the virus.
Similarly, I am trying not to listen to any messaging specifically designed to calm me
down or to de-stress me.
Now why is that?
Well, first of all, what stresses me out most, and I'm just being honest here, is some questionable
expert trotted out with a PhD whose leading response to a deadly virus is to lecture us
on psychology.
I mean, if I'm on lockdown, I want to be talking about viruses, about morbidity and mortality.
I want to see grizzly autopsy photos, the ones that the experts have.
Not because I'm a cop, but because they help explain what we are up against and why the
government is reacting so strongly.
Information, data, risk assessment, that's what calms me down, and I suspect it works
the same way with a lot of you as well.
I want information and guidance the same way the experts do.
How bad is this?
I mean, people in the know right now are talking about the potential for multi-month quarantines
much longer than the three-week ones that are currently being discussed in public, as
well as about much higher respiratory burdens on the young who recover.
Contrast that with the talk of, quote, full recovery, close quote, that I am more commonly
hearing in mainstream discussions.
I'm sorry, but in terms of morbidity, I don't think recovery from this illness is anywhere
near as full or as free as is being discussed.
That wouldn't make sense to me, and in fact, a friend of mine listening to me suggested
looking up ground-glass opacities, and I thanked her for that search string.
I think you might find it interesting as well.
But instead of an expectation of full information, we are too often getting the opposite.
To put it bluntly, we seem to always be managed rather than informed.
To the best of my understanding, we are all in the famous metaphoric crowded theater and
the powers that be have been cutting costs for decades by making our exits smaller and
smaller.
So their current focus is in getting as few people to panic as possible, when the correct
thing to do is to ask why our leaders didn't push for larger exits before the crisis.
In the metaphor, those larger exits would be deeper reserves and larger emergency cushions
of ventilators, hospital beds, reagents for testing, all the things that a successful
civil society would naturally want deeply stocked in just such an emergency.
So we have a bit of a conflict.
The right thing to do in an ideal world would be to level with nations that had been all
the while properly prepared for actual society-wide adversity.
But to begin that now would mean admitting to universal institutional failure in the
previous era to adequately prepare for any event of this kind.
Thus, what I am planning to do on a going forward basis is two-fold.
First, I've stopped listening to any exoteric mainstream messaging meant to manage panic
just as I've started slogging through esoteric medical and scientific communication.
But the second part of this is no less important.
I've started to privilege the information implicitly contained in ostensibly self-destructive
economic behavior, coming from governments far too under the control of elite economic
interests to begin with.
That is, I don't think anyone in positions of asymmetric information and power would
adopt these measures unless the virus was very severe indeed, because the financial
risks are themselves catastrophic.
Thus, as far as the government is concerned, I am looking at the severity of their actions
and turning down the audio of their words.
If the two are conflicting, I am taking more information from what we are putting at risk
than I am from descriptions that are being shared with the public.
So to sum up, please take this seriously.
We don't yet have a way to filter the information misinformation and disinformation with which
we are all being bombarded.
What can you do?
Well, the best we may be able to do is to turn off the audio meant to calm the masses
and try to start reading the technical literature if we can.
And lastly, watch for the sign that powerful interests are willing to put the very markets
which enrich them at risk to fight this.
It is a bit counterintuitive, but in the end, the revealed preference and the content of
that information may be the best that we have at this point.
I would like to say some brief words of introduction to today's episode with James O'Keefe of
Project Veritas.
First of all, I respect James for being willing to come on the portal as our beginning interaction
on Twitter was not auspicious.
As I recall, I wrote, I hate this shitty hidden camera gotcha crap, and perhaps unsurprisingly,
he took immediate exception.
I found his response interesting and invited him on the program to explain himself, and
to my surprise, he accepted despite my unconcealed hostility.
I admired that willingness to face a critic, and I have endeavored ever since with James
to be a constructive one.
On a preliminary setup call, I promised him that there would be no gotchas, and he actually
said that that was unnecessary.
I told him that our politics were likely opposite, and that I wouldn't pull any punches, nor
would I pretend that I was without admiration for some of what he does, such as in the case
of his pushing out the famous Amy Rohrbach hot mic video.
This release revealed that higher ups at ABC News may have been deliberately holding back
the Epstein story for years.
In that video, the subject matter was of utmost public interest, and the reporter caught on
the hot mic was made to look even more heroic in having gotten the story early.
I did tell James, however, that I didn't like his choice of targets, and that his methods
made me very negatively disposed to the entire Project Veritas endeavor.
He simply asked me to keep an open mind as he felt that he had answers to all of my concerns.
As it happens, however, I believe that we had a conversation that would have been very difficult
to predict by either one of us had we not simply gone ahead and tried to better understand
each other.
The decision to invite James O'Keeffe onto the program was not taken lightly.
Why is this?
Well, it's because of an idiotic game many in the regular media play, which we might
call contamination.
In this fool's game, if you so much as interview with James O'Keeffe, you are marked by extension
as damaged goods.
This fool's absolutely no one who's paying attention.
Claiming that everything Project Veritas does is unreliable, when often they are merely
sharing unedited continuous footage that they have been sent, is not a convincing argument
for those in the know.
In essence, James O'Keeffe is, after all, a creation of our mainstream media.
Their decision not to aggressively pursue many stories of great importance has created
opportunity.
And if you believe that James O'Keeffe has absolutely nothing to contribute, I do hope
you, more than anyone, will enjoy this interview with him.
This is James O'Keeffe, and I hope you enjoy this interview with James O'Keeffe, and I
also want to just begin by commending you, because you got to be here, in part, by answering
a tweet of mine, by just being open about the fact that you didn't feel like I was
being fair to you, and maybe I would just begin by reminding our viewers and listeners
how this began.
Should we do that?
Sure.
Okay.
Project Veritas had just caught David Wright of ABC News on undercover camera saying some
things that he probably shouldn't have.
And he was suspended by ABC as a result of Project Veritas's actions, and you tweeted
that out, and I responded, why is this person suspended?
Because he's a socialist question mark, because he thinks Trump is a dick question mark, because
he discusses the dinosaur broadcast channels, because he is thinking about institutional
bias, don't know, and then I say, I also have to admit, I hate this shitty hidden camera
gotcha crap.
And your response was, you hate this shitty hidden camera gotcha crap, Wright was in a
public space speaking freely amongst his peers, in newspapers, that's called reporting.
Your prejudice against the method doesn't make any sense.
You prefer I report this all caps without the audio quotation, anonymously sourced,
and I thought that was a really interesting comeback.
So if I just can recall, I said, thank you, James, for this question.
Let me answer this as honestly as I can.
We have a William Tell problem.
Aim too high and you miss the story.
Aim too low and you kill the impact due to the uncomfortable methods.
In my opinion, you are aiming too low and I am aiming too high.
And I think that that really comes down to the interesting issue that we have for listeners
and viewers today, which is I think you and I are agreed on a lot about the problems in
the current system and we're radically divided by the methods.
And I'm very concerned about the damage Project Veritas is doing.
