And but our listeners may not be aware.
Amy Roerbach was this, this was back in November of last year.
We had an insider within ABC News record this hot mic moment
where Amy Roerbach is the anchor on Good Morning America.
And she comes across very credible in this tape.
She's a, she's a very attractive blonde female anchor.
And she's bemoaning how ABC squashed, spiked the Jeffrey Epstein story.
They had victims.
They had all this evidence.
And she's really upset that she didn't get the scoop.
And she says that they, she, she testifies,
this is a hot mic moment between like during the commercial break
that it was to protect the Clintons and the British royal family.
So this was, I've been doing this for 11 years in a really major way.
This was by far the most viral piece of,
this was like a 92nd piece of film.
And it was like the most viral thing I'd ever seen.
It was, it was, it was an indictment to so many
of what we're talking about here today.
I'm like holding back emotion.
It was so powerful, right?
It's like, okay.
Now I, it took me six months to get up the courage to say,
I wonder why it is almost no news outfit will ask the question,
is Jeffrey Epstein known to the intelligence communities of the world?
And is this pedophilia known and did we sit idly by
while 12 year old girls and up or down?
I don't even know we're being trafficked
in the most powerful circles in the world.
I mean, is somebody going to ask the questions
where his fortune came from and where the trading records were
that I'm trying to map the silences of the news media.
I'm much more interested in what they don't say, don't report, don't do.
And this thing that I'm calling the disc distributed ideas suppression complex
is perfectly illustrated by Amy Robach.
And you, so far as I know, simply broadcast the video
in an unedited form that was leaked to you.
Something to that effect.
We have an, we have this insider program.
It's actually quite extraordinary thing, if I could mention it for a minute.
We have these people on the inside of these institutions who,
who, you know, they do have, you know, confidentiality agreements
with their employers, et cetera, et cetera.
But what's remarkable is they might strap a camera to their chest
or simply record and give that to us.
And in some cases, Eric, these insiders go public
and, and go on the record, sit down and become a hero or a martyr.
In this case is a rare exception where this person is still working there
and Disney corporation, you know, quarantined every employee
and grilled them for hours and they still have not been able to identify this person.
So this was recorded and it was a remarkable moment.
It was, it was on the same type of standard.
Amy Robach did not know.
Yeah.
She knew in so far as she was wearing a lav mic, you know.
It's an incredible, it's incredible piece of footage.
And then if I recall correctly, she comes back and sort of almost
a lobotomized fashion apologizing for what she said.
Yeah.
This was, so what happened was, again, I'm speculating here,
but I pretty safely speculating ABC news.
Actually don't spec, you don't need to.
ABC news issues a statement.
And the statement is, you know, that at the time, not all of our standards
met our reporting for air.
It was very robotic, you know, corporate statement justifying why they did.
I regret that some of the intemperate things that I may have said in a moment of frustration
were picked up in fact.
Moment of frustration with words.
I don't know that she used that.
She did.
It was actually, it was actually quite literally quote moment of frustration.
Okay.
I didn't, I didn't know that.
I think it's a cononic.
There was Amy's statement and there was ABC news estate.
Whatever it is, it's, it's freaking scary, right?
Because the idea is that you're seeing, it's like somebody's recanting their testimony
in North Korea and you know that there's like a gun held to the person's head
or you're watching a hostage video or something like that.
Okay.
Now here's my problem and I really want you to take the time to play this through with me.
I watched what happened when that debuted with Project Veritas stamped on it.
And in my circles, what God said, and this is a trap and again, it's not,
you're not responsible for it, but we both have to agree what the game is.
The game is, is that anything that comes through James O'Keefe and anything that
comes through Project Veritas cannot be trusted.
Right.
That's what they've done.
They fit, they fitted you with a shit suit and your shit suit is you are so psychopathic,
so non-reliable that even what appears to be continuous unedited footage
can be completely discounted if it appears as Project Veritas.
And that has not stopped us.
Well, not only has it not stopped you, it creates a really interesting dilemma.
First of all, that tactic that is being used against you is manifestly stupid and unethical.
And I have nothing I can do about it.
No, no, no, you jump in ahead.
I don't agree with this, James.
I think that the problem is that this is at such a level of complexity.
Whatever the ABC news function is that stopped that story from running,
that might have saved people from having terrible incidents in their lives.
They don't know.
Whatever that thing was is my enemy.
That's the disc.
And we have to slip the disc in order to save our society.
That's basically my take.
I also agree that you've been fitted with this thing so that if you're handed a piece of footage
and you run it, and it is appropriate for you to run it,
that that footage immediately becomes inadmissible in what I've called the Gated
Institutional Narrative, which is the Washington Post discussing the New York Times about whatever
the Democratic Party said in their engagement at Princeton University, you know, blah, blah,
blah, blah.
Yes.
That thing is trying to seal itself off from the internet.
So the idea is that there are authoritative sources and then there's the garbage that
happens online, which is ridiculous.
I don't think you're helping break this thing open because what you're doing is in essence,
there's this weak point in the crust and there's this magma of truth underneath it.
And they've decided, okay, anything that breaks through at Project Veritas
is immediately inadmissible.
And it's very important that I be able to defend something that occurs at your outlet.
Okay.
And you're not helping me because of the level at which you're playing the game.
And so maybe that's partially my frustration.
I don't believe that you, that that's a deep fake interview.
I believe that that's a real hot mic.
I believe that it's leaked.
I believe that you probably have lawyers who went all over it and said it was legal for you to use it.
I bet that you probably even do something that regular journalists don't do,
which is check the journalist's code of ethics.
Right.
Um, and so all of this positive stuff that you're doing is then sacrificed,
in part, in, in my opinion, because of certain kinds of super aggressive,
self-justifying tactics, which is what's really pissing me off.
I'd like to respond and if I go into the wrong direction, just steer me back.
No, and if I, if I'm overboard and not getting something, you let me know.
This is a very important point.
And we have some disagreements about this because the, and let me start with the conclusion.
It hasn't stopped us and there's no other way to slip the disc.
There's no other way than to do anyone who have, anyone, if, if I didn't invent or create Project
Veritas and some other person did, they do the same thing to that person.
No matter who it would be, they would slime and slander and defame.
However, what's interesting about the Amy Robach tape and the David Wright tape,
both of which came within ABC News, is that the president of ABC News did in fact return
my phone call the day before I called him for comment.
I did the ethical thing.
And they did in fact issue a response.
And that response did in fact make it into the Washington Post.
In fact, the Washington Post ran three articles on the same day.
We were in fact one on the front page of the style section.
This was a couple weeks ago where they said reporters suspended over and they had to put
the quotes from David Wright, bemoaning the fact that his corporate bosses, this and that,
the stuff that your audience all agrees.
That's in the print edition on the front page of the style section.
Thanks to Project Veritas.
Now here's the rub as Shakespeare would say.
That insider, when I met that person, I'm not going to tell you their gender.
I'm not going to tell you anything about them, except this.
When I met that person in a hotel room, it was like a scene out of all the president's men,
like literally out of a thriller novel.
And we're having this unbelievable conversation,
which if there was any justice in the world, there'd be a movie made out of this one day.
This person says, I had nowhere to go.
I couldn't go to the Washington Post.
I couldn't go to the New York Times.
She, they were like, I can't go anywhere because, and I'm going to quote them here,
they'd hunt me down like a trophy buck.
Not only would they not tell this story, my story,
they would systematically, this is what you were saying, hunt me down.
And this person said, I had to go someplace.
Just let me finish to what he said.
He said, I had to go someplace that I knew no matter what,
this person wouldn't give me up, wouldn't quit, wouldn't stop,
wouldn't settle lawsuits, which is this thing we should talk about in this episode.
And there was only one institution in the world I could think that would do that.
Project Veritas.
Now, where I think you're mistaken, I feel as though you're mistaken is,
they attack us, slime us and call us liars, but they have to put on the front page of
the style section of the Washington Post.
Yes.
So this is, I mean, this is exactly where I want to be.
This is the conversation you're never going to get anywhere else.
So what we know what this is, we call it FUD, fear, uncertainty, and doubt, right?
And the idea is that we have to create fear, uncertainty, and doubt around you,
but because there was no way of just pretending that video didn't exist,
it had to enter the gin, get an institutional narrative.
I accept your point.
Now, I want you just to listen to something which is very tough for me to say.
Consider that heroism and sociopathy are adjacent, right?
A friend of ours named Andrea, I'm just blanking on her Polish last name for the moment,
has a theory called extreme altruism.
And her point is, is that an altruist, a hero and a sociopath are one toggle switch off of
each other.
And the key question is, when you have this kind of need to shake things up,
is it done for the self or is it done for the greater good?
And I detect that you actually have a commitment to this that is at a level that is somewhere
between heroism and sociopathy to be blunt.
Now, I get it.
There are no super tough people who don't crack, don't fold, have their own organization,
are willing to fight in the courts, and this is in part what you're doing.
