You should love him.
And I'm like, well, I'm paying money to come to school here to learn about philosophy.
And you're telling me how great the Soviet Union is.
That's just unjust.
So when the premise is that these people, and at Rutgers University, the student handbook said,
you're not allowed to offend anybody for any reason.
I said, well, that doesn't make any sense.
That's irrational.
I know.
So to confront the irrationality, to hold them accountable to their own expressed values,
or as Alinsky would say, make them live up to their own principles, I went in there.
I was very scared.
I was shaking.
I was worried.
And it doesn't come natural to do these sorts of things.
And I donned a little Kodak camera.
This is before the iPhone 2005.
And I put it on the table and put a little cloth over the red lens, because in 2005 cameras
would blink red when you recorded video.
And I began to pretend to be something I wasn't.
I said, I mean, I am Irish, but I'm not offended by Lucky Charms.
And I said, as an Irishman, this serial offends me.
The mascot offends my heritage.
Oh, and by the way, it's a violation of your own campus rulebook about offending people.
And the dean of dining services took me seriously.
And the dean of dining services said there will be no problem removing Lucky Charms from the cafeteria.
What we did is a microcosm of-
Even though they're magically delicious.
Even though they're magically delicious.
I even said the marshmallows were teeth rotting.
I said that I'm six foot one Irishman, which I am.
O'Keeffe is my last name.
And I said, this offends my heritage.
And I tried to keep a straight face.
It was very difficult.
And even though I was shaking because I was afraid of what I was doing.
And what we did is offer the community, Rutgers University, which is far left,
an opportunity to go, that's ridiculous.
We slipped the disc.
And what you're saying is, I'm doing the thing that they did to Jordan Peterson.
What you're saying is, what the argument is, is that I should feel more
unclean.
I should feel-
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Help me understand-
The argument is that what you're doing is you're balancing
harm that you have to inflict with good that you have to do.
And I don't think you're efficient on either one.
And in some sense, you're screwing up stories for everybody else because
they don't have, and this is very, it's a complicated point.
I won't understand it.
So my belief is that the Zach Vorhees story about the Google Insider and what was actually going
on at Google is in a really important story.
And if I took a terrible, terrible, important story, and I put Project Veritas on it right now,
I know that it won't have the impact that it would have if we could somehow
force it into the world in a different-
I wouldn't disagree with you.
I completely-
I completely disagree with you.
I strongly disagree.
We strongly disagree.
We're trying to unpack-
Let's make sure that we actually do disagree and that we're not having a miscommunication.
I'm not sure, but the statements you're making, Zach Vorhees' documents,
Zach had come to me, come to us some years ago, we had to send a report to talk to Jen
Jenai, who was an innovation person for Google.
She was of Irish heritage.
And we filmed her in a Mexican restaurant in San Francisco saying that she wanted to
prevent the, quote, Trump situation.
And there was some ambiguity about what exactly she meant by that.
Did she mean stop Trump from winning re-election?
Did she mean stop Russian interference?
But Jen Jenai also said on this hidden camera recording, which Zach did not provide to us.
That was filmed by our undercover reporters.
She also said that Google needs to stay big to-
Yeah, if they fragmented, then you wouldn't be able to-
Then you wouldn't be able to stop Trump, essentially.
So this is what this person said.
And that amplified Zach's messages, his documents, we interviewed him.
And I feel very strongly that-
No, do you understand?
I'm worried that we're not communicating again.
I agree that there's this really strange problem that you can't go to CNN,
the Washington Post, NPR, New York Times, with a certain class of stories that were
encountered to their unstated narratives.
They won't run them.
Yes, I'm worried, yes.
So let's- we can be in agreement on that.
We can agree on that.
The New York Times is the paper of record.
They call themselves-
They used to be, they call themselves who knows what.
But certainly not all the news-
You are a very intelligent man.
You pay attention to this stuff.
Your audience is, I'm certain, extremely intelligent.
Most people in Los Angeles looking out of the streets have no idea what we're talking about.
And in fact, when you go into the airports in O'Hare or JFK-
No, no, no.
I'm also the guy who goes into the airport.
Temporarily, when I look at that screen and has CNN-
Yeah, the Chiron's.
Yeah, whatever.
My brain goes into the same stupid trance.
Right.
As- as probably even does yours, right?
Uh, probably.
It's the lower- it's the lower brain.
Probably.
Okay.
Probably.
Right.
So when the New York Times, Jim Rutenberg, I believe was his name,
said in 2016, something to the effect of,
we have to cover Trump unfavorably or unfairly.
He basically said this on the front page.
The executive editor, Dean Backe, who's definitely no fan of mine,
executive editor, Dean Backe said,
good for Jim Rutenberg to say that.
The paper record has established on the front page of the New York Times,
basically by Jim Rutenberg, we must cover the president unfairly.
And when we live in a world, I'm trying to address your fundamental argument,
when the premise is that our institutions that inform our citizenry,
by the way, I believe government, is downstream from media.
I agree with Sultz and Itzin that the press has more power than all three branches of the
government.
And I think you probably agree with that too.
If you don't, we should talk about that.
Well, I wish I saw it as distinct from the branches of government.
Yeah.
Okay.
But unlike the government, we don't elect our media officials,
and there aren't any committees, and there's no way of holding them accountable.
So when you live in a world where that is the case,
and the paper of record says we are going to cover this person unfairly,
and everyone's okay with that, I mean, I don't know if it's just war theory
or whatever the ethical implications.
Again, there's an efficacy issue.
Efficacy.
For example, when you are given a tape that needs to air,
and imagine that you had two ways of airing it,
you had a way of airing it with Project Veritas stamped on it,
or without Project Veritas stamped on it.
I'd have to use Project Veritas.
I feel strongly about that.
Because you believe in your own project.
No, because in order to have the authority
to make the decisions, please let me finish this point,
because this is my Martin Luther moment.
Here I stand, I can do no other.
In order to have the authority to not settle the lawsuits,
such that I can draw another insider out to come to me with more tape.
Exactly.
I know where you're going.
I have to be able to draw, they call it the network effects,
if you will, whipsawing effects of drawing out other people.
They have to know where to go.
To you, Project Veritas.
Because everyone else will settle the lawsuits.
Everyone else will quit.
They're the barriers to entry.
I don't even know if this is correct Spanish,
but Huevos del Toro, you're establishing at some level
that your organization will stand behind the people
who contribute to you.
You will protect them, that you have the competency.
That is how you see Project Veritas.
Let me see for the purposes of this argument that that is true.
Okay.
Hypothetically, imagine a second white label
that had established the same track record.
That's not white label that established the same track record.
In other words, people had come to them, they'd never cracked,
they'd never broken, they'd never settled on defamation or whatever.
I would submit to you that the barriers to entry
are too high for that.
That's not what I'm saying.
What I'm trying to get at is,
do you acknowledge that you have not evaded the shitsuit very effectively?
Maybe you think you've done as good a job as you could do,
but I can guarantee you, I had a choice when I sat for this interview,
when I decided to have you sit for this interview,
which is how much did I want to spend on James O'Keefe?
And I thought you important, really important.
You mean my history of what I've done or do you mean?
By virtue of the fact, in the crazy left of center mainstream game,
they play an association game, right?
My association.
Yes.
So you sit in this chair and I don't,
and I say anything that's positive about you.
You're normalizing.
In the eye, that's what they're going to say.
Whatever the hell they're going to say.
They're idiots, right?
If we think about the idiots who sit in
the golden thrones inside of the commentariat,
we will never get anything done.
You are worth spending in terms of their idiotic calculus of adjacency on graphs.
Okay.
