And you've said this.
Okay.
So you had these.
So what I'm going to ask, what I had to ask you on the phone when we spoke is,
can you frame for us a timeline of what changed that relationship between journalists
and this kind of aggressive style of investigative reporting,
which you at least partially exhibit in project?
That's an economics question as well, which we can, which we'll, I'll try to get to.
But, um, investigative reporters back in the day, there were newspapers and they were typewriter
gorillas as they were called.
And I call myself a gorilla journalist.
I use video as my medium.
But these guys did things like, there was a guy named, um, uh, William Gaines who dressed
up like a janitor in 19, mid, early seventies, 1972, 1973 and got a job at a hospital.
He literally employed himself as a janitor and the surgeons would say, Hey, come, can
you come assist me with surgery?
And without even washing his hands, he was asked to participate in doing surgery on somebody.
Oh, and also he won the Pulitzer Prize.
So the, I would, I would never do that.
I would never, can you imagine James O'Keeve gets a job as a janitor, assists in,
in, in fixing someone with the coronavirus.
I would be, I would be the bacteria on my hands would get inside.
It wasn't Gloria Steinem of Playboy Bunny.
Gloria Steinem was a Playboy Bunny.
Um, but you had these reporters, Clark, uh, Clark Molyneux at the, uh, Iowa newspaper.
You had, you know, Bob Woodward lied to Deep Throat, uh, Jack Anderson in the 1970s.
And all of these people were hated.
I mean, hated by the system while they were doing this.
Right.
They were, they were despised.
They were, they were attacked by the establishment media.
And then something changed.
And what we were talking about on the phone was what I think changed.
Well, there was this old line about, uh, what are the 10 most feared words in corporate America?
Mike Wallace.
Mike Wallace from 60 Minutes is here to see you.
Yeah.
Yes.
Mike Wallace used to ambush people and board rooms and, and, and, and then something happened
in the late 70s.
I trace it to this incident.
I wrote this book called American Proved and I researched the 1970s journalism.
And what, what, what happened, what I saw was that in 1977, the Chicago Sun Times,
which was the center of all this muckraking newspaper reporting, ran this bar for like
seven months.
They bought a bar under a, under disguise and it was bar tended by newspaper people.
And they put cameras in the, in the, in the rafters of this bar aptly named the Mirage.
They actually called the thing the Mirage.
It was kind of ironic.
And they filmed all of the city inspectors taking bribes, bribing each other, you know,
payoffs and asked Pam Zekman was working at the, at the Chicago Sun Time, Pulitzer Prize winner.
They were asked, why did you have to resort to all this so-called deception?
They said, because nobody, everyone was afraid of Chicago city hall.
None of these people would talk, not even on background, not even off the record.
So they ran this bar and I mean, this was like the most consequential, in my opinion,
investigation of the 20th century, like 50 people went to jail, the mayor lost reelection.
It was just such a consequential, impactful thing.
So it gets nominated for the Pulitzer Prize 1978.
And Ben Bradley, who's the legendary editor of the Washington Post says, no,
we're not going to give you a Pulitzer Prize because your deception was too elaborate.
Your deception was too much.
I don't, and I think the quote was, you know, when, when, when cops pose as journalists,
we don't like that.
So we shouldn't pose as something that we're not.
And that was the, one of the, a few inflection points in American history,
because there was no, there was no, there was no currency in doing this.
It was, it's expensive, first of all, which I can talk about and how expensive this stuff is.
And then you had Mike Wallace in the mid 80s.
Mike Wallace, 60 minutes said, it became about drama, not illumination.
I think that both Ben Bradley and Mike Wallace were, were disingenuous.
I don't think that was the real reason they stopped doing it.
I think that argument, which is one we can have today relates more to economics of mass media.
And, and Ben Bradley probably was a little close to people in the Chicago machine.
And, and, you know, Bradley reportedly, these are not my sources, had contracts with people
in government and so forth and so on.
And it became this mass media became, had a symbiotic relationship with, with those in power.
And using these tactics is just too close for comfort.
You're, you're, you're burning these institutions, agencies and things
that you need access to, to get your information from.
So it got cut off in the 70s and 80s.
And finally, ABC News in 1992 got sued by a grocery store, Food Lion.
By a chain of groceries.
By a chain, it's called Food Lion Grocery.
Again, they, they got off, they got jobs working in the butcher's shop and they recorded,
they put hidden cameras in their wig.
Like you might be able to fit a camera in that, in that hairdo of yours.
And they had a wig behind, like tiny little thing.
And, and they filmed, the meat was rotting and they repackaged the meat.
So this was, this was like bleach or something with bleach.
The meat was rotting.
It was a devastating expose.
A Food Lion stock tanked.
They got sued, ABC did.
They lost at trial.
They won on appeal.
It cost, God knows, over a million dollars.
And ABC's, uh, Brass basically said, to hell with this, we're not going to spend a million
dollars.
There's nothing in it for us.
So investigative reporting was not profitable.
It was not profitable.
It wouldn't get you the Pulitzer Prizes.
It wouldn't get you the trophies.
I want to do your point even more than you're doing.
Sure.
People are going to hear that.
I was like, Oh, is that where you're doing reporting to get a Pulitzer Prize?
That's not the point.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, the inverse.
Let me do it.
Let me do it.
Okay.
My belief is that the Pulitzer, the Pulitzer Prize to say nothing of where the Pulitzer
Fortune came from, um, was intended to say this is heroic behavior.
This is admirable behavior.
And when you took away the prize, it was the community saying, we no longer want to see
this as heroic and that that message rather than the prize is the chill.
And it's one of the reasons.
Well, to your point about the growing, um, links between the journalistic community and,
and, uh, the institutions they cover, those links were not absent earlier.
In fact, there were some, you know, I asked you to look at the story of Jean Seberg,
a woman destroyed by the FBI using the Los Angeles Times in Newsweek, uh, as their
conduits for a, uh, a, uh, a smear campaign against one of the leading actresses of Hollywood,
because they didn't like her politics.
Um, so there have been very chilling threads between our media and the institutions of power,
in fact, the cryptic institutions of power.
What I don't understand is given that those things existed before, something had to change
environmentally for this type of reporting to all but disappear over a period of perhaps 20 years.
And that's economics, a lot of it, in my opinion.
Investigative reporting was a lost leader on a company's balance sheet.
So in those days, there was kind of a, uh, well, newspapers were certainly more profitable
than they are now.
And David Wright on the ABC tape put it thus, he said it changed in the digital era when it
became even more commercially.
He says the commercial commercial imperative is incompatible with the news.
And I get branded as some right wing guy.
And it's like, well, I actually, that's a Chomsky argument from manufacturing.
But a lot of them, let's be honest, a lot of my friends on the right spend a lot of time quoting
Mark's Chomsky.
I mean, there's a lot of commonalities.
There is, there is that.
And I agree with that statement.
So the commercial imperative is incompatible with the news, said David Wright.
He was suspended by ABC news for saying it and investigative reporters like,
I'm going to give you my economics of what I do.
I'm, I'm a charitable organization.
I'm a 501C3 organization.
And not you, Project Veritas.
We, uh, but you are, you are a huge part of private.
I'm the chairman and CEO of the company.
And I had to be the chairman to have the authority to make decisions like not to settle lawsuits.
You know, 60 minutes got sued over 150 times in the 1980s.
A hundred, maybe even more than that.
All of the reporters I mentioned earlier in the 1970s were, I mean, some of them went to jail
um, to protect their sources.
They were sued for libel.
Yeah.
Investigative reporters had to deal with all that stuff.
And to your point in this age, I'm vilified for having to deal with all that stuff.
Back in the day it was considered to be a thing.
So you go to jail for your source.
A hundred percent.
You've been to jail.
I've been to jail.
We can talk about that.
But not only would, not only does the reporter have to be willing to go to jail,
the reporter has to be willing to appeal it all the way up to the supreme court.
And if the supreme court determines that you have to disclose your source,
the reporter has to be civil disobedient.
Yeah.
That's what you have to believe in in your heart to do this.
Most of the people in the news business these days, you kidding me?
They're just trying to get to retirement.
They're just trying to, to get across the finish line, get their pension and be done with it.
This is what makes you such a difficult character is, is that you have so many
of the most admirable features of journalism.
And I don't think you get to have the conversation where somebody who
really is troubled by what you do also acknowledges the positive in what you do.
Like you, you to me are a superposition of what is noble about journalism
and why I can't stand journalism.
That may be so.
Maybe so.
I think in light of the recent exposés though, Eric, there have been a couple reporters,
Paul Thare, the Washington Post, a guy named Grove at the Daily Beast have actually talked to me.
I've never actually, and you're frankly just this manifest destiny.
I'm sitting with you here.
You wouldn't be sitting with me, but not for the events of the last six months.
Why is that?
I've been aware of you for a long time.
Well, I think because, I think because of the, the, that I'm, I'm continuing to do this,
that I'm getting and tell me if I'm wrong, but I'm getting reactions from these institutions
that they're forced.
You've been an interesting person to me for a long time.
Okay.
I did not know that.
Yeah.
So by the way, I should just say people will assume that you and I are connected somehow
through Peter Thiel and completely untrue.
I know I just had my first conversation with Peter about you ever.
The New York Times were on a front page story.
