And you know what, let's talk about another story you covered, which I was brought in before,
I believe you were brought in, which was a Google insider.
Now, can we use that person's name?
Yes.
Let's do it.
Zach Voorhees.
Okay.
So, Zach Voorhees was talking to me about all the stuff that was going on at Google.
And he showed me things like screenshots and programs about ML fairness, machine learning
fairness, and how Google was going to bias search by unbiasing it.
He didn't say those words, but that was my encapsulation up.
And I did not know how to help him directly.
And what you're saying is true.
In a world in which no one will cover the goddamn story, you're looking for the outlet that will.
And that's what happens repeatedly, and it's not just with you.
Fox News, Breitbart, you will cover stories that go counter narrative to this mainstream
left of center tradition or narrative, right?
And so, for example, as you know, when my brother was driven out of his college where he was a
professor by racist students calling his anti-racism racism, that was so completely bizarre for
something like the mainstream media that you had effectively a black led Maoist uprising with a white
sort of ultra woke president against an anti-racist behaving in an anti-racist fashion
being called a racist.
That story was so destructive to woke ideology that the New York Times couldn't cover it.
And so my brother ended up where at Fox News with Tucker Carlson.
So once you understand that there's sort of this weird rule, which is if all of us pretend that
that thing isn't happening, then the idea is no one has to cover it.
No one has to discuss what it is.
And the only places that it appears are right of center.
And then each of these right of center weakening in the crust.
Think of the crust as the disk, right?
You have a narrative, which is everything on Fox News is bullshit.
Everything that Breitbart Prince is crap.
Everything that comes out of Project Veritas is unfairly edited and is an unethical piece of track.
Okay.
You're not helping when you go into your self justification mode about, well, we have to do
this. I mean, you may have to do this, but what you first have to do is to exhaust all the things
that both serve the ends of informing the public where they need to be informed and minimizing
the damage to humans unless those humans really deserve the damage.
So let me just try to get at them.
My contention is anytime you move private life into the public sector, it appears bizarre
and is incredibly damaging.
We are supposed to appear here as if we always put on sport jackets and button down shirts,
let's say, and conduct ourselves, you know, in this kind of weird mannered interaction,
which is in some sense forced.
Now, for example, I love fart jokes.
Just love them.
Do you like fart jokes?
I'm not too familiar with the fart jokes.
Well, for example, there's a fantastic, really long limerick called the farter from Sparta.
May I say the first?
Yeah.
There once was a fellow from Sparta, a truly magnificent farter.
On the strength of one being, he'd blow God save the queen and Beethoven's moonlight sonata.
And it goes on and on.
I like that.
Right. It's really quite good.
Now, the problem is, is that when I talk about fart jokes in public, it's like, wow, Eric,
you're doing potty humor.
Nice.
Classy.
Stay classy.
Anytime I move private life into the public sector, it's destructive.
And that's why it's not just about the written rules.
It's also, you know, we talk about in Judaism, the written Torah and we talk about the oral Torah.
And I believe that your lawyers know what the rules are for recording conversations in public
places, semi-public places, whether the door is open, closed, one-sided or two-sided consent,
blah, blah, blah.
And the idea is it varies from state to state.
And the average person, their idea of these rules is zero.
They're completely ignorant of the law.
So the key question is, don't we as Americans have an oral Torah, an idea of what one shouldn't
be doing that goes along with the written rule and you tend to get alerted to this when somebody
says that something is perfectly legal.
That's the phrase that alerts you to the fact that they're usually violating the
oral Torah rather than the written Torah is that they say perfectly legal rather than merely legal.
And I'm concerned that what you're doing is perfectly legal and overkill with respect to
the individuals.
And it's killing your ability to actually stick it to the institutions who need to be
policed and that you're set up to police.
Okay. Oh boy.
First of all, there's no gotcha here, but it's no, it's a lot.
I told you it would be tough.
As you were speaking, there were about seven points I wanted to address there,
but let me try to take it from the top.
You know, I was reading a book, I think it was about images.
And the Marshall, I hope I pronounced his last name wrong because I said Marshall McLuhan.
The medium is the message, you know, that book.
And, you know, the way the medium changes how we perceive the world around us,
it actually changes how we think it does.
And I, maybe this is self-justification, but I truly believe that this medium,
you know, like in the McLuhan sense of what we do, which is transmitting these little
hidden shaky videos on a tweet and it gets 10 million views in an hour,
that changes the way we perceive the world around us and it affects our understanding
of each other.
And to quote Scott McNeely, like, we've lost our privacy already.
This is a new world, maybe a brave new world.
And when they invented the telegraph, I think there was a criticism,
this is an 18, the mid 19th century, that there was a criticism that, well,
what does Maine and Texas have to talk to each other about anyway?
And when they invented, when Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone,
it was like, well, that's kind of an invasion of privacy.
You know, transparent heaps of jelly to one another was a characterization that was made
about the telephone at the time.
You couldn't cut a man off by gesture or look when you're talking to him on the telephone.
So now we have this new paradigm where you or I could be recorded in the bar saying,
C-U-N-T to a friend in a context that we think is private.
And that can be broadcasted instantly.
And then we have this cancel culture phenomenon.
And who wants to live in that world?
Two things.
First of all, there's a difference between recording something and broadcasting it.
And I would say this oral Torah metaphor that you,
this oral Torah that you use, we draw the line at the choice to broadcast the information.
I can't tell you on my server,
raw tape I have where someone sent something that was very private.
I'm not going to tell you where or who, but there was an example where someone at a bar said,
come up to my hotel room and engage in some menage tois.
I didn't publish that.
That's pig's blood.
It's my duty as a citizen.
It's my obligation not to publish.
Because it wasn't newsworthy.
It wasn't newsworthy.
It's a private, sort of the private sexual nature of people.
There was probably some infidelity, but that's not what we do.
We try to focus on areas of profound public importance.
Now, I'll also tell you that when Upton Sinclair wrote The Jungle, there were no hidden cameras.
Upton Sinclair was an extreme ideologue as far as I'm concerned.
He was a socialist and he cared about worker participation.
I don't think he set out to expose the meat conditions.
He wanted to, he's an advocate for socialism.
When he infiltrated, went undercover posing with a lunch pail and taking off his tie to
fit in with the workers, he didn't even have a, I don't even believe he had a writing utensil.
I think he sprinted back to his hotel room to write down from memory what he saw.
So we would make the argument that the recording, the recording itself,
is distinguished from the broadcasting of the recording.
And that recording someone is a fundamental human right.
Just like writing down what they say is a fundamental human right.
And to restrict someone from saying what they hear goes back to my argument about the First
Amendment, that we live in a world where we capture people audiovisually.
This is a new paradigm.
Now I was listening to George Carlin on a comedy show recently and he was giving a sketch and he
said, we live in a new world, Earth plus plastic.
We live in a new paradigm.
Earth plus people at bars being recorded and that being put on Twitter instantaneously.
And just like the invention of the telephone or the invention of the telegram or the invention
of the automobile, it'll remake how we view our world.
But there are safeguards against privacy.
Privacy issues existed before the advent of technology.
You can choose where you go and what you say to people.
False friends existed before the advent of technology.
Betraying people existed before the, you know.
And in most cases, it's not in your self-interest to betray a close friend or confidant.
So I don't think, and I really strongly believe that what we do is moral, forgetting the legal
that we can talk about the law, but forget the law.
And you realize that I understand the argument that sometimes what you're on earthing is of
such consequence that it would be immoral to hold it back wholesale.
But it is also the question.
I mean, I'll be honest about it.
I feel like you get a kind of pleasure.
You and I are both feeling gaslit is my,
you feel like I get a pleasure out of, out of, out of, out of what?
I'm worried that you get a pleasure out of sticking it to the sanctimonious,
uh, elitist progressive thing that suffuses.
Absolutely.
I'm just trying to make it easy for you to understand where I'm coming from, which is
I can't stand what the left has become.
It's unrecognizable to me.
It's not, it's not a force that seems to want to fight for working families.
It doesn't really seem to care about the environment.
Like this, you know, the Sierra club used to be against immigration.
It's sanctimonious.
It's pure constant sanctimonious, sanctimony in the service of institutions.
So the idea is that I see this kind of, we are the world,
not as this beautiful song and sentiment, but as the cover story for breaking your bonds to your
fellow countrymen so that you can go seek cheap labor overseas or something like that.
The Davos crowd, if you will, um, betrayed the left and the, the right who's always found the
left to be irritating, uh, this is a part of the left on this show that can't stand the part of
the left that you, that you may be targeting.
That said, I have to stay my hand because I don't want to engage in the kind of crap that they do.
And I feel like you're in some sense doubling down on their methods.
I disagree.
I think that investigative reporting, you know, going back to the 1960s and 70s,
and I'm not an expert on this, but I know some, these people did some things that were, maybe,
maybe we, we, or you disagree with their tactics.
But I mean, you had, let me give you a few examples.
Um, you had, uh, you know, Gunter Waller was an extremist.
He, he, he literally used disguises and infiltrated newspapers to show how the news colored things.
You had the Chicago Sun Times ran this, uh, undercover operation where they purchased a bar
in Chicago.
So actually let, let's frame this because I think this is really important.
Yes.
You and I both have the sense that journalism used to be very different and much closer to
the methods that you're using.
Is that true?
Uh, uh, I would say even further so than the methods I use, but yes.
But your methods were, are closer to an older style of journalism.
Yes.
So I also have this impression.
Yes.
