You could get more money doing something else.
Let me make the point very clearly.
Okay?
Am I right that you're basically willing to die for what you do?
That might come across as, you know, I don't-
Are you willing to risk death for what you do?
It's a very complicated-
Are you willing to risk personal destruction for what you do?
That's a good question.
Are you willing to risk jail for what you do?
Probably, yeah.
Yeah.
I think you're willing to risk ruin.
Yeah.
Okay?
Yeah.
My favorite guy, Albert Einstein, said that the public intellectual
has to be willing to risk ruin.
Financial ruin, but he generally jailed talking during the McCarthy era.
Okay.
Okay.
I think it's very admirable.
I don't see enough of this in my world.
And I struggle with this.
How much am I willing to risk to run the show?
How much am I willing to risk to do an episode on Jeffrey Epstein
when I don't know what the hell is on the other end of that story?
All right?
There's no amount of money that you can pay me to do.
That's not why I do it.
All right?
I sat on that-
I sat on that episode for a long time,
but I just found it was leaking out of me.
I couldn't stop talking about it
because I'm worried that I'm part of a country that looks the other way.
When somebody who has intelligence, maybe a freelancer, who knows,
you know, is trafficking 12-year-old girls in my country
and my reporters won't stand up and ask the goddamn questions.
Right?
And so I don't even know if I made a sane choice.
I just know that I couldn't sit on it any longer.
That said, this is your game.
It's not my game.
And therefore, I don't have the same need to be able to say,
well, I'm willing to go into a bar.
Okay, you've accepted the game,
so you've accepted that's the price of what you do.
But what you don't understand is the rest of us are not like that.
And because we haven't made that bargain,
we both think you're protecting us and hunting us at the same time.
If you were trying to hunt power,
you could have less collateral damage to the individual.
And I won't say it again because I think I've said it enough.
Right.
My feeling is you displayed enough depth of character on the phone.
When we were talking, as you struggle with these issues
and you evidence a higher level of inner conflict of dialectic of concern,
your stories would benefit so much more from showing that person
rather than the person who knows exactly what the laws of one side of recording are
in Montana versus Iowa.
I hear it and I wrestle with that every time we release a story.
I probably should have started by talking about the process
by which we wrestle with it, both from a company,
like my colleagues and me personally in my bed every night.
These are inherently situational tests,
but going back to our Rules for Radicals book, which we can talk about or not.
To hell with that guy.
Saul Linsky, I know people think it's controversial.
I keep citing a Linsky, but he says the nadir of immorality is to do nothing.
This is what he says, the nadir of morality is to do nothing.
And I could never justify inaction.
And I tried Eric to live a normal life.
My personal story is pretty crazy.
I tried going to law school, I tried going to business school,
and I'd sneak out to get into the video lab.
You're right, I have a unique role in society,
which maybe makes me more willing to subject myself to the tactics that I do.
But that's somebody has to do it.
The insiders, it's .0001% of people are probably willing to strap a camera to themselves,
violate a non-disclosure agreement for the public's right to know.
In a country of 400 million, that's a lot of people.
There are roles that we have, and I don't know if maybe we just want to
move on to the next point.
Do you know who Witold Polecki is?
Remind me.
He was a Polish, I guess, nobility, and he had the idea during World War II
that he should visit Auschwitz.
So he dressed up as if he were Jewish, so that they would take him into Auschwitz.
And he did reconnaissance, and he organized resistance,
and then he got himself stuck out so he could tell the world.
Now, it was deceptive.
Was it justified?
12,000 million percent.
It's not about deception.
It's not about not wanting to bring these institutions when they are doing wrong
to their knees, and it is not about the issue that I completely agree with you,
that journalists have taken this privilege for themselves as an indulgence of working for the
times, that they have the right to behave in this fashion, and those outside of the club do not.
The issue has to do with whether or not you are actually being effective in not wrestling
in a more productive way in front of your critics, given that you are going to continue just if I
take things where people are simply going to feed you information because they can't trust anyone
else. And my claim is that that is what places this moral burden on you.
Are you familiar with Stanley McChrystal and Michael Hastings in 2010?
He burned McChrystal in the Rolling Stone magazine.
It's customary for reporters to go to, speaking of going to bars, and the military brass are
saying things off the cuff. Are you familiar with this story? Yes.
McChrystal resigned or was fired by Obama or whatever the case may be. Do you believe in
that circumstance that Michael Hastings, is this consistent with what we do or different
because it didn't involve the case of video? No offense. It's not just about video.
It's about the fact that you are one of the only people standing outside of this structure
who's got the organization and the stones to go up against this. And honestly, in some sense,
I'm doing a different version of this. I'm not as powerful. I'm not as prominent yet.
But the portal is in part another place for things to come to the surface
that need to come to the surface where there is no other break. And I guarantee you they're
going to try to fit me with the same shit suit that they fit you with. Oh, you can't trust that.
That appeared on the portal. Did you see this one tweet from Eric in 2011, blah, blah, blah.
This taken out of context, that Russell conjugated, etc., etc. My point is you're not filing a
flight plan and I don't want to meet you in the skies doing your barnstorming tricks. Too many
costumes, too little pixelation, too much hidden camera shit, too many people being felt,
being made to feel that they are vulnerable when you're targeting an institution
like a tech platform. And your collateral damage is an individual who may be misguided,
may be sanctimonious, may be hypocritical. This is the William Tell problem from the original
tweet that I tried to mention. You keep aiming too low. Now you can come back at me and say,
Eric, what the hell have you done? And I could say, you know what, I'm so worried about hitting
the kid that I'm not coming close to the apple. So I'm willing to be the other failed part of
this enterprise. But my point is maybe you want to take your aim a little bit up and maybe I need
to be a little bit more pointed in bringing my arrow a little bit closer to the fruit.
I appreciate your point. I think I understand it now. Thank you for...
Well, thank you for putting up with me. This is a hard conversation.
This is a unique conversation because I'm so used to dealing with disingenuous and bad faith
criticisms, but I don't think at all... I promised you what you were getting.
I don't think at all that's what you're doing. You're just going deeper into an issue
that most people, at least on the surface, don't have an issue with. And I will say that
on a amount of being very vulnerable here, but I consider myself a pretty transparent person,
I can say that my staff, speaking on behalf of our reporters for a minute, who operate anonymously,
really wrestle with this. And in some cases, we even have a curriculum workshop. I can't get into
all the things that we do when we train our people, but we actually have an entire half a day where
do you empathize with the person that you're... And it's almost like we accept it. We take our
medicine, I'm talking on behalf of the reporters, and we go, well, you got to balance the public's
right to know and that circumstances will determine what they're saying. And we do struggle with it.
And the way that I'm wired in my brain is I have internal dialogues with myself.
Yes, that's what I'm trying to get at.
But people don't know that about me. No kidding.
In fact, I would say even my staff doesn't even know that.
That's what I gambled on, given what it is that you do because you do things that show
with super... I know.
You don't have to believe me, but I hope that you'll...
I don't need to take your word for it. It leaks out in what you do, James.
But I mean to say, this is a very important point. I, James O'Keeffe, have internal dialogues in my
brain, like an angel on one holder devil. I do this. I'm wired to do this. I think I have an
internal governor that like on an old car that stops how fast you're going. I have that governor,
and I surround myself with people. Joe Haldermans are one of our producers.
He's never voted for a Republican in his life. He's never voted for a Republican ever.
He's an old newsman. And I tried to create a management team that we really do grapple with
these things. But what it comes down to is the people believe so much. And I mean,
I'm coming here from a very... I'm trying to be as genuine as I possibly can.
They believe so much in the value of the information and the public's right to know it,
that they kind of have to take that medicine and deal with the harm done to the individual
and that specific circumstance. And it's something that we do despite the harm,
not because of it. We don't want harm. We...
The farther you get away from things that look like entrapment, selective editing,
invasion of privacy, needless destruction of personal reputation, et cetera, et cetera,
et cetera, all the stuff you can imagine, the greater you make the intake of your messages.
Because more of us understand that we are not in your crosshairs. You see, in part,
I don't really... I don't want to be your worst nightmare. I want to be your best nightmare.
I want to be the person who has the conversation with you that gives you the criticism that you
never get, because most of the criticism is at this very simplistic level. I have to grant
12 things before we even get to the conversation that we're supposed to be having.
Okay. Well, we got a chance to do that. And I promised you that that's what you were going
to get. Am I right that there was no misrepresentation as to what this interaction was going to be?
I think you've been very fair.
And I think you've been very fair and very forthcoming. And I really appreciate that.
What I want to say is, I would look forward to being able to have this conversation with you
again when, and you have my number, feel free to call me up. The key thing that I'm trying to
focus on is to the extent that what you do is a good thing that must be done, and to the extent
that there is almost no one else willing to do this. Consider that you are not on the efficient
frontier and that upping the ethics may up the effectiveness. I understand what you said about
you cannot afford a denominator of negativity that is zero or, you know, badness or whatever you
want to call, right? My claim is, is that partially what is harming the efficacy of your, of your
project is that people feel that they are in your crosshairs. It's a very technical argument
and that you're getting too much pleasure out of the voyeuristic spectacle. And I don't think
that's actually what's motivating you. I really, I'm going to gamble and say maybe that makes it
mimetic and people want to, want to watch somebody be destroyed. But the information
is so much more important that ABC might be holding back information on Jeff Epstein,
that the major tech platforms have their finger on the scale and maybe trying to tilt elections.
I don't even remember the names of these people. I don't care. And, you know, to be honest, it's
like in a corrupt world, if I go to Nigeria, I guarantee you, I can find everybody taking and
giving bribes, right? And so in this moment of universal corruption, you really want to point
to individuals being sanctimonious or sub ethical or, you know, disguising speech, we all do it.
So what my, my claim is, is you have a unique opportunity, which is stop talking about the
trade-off and start working on getting to the point where the trade-off kicks in.
Point taken. I'll consider that.
James, it would be a pleasure to have you come back and further the conversation. We look forward
to what you guys do next. Let me know if I can be a constructive force in your future.
And I'm really glad whatever the cost that we chose to sit down. I think this was a conversation
that I was dying to have with you and you have behaved terrifically in that chair. And thank you,
sir. And thank you. And we welcome, let me just say, we welcome skepticism of, of even ourselves.
We want, we, I try to be as transparent as possible, even into our methods, more so than
others. So I welcome this. I appreciate this. I appreciate you also saying. You've given me
