So I've decided to lose credibility.
I've decided to lose some viewers.
I've decided to make a very easy target on myself,
just by sitting with you, because they're evil and that's wrong.
You deserve a hearing.
You've done a lot of stuff, much of it good.
And I'm still pissed off and angry,
and I don't know that we've exactly connected.
Okay.
We haven't even gotten to whether or not
there's selective editing on some videos, all the usual things.
I tend not to spend time where other people do spend time.
I figure you can have that conversation with somebody else.
It's a waste of my effing time.
So I want you to have the conversation here
that you're not going to be able to have anywhere else.
Thank you.
Okay.
Well, thank you.
So what I'm trying to get at is I want to see you more disturbed.
If you think about this as a fraction,
it's important truths per unit deception,
or just unit sub ethical deception.
Okay.
And your point is my fraction is positive.
And I want you one to search your soul.
Could you have made the denominator smaller
without making it zero?
I'm not, I don't, I don't want to hold you to the stance,
to the standards of Jesus,
if Jesus was an investigative reporter.
Okay.
The asymptote towards that, it's like,
over time, I think it'll get cleaner and cleaner and cleaner.
That may be, but the point is,
is that you had to spend a lot early on learning your game.
And I also, I want it, I want an effing come to Jesus moment.
If you're going to continue to be the only place people can,
let's take your insider from before.
And that person says, look, I couldn't go anywhere else.
I believe that in some sense that's true.
And I believe that you have to take on a new responsibility.
You're right.
You're right.
I actually, one of my, I have 14 ethical principles,
which I actually don't have memorized,
but I generally know them.
And the 14th is with great power comes great responsibility.
Very cliche, but I tell my team every day,
I got two of my folks are out there in the green room
and they're, and they're winking at me.
Like I tell my folks every day
that we have a profound responsibility.
Where I disagree a little bit is that,
and I'm, and I'm, I am trying to, in good faith,
get to the fundamentals.
You feel like we've had a good faith conversation so far?
Oh, absolutely.
I'm just trying to address your fundamental, please, argument.
And it's an interesting point that you're narrowing,
that you're pinning, you're down on.
It's interesting, Eric, because nobody else,
even in, even the people I, are my heroes of the 20th century,
all of them are kind of, took this sort of like, oh, shucks.
Like, are you kidding me?
Give me a, give me an effing break about ethics.
The guy's not going to tell me the stuff unless I go in there.
That's how they say it.
They say the only way to get the information is to use this.
And they, they do go for the jugular,
but they're not bloodthirsty.
It's not blood sport.
They, they, they believe so much that a government agency's not
stepping up in all the rationalizations that I've gone over with you here
about why we do it.
They, and for me, in college, the Lucky Charms,
it was literally a justice complex.
And when you're wired the way that we are.
Are you a hypocrite?
What's that?
Are you a hypocrite?
I am.
How so?
I don't know.
I say lots of things that aren't true.
I lie sometimes.
I have a rosy opinion of myself that probably won't bear scrutiny.
Oh, I see what you're saying.
In other words.
I see what you're saying.
I'm a sinner to use the religious.
Yes, I think, I think so.
And I expect not to be destroyed for my sins constantly.
I don't always want to be reminded of the Farter from Sparta,
although it's a pretty damn good limerick.
That is a very astute point.
A lot of people have said, are wary because if they're
in front of the magnifying glass,
you're going to find if you're in a bar saying things.
And I think it goes back.
That's why you're losing people.
Yes.
In part, in part, the idea is I can't see the difference between if you had a more
clearly stated ethics, if you went to greater lengths to first try,
can we get the reform without causing somebody to lose their job?
But can I, can I make one modification about our vision statement?
Please.
Our vision statement has evolved from 10 years ago.
And now we have these brave insiders that wear the cameras.
And in some cases, violate their own confidentiality agreements.
And to your point, they're heroes for what they do,
and they're willing to lose their jobs.
And why?
Because they have some sick fetish with being martyrs?
Of course not.
Because they are so motivated by this justice complex.
Oh, and by the way, when we talk about being hypocrites,
of course I'm a hypocrite.
Everyone does things that make mistakes in their private life.
If you put my life under...
You have things to hide, I do.
Of course.
We have secrets.
Yeah.
And there are boundaries on where we...
And I appreciated what you said before,
that you had things that could destroy somebody that you wouldn't air because you didn't...
100%.
Another ethics rule of my 14 rules is I tell my staff,
behave as though there are 12 jurors always watching you.
Eric, this is a very important distinction between me and us.
And I would think other newsrooms and in the intelligence community.
A huge distinction ethically that we...
That I believe in is that you have to behave like there are 12 jurors always watching you
whenever you work.
In your bedroom, I don't want to know what goes on in your bedroom.
I don't care.
I think that's a boundary I would never cross.
I brag when drunk in bars.
You?
I don't...
I do not do that.
Do you drink?
Very rarely.
Okay, I drink.
There's nothing wrong with drinking.
Okay, when I drink, I become disinhibited.
When I become disinhibited, I say things that self-aggrandize,
that I think make me look big in the moment.
And when you...
There's a context.
Wait a second.
I'm sorry.
Now, my point to you is not to tell you that I'm the world's worst person in a bar.
My point is, is that a lot of us go drinking in bars.
A lot of us say stupid stuff.
A lot of us say contradictory stuff.
A lot of us puff ourselves up.
A lot of us come forth with lies, with truths, all sorts of things.
And effectively, what you're doing is you're losing those of us who wish to remain sinners
and part of this world.
Now, I see this in terms of a right of center counterculture.
For example, you are particularly animated by the story of leftist professors
extolling the virtues of Stalin when he was an incredible mass murderer.
I'm with you.
I come from the left.
I hear you.
It makes me effing crazy.
Likewise, I can tell you that I am very, very pissed off and angry about all sorts of stuff
that goes on on the right.
Now, in general, I spend my time targeting the left for very different reasons that you do.
My feeling is you guys are throwing the game.
You make us look terrible.
What are you?
You're like, from my perspective, you're supporting mass murderers now.
You want to talk about the starvation in the Ukraine.
You want to talk about the show trials.
You want to talk about Article 58.
Who the hell are you to extoll the virtues of Joseph Stalin?
Your perspective may be that's that lefty crap, but I come from a part of the left that you
probably would get along with much better.
Question about people who stood up for the working poor, people who are very focused
on the abuses of power, wherever they are.
And I look at you and I say, your politics, your own crusade, I see the issue with justice.
I have a justice issue as well.
And it both brings out the best in me and the worst.
And when I asked you about searching your soul and you start talking about all of the
things that make you more heroic, I'm not hearing the part that I'm looking for,
which is, you know, I'm not hearing the part that I'm looking for, but I'm hearing the part
that I'm looking for, which is what opens you up to people like my family, my friends, my colleagues,
which is you're doing great stuff sometimes.
Sometimes you're doing terrible stuff.
I don't want to get into what I think is great and what I think is terrible,
but it's enough to say that some of it is great.
I want to be able to bring my people what you do when you're doing great stuff.
And I don't want to spend three hours talking about the ethics of James O'Keeffe.
It's going to be hard, Eric, because no matter what we do, I think it's,
you're a rare individual because all of the time it's ostensibly about the methods,
but in reality, in your case, it is not what you were saying.
I'm saying that the methods make you an easy target.
