Association between Peter Thiel and the substance will be it's unclear exactly what
relationship and then they'll run that and do that whole thing.
So the economics amassed me.
This is a very important point.
You know, one of the reporters I researched in Pravda, when I wrote this book, Pravda was
that bosses have to have, they said bosses with balls.
Right.
You have to have an editor or someone that works for you that has Cajones, that has principal.
Huevos is unisex because it works for both of us.
What is it?
What is it?
Huevos.
Huevos.
Huevos.
You have to have Huevos.
And in back in the day, there were bosses with balls.
Amen.
And these days what David Wright says is, this is so ironic.
David Wright actually says at the bar, my bosses don't care about this stuff.
So that's, is that integrity?
Is that a lack of morality?
And then you have the economics of mass media.
It costs my organization or our organization, because it's a nonprofit, Project Veritas,
over one million dollars to do a story.
And sometimes it'll cost us as much as three quarters of a million dollars to fight a lawsuit.
I do not settle lawsuits, Eric.
In fact, we've won eight straight lawsuits.
You have settled us.
Uh, I have not ever lost a defamation lawsuit.
I've never settled defamation lawsuit.
Eleven years ago, I was sued for invasion of privacy in California and I settled one.
And I made a mistake and I'll never make that mistake again.
So I appreciate the distinction, but you have settled.
Important distinction.
Every time you say something that isn't, they're gonna, they're gonna, they're gonna play the
game and I'm not, again, I am not trying to destroy you.
I'm not trying to build you up.
I'm trying to get you a fair hearing.
Yeah. Let me be clear.
We've never lost a defamation lawsuit.
We've never settled a defamation lawsuit.
And 11 years ago, I was sued for invasion of privacy for recording a guy in a room with
the door open in California.
This guy was coaching me on how to get girls across the Tijuana border.
He claimed later, he would claim he was playing long, but I did not defame him by quoting him.
And I was sued for invasion of privacy.
I fought it and I didn't have any money.
So I settled.
So we don't settle lawsuits anymore.
We've won every lawsuit we've led.
By the way, I also, I just want to be very clear that there are all sorts of situations where
people settle when they're in the right because of the economics of the legal profession.
They're held to a different standard than me.
I totally understand.
So CNN settled the, and your audience knows this, CNN settled the Covington lawsuit for,
they were sued for 250 million.
People settle lawsuits all the time.
But my point is this, that you have to be-
I'm just saying that I don't think you should be held to the standard of never settling
as the, if you can meet it.
You want to know something very interesting?
Please.
A lot of the insiders, one of the reasons they came to us other than the fact that they,
Washington Post and New York Times, they said, one of them said to me,
the fact that you didn't settle that lawsuit, the fact that you stood by your reporting,
the fact that you would stand on principle at great economic cost,
my staff has to scuttle around the country on airplanes to meet with these people and
ask them for money.
And it pains me to have to spend three quarters of a million dollars.
Little old lady in North Carolina, you know, sued me for defamation.
I did not defame her.
I quoted her accurately.
I know the law and the facts are on my side.
And the arbitrator or the person in the middle goes,
why don't you just give the lady $25,000 call today?
And I have to spend three quarters of a million dollars.
It's like, I understand your problem.
You know, I understand.
And you break my fucking heart.
You really do.
Because you do stuff that is unnecessary, that causes harm to the effort to illuminate
what it is that you're trying.
I don't have your politics.
Interesting argument.
I said, you're making a very interesting argument.
I do things.
What are you hearing?
Let me see if I can restate what you're saying.
I do things that hurt my argument, but you like, you like the, the, the effects of it
or you like the truth.
I like the, I perceive and I could be wrong about this.
You're a very unusual person.
You are driven by something which is not money.
There are easier ways to turn a buck than what you're doing.
Right.
You were driven by, I think, it could be wrong, in part, an ideological need to get at
certain things that are going unreported anywhere.
In essence, there are a tiny number of places that can break a story like the stories that
you're breaking.
And I want to be able to wholeheartedly say, did you see that thing that occurred?
And when I see project Veritas and I say, okay, beyond that, I already know that the,
the, the big boys are playing unfairly with you.
Right.
So it's not like I'm saying that everything that they're doing is fair to you,
but you do things that are unnecessary, that tarnish what it is that you can bring to the
world.
You're not on the efficient frontier.
And this is my irritation and my anger with you.
Okay.
Is, is that you got cheap stuff in there when you're supposed to be reestablishing
investigative journalism.
Like what, what's the, give me some example.
I think that there's what, I think that you could do a tremendous amount to let people
know we've got the fucking goods on you.
When you say cheap stuff, just give me an example recently or even in the last decade.
When you've got a camera in a purse or whatever and something feels to me like you're on the
verge of entrapment or you're making one of those technical arguments, ignorance of the
law is no excuse.
We, you know, we looked it up and we were perfectly within our, when that kind of stuff
occurs and you're in costume and I'm thinking like, okay, was the poor, the poor SOB who
happens to be employed in this way and is, you know, speaking with bravado, maybe the
idea is like the standard reporter techniques of buttering people up.
I hate those when that comes from the New York time.
I've been through that mill.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
I don't like the behavior pattern.
And my feeling about it is, is that ethics, clearer ethics are a peacock's tail.
In other words, if you have, if you have the ability and the skill, you get to have the ethics.
If you're this close to the line, it's because you haven't gotten your skill together.
Now I'm trying to do some of what you're trying to do.
I released an episode recently talking about whether or not laboratory mice are broken for
the purposes of all sorts of science, which may include drug testing.
And I'm, I did not go for the jugular.
It was very pointed, but I invited the person who's most associated with the story onto the
story.
After the fact, I've tried not to speak much in public, giving them a very long time to
figure out how they wanted to respond.
Right.
Right.
And I, I intend to close the story out, but I am struggling with the ethics.
And my concern is, is that I want to watch you
writhe in pain as you struggle with the ethics of what you do.
I understand the argument that you're unearthing things that really matter.
Well, I could like, I mean, I, what's that line from the Shawshank redemption,
whatever sins I've committed, I paid for them.
And then some I've been, I mean, God, my story is in another deal.
I've been on probation for three years, federal probation supervised.
I've been charged with crimes.
I haven't committed.
I've been sued, deposed dozens of times.
I've, I've laid my soul bare under oath and depositions where they have all my emails.
And like Chesterton says, you know, the thing about bathing in hot water is that it keeps you
clean.
These are twin problems.
And you're not getting away with that.
Listen to me just very carefully.
Those things may make you heroic.
They may be incredibly.
I'm listening.
I'm listening.
They may make you heroic.
They may be incredibly painful.
But all of that stuff speaks potentially to courage and nobility,
to being the righteous man in an unjust world.
That's not what I'm talking about.
Fair enough.
Let me see if I can address your, the fundamental issue here of the, the purse cam or the button
cam or the lapel cam or the, and what it represents, what it represents in your soul.
What, whether I ride in, in, in consternation,
I guess the easiest way I can explain it in, in a very
personal way is that when I was in college, I went to Rutgers, I'm 25, 35 years old.
So when I was 20 years old on St. Patrick's Day, which I believe is this, is it today or
tomorrow?
We're around St. Patrick's Day filming here.
I was surrounded by professors telling me how great Stalin was.
And I'm like, well, I'm not really a history buff, but that seems odd.
You know, shouldn't we also talk about the gulags?
And again, I'm not, I wasn't a very-
Show trials, etc.
I wasn't, I wasn't learned about Stalin.
I just said, well, that's odd.
And I'd read the New York Times every day because I just liked to read the New York Times.
And I said, well, that's odd.
They seem to be using obfuscation in their, and I felt compelled to wear a hidden camera
and go into my dining hall to try to prove a point.
And I tried to get Lucky Charms banned on the grounds they were racist to my Irish heritage.
It was a little stunt-like.
It was a little Borat-like.
It remains people's favorite video.
I'm getting to a point here.
And that what I realized in doing this was that I had to hold these people to their own expressed
values because they don't, it's really hard to shame these people.
Yeah.
And we can be shamed because you believe in morality.
You believe in probably some sense of law and there should be equality before the law.
You believe in all these principles.
And the people that I'm dealing with are just irrational.
They're just like, Stalin's great.
