It's a conundrum because you can't get the effects.
You can't get the...
No, no, no.
You're at an interior point.
You're not on the efficient frontier, James.
You're just not.
There is no other means of a...
So, for example, if you were targeting Twitter, let's say,
and you went through and you said,
look, we have a new program at Project Veritas.
We are going to try to get this information,
but what we're going to try to do is we are going to try to limit the collateral damage
to individuals because we don't really want to destroy people.
What we want to do is to make sure that it is understood that the world has an
accurate idea of the platform on which it communicates.
Okay.
Right?
And then you went through great pains and you said,
look, here's our first line.
Our first line is we're going to try to spare people,
and then we are going to provide greater and greater resolution as you come to ignore our work
because the content layer is different than the really sexy humiliation layer.
The voyeurism, you're talking about.
I can't stand the voyeurism.
Maybe it's been characterized in the 20th century as voyeurism, like the television.
Can I say something that I really appreciate?
You came up with that word.
I wanted to use it, and I thought that's not going to be fair to him.
And so it feels to me like that's in good faith.
Do you think the viewers have a right to know,
the public has a right to know, what David Wright said in that bar with his face?
I don't know the answer to that question.
Because I think the answer is yes.
Okay.
And I struggle with it, and I understand your argument, and I worry.
And I also worry that for all of us hypocrites in the audience,
I don't want to see your face in a bar.
I don't want you in a mustache.
I don't want you in a dress.
I don't want you with a camera in your purse.
I don't think privacy is completely dead.
I don't know all the business in your life.
You may have gotten to that point.
And I know that all of the people who own tech companies want to tell me that
privacy is dead because they want to monetize my privacy.
That's true.
But to be honest, I don't know what they're doing in their bedrooms.
And so it's the asymmetry that I don't wish to live under.
And I don't wish to put a camera on you to keep you from putting a camera on me.
Now, you may have accepted those terms, but I am rejecting the game.
And I'm rejecting the game when The New York Times plays it with me.
The New York Times published my wedding website last Sunday.
And I can tell you in a personal moment of vulnerability here that that was hard for me.
And a lot of people, a lot of people, in fact,
I would say the majority reaction was they doxxed O'Keeffe's wedding.
And I remember I was in a grocery store because I think this cuts to your point.
I was in a grocery store.
I think, man, that sucks.
That hurts.
But I kind of simultaneously was like, well, that's my cross to bear.
That's that's because you've accepted the game.
I've accepted that I have not.
I hear you.
And most of us, you see, your appeal is limited by virtue of the fact that most of us are sinners
who don't know where James O'Keeffe's editing, don't know where James O'Keeffe's disguises,
don't know where James O'Keeffe's practices begin and end, whether the
in general covenant between two people that is assumed, which is often violated.
Often.
Yes.
Not not actually, but that existed before the advent of technology.
Believe me.
I understand that.
And I understand your point that it's better to actually have an accurate representation of
stuff.
But the thing is, is that I also think that in part, do you remember like this program to
catch a predator?
Of course, I remember it.
Okay.
So that was really, really interesting.
Was that the right way to go about that problem?
It was it was a little different than what we do.
It was it was a little it was a little.
That was mainstream.
Yes.
Who put that out?
Chris Hansen and NBC.
NBC.
NBC Dateline.
Chris Hansen would set up these people with and and and and and trap them.
I'm not legally speaking because they're not the government.
But in the case of right and robot, particularly as this asymptote gets a little less problematic,
I would say, to ethicists, we're just literally letting people and I mean this is strongly
with right.
We didn't even quote him.
Like even the word, but I'm trying to what I'm trying to do is to say what Dateline did,
if it is, in fact, Dateline Dateline NBC.
But Dateline was to set up something much more extreme in some sense than what you do
and to use the entertainment value of catching and destroying someone who would pray on show.
You have you have something, an activity which is completely evil.
Yes.
In my book and I don't I'm not going to back away from the word evil.
Probably committed by people who are mentally and psychologically damaged.
In fact, our friend David Eagleman even gives the case of a guy who had no pedophilia,
no pedophilic desires until he developed a brain tumor and then suddenly had them.
And then the brain tumor was excised.
They went away.
Then the pedophilia came back and they scanned the brain again.
There was a tumor.
So it's possible to destroy a life based on a weird physiology thing.
It's possible that these people are just sick, evil, horrible people.
I don't know what it is.
I'll tell you what I do know.
I know that the activity that these people were engaged in was evil.
And I know that the techniques were entertaining because they were so destructive and vindictive.
So a lot of ethicists in the 1990s and the 2000s said that it was akin to using a bazooka
to kill a fly.
It was voyeuristic.
At Project Veritas we didn't.
But it may have been...
Sorry.
I don't even know that.
Maybe it was the case that that was so terrifying that it actually stopped some stuff.
I don't know.
I have very complex view on this, but I strongly believe that there are some...
Now we're talking about...
It's the situational ethics.
Listen, the beauty and bane of the ethical thing is that it's inherently situational.
You can't evaluate the means used to obtain the information and the abstract.
You have to evaluate on a case-by-case basis.
This is what all of the reporters have said in the 20th century when it comes to this.
And when it comes to what we're talking about now, we're talking about Disney corporations,
children's company.
We're talking about Google, with whatever, a trillion-dollar market cap.
We're talking about Facebook.
We're talking about these leviathans.
And we feel...
I don't know how else to say it, and I know I'm being redundant,
but we feel the public has such a right to know that...
I get that, but I also don't think you can aim your rock with enough force,
and I don't think your stone will be true.
I think that you're not understanding the point, which is you're paying for things
that you could do better by a limit in the effectiveness of the project.
If you could get your politics the hell out of what you're doing.
I, on this point, I'm going to vehemently disagree with you.
Please.
We focus...
We don't moralize.
We don't editorialize the content.
The medium is so pure.
It's the purest type of reporting.
We don't add to it.
We don't edit it out of context, contrary to reports.
We don't do any of that stuff.
And what other journalists do is try to contextualize and add moralism to it,
investigate...
Our stuff is hard fact.
It's hard fact, and people say, well, you're right-wing.
Well, here's the deal.
If the New York Times wants to say, on the front page,
Jim Rutenberg wants to make the argument,
that we need to cover this guy unfairly,
and they use the paper of record and the bully pulpit to do that,
then if I just take my camera and aim it in any direction I want,
I'm going to record things that are contrary to what the media says.
Yes.
And the media has a...
I don't even want to call it a left of center,
but like a democratic party bias.
I believe that it does.
You may not, I can say that it does.
All right?
Now, it's not up to...
I'm not asking you to say it.
I just believe strongly that my politics don't...
Why do you go after acorn?
Because I logged on to YouTube, and I saw a videotape of, well, three reasons.
Number one, a girl messaged me on Facebook,
and said, I'd love to do something on acorn.
So I logged on to YouTube, 2009.
I typed into the search bar acorn,
because I didn't know a lot about them,
and I saw a video where there were squatting foreclosed homes.
And I looked that up, and I said, well, that's against the law.
So while that might be morally justified in some circumstance,
I think that someone needs to expose or test these acorn workers' propensity
or willingness to break the law.
And then Hannah Giles, the young woman said, why don't you pose it?
Why don't I pose as a prostitute?
And I said, well, that's interesting.
If there's a prostitute, there probably should be some pimps.
So I was testing and affirming, why is it that this organization,
which may get billions of dollars in federal money,
is allowed to break laws, and do people have a right to know that information?
And what was different about what we did
is we just walked in off the street and had a conversation.
It wasn't some elaborate deception.
We go after the sacred cows, Eric.
We go after the organizations that the media
is unwilling or unable to investigate.
I believe that there's a huge problem that you have in ostensibly,
