And there was a paragraph in this front page New York Times.
It was chocked full of circumstantial evidence.
One of the paragraphs said, you know, it's not clear what the relationship is between Trump
and O'Keeffe and so forth and so on.
That one little paragraph, the way they worded that it was literally, it's just not clear.
That was the meat of their argument.
It's not clear was the extent of their evidence.
And then that justified a circumstantial headline, which was used to create a,
I don't know if it was common cause or some left-leaning ethics group filing a complaint
against me.
And what it is, is it's what Daniel Borshton, the former Library of Congress,
calls a pseudo event.
The shadow has become the substance.
These people create these fake things.
And number two, what happens is that people in the government, these beat report,
I call them beat reporters, they have a source in government which leaks them information.
And then reportedly this happened.
That leak, that thing, which I don't do that, but I'm not a beat,
I'm an investigative reporter, which is a huge world of difference.
A beat reporter depends upon these people in the power structure to feed them intelligence.
It's like a counter-intelligence operation.
Someone in the government, some two-star general talks to the New York Times
and we don't know who that two-star general is.
We don't know their name.
We don't know what motivates them.
We don't know why they're doing it.
We don't know what they're saying.
We don't know the full quote.
And this is the status quo of journalism.
So when you unpack that and you take-
Do you think I don't have a problem with journalism in exactly this capacity?
I'm sorry, do you think I, you don't have a problem with it or you do?
I mean, you and I just began this by singing Gershwin together to check our mic levels.
True.
I would imagine that you and I are pretty harmonious on the idea that our major
institutions of news gathering and dissemination are wildly out of control.
But the reason why that matters is because this is-
We're trying to diagnose what is wrong and how we got there.
And what happened was-
Look, I can do this stuff in my sleep in a rambling interview.
Internet personality Eric Weinstein sat down with right-wing activist James O'Keefe.
James proceeded to justify his methods which have previously been found unethical by
his peers in the journalistic community through a series of ends justify the means points that
failed to land or something.
Like it can go on and on and on.
What would you like to focus on?
Well, the point that I'm trying to get at is,
okay, I know how they play this game.
I know that there's a to be sure paragraph,
seven paragraphs in where the actual information is shared.
I know highly placed sources say X.
I know that they cut the quotes, they change the context.
Okay, all of this stuff is assumed by-
You don't know my audience.
I got the best audience in all the podcast.
I mean, I have the biggest podcast,
but I have people who will dig into anything we talk about.
And we don't need to handhold for them.
They got it.
They also believe probably mostly in the need for journalism.
They understand the problems with the major institutions of journalism.
That's not really what occupies us.
If we spend our time there, we're going to stay in the shallow
and we won't get anything done.
All right.
Okay.
Assume that there's a terrible problem in news now.
And assume that in some sense you are actually a throwback to an earlier,
more aggressive style of journalism.
But you're also picking up some serious negatives.
And I don't think that the trade-offs are the way you say they are.
And so that's, I want to get to the next level conversation
rather than the intro conversation.
Let somebody else have that with you.
Sure.
Okay.
I don't think you're on the efficient frontier,
would be a better way of saying what my problem is with you and Project Veritas.
In other words, you're saying that you have to deceive the source at some level,
which is a negative.
You'd prefer to do as little of that as possible.
So you have two objectives.
One is you want to inform the public and you want to deceive the source as little as possible.
I don't think that you're at the point where you have to trade off one to get the other.
I think you could do actually deceive less and get more.
Now, I could be wrong about that.
Okay.
One thing you could do, for example, just to limit the damage to human beings
would be to pixelate people and say, this is a senior reporter.
We've disguised the voice.
We've pixelated the image.
Our interest isn't the reporter.
The reporter is only as important as that chair and our focus is on the chair.
And if you did that, at some level, you would say, look, I'm not trying to humiliate somebody.
I'm not trying to make them unemployable.
I'm trying to say, you've got a problem in the news media.
What is your problem?
And it would be seen differently.
It would be seen as his focus isn't the issue of sticking it to the enemy.
His focus is trying to get journalism to function properly.
Okay.
Let me try to address that.
I mean, I think it's...
Does the point make sense about not having a mission frontier?
I think so.
As I explain this, cut me off if I'm going in the wrong direction.
Correct me if I have a wrong impression.
I'm trying to understand your point, so let me see if I can answer this.
I think going back to your point about Newspaper Man in the 1970s,
it wasn't that they were bloodthirsty or had a lust for blood lust,
because people get fired when you expose things.
It was that they had an instinct to go for the jugular, but not be bloodthirsty.
And I think that investigative reporting does, in fact, harm people.
I do think it does.
And that's the premise.
It's an outcome of truth telling.
And if your goal is to limit damage to people, it's going to...
Maybe this is where we disagree, come into conflict with investigative reporting.
Your point about pixelating faces, I think about this a lot.
I think about the ethics of this a lot.
And what makes what we do a renaissance to your point about the 20th century in reporting,
it is a renaissance.
Newspaper Man used to do all this stuff, and we could talk about this later in the show,
or right now, whatever your preferable.
It is the only way to slip the disc, so to speak, in my view.
The only way is to focus on a shift in the medium.
The fact that we don't pixelate the faces, the fact that, like Alinsky says,
pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, polarize it.
The fact that you have an actual person...
Sorry, is Alinsky a fan of him?
I'm not a fan of him.
He's stating what I think is a reality about forcing a reaction from...
I'm a progressive who can't stand Alinsky.
Well, I don't agree with...
You're a conservative who actually thinks it's interesting.
No, it's not binary.
I don't like Alinsky.
I'm quoting something he's saying...
No, I appreciate that.
...a universal truth about human behavior.
If you pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, and polarize it,
you're more prone to generate a reaction.
We can talk about this later that I think slips the disc.
So when you don't pixelate the face, when you show the intonation,
the body language, the cadence, the way that the man looks in his eyes,
Patrick Davis at CNN, when we covertly filmed him,
he was an unwitting whistleblower.
He did not...
He was not a villain.
He was not a villain.
And some ethicists might say,
why would you put that poor managing editor at CNN unblast?
And I said, because CNN is played in airports, that's why.
Because you are a few standard deviations away from the mean, Eric.
Most people in airports look at that and goes, that's the truth.
And when the managing editor, I can't recall his exact title,
Managing Director of Field Operations,
Patrick Davis sits in that bar.
This was filmed last year and says, I hate what we've become.
This is what Patrick Davis says on the hidden camera.
We could be so much better than we are.
That's a direct quote.
I don't even listen to the CEO or the president's calls anymore.
I'm disgusted by it.
It's what he's saying.
And I have to make an evaluation.
A means ends evaluation on, do I blur this man's face?
And I say, no, why?
Because in my view, in a world where the media is more powerful
than all three branches of the government of the United States,
which we can talk about that if you disagree with me,
I have an obligation to tell the people about what this man
who basically controls all of the stuff happening on CNN.
I understand the argument.
What he believes.
Okay.
Okay.
And I'm not even, look.
I'm just passionate.
That's why I'm not arguing with you.
I'm just passionate and I firmly believe that.
Brother, you ain't seen nothing yet.
Go ahead.
No, I'll match your passion for passion.
Of course.
Okay.
Yeah.
My concern is that you're actually, so the way I view it is
you're an alternate David throwing stones at the same goliath.
And you're pissing me off at some level.
And the reason you're pissing me off is probably complicated,
which is why these interchanges, they never happen.
And it's a great thing to do it.
If I look at what happened, for example, with the Amy Roerbach tape,
do you want to say a little bit about how you see that?
And then I'll come back to it and say how I see it as being significant.
How I see it in general?
Well, just that you, you broadcast it to the world.
And I think it's an incredible, incredibly important
and interesting piece of footage.
