and I hate the term left of center media,
sort of a center left oriented media,
that refuses to go after center left counter-narrative stories.
And that would be a counter-narrative story.
So in other words, I think I can tell the tale,
which is there is no news outfit that is so good
that it can run counter-narrative stories,
and there's no news outfit that's so inept
that it can't run a story fairly that comes right down the center of its narrative.
And then the key question is, what about the stories that are, you know,
30% oblique to the narrative or who knows what, right?
So this is like the main problem.
So given that the major organs, you know, tend to be aligned
with this sort of center left perspective,
those stories don't get cut.
They live in the blind spot.
And so I understand why you do it.
And in part, this is why I target the same group of people,
because my feeling is that they are destroying the conflict.
Now, what really divides us is that you and I have radically different ideas
about what to do about this problem.
And I'm concerned that I'm coming across and I'm saying,
here are my biases, right?
And you're even saying you're right-wing.
If I say you're right-wing versus right-of-center versus conservative
versus alt-right, like, there are all sorts of ways to conjugate.
Well, often Sinclair was a socialist.
Seymour Hirsch, the guy who broke the My Lie Masker,
was an anti-war activist.
All of the people that have ever done anything worth doing,
as far as I'm-
You've quoted Chomsky about manufacturing.
No, no, no, no, that's not my point.
My point is that anybody who's ever found facts
that were the fiercest of indignation fused with the hardest of facts
were total ideologues.
And more power to them, as far as I'm concerned,
as long as what they were reporting was actually factual and only fact.
I understand that it is not your job to be a judge.
I understand that it is not your job to investigate all facts
and that you have a right to choose what you want to focus on.
And right now, that's probably the fourth estate, is the beat.
I understand it.
I'm missing the point.
Well, or I mean, I say most of the discussion is really good,
but there is a point at which we-
The ethics of what we do.
And I don't know if I'm qualified academically to go deeper-
You strike me as very self-righteous and insufficiently reflective
with respect to some of the most persistent critiques.
And it is not the case.
Like, I don't think you've ever been given your due for the good that you do.
Like Trump, when he does good, we tell him that he's a jerk.
Right?
Okay.
In general, as a society.
So the idea is that he just-
If you wanted a model, when you decide that somebody is themselves bad,
there's a belief that you should never say anything positive about that person.
Right?
Because to do that clutters the issue.
And the issue is we know we have a bad person.
So for example, Hitler gave-
There was a protest in the Rosenstrasse of women who wanted their
half Jewish men back from the death camps.
And somehow these women were so badass that they actually caused a problem for the Nazis.
And the Nazis relented and released these men.
Okay.
Do I want to say good for the Nazis for doing this thing in the middle of a horrible,
you know, psychotic situation?
I don't want to say a damn thing that's positive.
I want it to be so simple, so clean, that it's just Nazi equals bad.
Right.
Right?
So this is kind of the problem that we have, is that we don't want to acknowledge
anything good about somebody we deem to be bad.
But the way our videos work is that they slip the disc in so far as they force a reaction,
and that end justifies that particular mean.
Maybe the idea is I want you to be a little bit less certain
about the numerator and denominator of what you're doing,
because it adds up to effectiveness.
And that I know that in the next two years,
somebody is going to send you a piece of video that I am going to say,
oh my God, that is incredible.
I needed to know that.
That is the most important thing.
And it's going to have Project Veritas stamped on it.
And I am going to show that to people.
And you know what they're going to say?
I'll just tell you, because I move in academic left of center circles.
You can't trust anything from Project Veritas.
And I'm going to say, wait a minute,
are you claiming that there's a cut in this?
Are you claiming that this never happened?
Are you claiming this?
And they are not going to listen to a word.
All they are going to say is, I've got my fingers in my ears.
My eyes are closed.
And I'm going, so I don't have to hear a single thing James O'Keefe ever says.
That's their strategy to keep you from having the impact
that some of the best of your work deserves.
And it will work for a while.
But then one day we'll catch some things
and we'll catch some more things and for some more reactions.
And little by little, over time, people will go, you know,
but there's a guy in New Jersey, David Perry.
That guy was caught on tape telling a person
he thought was a child abuser teacher.
Just lie and put it back on the child.
The Democratic State Senate of New Jersey, where I'm from,
this is two years ago, held hearings about it.
They, the governor of New Jersey, who's Phil Murphy,
the big friend of the teachers, he was forced to condemn it.
So by getting the reactions from the institutions,
by forcing other insiders to come forward,
it's just after a while, we just keep going.
We just keep doing it.
I don't feel that you are partially effective.
And I can't get the efficient...
I'm not trying to focus on my self-righteousness or my heroism.
What I'm trying to do is tell you that in order to do this job,
the reporter has to have a sense of tunnel vision.
Nothing can get in our way if I let anything stop me from that vision,
which is a very...
By the way, it's going to happen.
We're going to recruit more insiders.
They're going to record more things inside these institutions.
And there's going to be double the output every year.
And after a while, we did one of these stories in Delaware,
where a teacher's union official was caught on tape,
and the union said, you can't trust Project Veritas.
They're right-wing, extreme criminals.
And the membership, most of whom were probably Democrats,
but not as political as us, were like,
but he was on tape protecting a child abuser.
Why are we trying to cover that up?
There was a slip in the disc.
And I've got the documents.
I could show you the source material,
where the members were chattering on the internal message boards.
And Eric, the president of the Delaware union,
said, do not click on this YouTube.
Do not give O'Keeffe one more view.
And all of the members were like, but what's...
Well, I hate O'Keeffe, but what's wrong with what he did here?
So my point is content is king.
James, you're not getting it.
I feel like though I am.
Well, I feel like what you're doing
is you're telling me that you are effective.
And I'm not disputing that.
Why bother telling me that you're having an impact?
Because if you want to evaluate the ethics in the abstract,
it's impossible for me to justify...
I cannot...
It's impossible for me to justify.
I am not telling you to be an angel.
I'm really not.
I cannot, I will not.
It is ethically impossible for me to justify using a disguise
in the ways we do, because it's like trying to...
James, I haven't even said anything
about whether you're entitled to do some of that stuff.
Maybe I need to make myself clear.
Maybe so, but I believe what...
It's going to be very difficult for me to make an argument,
a logical argument, defending methods
that taken in the abstract are indefensible on their own.
It's like trying to...
One ethicist says like trying to invent fireproof coal
or dry water.
I can't...
I'm not asking you to be a perfect angel.
I'm telling you something different,
which just doesn't land.
Okay.
I don't think you're on the efficient frontier.
I think that there are things you could do
that could minimize the individual harm
and maximize the anti-institutional effectiveness
of your operation.
Minimize the individual harm.
Right?
In other words, the problem that you have
is that most of the people that you're broadcasting to
are like me, poor schmucks
who don't have their stuff completely sorted out.
They partially sympathize
and partially cannot stand the people you're catching on video.
And by doing more to up the ethics of your game,
you would have more effectiveness.
And I'm not saying you have no effectiveness.
I'm not saying you've done no good.
I'm not saying you don't have huevos of steel.
I'm not saying that I haven't thrilled
to things that you've released.
I'm not backing one second away
from my decision to invite you here.
And I think I made absolutely the right decision
to make a decision to make a decision.
