Absolutely the right decision.
I have things I could try to gotch you with.
I think you'd be fine with it
because I think you're a pugilist
and you accept the game in a way that I do not.
And the key issue is I'm standing by what I'm doing.
We want your heroic behavior.
And we want you to get some of the flies
in your ointment out, maybe not all of them.
Okay.
All right.
I think I understand and going back.
We want to see you struggling with the fact
that somebody is not going to have a job
when you're done with them
or somebody is going to be humiliated
or somebody maybe will take their own life at some point.
So why did you...
Sorry.
When you could have pixelated their face
and gone after the employer...
Pixelate the face if I use these strategies to...
You can figure out what...
Look, as I said, I'm not making a case
that I would not make against Dateline NBC.
Well, you don't know what you...
You don't know the unknowns,
which is that we do in fact redact, omit,
and otherwise not publish...
You protected Zach Voorhees' face
when you had him on your program, yes?
Yes, until...
Yes, and he made the decision to go public.
I understand that, but my point was
that there was a period of time
where you were protecting your source
and not protecting the target...
Jen Jenai at Google that he filmed.
And what I'm trying to say is,
I want to see you wrestle with the ethics
more than justify the ethics,
because to be honest, I had a phone call with you
and you were wrestling with the ethics
and it was inspiring.
I think I wrestle with them more than you see.
That's what I'm saying.
And at night, getting a little naked
at the booth here, I torture myself.
Yes, that's what I'm trying to fucking say.
And most people don't see that
in the single-minded, driven...
You don't wrestle with the idea
whether you're going to protect your sources,
but you wrestle with the ethics.
This is the thing that really...
I do, you have to take my word for it,
but at night, when I believe that I'm in my bed,
I'm...
You willing to die for it, Jen?
I have an internal dialogue with myself.
For example, in the upcoming story,
which I'm not going to say on the air,
but in the upcoming story, we have this person
that we had to protect for reasons I can't even say.
And our team had two days of conversations
about, do we blur the person's face?
Do we elicit her name?
We did all that.
And it comes down to a cliche,
which the Pam Zachman said in the 1970s,
which you have to balance the harm to the person
with the weightiness of what is being exposed.
No, no, no.
You only have to do that on the efficient frontier.
Do you understand the point?
If you're in an interior point,
you are not at the point
where you have to balance those two things yet.
Your first goal is to get to the efficient frontier.
And that's an issue of skill.
Okay.
Help me understand more.
Help me understand bridge of this concept
from the efficient frontier,
balancing harm versus public importance.
Imagine, for example,
that you hadn't pixelated somebody's face,
but you could pixelate it
and you could have the same effect just for the moment.
I see.
The point is you don't yet have to balance
the harm to the individual.
In fact, you can even get a boost in both.
It could be that people say, oh my God,
he's trying not to destroy the person.
He's really concerned about platforms
that have a bias that can't be discussed in public,
which I'm really disturbed about.
And I also, you know,
I hate, I really hate that Donald Trump is president.
I really do, but this is a democracy.
And we have the, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Okay.
My show.
Go ahead.
We have a right to elect Donald Trump
if that's what we're, what, what we're going to do.
We don't have a group of people
that gets the right to stop Donald Trump.
You either signed up for democracy project
or you're not.
I'm signed up for the democracy project.
So if the electorate elects Donald Trump,
I have to accept that Donald Trump is the president.
I don't have to like it.
Right.
But that's part of what being an American is.
And God damn it, if my guy at some point wins,
you're going to have to suffer through him too.
So tough shit.
Right.
That's, that's the bargain that we sign up for as Americans.
Okay.
You don't have an unelected group of techies
who get to keep their finger on the scale
and say, well, for the good of the world,
we have the right to control the election
because all the information passes through our servers.
Okay.
I get that.
What if you're in a situation where you can protect the individual
and by protecting the individual,
display a kind of humanity that causes more people
rather than fewer to sign on because the content,
rather than the destruction of the person,
is what really animates us.
Are you telling me that I'm being de-boosted and downranked
and they claim that they don't shadow ban
because they've got different words for it?
Are you telling me that Google has an internal thing
called the good sensor and they won't talk to us about it?
Is there an esoteric exoteric game?
Are you telling me that a bunch of people
whose politics I don't know is determining exactly
what the contents of my mind are
and that we can't even discuss this?
I'm animated by your content.
And what you're instead showing me
is the pornography of personal destruction.
Interesting.
Interesting.
The pornography, I've heard-
Say it with me.
The pornography of personal destruction.
The pornography of personal destruction.
I think I've heard this argument before somewhere,
someplace by someone.
So I've actually thought about this.
And I think where we disagree on the premise
is that I'm, quote, destroying, unquote,
someone by letting them talk.
And what I'm trying to reconcile here
is that we believe so strongly
that journalism is corrupt
because you don't see the intonation,
the movement of their eyes.
I've already seated this to you.
You've already seated this to me.
But to me, this is directly connected
to the premise that we're destroying people.
I don't think we're destroying David Wright.
And maybe we're freeing them a little bit.
I had the Wall Street Journal come after me.
They like personal destruction.
Don't get them wrong.
They're into it, man.
I think you and I agree on that right now.
All right, so then-
We don't need to grapple with that.
But what I'm struggling with is I don't view it
as a destruction and I'm ready
and willing to live in a world.
In this sense, I'm not a hypocrite.
Where if someone wants to record me to bar bragging openly-
Because you're also getting paid from this.
I mean, I don't mean to say that that's why you-
Well, actually, I'd like to make a profound comment about this.
I started in my...
And I'm passionate.
I'm not angry.
I'm just passionate because I live with this.
By the way, I appreciate that.
I'm just passionate.
I started this on my parents' bedroom floor with a laptop.
People thought I was freaking nuts.
I don't want you making this argument
because I can make it better for you.
Well-
The fact that I said that you were getting paid for it
doesn't mean that this is your road to riches.
