or, you know, the inflation adjusted equivalent, get insurance now and sign up for cryonics.
Yeah. And honestly, you'd have to sign up for cryonics anyway, but also get the insurance
to fund it. Yeah. The five second pitch is that Chronix Institute charges 120 bucks a year, which
is substantially less than your Netflix subscription. Or one-time payment of $1,000.
Exactly. Yeah. So if you're planning on being a member for more than 10 years, you save money
that way, or nine years, mind your own math. I have now reached the point where I'm saving money.
Nice. Yeah. I need to do that this year, I think. Mine re-ups in May. And a life insurance policy
for a healthy-ish 20-something-year-old is like 30 bucks a month, which is nothing to take a stick
at for a lot of people. It was hard on me for the first few years, but like, if you can swing it,
man, look at the rates for signing up for life insurance in your 50s. It's hundreds of dollars
a month. It's insane. And just the fact that if I were to get cancer tomorrow, I wouldn't be like,
well, shit, I'm probably fucked. I mean, I'm still probably fucked, but at least now I have
that glimmer of hope, whereas if I were to get it tomorrow, I'm like, damn it, it's too late for me
to get life insurance now. What am I going to do? This is the kind of thing that you should have set
up before you need it. Yes, exactly. As they say in Poland, it's too late to dig the well
once your house is already on fire. I thought it was going to be, never mind. Awesome. Well,
that sounds good. All right. We're getting close to the end, so we got to finish this up.
Sounds good. Go ahead. Oh, well, I'll save this for the non-existent side topic section that we'll
get to after we plug the next time posts. Okay. We have scope and sensitivity, one of my favorites.
I think everyone's familiar with it at some point, and One Life Against the World,
which sounds super dramatic and exciting, so stay tuned. Excellent. Or read ahead and join us
in two weeks. Yeah, and links will be, as always, at the basinconspiracy.com. That's right. But before
we sign off, I sent you guys a message earlier this week, might have been the weekend. Okay.
Speaking of all this solism and afterlifeism, God's real guys. Is what? E3, they launched a
trailer for Breath of the Wild 2. Oh, right. Nothing's been more compelling evidence to me.
We've had people write in, send us some cool arguments, and no, man, they don't make sequels
to Delta games. They certainly, I don't think they're going to make a sequel to Breath of the
Wild. It looks like it picks up right after the first one. This is proof positive. Finally.
It's a miracle. A miracle in every sense of the word. Oh, that said, I should find,
give me just one second here. Oh, yes, great Reddit name. Operation Question sent in a link
to a podcast that I actually enjoy called, Philosophize This. And the, I've only listened to
four or five episodes. The authors or the host clearly has like a slant. Basically, it takes
philosophers or specific ideas and just talks about it for like 30 minutes in a cool way.
And it's approachable if you, you know, miss having a good philosophy podcast in your life,
because you listened to all of the Philosophy of Whites episodes when they were out in 2011.
Maybe they're still making them. I don't know, whatever. I haven't had a philosophy podcast
in my feed for a long time, so it's a good, it's a good fun thing. So thank you, Operation Question.
And that's, Philosophize This? Yep, Philosophize This with an exclamation point,
but I just put in FIL and it found it anyway, but maybe it's smart search or something.
FIL? F-I-L? Or pfft. Geez. All right, time to sign off.
P-H, I was looking at it, looking at the letters, I still phonetically said it. Yeah, it's spelled
Philosophize This like you actually spelled both of those words, not like I just tried to spell it.
Cool. And I think that's all I should say for the night, so.
Before we sign off, I have one last thing.
Patron? What's that?
We gotta thank a patron too. And yes, so we got two more things.
Yes, sorry. The thing before the thanking the patron is that this episode will release on July
3rd, and which means that when this episode releases, my novel will now be officially out to buy.
It'll be in its first week of release, just have released a few hours before this episode.
It'll be available both in ebook and in paper versions.
If anyone has any interest in reading this, buying it someday in the future, I would like to ask,
if you know you're going to buy it anyway at some point, please buy it in the first week.
That makes a huge difference for Amazon's various algorithms as to whether they will
show this to other people or, you know, recommended anything.
The really the first week sales are unreasonably highly weighted in my opinion, but that's what
they are. So please, if you are going to now would be a good time. I would also say in promotion of
my own book, when I was writing this, I workshopped it at the Northern Colorado Writers Workshop,
which is Writers Workshop, which was run by Ed Bryant, not anymore, because he died a couple
years ago. But Ed Bryant, a big name in older sci-fi, he won two Nebula awards, presented,
you know, at the Nebulas. He worked with Stan Lee on some comics. He worked with George R.R.
Martin frequently on their wild cards. You guys can hear my expression changing. This keeps
getting higher and higher and awesomeness. Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, Ed Bryant was a name back in the
day and, you know, he helped me out in a few places. He had some nice things to say, but
probably what I will never forget is that in one of the, he was old fashioned because, you know,
he was old at this point. He died basically of old age. He always wanted all his stuff in
paper copy. Like everyone else, I'd send emails and stuff, but he would get printouts. And in one
of the printouts that I got back across the top, he wrote bravara writing with an exclamation point.
And I was like, fucking awesome. Oh, I love that. Yeah. That was the coolest thing I've ever had.
Like, I don't know. Not only was it like enthusiasm for my writing, it was enthusiasm for my writing
from someone who's this big in the field, you know? So, anyways, if you would like to read
some bravara writing, as said by Ed Bryant, please check out What Lies Dreaming, available at
all sorts of places, but also at Amazon. The paper copy is quite a bit more expensive than
the ebook copy because, you know, I don't have a traditional publisher, so print on demand is
quite a bit more expensive than running 2000 books at once and warehousing them. But yeah,
if you really want a paper copy, you can get it. Cool. Are you comfortable dropping the price
dropping? Oh, oh, oh, yeah. The ebook is $9.59. And then the paper book is like $16.99, I think.
I don't remember just now. I thought you were going to say $16.99 or something. No, no,
not that. Say print another seven bucks for a paper copy. Yeah. I think that's way more than
a display on your shelf. Yeah. I don't buy a lot of books on Amazon, but like,
I think paper copies typically cost about twice as much at least, so. I don't think they cost
twice as much, but they always cost more. Well, I'm glad I asked because you scared me away by
saying like, oh, it's way more expensive. It's another few bucks. You're still getting a paperback
book of a given a claim by a renowned author for 17 bucks. Yeah. Sounds dope. Okay. All right.
Also, the book title is What Lies Dreaming. Yes. We should keep saying that.
I feel like you keep forgetting to say what the title is. The title is What Lies Dreaming.
I did make sure that he said it like a minute ago, but you almost got a boy without saying it.
All right. Cool. Okay. We can touch on everything else and more feedback later,
because it's late. Yes, the name. Whose turn is it? Jesses. All right. Our patron this time is
Marcine Jaco. I don't know if that's how you pronounce it. They always give me the hard ones.
Marcine, thank you for your support. We appreciate you. And you're the reason that
we were able to keep doing what we do. Hell yeah. Thank you, Marcine. Yeah, thank you.
Once again, we really appreciate it. And we do have some very vague rewards on our Patreon page.
I think a lot of other shows that are maybe put a little more time in production actually like
have tiered awesome rewards. But basically, if you support the show and you want literally
anything within reason, shoot us a message and we'll see if we can make it happen or we can
negotiate something. So seriously, Patreon message, go straight to our inbox. We'll respond as soon as
we can. Yeah. You can comment on our website, TheBaseInConspiracy.com. You can comment on the
in the subreddit, which is where a lot of the feedback happens at r slash basin conspiracy.
I think it's TheBaseInConspiracy. Okay. And yeah, thanks for listening. You guys are awesome.
Awesome. Have a great night. Bye.
