and mindfulness too.
And it'll help you like notice when you're surprised and help you track like your changes
over the years.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Help you pay more attention to the things that you're not surprised by, but that you
are still noticing in the background.
Yeah.
There's a lot of stuff that you ignore just because you're so used to seeing it that it's
like blended into it's camouflaged.
Um, what do you think about there's this kind of other thing that the media does about being
over surprised or exaggerating their surprise about everything new that we learn?
Oh, right.
I feel like that might have the same kind of negative bystander effect, but like to
the opposite extent, like you mean like the outrageous science headlines or yeah, like
every, every, you know, science headline ever is like scientists are baffled.
Yeah, I, my general rule, and I didn't invent these, but there's a handful of them that I
don't know if I could talk about in the name of the list, but it's like, how to like notice,
clickbait and just answer to it.
So like if the, if the headline is in the form of a question, the answers always know.
Um, so, or like scientists can't believe it's like, yes, they can, or you're wrong.
So yeah, I can, I'm not a social scientist, but I would bet a thousand dollars that there's
no way that's not damaging society.
I mean, you hear again, big capital words headline, this new revolutionary treatment
for whatever, um, I can't remember how many times back before I left Facebook, I saw that,
you know, we've got a treatment or a early detection for Alzheimer's or something.
And it's still not around because, you know, turns out like whatever, the ability to smell
peanut butter was like loosely correlated to like 30 people or something, right?
Yeah, someone's proposed like a phase one's clinical study or even something pre-clinical,
like, okay, now we have some evidence that this might do this and we're going to test it.
And some, you know, journalist jumps on it as, aha, we have found a new drug for Alzheimer's.
And that's super common with like, you know, the idea that like the plastic and water bottles
causes cancer that was, uh, from like one study by a grad student at M or some Ivy League college,
whatever. And their lab equipment was tainted with BPA. They're like testing tubes and they
discovered that published, you know, the result got redacted or they published the update,
but like nobody notices that they catch the headline cancer in your water and it never
goes away. And that's still a thing that people worry about today, right? The, the, the vaccine
concerns people have from Andrew Wakefield's bullshit stuff, which was actual fraud. Yeah,
which someone fucked up, but straight up intentional fraud. But, but all the average
anti-vaxxer knows is that some doctor found this was a thing and then whatever, maybe he got
suppressed or something. What they don't know is that he got his license revoked for malpractice
and, uh, fraud. Yeah. So do you see the recent thing about the incredibly strong correlations
between, uh, air particulate air pollution, air particulate pollution and, uh, Alzheimer's
onset? Yeah. Apparently it's a really lot of, um, I mean, still only correlation and they,
they would have to look more into it somehow. Though I don't know how you double blind that
sort of test, but, uh, it, it made me really think twice about living in a dense urban environment.
This is not that dense. No, no, no. This is not that dense at all. Uh, I'm out in the suburbs
and it's pretty nice, but like I'm, I'm less likely to want to live near a major street or in,
you know, downtown Denver itself. Denver in general is just not that dense. You should
cozy New York or New Jersey sometime. Everything is so far apart from everything else here.
It's ridiculous. I think it's just the idea like the less the merrier, but yeah, that's,
that's nerve-wracking. Um, this is totally an aside, well too far of an aside to get into,
other than I'll skip straight to the punchline, which seems like a non sequitur that it's a
travesty that you can't sign up for cryonics or that rather you're not, whatever, you can't
cash in your cryonics benefits if you commit suicide and or use the, whatever they call it,
if you elect to die from a terminal illness. Um, so like if you have Alzheimer's and you're like,
oh great, I can, you know, preserve my brain while it's still in, still in good shape,
you can't do that yet. Uh, you have to wait until Alzheimer's kills you, which means that your brain
is just a mess and there's very little worth saving at the end anyway. So you might be able
to stop eating and drinking. I'm not sure if that would trigger the suicide autopsy or not.
I'll keep that in mind. It would. I, I saw it, never mind. All right, yeah,
tangent. We'll have to save it, sorry. That's a dark topic. Anyway, unhappier note, uh, sign
it for cryonics. It's cheaper than you think and it's cool. Yes. Uh, both me and Stephen were
signed up. Are you signed up at Jess? Um, no, but I do plan to. What if you had died camping this weekend?
Yeah. Also, it's cool is also a pun because cryonics, sorry. Yeah. Everyone loves puns except me.
Just have this mental image of somebody in like a cryo tube with like dark sunglasses and yeah,
double thumbs up. If I get to choose the time going in. Hell yeah. All right. How about the
third alternative? Third alternative is a good one. Who wants to read this? I'll jump in on this
one. Okay. So, um, classically, the third alternative is also known as like the false
dilemma or the false dichotomy or the excluded middle or the package deal fallacy. Basically,
it's the either or option. You know, um, we need, give me, give me a stupid example.
He used Santa as an example. That was a good one. What was Santa? Right. Yeah. So Santa, you know,
well, we need Santa, we need the Santa myth for children to give them, you know, hope and, uh,
a sense of Matt mystery or whatever. I actually forget the argument. Yeah. And I read it like
four hours ago. Act better as humans if they, yeah. So then you say, well, if we take that away,
then they won't have anything to give it to them. Yeah. And they'll have no hope.
Everything will be joyless and dry and empty in their lives. Plus they'll be naughty all the time.
Right. So it's a great example because it's obviously bullshit. So there's, there's a million
other things that you can do to actually treat the goal of like, let's give kids a sense of wonder,
mystery and, uh, responsibility for their actions or something. I feel like just giving them
presences enough too. Yeah. Like, has anyone tried that? Just like, Hey, you know, on this day,
you get presents. Like, are the kids more excited if it's like, we don't know how these presents
got here? Maybe. Maybe. I think so. Like getting presents is still awesome, but like the mystery
behind it is cool. But like you said, there's much better ways to give them that sense of mystery.
Yeah. Like, did you know that we're actually traveling around that sun up there and it's a
ball of flaming nuclear gas? Yeah. I mean, throw some science at them and then throw a present at
them and get that association going early and then make some of the young scientists. Dude,
that'd be awesome. There you go. Whenever I put up my Christmas tree, I always put like a book
under it and I call it my tree of knowledge rather than my Christmas tree. Oh, I love it. That's
awesome. I'm so nerdy. I love it. I've got a niece that I can start bombarding with, with books for
trying to, well, I don't know if I'll be rounder enough to try and like get that immediate pigeon
feedback to make her and to meld her into a scientist, but I'll see what I can do. All right.
So the noble lie is the, like the generally all-package deal of fallacies where like,
it's, yes, we all acknowledge the people who in the know, yes, we know it's a lie, but we tell it
because society couldn't function without it. Right. You know, Plato had his for like, people
have like a core of different elements in them and like the gold people, that's why there's like
caste systems and like just, you're, you happen to have a lower thing and if you're born, you're
born believing that, I think that's in the Republic. Okay. So he believed in that. He didn't believe in
that noble lie. It seems like, but he, he was like, that's something that we could push to keep
society together. Okay. Or like the very popular one of like afterlifeism, where, you know, of
course we, the sophisticated people, we know that you're just going to die when you die, but
you guys couldn't handle that. So very condescendingly we'll lie to you to keep you sheltered from the
horrible truth. It's not clear to me in that argument, like how the noble liars think that
they're doing okay, but no one else could. It is condescending. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Fair enough.
Or like, yeah, the reason that they're calling this the third alternative is the idea that there's
only this lie or something terrible as an alternative and there's not other stuff you
could do. Like the example of it's either Santo or your kid is miserable and there's all kinds of
other things that you might be able to do to make your kid not miserable. Yeah. I think the core
argument is that generally the, the noble liars and the, the excluded middleers are saying like,
your only real options are either this thing that I have already proposed or else nothing at all.
And Elias is saying that we can and should think of third alternatives, other ways of handling
problems. It's not that your only alternative to believing in Santa or in believing the afterlife
is to not believe in Santa or not believe in anything. There's other alternatives that one
can think of. One just has to do that. Yeah. And that's actually like harder than
it sounds. Elias did bring up the just set a timer and think of stuff for five minutes.
There's, I like looking up, there's a narrow framing exercise you can do. And that's kind
of a similar idea where when you're trying to make a decision, you kind of like think of,
okay, I've got two alternatives and narrow framing is the idea that you're only thinking in terms of
these two, these two options. And you're actually like psychologically blocking yourself from
thinking about anything else outside of that. Is this the first post? I don't remember if he
brought up the five minutes by the clock thing before. I noticed it in this post though. I think
this is the first post where he actually starts the meme of think about it by five minutes by
the clock. Don't just like, say you're going to think about it and then give up after a bit,
look at a clock and really think in brainstorm for five minutes. Yes, this must be coming up
shortly before hold off on proposing solutions. Because that's an important part. Like Jess
mentioned, like the narrow framing effect, if you grab two, one or two guesses or whatever
solutions that in your five minutes of thinking, then you spend the next four minutes and 30 seconds
just analyzing those two, you've prematurely cut yourself off from like the search space, right?
And more than likely you've, you didn't think of those two from like nowhere. You just grab two
quick ideas that were already available. You haven't really considered alternatives.
And like the reason for that, which he gets into in this post is the number of alternatives can be
huge. So you need some kind of stopping criterion. And he says whether you're looking to buy a house
or when you're looking to buy a house, you can't compare every house. At some point,
you have to stop looking and decide. So that's why you would want to make some kind of exercise
where there's a set in stopping point, like setting a clock. But I was gonna say, there's a
there's a nice quote in here that I think just still is kind of the difficulty of this. Like
the, oh, there's a bunch. Actually, this is a good one. Everyone read it. It's fun.
But like, how can we obtain third, how can we obtain third alternatives? Well, the first step
in obtaining a third alternative is deciding to look for one. And the last step is the decision
to accept it. It sounds obvious. And yet most people fail on these two steps rather than within
the search process. Like it's just basically, yeah, the first thing is like realizing that someone's
come to you with a bullshit dilemma, and you're picking between two crappy choices. And just
saying, you know what, I need to go find something else. And that there's usually a ton of stuff to
look for in there, right? Yeah, there is. Some of it can be really hard to think about for various
reasons. And that's where the psychology comes into play. And I don't think this article really
gets into it. I could think, for example, a benign one could be if you're looking for a new house,
you might just be artificially restricting yourself to neighborhoods that you've already
visited and that you kind of have an idea of what they look like in your head. But you don't
think about that consciously while you're looking for a house. Or you could also, if you're trying
to figure out, oh, man, what should I do? Like my relationship's not going so well. And you're
kind of thinking about, well, couples counseling, or I could, well, you could leave that person.
And then like, that's another thing that your brain just might be preventing you from even
thinking about you just flinch away from it subconsciously. All these techniques work so
well together. It sounds like nerdy reverence, but I mean, the ability to hold off on proposing
solutions, not be afraid to flinch into scary looking ideas, and just stare into the uncomfortable
possibility like, oh, wait, the scary thing that I'm trying to avoid thinking about, I should actually
think about that and decide as objectively as I can if it's a good option, right?
He also touches on what I think later will turn into the privileging the hypothesis post.
It's a quick note about motivated cognition here. He says, but what about when our conscious
motives for the search, the criteria we can admit to ourselves, don't square with subconscious
influences? Like you were just saying, when we are carrying out an alleged allegedly altruistic
search, a search for an altruistic policy, and we find a strategy that benefits others,
but disadvantages ourselves, well, we don't stop looking there, we go on looking,
telling ourselves we're looking for a strategy that brings greater altruistic benefit, of course.
But suppose we find a policy that has some defensible benefit, and also just happens to
be personally convenient, then we stop the search at once. In fact, we'll probably resist any
suggestion that we start looking again, pleading lack of time perhaps. And I just, I mean,
that's wonderful and true, right? Like the best way to get, I think they say on the internet,
the best way to get the right answer to something is to post the wrong answer.
Yes.
Because then everyone else is like, that's not right, and they spend all the time doing
the looking for you and disproving you. And yeah, that's the same thing. Like if you really want
to test a claim, then you can put forth some crappy argument and find the people who are
willing to prove you wrong, I guess.
Yeah, you could, there's a bunch of exercises you could do yourself to. That's actually a good one
is just coming up with the opposite of whatever you're trying to figure out, making yourself
brainstorm like, how could I write the crappiest novel possible? That was actually an exercise I
did one time and it was really funny because then I just went through the list and kind of reversed
everything. And I was like, now here's how I should write my novel. And I generated a list I
wouldn't have thought of if I was just thinking about like, how could I write something cool?
That's awesome. And see, like that's the kind of like third alternative strategy that you probably
wouldn't get from your average, like learn how to write textbook, right?
Yeah, I love doing stuff like that. Just if I could go like one more that I really love is
if I was like, this is especially when you're trying to come up with a solution to some hard
problem. It's like, okay, if I had like all the money in the world, how would I solve this? Or
like if there was some like clever way I could cheat to get to the finish line, how would I do
that? And that can actually help you come up with stuff that you just were blocking yourself from
thinking about either because you're scrupulous or poor or whatever. I like that a lot.
Yeah, I don't have much else to add to this one. I feel like I actually kind of spoiled the next
one because I forgot that it was a, that forgot that was the third post. I thought it was the
end of this one. I read them all again really quickly this afternoon and I guess forgot that I
clicked three tabs rather than two. Right. So the next post then is third alternatives for
afterlifeism. Which I feel like ism-ing everything is kind of condescending, but I'll let it slide.
I think it's supposed to be sort of a needling at something. It is. Jokingly roasting it.
Like I had a conversation with my life insurance agent who's also signed up for Cryonix and
is a big proponent of it. And in fact, he wrote a book, Rudy Hoffman. Everyone look him up.
If you want. He's also got a book on Amazon. That's Rudy, R-U-D-I, Hoffman, I think with two Fs.
Anyway, if you do contact him and get signed up for Cryonix, tell him I sent you. I don't get
anything out of it. I just would be happy to hear it. So I think we were talking about, you know,
like with anti-Cryonistsists and like the mean word for them is like deathists. Like no one's
