than you will if you're rich.
You're very, very likely to consume the hundredth dollar you make a month,
but the ten thousandth dollar you make a month you're very likely to save.
And so the nice thing about regressive taxes is you could actually use them to fund UBI.
The not so nice thing about regressive taxes is then you would be taxing poor people
in order to send welfare checks to rich people.
And that seems like not a very good idea.
So the three kinds of taxes that you mentioned, what are the three names and definitions really quick?
I'm not a tax person.
Yeah, sure.
So there are progressive taxes, which is when your income goes up, you pay a higher percentage of your income as taxes.
There's regressive taxes, which is as your income goes up, the percentage you pay goes down.
And then there's flat taxes, which are the percentage of your income you pay as taxes are constant.
So for example, a 3% income tax or 10% or whatever.
Yes, however much you make, it's always 3% or whatever that you send to the government.
In general, I'm not a huge fan of income taxes on humans, but I've tried to spin a few times a VAT tax as like an income tax on robots.
Wouldn't it be less regressive if it was mainly income tax on returns to capital, such as an income tax on robots?
And then it would be mainly the owners of factories and other large labor replacement devices that would be paying these rather than the working poor.
So that sounds more like a capital gains tax than a value added tax?
I see what you're saying, and it does sound very much like a capital gains tax, but it would be the way I'm picturing it, more of a tax on the returns to capital from using non-human labor devices.
Yeah, for replacing people.
Basically, yeah.
So instead of paying whatever an hour to have people stock your warehouses and move your goods, instead of paying the wages for that, you're paying at least a percentage of that back in taxes to have robots do it for next to nothing.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
I mean, that would be hard to administrate, but I feel like that would get around a lot of the taxing the poor problem with VAT taxes.
Also, why isn't progressive taxes more like, to me, it sounds like a great idea.
Like, what was it?
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, my new favorite congas person.
Don't get me wrong, there's 100 things, but the main thing is that, well, I won't get into the main thing.
A very small aside is that one of the things that she's pushing or that she's proponent of is, I forget what it is, like charging or whatever, 50% tax after everything over $10 million a year.
And so, if you make $20 million a year, you pay whatever the flat rate is for up to $10 million, and then you pay $5 million of that other $10 million in taxes.
Well, I mean, we do have progressive income taxes in the US.
But nothing like that.
No, no, not nearly to that extent.
But I mean, currently, the income tax at least does work that way.
Right.
But I mean, I love, I mean, this isn't me like, you know, some poor proletariat person, like, you know, just scrounging in the dirt complaining about this.
I think it's like, if you're making $10 million a year, if you're making $20 million a year, the other $5 million is like, if you're going to claim you need that, then like, kind of fuck you.
Like, we need like the society that like built your infrastructure to make your millions needs it more than you do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
David probably has a better answer for this.
The one that immediately comes to mind for me is that the more you progressively tax the rich, the more they're going to shelter their income.
That's actually exactly what I was going to say.
I haven't, like, read any papers on this because it's the first time I've heard the idea.
But Iñas, I feel like your idea would probably just mean we get both.
What's the word?
Outsourcing to a different country.
I think that is the word outsourcing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You just get both outsourcing and mechanization.
Yeah.
Damn it.
Well, as we all know, trade wars are good and easy to win.
So if you want to put the tax on both robots and outsourcing, then maybe.
What we really need is an omnipresent omnipotent one-world government.
Maybe.
I thought you were going to say AI, but.
You know, how else would you get that, right?
I mean, I'll give it a shot.
As long as you can never go back once you try it.
Okay.
Response to the argument against progressive income.
And this was, you had, like, posted an article in the comments.
Like, we can post it again.
The, what was the author, the Samuel Hammond article.
Someone in the comments had put that they suggested maybe there could be a progressive
land value tax used to fund the other, you know, negative income tax or the UBI.
And what do you think about that?
Because you can't shelter land that well.
Yeah.
So land value taxes, wealth taxes in general, all of those are really tricky because they
depend very heavily on the valuation of a good that's not on the market.
So you can, if you're willing to just get rid of the concept of property rights, Glenn
while has a really interesting idea to deal with that, which is basically you list a price
for your property.
And that's what you, that's the price used for like taxes and whatever.
But if I come to you with that much money, you have to give me the property.
I think the concept of property rights has served humanity pretty well.
So I'm not eager to implement that, but it is an interesting idea.
And as far as I can tell, it would get around the problem.
But yeah, just in general, those sorts of wealth taxes are really, really hard and expensive
to administrate.
And you can tell that by just looking at the list of countries that used to have wealth
taxes and no longer do.
I have the list right here if you'd like me to read it off.
No, but you could probably email it to us and we'll put it on the website.
Okay.
It's just like seven of them.
Oh, okay.
Well, sure.
Yeah, it's Austria, Denmark, Germany, Sweden, Spain, Finland, Iceland and Luxembourg.
Huh.
And for all of those which I Googled, which was like three of them, the reason that the
list repealed was just that it was so expensive to do the audits and the administration that
the tax didn't actually end up raising that much revenue.
Good answer.
Also in that article you mentioned, there's a link in that article to another article,
which is a biography of the guy who came up with the leaky bucket quote.
And there's a quote from him in that and it says, high tax rates are followed by attempts
of ingenious men to beat them as surely as snow is followed by little boys on sleds.
So if you want to like cover more on this, I will go ahead and let you have that opportunity,
but I want to transition sort of into like the idea of UBI is to help future proof us
against, well, I guess the future, like as more and more gets, labor gets given to machines that are better
and better at doing what used to be human tasks, more and more of us will become unable to participate
in a meaningful way in the economy.
How do we future proof ourselves if we don't do something like UBI?
Is there some other better way?
So if there's a benefit to UBI over the negative income tax in that case, I don't see it.
If you have one in mind, then I'd like to hear it.
I don't, but I just felt that UBI is a better way to implement it and to sell it to the public.
I also want the administrative costs to be cut by replacing multiple federal programs.
I mean, assuming you're in the Nuke the current system camp without one UBI program.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Like we have currently, I don't know.
I'm assuming many dozens, if not hundreds of different kinds of like social security type situations.
If that would just all went away.
And even if we couldn't maybe wipe it out overnight, because you know, people who wanted to stay on it
for the next 40 years could or something until like everyone on it stopped needing it because they died.
Then everyone's just getting the same basic blanket.
Hold on, before I get too far ahead of myself, some people might make more than whatever UBI is in benefits.
If you're like taking care of like a special needs loved one and have whatever need food stamps or something, right?
But it does seem like this would curtail a lot of those programs, the one that manage, you know, small amounts or something.
I hear that means testing is pretty expensive both for the government and a lot for the people that need the assistance.
Like a lot of the most badly off just can't do it because they don't have the mental ability or emotional ability to go through the process.
You said means testing?
Yeah, yeah.
That's what to like find out if you earn enough to need this?
Yes.
Gotcha.
You're gonna have to slow down for me.
Sorry, sorry.
No, no, you're totally fine.
I am not playing dumb or I don't know any of these things.
But also I'm asking for the benefit of listeners who might not know these things either.
Right.
So I did kind of blow through some things too fast earlier.
No, no, it's totally fine.
Yeah.
We were basically just saying the current programs are expensive too.
So wouldn't the UBI, like one of the things I hear about UBI is that if you do the nuke and replace strategy, it would probably not cost any more than the current things.
Or at least that would knock down a substantial chunk of it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, sorry.
If you're talking about UBI versus the status quo, I do prefer the UBI for that exact reason.
But the negative income tax, which I think is probably what we should have, doesn't have that much in the way of means testing.
Like my understanding is that current systems or current programs, you need to show that like you're old, you have some disabilities or you're taking care of someone who has disabilities.
There are all these hoops you have to jump through.
But the negative income tax is just what's your income, multiply, then subtract.
And that's the benefits or taxes you owe.
So are you a proponent of negative income tax or are you not a fan of either of these?
Yes, I am.
So that's kind of hard to answer without getting pretty far afield.
Just the very, very short version is I think there are a lot of ways that the government kicks poor people in the teeth.
And I would like them to stop kicking poor people in the teeth.
And if they stop that and we still have people who aren't able to afford as much health care and food and housing and whatever as we want them to,
then a negative income tax is the way to get them to where we want them.
But I think it's not unreasonable that if we got rid of occupational licensing and zoning and all the other government policies that hurt poor people,
then being poor would be easy enough that what's left could be covered by private charity.
But if I'm wrong about that, I'm okay having a negative income tax.
So I guess you might have mentioned this earlier and it went over my head, but does negative income tax get you out of that,
whatever that trap where you're kind of incentivized to keep earning as little as possible,
or not as little as possible to keep earning under that threshold so that you keep making your negative income,
or rather you keep benefiting from the negative income tax?
Yes, it does.
Okay.
So if the tax part of the negative income tax is say 20%,
then for every dollar you make, you get to keep 80 cents as opposed to the current system where there are some discontinuities,
so that if you make an extra dollar in earned income, you can end up losing on total points.
That the negative income tax does not have that, which is why, again, economists really like it.
Okay.
And like not to keep beating up a negative income tax, I actually think that UBI is kind of the idealistic version of what I would like
and negative income tax is like the much more realistic version.
I'm very pro both of them, especially compared to the status quo.
You're kind of the pro negative income tax person.
Another argument I had was wouldn't negative income tax not encourage like middle bracket people to spend,
to spend more than they would normally like UBI might.
So might it not be as good for the economy as UBI could possibly be.
So the issue with the middle income people is the UBI payment isn't a free lunch.
You can't just make money up.
Well, you can just make money up here.
It's called inflation.
And like I said, it's bad for complicated reasons.
So then the issue is how do you get the money and the money to send to the middle income people?
And is that is that worse than the benefit you get from them having more spending money?
And that depends on how the funding mechanism is structured.
But generally speaking, I at least have a very strong prior that whatever the government taxes is probably going to end up being worse
than what the money would have been spent on anyway from a welfare perspective.
Cool, got it.
Okay, that was all of my arguments that I struggled to find for why UBI was...
Oh, you had more?
I actually have a question for you.
So what benefit do we get from sending basically sending welfare checks to Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos?
I think part of it was the loss aversion argument, which I think was brought up in the Samuel Hammond article
but then he kind of just dismissed it.
