I think that human psychology is actually pretty powerful.
And it was kind of what we brought up earlier, the idea that if everybody's receiving a thousand, nobody's really going to fight against it
versus the negative income feels a bit more unfair, even if it's not.
The other thing was, oh, what was it?
I've got one.
So what would you say about a low overhead UBI which is rhetorically identical to a UBI but administratively identical to a negative income tax?
What I was saying before, honestly, I'm actually pro of the negative income tax as a...
I think that they are really analogous that the UBI and then the low overhead are all things that I would vote for.
What did you have to say, Stephen?
I was just going to say that there are a handful of Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos people in the country where there are, I don't know,
150 million Americans who could strongly benefit from a thousand dollars a month.
So yeah, we'll be giving a few rich people extra money to pad their wallets,
but if that's the cost of helping the rest of the people who actually could benefit from it,
that seems like a really small cost to pay and one that I think everyone would be kind of okay with.
I could totally see some Mitch McConnell-style politician saying,
look, they want to give your money to Jeff Bezos and Bill Gates to live,
but I feel like that would be a lot less salient than the argument of like,
look, we want to put $1,000 in your pocket, no strings attached.
I guess it feels more fair.
Yeah, that's basically the loss aversion argument.
Yeah, it's loss aversion, but it was also just like the numbers.
Yes, we'll be helping rich people, but there are very few rich people and there are a lot more people to whom $1,000
is like the difference between living in financial insecurity,
worrying that if you strain your ankle going up the stairs, then you're going to lose your apartment.
And I guess this is an argument from emotion, which isn't how I usually do things,
but I don't know, man, I know a number of people and I've been in this situation most of my life
for like $1,000 a month would have just been this enormous relief of a security blanket.
And granted, a negative income tax could totally provide that too.
And so I think that would be, you know, a good bridge on the way there.
I think the ideal solution would be just like find some way, like, all right, cool.
Everyone who's not earning above X, you get $1,000, but then like the weird part is then,
okay, while I'm earning exactly $900 a year over what it takes to get $1,000,
I'm inclined to like skip a few days of work or something, right?
So this all gets convoluted somewhere near the middle for me anyway, but yeah, that's where I'm at.
Did you have anything on that or should we move on?
Yeah, so I just say that the inefficiencies that come into play when you're talking about UBI
don't really exist when you're talking about people who have income levels similar to ours.
They come into play when you talk about people with income more like, say, my parents
and like comfortably upper middle class people would under a UBI end up getting a check from the government
which gets immediately taxed back and I just don't see why,
I don't see any benefit from like behavioral economics or anything like that
which overcomes just the basic silliness of having a bunch of people get a check from the government
and then having to send it right back plus extra.
Yeah, plus paying the people in the middle to process the checks.
Yeah, so there is that loss of overhead of the, you know, paying the processing in the middle part,
but I think that is a price that it would probably be a price we'd have to pay
in order to get all those people to vote and sign on.
Could be. I mean, so that I think might bring us a bit like a side from like the economic argument, right?
But that is not, was it, did Robin Henson coin the phrase homo economicus?
No, no, it's been long.
No, that's super old.
Yeah, well, I think I heard about it probably somewhere on one of his posts, but like,
yeah, given that that's not, those aren't the players involved, that it really is just the people hearing
speeches, watching TV and, you know, being told we're going to give you a thousand dollars
or we're going to give your money to people who, you know, either need it or don't deserve it,
depending on your political slant.
One of them is just an easier sell.
But yeah, I don't have a lot to offer.
So that's a factual claim about what the voters would or would not support.
And I don't know which of us is right.
If you are right, then sure, UBI might be a better idea than I'm giving it credit for.
But I don't know that there's any anywhere productive we can take that disagreement without calling a halt to the
podcast for a couple of hours to look at poll data.
Yeah, that's totally fair.
David, are you basically then in agreement with the Samuel Hammond article, which was the leaky bucket?
Let UBI is negative income tax with leaky bucket.
Yeah, so like I said, he takes this given that the welfare state is a good idea.
And if we're talking about this sort of radical social change, I'd like to at least check to see whether or not it's necessary.
But given that we do have a welfare state, I'd like it.
I am in agreement with the Hammond article.
Yes.
I have a question about one of the things that you one of the bullet points that you have in the document you sent us.
You said one basic assumption is that people are income maximizers, not income satisfacers.
And this claim is moderately controversial.
A few segments of society like kindergarten like kindergarten teachers seem to suffice, but a model with a substantial
number of satisfacers would mean that a UBI has serious implications for productivity, which hurts the case for UBI.
Do you think that this would be a big problem if a lot of people who are just working to get enough money to live would drop out of the workforce?
I don't, but I felt obligated to include that because there are very smart economists who disagree with me.
Why do they disagree? Because I kind of feel like people who don't want to work shouldn't necessarily have to be forced to if they could live on $1,000 a month.
That is a big can of worms.
I'm going to try to go through it with taking as little time as I can.
Basically, so I disagree with you about what wages and profits are.
I think those are not perfect, but they're pretty good measures of the value you contribute to society.
And if you're going to be taking things from society, such as apartments and food, you should also have to put something back in.
And that is wage labor.
So if you believe what you believe about the nature of work, then you're correct, but I disagree with that.
And that's just a values disagreement, and I'm not sure there's anywhere productive we can take that.
I think it's a values disagreement, but I think it's one that bears out in the history of just being, I'm trying to think of a way that doesn't sound politically slanted, but progressive.
I know people who are, like I mentioned, the mentally handicapped, many people can't work.
And so the idea is, well, I guess since you can't work, you're useless to society because people have to take care of you, so you're just a drain and you don't deserve to be taken care of.
And I see your point and on some instinctive level, I agree with it, but on the other hand, you know, right now the people who are, quote, too unproductive to live are usually taken care of by people who love them.
And there could be a point not too terribly long from now when 90% of the human population is too unproductive to live.
And I just don't think saying, okay, so 90% of the human population gets to not live anymore is a reasonable answer.
So for one thing, it wouldn't be 90%.
With the most pessimistic estimates, it would be something like 66%, which are the number of Americans anyway who have money and savings.
Basically, if you have a friendly AI takeoff that for whatever reason doesn't think that putting money towards, like, letting people not starve to death is a good idea, then basically the benefits would accumulate to anyone who has any money and savings.
And 34% is probably enough to be covered with charity because the returns to AI would be so huge.
And if not, then again, we can talk about a negative income tax.
And there's also the issue to consider that if you do have most of the workforce replaced by robots in some capacity, the cost of living would absolutely plummet.
So it would be reasonable for someone to be able to live on a bare fraction of what you need to live today.
And again, that's assuming that we somehow get a friendly AI who doesn't turn us all into paper clips and yet doesn't think that helping the people who don't have money and savings would be a good idea.
And I don't really see how that could happen, though people at Miri might disagree with me.
I don't think anyone at Miri would say that a friendly AI takeoff that resulted in, like, the negligent deaths of two-thirds of America would be a friendly AI takeoff.
Well, there would be survivors, so I don't know.
It might be an AI takeoff. Like, I don't want to, this isn't an argument about the definition of capital F friendliness, but like, so I guess that whole thing aside, what were we going to say, Inyush?
Oh, I was just going to say, I don't even think you need full God mode AI, just, you know, several decades of major corporations having very strong AI powers that they aim at places would basically result in the same thing.
Yeah, so this, I mean, it could just be dumb automation.
I mean, so what was at MIT, and I think the White House, back in like 2015 or 16, put out studies around the same time that had estimates of something like 30% of the labor market being automated by 2030, which is coming up right around the corner.
So things like cashiers, shelf stockers, drivers.
Even if cost of living does plummet, it's still not zero, and people who can't get a job because they just don't have anything productive to offer still have an income of zero.
And there's, there's, I guess, some estimates that that could be one in five people in the next 10 years.
Yeah, but the thing you need to remember is that labor isn't labor's only asset.
So if you own a home, you will see the return to AI because your property values will go up, and because you have a house there instead of an automated factory.
If you have any money in savings, then you'll see the return to AI because stock prices will go up.
And the much maligned creature known as the stockholder is actually nowhere near as rare as most people think they are.
But those aren't the people that are, you know, don't have a savings account because they're earning $9 an hour bagging groceries at Safeway, right?
Yeah, but yeah, but that's, again, that's not 99% of the population you're talking about. That's around 34%.
Right. Those are the ones that I'm talking about.
I don't want a third of the population to die, but 34% is a pretty manageable problem when you're talking about charity in a world where the cost of living has gone down as much as it would if all those menial jobs were replaced.
So how do self-driving cars and self-bagging groceries make my cost of living go down?
You buy things that are sometimes transported from one place to another, and if the only cost of that transport is maintenance and fuel, then the cost of those things that are transported, which is basically everything you spend money on, will be much lower than if you have to pay a trucker.
No, that makes sense. I just figured someone might ask. And then same thing at the grocery store. I'm paying not just for the stuff on the shelves, but to keep people there, keeping stuff on the shelves.
Jess, I saw you writing something down.
I think we kind of went past the point where I had some notes. And in the interest of time, I had some kind of random questions for you since you have the expertise in this field. David, if you wouldn't mind.
Yeah, I have a couple more things to say about this.
Yeah, please.
Then we can get back to it. So one of the big concerns I have, if you guys are right, is that UBI or an NIT, which again, all of that, what I didn't say was all of those concerns could also be covered by a negative income tax and it would have lower overhead, et cetera, et cetera.
But basically, none of that would really solve the problem. That's basically just sort of bread and circuses, just throwing money at social unrest to get it to go away.
And it wouldn't actually solve the problem of people lacking economic opportunity in political agency, which I'd rather have a stable world than not, but I'd rather have a genuinely stable world than one where there's hollow stability because we're throwing money at people.
I don't know how we could do that.
And you're talking about if we can figure it out, then that would be a better thing to do than just having a very generous welfare state.
As far as the bread and circuses analogy, you were saying that that would be both the NIT and the UBI, correct?
Yes.
And again, I don't have a solution to that in mind, but we shouldn't think, oh, we just need to implement these policies and then we won't have any problems.
Yeah.
That's to a certain extent, it's better than nothing, but to a certain extent, it's putting band-aids on bullet wounds.
Yeah, and that's the whole other discussion and probably be on the scope of this podcast. I mean, this episode anyway.
Yeah, you're probably right.
But okay.
You had a thing about, also in the document sent us, there isn't much reason to believe that AI will cause unemployment because comparative advantage implies that humans will still be employable even after the takeoff, as long as AI aren't perfect substitutes for labor.
Could you expand on that a little?
Yeah, so there's this principle in economics called comparative advantage, which basically even if, so the easiest way to understand it is with an analogy.
Even if America is better at producing both computers and corn, and you can tell I'm getting this example from a textbook that was written in the 80s back when we still made computers in America.
And corn.
I think we still make corn.
Even if America is better at making both computers and corn, as long as we are even better at making computers than we are at making corn relative to Mexico, then we're still, we maximize welfare by America making all the computers and Mexico making all the corn and then trading.
And the implication of this for AI is, as long as AI isn't literally identical to human labor, then there will still be a labor market.
Because even if the AI is better than humans at everything, then they're very unlikely to be exact mirrors of humans. And as long as they aren't exact mirrors, then there's room for specialization and gains from trade.
I think, tell me if this is a good analogy. I read The Golden Age, a science fiction book by John Wright, where he explained it as, even if there's a task that an AI can do in one minute, and it will take a human one month to do it.
The human, if they can spend their one month doing that task, it frees up the AI to spend that one minute on something else that's even more valuable.
And in that case, it would be still useful to have that human around. Is that a good comparison story?
Yep, that's a pretty good summary. And if you want me to send you a homework problem that I can put in the show notes, that's actually something you can prove mathematically.
And then you can prove it in homework land. So there should be asterisks in all the appropriate places. But yeah, that's a pretty well-established principle in economics.
We'll totally put that problem up on the website.
Yeah, totally. I want to dive more into that, but I want just to get some chance to go over some of your stuff.
Yeah, so let me find my random questions. Okay.
Sorry, one other thing I do want to say about that, and I don't want to talk about this too much, because again, it's a podcast in its own right.
But if you think that argument is wrong, that belief is very hard to square with support for a minimum wage, because basically what a minimum wage would do would just throw gas on the fire of workers being replaced by robots.
So I think that's all I want to say about that, because if I say any more, then we'll be talking about it the rest of the night.
But it's pretty hard to both worry about technological unemployment and think that minimum wages are completely benign.
We have wanted to do a minimum wage episode for a long time, so we may take you up on that in a month or two.
Honestly, though, that would find that very persuasive. So yeah, if McDonald's, we tell them we're going to have to pay $15 an hour to your employees, they're fine, then fuck this.
The standard counterargument to raising minimum wage is we'll find someone who's willing to do it less, and if we're not allowed to make anyone do it for less, we'll make something do it for less.
Right.
And so they're going to find a way not to pay it.
Yeah. There's a really cool study coming out of Seattle, so I am happy to come back on and talk about that,
because it's really good just like as an economics nerd who likes really well done econometrics.
So yeah, let me know if you want me back on.
Awesome.
Dope.
Cool.
All right, Jess, you have the floor.
Okay. Yeah, I'm going to just use UBI to mean UBI or negative NIT.
So here's some random questions.
At what age would you start distributing a UBI?
Late.
I'm not sure exactly when, but probably I would not start it any earlier than 18.
I would ideally like to start it at as late as like 21, because if you have parents with dependents who are collecting the benefits, then the funding problem just becomes
even harder, because the parents need to pay so much in taxes that they cover benefits for the parents and the children and not just the parents.
So, yeah, I would put it very late.
And that also does address the potential perverse incentives problem where if you give it fairly young, then there's incentives for poor people to have as many children as possible so they can get as much money from the negative income tax or UBI.
And that it has historically not worked out very well for actually making poor people better off.
Especially since they'd have to neglect the children so the cost of the kids is less than what they're getting.
Yes.
Oh, there's also the component that if I had $1,000 a month as a 15 year old, I feel like a lot of people would have been seriously hurt by all the dumb shit I bought.
Like fireworks.
Oh, you'd be helping the economy.
I'd be helping the medical industry for sure.
Okay, so almost like the opposite question.
Would you prefer a UBI to replace social security?
Would I want a UBI to replace social security?
Not necessarily.
Would I want a UBI with a flat tax or a negative income tax to replace social security and a payroll tax?
Absolute freaking lootly.
Payroll taxes are such a bad idea.
Again, if you want to have a really wonky podcast, I can go off about tax policy.
But I'm going to leave it there for your listeners sanity's sake.
Too bad that sounds kind of fun.
I always just kind of assumed that it would replace social security.
Like it would be the one-stop income shop.
