Oh guys, I hate you with this car and
Harry Potter and the methods of rationality by my church youth group leader.
Huh.
Right on.
Yeah.
That is not, yeah, not someone I would have expected to recommend it.
Yeah.
Uh, and then from there it was the usual downhill tumble of, of methods of rationality into
the sequences and then into all the other rationality things.
Did you ever, did you ever find out why the youth group leader recommended this?
Yeah, cause he really liked it.
I, even when I was still calling myself a Christian, I did a pretty good job of like
keeping the fundamentalists away, which was very, very hard living in the back end of
nowhere, South Carolina, but I somehow managed it.
Uh, so like the people I hung around with were the people who like actually thought about
things like evolution and creation and that sort of thing intelligently.
And even if they come down on what I now believe to be the wrong side of those questions,
they didn't just shrug it off.
Um, so.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
I don't think we've ever specifically talked about it.
And like we haven't talked to each other for, uh, quite a distressing number of years.
Um, not cause I like miss him or anything, but just cause I don't like feeling that old.
But, um, yeah.
And, uh, as for how I found the podcast, it was via the audio book, uh, which by the
way, if no one's told you the rationalist audio book is a very noble public endeavor
and, uh, you win many, many virtue points for doing it.
Oh, well, thank you.
Hey, I'm very happy that people have found so much use and joy out of it.
Seconded, but I told you that before.
So I like to imagine that your youth group leader just like was never a believer and like
just showed this as many people as possible and like just took the role just to subvert
the church.
Right.
But maybe that's me being the, the Facebook posts he's put up for which I have since
I followed him, uh, are pretty strong arguments against that, but it's a nice thing to think,
I suppose.
Uh, I mean, I guess it could be playing, you know, really heavily undercover, but, you
know, yeah, you're, you know, better than I do.
Something might be worth it just to send him a thank you note being like your recommendation
changed my life.
Thanks.
And he converted me and I'm going to hell.
Thanks.
Maybe keep it big.
I might have, I might have come to it anyway because I've been a fan of Brian Kaplan for
a really long time and you can only be a fan of Kaplan for so long before you encounter
Hanson.
Um,
The slippery slope.
Yeah, that's, that's the, that's the path I walked.
That's awesome.
Even if it sometimes feels kind of inevitable.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for coming on.
This has been a delight.
Yes, I can do this.
This was great.
Yes, it has.
All right.
And, uh, we'll get back in touch with you about maybe doing a minimum wage thing.
Sounds great.
I'm looking forward to it.
All right.
Uh, thank you and have a great evening.
Yeah.
Thanks, David.
Okay.
Have fun with the other sections.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Awesome.
Thanks again, man.
Yeah.
Have a good night.
Night.
Good night.
Okay.
On to our less wrong post section of the episode.
Yay.
Boop.
Boop.
Boop.
Our first post this week is beware the unsurprised.
I guess I'll start it.
Yeah.
Sure.
I'll pick an order.
We really should have thought of that beforehand.
Um, so basically the, the point of the post is that, um, people often try to not look surprised.
Some people may actually be genuinely unsurprised when their models are wrong, uh, because
as Eleazar says that a breeder pointed out, uh, if their models are so vague that they
don't understand the implications one way or the other, uh, they may not be surprised.
Or if they appear unsurprised, if they, or they may appear unsurprised if they fail
to emotionally connect to the implications.
Uh, for example, an asteroid is going to collide with the earth in 10 years and they're
just like, okay, let's get, let's get a little sursy to the doctor.
Oh, I will put in a relevant Saturday morning breakfast cereal, um, to this.
It's not, they, they were emotionally registered, but it's hilarious and it's relevant.
So going for it.
Oh, right.
I guess we'll have to actually put it on the website.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I could try and paraphrase the cartoon, but I would ruin it.
You got to enjoy SMBC as it is on the page.
Heck yeah.
It's the audio versions of cartoons.
Yeah.
Um, and also they mentioned that some people don't want to appear to be surprised by surprising
seeming data.
You mean unsurprised?
Oh yeah.
My, yeah, appear to be unsurprised because, um, that makes them look more, uh, confident
and in control and competent.
Like, well, I wasn't surprised by this.
My model was already perfectly fine the way it was.
I totally expected this.
So, um, yeah, those are, these are all situations in which people may be unsurprised by what
should be, what is a surprising event in their model.
And then there's like the, the classic example of bystander effect where there's a number
of things going on, but one of them is like, you can look calm and unperturbed and like
gives you like this air of, this isn't really, this is tangential to bystander effects.
But like, if everyone's freaking out and you're keeping your cool, you kind of look
like a cool person.
Um, and since everyone's kind of trying to do that a little bit, then like somebody
collapses in front of you on the street and like, you look cool because I'm a cool, composed
person.
And like, you're casually looking around to see if this is an emergency, but everyone's
doing the same thing you're doing.
So everyone assesses that it's not emergency because no one's overreacting.
Yeah.
That was going to be the second point.
Okay.
Yeah.
My bad.
I jumped ahead.
No, it's okay.
Uh, well, did we have anything to say on the first point aside from what we already
had?
The whole, no.
Not really.
Okay.
I do think it's kind of scary that, uh, some people might just have such vague models
that they don't even realize they're surprised because the model really didn't predict anything
either way.
Yeah.
That's just, I think that's kind of what he talked about in the last post too is like
then you just, you don't really have a model of reality.
You just have like this thing that you say you believe, but like it doesn't mean anything.
It's not connected to any other beliefs.
Yeah.
That model is not paying rent.
Right.
So going to your second post, the point that you jumped on is that, yeah, if you're looking
around and everyone else is acting cool and you're acting cool, then nobody, nobody
is, uh, actually treating an emergency like an emergency.
Right.
And, uh, he's saying that, right, since everyone else is also basing their actions on, uh, what
everyone else is doing, then, uh, everyone may believe that something isn't really as
big a deal as it is.
Like someone collapsing on the street or something, uh, therefore everyone looks unruffled fails
to act.
And so appearing unsurprised, even when you are, or pretending to yourself that you weren't
surprised is both personally detrimental and socially detrimental.
It is, it has negative effects on the rest of society when you act unsurprised on purpose
because, uh, that is information that you are denying to other people and things that
may need to be acted on are not.
Yeah.
I think this is kind of related to one of your strengths as a rationalist is the ability
to notice when you're confused, confused and surprised to have like slightly different
meanings here, but it kind of lends a lot more weight to something if you're surprised
by it and, uh, gives you a stronger motivation to update.
And yeah, when you're signaling that to everyone around you, then everybody is updating their
models the appropriate amount.
Yeah.
I don't know.
It feels like the kind of thing I've talked about with you, with the, with the two of
you, but I don't remember doing it.
Um, did I mention at least a few years ago, Julia Gale, I've mentioned on one of her podcasts
that she kept a surprise journal.
Yes.
Yeah.
Which is just a nice way to like even just like low brow calibrate, like, and I'm not
writing these down, I guess, cause I'm lazy and don't write stuff down, but I've been
like trying to document just like minor things about my life a little bit more, um, not as
a regimented thing, but like mainly just to improve my like, uh, well, in this case,
my commute, my commute is a little shorter than I thought, which kind of surprised me,
which means like I could sleep in for like 15 minutes if I felt like it and get to work
still on time.
Like somehow the train goes about the same distance as the train that I used to take
to my last job, but it's like 10 minutes shorter.
So that's cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause I mean it's not, again, it's a very, very minor surprise, but it's one that I noticed
literally in the last two days.
So I should absolutely keep surprise journal.
I feel like that would make me a better rationalist and I think it's just kind of a fun practice
