As long as we can get rid of payroll taxes.
And that's the one that we all pay where I get paid every month.
If I make $15 an hour, I take home 12 of that.
That's also the surprisingly the one regressive, as far as I know, the one major regressive income tax in the US.
Where it charges poor people more.
Yeah, because it caps. You don't pay it once you make over like $81,000 or so.
Which is super weird, right?
Yeah, I mean you pay it on everything make up to $81,000, but then it stops after that.
And it might have gone up since I last looked at this.
So the big problem with which this is getting into the weeds, so feel free to tell me to shut up if you want.
But the big problem with payroll taxes is it's literally a tax on jobs.
Yeah.
And as every first year economics undergraduate knows, if you want more of something, subsidize it.
If you want less of something, tax it.
And if you tax jobs, then you have fewer jobs and jobs are generally seen as a good thing.
At least in the world we live in, if not in all possible worlds.
So, yeah.
Isn't it payroll taxes suck?
Isn't an income tax basically the same thing?
No, because I mean, so again, there's a similar problem where you have income hiding and people spending their income on non-taxable things.
But basically income taxes are easier to avoid.
And yeah, I think evading payroll taxes is a moral thing to do.
But it's very, very hard.
I actually think evading all taxes is a moral thing to do.
Do you propose a society without any public funding of anything?
I do on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.
I'm going back and forth on the anarchy question.
Basically my opinion on anarchy is the same as Scott Alexander's.
At least on Tuesdays, Thursdays and weekends.
I want to see it tried somewhere very, very far away from me so I don't get caught in the blast radius if it goes wrong.
But there's at least good theoretical arguments for why an anarchist society would be a pretty good place to live.
I believe it was tried in Somalia for about 15 years.
No, no, no.
Somalia is what happens when you have a radical Islamist regime that is also socialist.
And yeah, that goes pretty dang bad.
In Somalia you actually did have a lot of the things that David Friedman talks about, like private judges who competed and competition drove down corruption.
So Somalia is both not an example of anarchy and also kind of an example of why anarchy is pretty good.
I'm not sure you can have both, but wasn't Somalia also the country that was without any form of government at all for about 10 or 15 years where war bands roamed the countryside?
Yeah, it was without any government at all for 10 or 15 years after you had the aforementioned Islamist, socialist government that burned everything down.
Right, I'm talking about the post-burned down period.
And if you have a really, really uniquely bad government set everything on fire and then they go away, that's pretty bad.
But that's not what I'm talking about when I'm talking about anarchy.
I hope it would be a much smoother transition.
Okay, I see what you're saying.
Yeah, you always start at a shitty position if someone's burned everything before you start.
Yeah, Somalia is a straw man at best and an example in anarchy's favor at worst.
Alright.
Okay, let's see, two more random.
If you guys can link in the show notes Scott Alexander's review of the machinery of freedom, it's very good.
I vaguely remember reading that.
I'll have to reread it.
Sounds fun.
It does.
Okay.
Yeah, two more random, kind of socio-political questions about UBI.
So how would you propose getting this UBI money to people who aren't connected to the tax system, like the homeless, the unemployed, non-citizens?
So wouldn't non-citizens just not get it?
I'm trying to think of the politically correct word for illegal aliens and I can't think of it.
Yeah, I'm kind of okay with them not getting it, especially if that's the price to be paid for open borders.
As for the homeless, again, homelessness is to at least a larger extent than people appreciate a problem caused by government.
If you look at places that have relatively relaxed zoning laws, they don't tend to have much of a homelessness problem.
And there was actually, I can't remember the details, but there was a case where a private charity built a bunch of tiny homes that were basically just 10 by 10 boxes with mailing addresses for the homeless.
And I think it was in San Francisco, it might have been LA, I'm not sure.
But yeah, the government, because they didn't comply with zoning laws, the government just bulldozed the houses and set fire to them.
We've got something like that in Denver too where it hasn't been bulldozed and set fire to yet, but there's a lot of regulatory issues with whether people are allowed to make these tiny homes for the homeless or not.
Yeah, so as for how to help them without getting rid of the stupid laws that are currently hurting them, I don't know.
But that's a pretty intractable problem for any system you have.
So the main takeaway is just get rid of zoning laws as soon as possible.
I like that.
I think just one quick anecdote, I know that when I worked at the bank, at least a couple people that come in relatively frequently were, if not homeless, they were homeless adjacent.
And I think as long as you can get your paperwork together enough to prove to somebody, if you're fortunate, you know, maybe a case worker, social worker who can work at that population, they can help you prove your identity, give you a piece of government issued paperwork that says you are who you say you are, and then you can collect social security and that sort of stuff.
So people would come in whatever first Monday of the month or whatever and grab their social security check all in cash. And those people, I'm pretty sure it didn't go home afterwards.
Yeah, I was just curious whether a UBI or an IT system would have some kind of advantage over the current one or disadvantage.
I don't want to sound like a heartless asshole, but I'm kind of in favor of people who aren't citizens not being included in the UBI.
Yeah, I mean, like, maybe you should just start that one from the list. That's, again, a whole other conversation.
Milton Friedman did famously say a welfare state is incompatible with open society, meaning society with open borders.
And he's actually wrong. You can have it as long as you're comfortable saying you can live here and you can work here, but you're not a citizen.
And we're not going to give you these nice things we give to citizens, which I'm perfectly comfortable with, but a lot of American voters aren't for some bizarre reason.
It might just be bottom lining, but...
And historically, that's how most of the human race worked.
Like, there were a bunch of city-states, and if you were a member of the city, you got the benefits of being a citizen.
And if you weren't, you could live there and you could work there, but you weren't a Roman, so you didn't get all the protections and, you know, benefits that the Romans or the Venetians or whoever it was got.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
Oh, I was going to say, I like it as long as there is some path to attaining citizenship.
Right.
All I was going to say is that while that might be historically true, and this isn't me taking a stance, historically, living as a human is often sucked.
Right.
So, like, that argument from history doesn't persuasive as, like, the way things should be.
Yeah, no, I'm just saying that it's entirely possible and people have done it before.
Totally.
Alrighty.
And the last one, maybe it's a little bit connected.
David, how do you think geographical locations might be affected by a UPI or an NIT system?
I'm talking about, you know, agrarian locals versus the cities and where people choose to live.
So, the biggest issue there is just that cost of living is so wildly different in different places.
And, like, I hail from rural South Carolina where $1,000 check you can live per month you can live comfortably on.
I am given to understand that in San Francisco that would just about cover about a quarter of your monthly rent.
So, that's one of the bigger arguments for something like the status quo over either UBI or negative income tax is just it's more flexible with respect to differences in cost of living from place to place.
Do you think we'd see a bunch of people moving out?
I don't know how we could address that other than just, like, having some sort of cost of living index.
I mean, that might not be necessary.
It's entirely possible that we just see a bunch of people moving out to the country where it's cheaper to live, right?
I mean, I don't know if I would necessarily because there's a lot of stuff in the city that I like.
If I could convince a large chunk of my friends like, hey, let's just go live out in the country where it's cheap as hell.
We'll still have each other for company and the internet for internet stuff.
Why not?
And it would free up city room for people who want to live in the city for some reason.
Yeah, so people aren't that mobile.
That's something that and the argument very similar to that.
Economists have been talking about it and debating it for a while.
But just if you look at places like West Virginia where there aren't any jobs and yet people don't leave and go to where there are jobs.
It just seems like locations are stickier than that argument assumes.
I think it's much easier if you don't have any friends or family you care about.
And you have the means to take whatever shit you have and move a thousand miles, right?
Right, right.
But the less shit you have, the easier that is.
Yeah, I mean, if it involves a lot of walking, though, still people don't want to do it.
But hitchhiking exists.
I mean, many people can get money together for a bus ticket.
So I guess then you get there and then what?
Then you just can't afford to live less because you've got no one's couch to crash on and stuff.
I think then you get to spend a year deciding whether or not you want to live a life where you don't do much of anything
or maybe you want to decide this isn't for you after all and move back to the city
where you can strive for things and be stressed but also in the game.
I don't know.
It'd be at least kind of interesting to have the option.
I mean, there's kind of the option now.
But you're saying if there was already had some net income already.
Yeah, yeah.
So certainly, yeah, I mean, if you go from making $0 a year to making $12,000 a year,
then you have the means to leave wherever you're at and do stuff, right?
Yeah.
Go somewhere your money goes further.
Yeah.
It's weird because I have a friend who lived in Mexico for about a year and like Southern
part less developed part of Mexico didn't have a greater connection but had a good enough internet
connection to still get his job done.
He could do a lot of it offline.
And yeah, he said the cost of living was so ridiculously cheap.
He was basically living like a king on the US salary he made.
But in the end, he ended up moving back to Denver.
Hmm.
Yeah, you see a lot of these digital nomad types and I think don't see very many of them
that aren't like in their 20s and 30s.
So it's kind of interesting.
So all that is to say, yeah, that's a problem.
And but it's again, not really a problem that we can get around very easily.
So.
All right.
Yeah.
That's all I can think of.
Steven or do you actually have any questions?
I think I covered most of them.
I'm sure something will come to me right after we hang up.
But we do still need to get to the less wrong posts and then, you know, get some sleep in
tonight.
So we're probably going to have to wrap it up.
Do you have other things you wanted to mention or something that came to mind during this
conversation that you'd like to talk about?
Yeah, so you should probably use computer wizardry to put this way way earlier in the
conversation like right at the beginning.
Okay.
But just so you know where I'm coming from, even though I've made it pretty clear.
I'm a libertarian.
I have deep anarchist sympathies so much so that on some days you can catch me calling
myself an anarchist.
But I, depending on where you put this, I either hope to or think I have done a pretty
good job of just sticking to the economics and not bring it or at least very clearly
pointing out where I'm bringing my personal values into it rather than just letting the
numbers and the efficiency arguments speak for themselves.
Yeah, I think, I mean, we'll put it wherever you want, but I thought it was fun to learn
that about you as it came out throughout the episode.
So we'll move it to the back or to the front, whatever, to the beginning if you want.
It was fun to hear about and you've put your cards on the table.
I think anyone, and like the part, the points where you were clearly expressing those, those
intuitions and priors, I think you did so in a way that wasn't like pretending to be
couched in, in whatever carefully cited studies or something.
I feel like you were very transparent and fair about it.
So if you want to put it in the front, we totally will, but I kind of like it here because
I feel like, like seeing the, the, the Darth Vader Luke, I'm your father reveal at the
very beginning of Star Wars, you know, leading up to it as part of the fun.
I have mixed feelings about the analogy, but I get what you were trying to say.
Okay.
I think it's a compliment.
Yes.
I'm not sure if you're Luke or your Vader, but either way you're entertaining and, and
not just entertaining, but informative to talk to.
Yeah, absolutely.
This was great.
And to anyone, well, I guess everyone who can't see your face, you have this awesome
beard that I'm very jealous of.
So that's, that's, that's a big point.
But I had one random question, not about your, your professional contribution to, or what
am I trying to say?
Whatever, to why we asked you on, but everyone that we talked to listened to the show, I'm
kind of curious how you heard about it and what got you into rationality and all that.
So what got me into rationality?
I have maybe the, not the weirdest origin story, but probably the least expected origin
story I know of for any rationalist.
I was actually,
