Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Minyash Brodsky. I'm Stephen Zuber. I'm Jess Dickey.
And today we have a guest with us. Calling in is David Spearmanis. Is that how you'd
like to be known? Yep, that's fine. I am... I'm David. I've been bothering these guys by email for a while
and they finally decided to just let me say my piece on the show. I am definitely going to be sending them a
three-page email after this airs with other stuff I didn't get a chance to say, but hopefully I'll get to say
what I want to know. Excellent. Don't let this be an encouraging parable for anyone else who wants to try the same gimmick.
This only works once per podcast. Alrighty, so we have David Spearman on today to talk about UBI,
Universal Basic Income, which was last mentioned on the Yang-a-Ring episode and when this is, I think, near when this conversation started,
have you contacted us before? I think so.
Yeah, I think it was on the feedback episode. Yeah, but the first time was just like Jess, I think, mentioned offhand
something about UBI and you didn't really talk about it, but the Yang-a-Ring was when, like, it's the most substantive time
I can think of that you've talked about it on the show. Okay.
That's right. I remember that thing that you sent us was a link to, I think one of the ones that you sent us for the prep
episode that has been sitting in our, like, wait to get around this section for all too long. So here we are.
Alright. And why are we talking to you as opposed to, I don't know, someone else?
So you're talking to me because I am a graduate student, which means I have enough expertise, if I may say so myself,
to have interesting things to say, but I don't actually have, like, real grown-up commitments yet.
So I'm also willing to do things like come on to podcasts. Although, I guess you had Robin Hansen on and...
We did, but I think we managed to leverage Robin's kind of, like, grandfather of the rationalist movement
thing, emotions to get him to come on. So we snuck that one in.
Yeah, I feel like he's got commitments.
Yeah. Well, I don't. I'm also a UBI skeptic, so it's not just a matter of you guys bringing on a fourth person
who's totally on board to talk about how great it is. Hopefully we'll actually be able to have an interesting discussion
and learn from each other and stuff.
Good. I think we've had a lot of that in the past.
Yeah, anytime we all agree on something, it's sort of, like, not the most interesting thing.
Yeah, it's more fruitful. Plus, it's nice to have a consulting expert.
Yeah, and you were the one who wrote in about the abortion episode that caused us to have the little abortion non-episode
with the email response, and that was really good because finally we had someone with a little bit of pushback
to contrast against our opinions. So we're hoping you'll do the same thing here.
I generally don't like talking about abortion, so if anyone brings that up on, like, the subreddit or anything,
I'm probably just going to ignore it. No offense, I just...
It's a uniquely bad policy debate, epistemically speaking.
So, yeah, I'm not really interested in talking about that much beyond what I've already said.
Yeah, all that's in the past anyway. We're moving on.
We've already talked about it too much.
Yeah, on the bigger and better things.
Exactly. So, UBI, quickly, if anyone is just coming to this podcast out of nowhere, is Universal Basic Income.
It's basically the idea that everybody should get a certain amount of money from the government every month
with absolutely no qualifications or restrictions, no preconditions you need to qualify.
You just get the money for being a citizen.
I think just to caveat that definition that the most persuasive version of that that I've heard has some minor caveats,
which is if you're already receiving government aid, you don't get the UBI.
Right, or it's reduced by the amount of aid you're getting or something.
Sure. Or, like, I mean, to say if you're getting $850 in Social Security every month and that's all you're getting,
and UBI is $1,000, then you drop the Social Security and you can take the UBI.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know if there's one model that UBI necessarily represents.
I mean, there's UBI could replace all of the federal programs.
There's, you said, paid monthly, there's different payment schedules.
It's still kind of in the works.
Have we said anything drastically wrong?
Not as far as I can tell.
Like you said, there are a lot of specific proposals floating around.
I think some of them are worse than others, but most of them have cheaper and more effective alternatives around.
So if you want to get into the details of specific proposals, I'm happy to do so,
but probably our time would be better spent just sticking with the basic everyone gets a certain check for a certain amount.
And most of the arguments I have to say about that would generalize to more nuanced proposals.
So.
Okay.
The first question I have about UBI is when I look at it, it seems basically to be a less frills and less restrictive form of negative income tax.
Is, am I wrong here?
Is this just another term for a negative income tax?
So that's, so the thing is in homework land, and this is actually one of the, one of the main reasons why I oppose UBI in homework land.
They're the same.
So if you just look at the income post taxes and transfers for any given level of earned income, then they're the same.
But the thing is when the government moves money, it does it in a leaky bucket.
So however much you take from the rich people, you will have to give less than that to poor people if you're transferring from rich to poor.
So while they come out the same, if you assume away the administrative costs, tax evasion, all that, they do come out the same.
But in the real world where we have to actually make this policy work, UBI comes out looking a lot worse.
And that's my big reservation about it.
Basically anything a UBI does, a negative income tax does better.
So what is a negative income tax?
A negative income tax is if you make underneath a certain amount of money, the government gives you money.
The simplest form is just your tax rate is your income times a certain percent, which is the tax rate minus a lump sum.
So to take a simple example, if the tax rate is 10% and the lump sum is $1,000, then if you make $1,000, then 10% of $1,000 is $100, minus $1,000 is $900.
So your taxes are negative $900, meaning the government gives you $900 at $10,000 you break even, 10,000 times 10% is $1,000 minus $1,000 is zero, and so on.
So how would a negative income tax decrease the leaky bucket effect as opposed to a UBI?
Because you mentioned that.
And also can you define what you mean by homework land?
Yeah, so homework land is just the parallel universe where undergraduate homework problems exist.
It's where you can safely ignore things like administrative costs, fraud, all those complicating features that make the world more interesting than just a supply and a demand curve.
All of those don't exist in homework land.
And the reason why a negative income tax is in a less leaky bucket is because there are fewer transactions that take place.
So think about that sticking with the 10% tax and the $1,000 dividend in the $10,000 case under a UBI and a flat tax, then I send the government a check for $1,000 and then the government sends me a check for $1,000.
Whereas under a negative income tax, I just send in a receipt to the government or whatever showing that no taxes are owed in either direction.
Okay.
It's, I mean, that that seems like a valid criticism and yet seems dumb to like send the government a thousand so they can send you back a thousand.
But doesn't every government program in the world have administrative costs and possible leaky bucket issues?
It seems like a relatively minor complaint.
So it's a hypothetical.
So take what I'm about to say with a grain of salt, but the Nisganian center, which is a very well regarded think tank did a cost estimate and it would and their estimate is not trivial.
They are somewhat libertarian slash right wing leaning.
So if you think they might be biased, take that for what it's worth.
But they found that the administrative cost would not be nothing.
Plus another benefit of the negative income tax is the sticker price is a lot lower.
It's in fact about an order of magnitude lower.
And so that makes it a lot more politically palatable.
It's an order of magnitude lower than UBI?
Yes.
With the Nisganian center's estimate, they come to a total cost for a negative income tax of 182 billion.
Whereas a negative income tax or a UBI of $5,000 would come out to 1.6 trillion.
How how is that remotely possible?
I mean, because as far as I can tell, they're just different words for the exact same program.
Am I misunderstanding something?
So basically the negative income tax would send out a lot fewer checks with any pretty much any sensible funding mechanism.
The UBI would claw a lot of it back.
But depending on how you feel about the American electorate and their ability to tolerate nuance,
they historically don't respond well to arguments along the lines of,
no, no, this program won't actually cost us this much money because we'll just tax a lot of it right back.
I think that's that's one of the points to me that I think catches for like the the counter or guess what I'm trying to say.
I can see many you mentioned the American electorate.
So I can imagine many of them being resistant to the idea of a negative income tax because quote like why the fuck am I helping pay them when you know they're whatever too stupid or whatever to not be poor.
Whereas if everybody gets a thousand dollars, then like, hey, I get a thousand dollars too.
I think that's a much easier sell to the American people.
Yeah, I guess the psychology behind it is vastly different.
I mean, on the one hand, like if you're of the mind where like why am I paying my lazy neighbors bills for him versus like, hey, three thousand bucks.
Yeah, yeah.
So this argument has become a lot weaker since 2016.
I admit that there used to be a party of fiscal responsibility in the United States.
There used to be a party where when there was a policy proposal, they'd actually look at how much it cost and make sure that the electorate knew what that number was.
That party no longer exists.
So that is a much better criticism than I would have credited four years ago.
I would argue it's been a lot longer than four years, but that is not what we are on topic here today.
Maybe it's maybe it's only been the last few years where they've been able to stop pretending that they're the party of fiscal responsibility.
Okay.
Yeah, that's a better way of putting it.
There was a party that pretended to be the party of fiscal responsibility.
So I don't know.
I think in the end, I mean, if it's an order of magnitude, it's obviously not worth it.
But if it's just like twice as expensive to do UBI as opposed to negative income tax, I kind of think it might be worth swallowing that cost because I think it'd be much easier to get people to sign on to a UBI than to a negative income tax.
Just it sounds better, right?
To many people, I should think that I should think so.
Right.
Like I'm getting the check no matter what.
It depends if you're asking, I guess, the American people versus policymakers who actually know what they're doing.
Or me, who for some reason has an opinion on this and doesn't know what he's talking about, or David, who doesn't know what he's talking about.
So I think there's also let's not be hasty.
I think there's also the aspect that I would feel that if it was a negative income tax, it is up to the vagaries of the IRS.
It could be taken away from me if a law has changed or if policy is slightly altered.
Whereas like a UBI, I'd feel more secure that it's now the law of the land that I get $1,000 a month no matter what.
The other major thing that occurs to me is that we don't have a negative income tax, but you do get food stamps and other benefits if you're under a certain income bracket,
which to many people on these services incentivizes them to stay on those services,
which means don't pursue a better paying career if you can because that bridge between...
I've seen graphs, I couldn't quote the numbers, but you're getting so much in aid that if you were to go just above this line of income,
then all the aid goes away, but you're still way below the purchasing power of things like food and electricity that you had before.
So you're incentivized to not try to earn enough to climb out of that hole.
So I guess between that and I can see how a negative income tax would help with this a bit too, but I liked...
I mean, being a non-economist and I guess swayable to persuasive sounding politicians like Andrew Yang,
I really liked one of the things that he mentioned a lot was like if I got $1,000 a month, I being the general person,
I probably won't save that because I'm an American, I'm bad at saving money.
If I do, I'll give it to a bank and they'll spend it and that'll help the economy a smidge.
But the other thing is I'm going to go buy $1,000 worth of stuff every month or $500 worth of stuff, which is a lot.
And that sales tax goes back into the whatever ecosystem of money and I'm buying more goods, employing more people.
So even if McDonald's has to raise their wages because while I can earn $800 a month working for McDonald's,
if I can earn $1,000 a month sitting on my ass at home, then I'm going to stay at home and earn the thousands.
So McDonald's will be like, well, all right, we'll pay a bit more.
Well, you can do both though.
Exactly, that's my point.
They'll pass that cost on to the product, but now I can afford a $3, what do you call it, Big Mac,
because I'm making $1,000 a month that I didn't have last month.
I think it also feels different because if you get $1,000 a month for doing nothing,
or you go to McDonald's and work for $800 a month, you're getting $1,800 a month.
Right, absolutely.
Because like the negative income tax, you might still end up getting that, but it still feels more like you're paying taxes
and the government is just like daining to let you have some of that money back.
Right.
I know that's not how it'll actually be, but the feeling really is different and I think that matters.
It's hard not to feel that way, yeah.
Yeah, I think the negative income tax might, I mean, to the extent that you would say one or both of these programs disincentivizes work,
the negative income tax might disincentivize work on like the lower end,
like people working for McDonald's or driving Lyft part-time, more than a UBI,
since they would count that as like part of your income and then that would be taken out of the income tax,
versus you'd still get your $1,000 and then yeah, you'd get however much you're getting from Lyft.
Does any of this seem remotely reasonable to you?
Yeah, so a couple things.
There are two different discussions when you're talking about both UBI and negative income tax.
There's the, we had this neat idea and we want to layer it on top of the current system
and we had this radical earth-shattering idea and we want to nuke the current system and replace it with this.
So depending on which of those conversations we want to have and I'm happy having either or both of them,
I'll have different responses to those.
Also, so the reason why a lot of economists like UBI is because it preserves what's called the marginal incentive to work,
which is basically the way economists think about this is for the next dollar I earn,
how much of that dollar do I get to keep?
And the thing about UBI is the UBI itself does preserve that better than the negative income tax,
but the UBI has this big looming question hanging over it of where does the money come from?
And my belief is that a flat tax on income is really the only plausible way to do that,
but if you want to talk about something other than tax policy, then I'm happy to do that.
I'm curious why you think that's the only way to do that.
So there are basically five ways that you can fund a government program.
There's a progressive tax, a flat tax, a regressive tax, debt and inflation.
Debt and inflation would be a bad idea, but explaining why would be a podcast in and of itself.
So it's probably best if you just take my word for it on those two.
Pretty sure that we're not fans of either debt or inflation anyway, right?
Despite debt being so popular, nobody loves it.
Sorry, go ahead.
I was just going to ask how does value added tax factor in?
So value added tax is a regressive tax.
It's regressive because if you're poor, then you will spend a higher percentage of your income on consumption
