turns out these are just lipids, long chains of fats that can spontaneously assemble. And although
we associate lipids and fats with biological life, they can be produced without it, and have in fact
been found in interstellar clouds and on meteorites. And these were potentially the sources that rain
down on planets in the first place, seeding them with the starting materials necessary for life,
but not necessarily produced by life in the first place. Because the complexity is low and the copy
number is high, we'd again probably say random processes can produce these. Though if we did
find these on a planet, we'd also probably be saying, whoa, this mechanism is a real head start in
the process of creating life. So even if it isn't here now, it has a higher chance of being here
in the future, just because we found these. And that is a gray area that I don't think assembly
theory covers off very well. Life useful complexes rather than life derived complexes kind of go
unaccounted for. Similarly, if we think about more straightforward examples, if a creature on another
planet took stones off the beach and wrote SOS in the sand, that is a very low complexity of
materials and a very low copy count number. According to assembly theory, that's probably
not life, nothing to see here guys. Or if life on another planet beamed a radio signal of the
last episode of friends to us on earth, assembly theory again doesn't quite model well for that
clearly life derived evidence. At least how I understand the paper as written and I'm very
happy to be corrected here. You can argue that assembly theory deals predominantly with chemistry
and I think that is a fair point to argue. I think there is scope that maybe it usefully tells us
about life in places we otherwise wouldn't expect, but I'm not sure if that plays out practically.
Strange complex compositions of matter that we find on different planets are strange complex
compositions of matter that we find on different planets. We'll definitely want to determine
their origin regardless, not simply understand their assembly index. From what I've looked at,
assembly theory is interesting. I don't think it's perfect, but it targets a gray space less
quantified by physics and biology. And I think that has merit. What I think is most interesting
is that it gives us such a cold definition of life. Life is an emergent property that starts
at the ability to reproduce some level of complexity. Then extended over time, it can turn
stars and dust into people. It's still the mechanically random process that physics says it is,
but within it are islands of complexity, where valuable information is stored in chemical form
to increase the reproducibility of that complexity. That doesn't reduce its value, in fact life now
by this definition is a fight to fulfill the impossible that is self-actualized out of the
starter materials of the cosmos. The thing that's super striking is it appears that life has appeared
through the medium, the substrate of chemistry, chemical bonds, hasn't occurred in gluons or
neutrons or whatever. It has occurred at the level of bonds because you can get heterogeneity,
that is chains of molecules that are different to give you unique identities. And there seems to
be something in that combinatorial space. But it's just the beginning of the journey, right?
I've got no clue what's going to happen next. It's literally the nice thing about the way we've
done an assembly theory is we've really been very honest and open about it, talking to people. It
obviously has got lots of discussion. I don't know if assembly theory is important or whatever. It's
certainly interesting and getting people thinking in a new way, and that's what more can you want
from a scientific theory.
