different things and want different things and be willing to defect into war. You had to actually
develop a people that could all come to understand the world similarly. Can everybody understand
the philosophy of science well enough that they can all come to understand base objective reality
that they share similarly? Can they all have something like Hegelian dialectic capacities
where they can notice not just their own values but other people's values and recognize that only
solutions that meet everybody's values will end up working? Can they understand things like
multi-polar traps well enough to understand that a short-term win of my political party
just means that whatever technique we utilize that was effective gets reverse engineered,
the other side wins in the next four years and undoes everything that we did for four years and
we get nowhere and then dictatorships do much better than us and the society fails? Can people
understand those things enough that they don't orient towards the short-termism kinds of things?
So this is why the modern democracies emerged out of modernity, emerged out of a
philosophic system that said we can come to understand the world and understand each other
well enough that we can actually have emergent coordination. Obviously, the world has gotten
much more complex during that time and the cultural value of that kind of education has eroded.
So here's the way I would frame up the current situation, one way that I'm looking at the current
situation. This is a detour but I think it's helpful. I'll go back to World War II and then
bridge it to now since that was kind of the beginning of catastrophic level technology.
One way of looking at World War II is, and this is not the only way, there's lots of ways,
this is a useful way for the construction I'm doing. One way of looking at it is that there were
a few social ideologies that were competing for supremacy and what they were competing over was
the emergence of a new set of technologies that science made possible that were so much more
powerful than the previous technologies that kind of whoever got dominance and then would win.
And so the bomb is obviously the center of that but it's not the whole of it,
computers, the enigma machine and the whole development of computation, rockets,
and chemistry. Chemistry is a part of that, kind of advancing in World War I but then
advancing a lot in World War II. Kind of those all came from science getting to the place that we
could do atomic physics and physical chemistry well. And the social philosophies we could say
are capitalism and liberal democracy. The intersection of theory of markets and something
like a democracy or republic. Communism, the Soviets and fascism and a particular kind of ethno
centric nation-state fascism. So those were three different types of social systems.
And we can see that Germany was actually meaningfully further ahead than the U.S. or the Soviets in
certain areas of tech. They got the enigma machine first, they got the V2 first. Those other countries
were obviously larger so when they recognized that and fought to catch up they had an advantage in
that way. And we can say and there's lots of problems with saying this but for the use of
the construction we can say that the U.S. won that competition for that war. Those wars over the
new technologies and we did it not through the market running the Manhattan Project but the
state running the Manhattan Project. This is actually a very, very important thing to recognize
is that the state, the United States recognized that it was an existential risk
and you remember it was Einstein and Sillard, I think, the Einstein-Sillard letter that said
no, the physics we came up with really does say that Obama is possible and there's a decent chance
the Germans know this and they're working on this. We were doing the physics over there together and
the idea that states don't innovate and that markets innovate is just not true. Historically,
the ability to split an atom, which is in a way the most impressive innovation,
was done by the state, not by the market. That was not outsourced or private contracted.
And the same with cracking the enigma code and the whole early development of computation that
ended up then getting private contract and leading to Silicon Valley was nation-state funded,
the Apollo Project. And it kind of stopped with the Apollo Project for some important reasons.
But what happened was the United States recognized that the technological advancement
was going to determine who had the power to determine the world so much that there was
next sense of risk for them that they created a unlimited black budget, brought all the best
minds together to drive innovation in technology to be able to make a democratic system stronger.
For a bunch of reasons, after that and the decades that followed,
more and more of the innovation got outsourced to the private sector
and it started to become closer to true that the state wasn't innovating and most of the
innovation was happening in the private sector. But the private sector doesn't have the same
patriotic interests, it doesn't also have the same people in the private sector aren't voted in,
they don't have term limits, there isn't the same jurisprudence applied to them,
so they have a different set of agendas, right? And the whole idea of the state, like you can
almost think of what the state in a liberal democracy is as like a labor union for the people
and as a whole, like a labor union, is how do you unify all the people to have something that
is big enough to represent their collective interest so that the large corporations and the
major wealth holders within capitalism don't just rule everything like feudalism, which is
the thing we were trying to replace before, because it's very clear that if we have a trade system
and it's mediated by an abstract system for doing accounting like currency,
that pretty soon you'll have a power law distribution of wealth and a few people will
own most of the wealth. Some people are better at it and then getting better at it gives you
more capacity to keep getting better at it and there's compounding interest, which is an exponential
return on owning capital and there's compounding interest on debt and does that thing, right?
And we can see the data of that in Piketty's book, but it's also just kind of a natural
thing to look at. So the idea was since power law distributions are going to happen,
most people are going to have really no power. How do you not have that be oppression? Well,
let's have the people all be able to collectively vote where at least the majority of what they
care about gets encoded as law. So their values are the basis of the jurisprudence of law. So then
rule of law can get enforced by representatives of foreign by the people that are going to be
bequeathed with a monopoly of violence so they can actually do enforcement
to be able to protect the people in the commons against perverse incentive while letting the
market do all the good things that it does. But most of rule of law is actually binding
the perverse incentive. So if that only works where the state can check the predatory aspects of
markets, if the people are checking the state that it is truly of foreign by the people,
there's transparency, everybody's actively engaged, as soon as that stops happening,
then the government is just run by people. Those people are economic actors. They're in there for
whatever a short period of time and they will be liked about the same whether they do corporate
interests or not because nobody's really going to know. And so of course, you end up getting
regulatory capture where the market captures the regulatory apparatus and you get crony capitalism
and that kind of institutional decay. And as the founding fathers in the US said, and anyone who
paid attention, as soon as a couple generations pass and the people forget what it means to fight
a revolutionary war and be under oppression, they won't keep investing and being educated enough
and actively being engaged in government because they'd rather keep up with the Joneses or party
or like some other thing. And so how do you keep the intergenerational transfer of not just the
knowledge but the civic virtues necessary to uphold a democracy, which is not a trivial thing.
And especially as time goes on and the complexity of the world increases,
understanding the issues well enough to really play a role in them and to be able to oversight
them and police them gets harder and harder. And so there has to be more and more investment
into doing that. So we can see that the people stopped investing in checking the state, the state
stopped checking the market, market captured the state, all the innovation got outsourced.
And so what we can see today, so we see in that World War II example that the state really pioneered
the advancement of all these areas of tech to increase the integrity of the state.
There is a jump in technology that is currently happening that is more significant than the
World War II jump in technology. And the center of it is AI and computation with AI being the
very center, right? It's computation, digital tech, but then the application of AI and digital
tech to physical tech as well. So the application of that to biotech and CRISPR kind of stuff and
to robotics and robotic automation and the other key areas of computer science from the
evolution of the computational basis, quantum computing, photo computing, DNA computing, whatever,
and again, the application of that to the material sciences, nanotech, etc. So
we're undergoing this huge jump in technology right now that is something like two orders of
magnitude more significant than the previous World War II jump was in terms of the total amount of
verticality of power and the speed at which it's developing and the number of verticals
simultaneously. And the way I see it is that tech will confer so much power that only those
who are guiding it will have much of a say in the future.
And right now, I only see two types of groups really guiding it meaningfully.
Some authoritarian nation states are where the nation state is taking seriously the development
of tech in the nation state is investing a very big R&D budget and how to actually increase the
integrity of their nation state. And there's a good thing for them to do aligned with whatever
their system and their ideologies are. And obviously, China is a prime example here where
the application that the government is investing in the development of engineers and in the
application of all of those areas of tech to the nature of government itself. And that's everything
from their IoT system to their seismic credit system to the transistor development and lithography to
the Belt and Road Initiative and getting something like 94% of the world's rare earth
minerals in there that are needed for computational substrate and their supply chain to on and on,
right? To the creation of their own internet that doesn't have the same problems for their country
that the US internet has. So authoritarian nation states are using the exponential tech to become
exponentially more effective authoritarian nation states. And the only other kind of org
are companies, Western mostly companies. And those companies are supported by a military
and capital and infrastructure of the nation state, but they don't are not serving the interests of
the nation state other than GDP and jobs and some very short term kind of stuff. And they're
becoming exponentially more powerful companies. But you know, Facebook and Google and have more
users than China and the US combined have people, right? So these are humongous kinds of things of
which there is no precedent for a corporation in history. And Rand never imagined things like this
when she was thinking about the symmetry of supply and demand. And she didn't think of things like
Metcalfe Dynamics that end up leading to natural monopolies and antitrust law didn't think of
that, right? So you end up having Amazon being bigger than all other online stores combined
and Google being bigger than all other search engines combined and Facebook being bigger for
time on site than all the other social networks, you get a natural power law distribution,
not based on government crony capitalism based simply on the nature of network dynamics that
once you reach a certain escape velocity, there you're a natural monopoly will start to emerge
based on the value of the thing being associated with the second power of the number of users.
And so the interesting thing is you see these corporations that are becoming more powerful
than nation states in many ways because of the development and direction of the exponential
technologies. And as that happens, they are less able to be regulated by the countries while still
benefiting from the infrastructure of the countries and simultaneously eroding the
integrity of the country. We can see the way that the time on site optimization ad model
of Facebook and Google and YouTube have eroded American democracies in specific and Western
democracies by doing the time on site optimization appeals to people's cognitive biases and tribalism
and limbic hijacks and those types of things. We can see that the kind of consolidation of
market function like Amazon that Amazon's growth during COVID matched pretty closely the closure
of all small businesses that aren't going to reopen. Well, the American dream without small
businesses isn't the thing, right? It's not a thing in the same way. And we see the technological
automation of so many jobs impending and not the replacement in the current way that it's trending
of a similar American dream kind of sovereignty. So there's kind of a billionaire to centa
billionaire class that runs whatever the one big dog on the top of the power law distribution that
defines a vertical is and a increasingly less upwardly mobile in terms of real capacity to
play those games underclass. And obviously some kind of middle class that is serving
the very upper class in that context. So what I see is that that is the movement to a new kind
of feudalism, right? A tech feudalism. And it's even interesting, some of those companies,
you know, we see this with Tesla, we say with the other ones, some of those companies
are getting subsidies, government subsidies. That means they're collecting taxpayer money
to do to utilize taxpayer money to do the thing they're doing. But the taxpayers didn't vote on
them doing that. They were not elected representatives. They cannot be unelected. And
there is no traditional jurisprudence for the guidance of the thing that they're doing.
That's something much more like a king than a president, which is why I say kind of an emergent
tech feudalism. So what I see is there's one stranger tractor, which is tech feudalism. There's
another stranger tractor, which is kind of authoritarian nation states. And anything like
an open society where there's participatory governance and jurisprudence that is grounded in
the will of the people, there is no system that is based on those ideals that is innovating
in exponential tech to make better versions of that social tech. That is the number one
imperative of our time, in my opinion. And either we figure that thing out, or those are the only
attractors. And the third attractor is that the exponential tech just causes X-risk and we're
fucked, right? So you have X-risk feudalism and authoritarianism as the current dominant attractors
in the presence of exponential tech. Or there's not 17 sustainable development goals that really
matter because we can't fucking achieve any of them without better coordination. There's figuring
out coordination that it becomes the central goal of the world, figuring out a kind of coordination
that is emergent order, that is neither chaos nor oppression, that is
able to utilize the exponential technologies and also to bind and direct them so that they
do not either directly or through externality create X-risk, and that they don't create
authoritarian systems or kind of feudal systems that erode civil liberties in the process. So we
need to have a kind of global innovation zeitgeist of how to apply, develop and apply all the areas
of exponential technology to building new social tech that can guide, bind, and direct the exponential
tech, prevent X-risk, and do it in a way that is commensurate with what are underlying kind of
deepest values for participatory and empowered governance and civics are.
Thank you, Daniel. That was a fantastic riff on the opening question and I think really sets the scene
and goodness we could go in lots of different directions now. It made me think of, you know,
Niall Ferguson's book, The Square and the Tower. Niall Ferguson has said that historians haven't
taken network seriously enough and he traces these network dynamics back centuries and actually says
they were much more prominent and important. And part of the historical political landscape
than we often think. So that was really interesting and I guess what I was thinking we might pick up
would be, you said at some point that we often kick these problems down the road and I wonder
to what extent we're really coming up against the sort of cognitive limits of humans. Given the
rapidity of change, given the challenges that we confront in trying to get our heads around
exponential functions. We have this kind of strange parallax right now between continuity
and discontinuity. So we have these unique unprecedented challenges, but on the other
hand we have these very old forces of zero sum competition, resource wars. Certainly something
which I sometimes hear in the academy is this idea that ultimately there's really nothing new under the
sun that we can repurpose our existing structures that we do have good enough global governance,
if you will. But I wanted to tease out a little bit more this idea of continuity. It seems to me
also what we're seeing is kind of a resurgence of understanding that actually we do need to respect
the laws of physics, that we need to respect the laws of thermodynamics, that we might actually even
have to listen to say E. O. Wilson on the the laws of sociobiology in terms of how do we navigate
through a viable path given the current situation we find ourselves in. But on the flip side, we also
have a sort of a real lack of radical vision within the half within sort of the corridors of power,
