Hi, and welcome to Imperfect Utopias, based out of the UCL Global Governance Institute.
This is a podcast about the challenges facing humanity and possible global responses.
If you're new to the show and you want to get a list of our favorite books, other resources,
and to pass shows, and to join our community, go to ucl.ac.uk forward slash global dash governance.
We're really delighted to have Daniel Schmacktenberger on the podcast today.
Daniel's a social philosopher and co-founder of the Consilience Project, a non-profit media
organization that aims to capitalize a cultural movement towards higher quality sense-making
and democratic dialogue.
Underpinning much of Daniel's work is the conviction that strengthening individuals'
abilities to handle and filter information is now a civilizational imperative in a context
of existential risk.
I've been following Daniel on the podosphere for some time now, and he's definitely one
of the people I check in with most often when it comes to trying to make sense of what's going on.
Daniel's work has also been a major inspiration for this podcast.
So we're super excited to have you join us today, Daniel.
Thanks so much for making the time.
Happy to be here.
Thanks for inviting me.
And we're going to type in lots we could explore here.
But first, I just ask our pod crew to introduce themselves.
So my name is Sam.
I handle the audio and video and hopefully some of the thinking when out of time.
I'm Zoe.
I help with some of the research and more of the admin and social media side of things.
OK, so Daniel, let's get straight to it.
In a world of, as the UN recently put it, certain near-term, nonlinear change.
How well prepared are we to face some of the existential challenges and not just to say
the natural ones that people might think of like asteroid strikes and those sorts
of risks, which are certainly present, but possibly remote, but perhaps most challenging
of all.
And as we've discussed in some length, the human induced or anthropogenic existential
risks like nuclear, but also biotechnology and, of course, climate change, which arise
out of these kind of complex interactions of human and non-human systems, and which
are, I'd say, already defining our times this decade, this century.
And perhaps put a little bit more meat on the bone as to where we might go with this discussion.
We've talked before about how there is a risk that faced with major disruptions, our societies
could potentially default in the direction of either authoritarian oppression or even
chaos, and that some people do think that this is the direction of travel currently.
So how can we best avoid, what can we do now to avoid that kind of dystopia by default?
As our legacy structures, systems, governance systems, as they falter, and there is that
risk of major events sort of overtaking us.
All right, that's a few good questions.
The first question you asked is, how well prepared are we to deal with the existential
and catastrophic risks that are impending or at least have a non-trivial chance of happening?
And you were mentioning that this is a frame that is recognized by the United Nations now.
If we think of the UN as a starting place to answer this, in terms of the closest thing
to something like global governance or an intergovernmental organization, obviously it
was created after World War II in the recognition that nation states by themselves
weren't an adequate governance system to prevent world war.
And now that we had weapons such that the wars between the major powers could never be fought in
one anymore, we had to figure out a whole new world system to do something different than we
had ever done in the history of kind of like the post-empire world, which was how do you have
the major empires not fight wars? And we don't have a very good historical track record of that,
but then we got to the place where you had weapons where the wars couldn't be won.
And that was a different logic. So I point this out because catastrophic risk that was human-induced
before World War II was different and kind than after World War II because we didn't have any tech
big enough to actually create global catastrophic risk from human action.
That doesn't mean that catastrophic risk is not a part of our history, it was just always local.
And not only was it a part of our history, it was what happened most of the time in the
history of the life cycle of civilizations. So we can see that, you know, if we're studying
the Mayan Empire, the Inc in the Aztec, the Egyptian, the Roman Empire, like one of the first
things that we recognize is that they all don't exist in the forms of their dominance anymore.
They all either had sudden collapses or gradual collapses, but the collapse of civilizations is
the things that we call civilizations is one of the kind of most prominent features
that we can see in history. And so you can see that people faced an existential risk to them
from in the form of a warring army or over consumption of their resources or internal
dissent that was enough that it broke their capacity to continue to coordinate.
It's just those were always local issues, maybe a large locality if it was a large empire.
And those were both for environmental externality reasons, like the first civilizations that
over farmed and created desertification. It was a long time ago, right? That's an
environmental overreach is a multi-thousand of year old problem.
And short-term solutions regarding rivalry that in gender enmity, in the side of the other,
and where they then reverse engineer whatever weapon innovation you had and come back and you
just drive arms races, they're escalating. That's also a very old process. World War II is the
beginning of us getting to the place where the scale of our warfare, and then also shortly
thereafter, the scale of even our environmental externality hit a global catastrophic possibility.
So you see that we created an entire world system following World War II to say, okay, we need to
we now have such incredible power that we can't use in the way that we have previously. We need to
steward that power differently. How do we deal with conflicts without war between the major
superpowers? So the UN was created the World Bank, the IMF, that whole kind of intergovernmental
organizations that would be able to broker nation state interests to have solutions other than war
and the entire set of Bretton Wood agreements, Marshall Plan agreements for how we kind of
rebuild the world where the nations would be so economically interdependent on each other through
trade and globalism that it was more advantageous to them to continue to do trade with each other
than to bomb each other. That was a huge part of it and where we could have so much growth
of the economy that everybody's desire to get more could happen simultaneously without having
to take each other's stuff. The idea that very, very positive sum GDP situations could keep us
from going zero sum conflict oriented. Well, that very positive sum meaning extract resources that
are unrenewable and turn them into trash much faster driving GDP for a very short period of time
also meant we hit planetary boundaries. And so now we're seeing planetary boundaries both on the
side of depletion of unrenewable resources and the waste side, both sides of a unrenewable
linear materials economy on a finite planet, lots of different ones, right? We're not just seeing
too much CO2, but too much plastics and ocean micro plastics and all kinds of things on the
toxicity side and all kinds of things on the overfishing, cutting down to many old growth
forests, soil, micro, diversity loss, microbiological diversity loss, etc. So you can't keep doing the
positive sum thing in that same way that is based on the exponential growth of a linear materials
economy on a finite planet. That's one part of the kind of post-World War II solution
that's kind of run up against an end. The other thing is that that world system
created a lot of fragility, right? Because when you have global supply chains where most
in the of the products that we engage with now no country can make, they're made across six
continents, this computer that we're talking on, this phone in my hand, when you factor all of
the materials processing, the hardware, the software, the satellite infrastructure required
for our communication to be happening. The positive side of getting the world very interconnected
was that we were less oriented to war if we had dependence. The negative side of dependence is
you can get cascading failures, right? If you get failures anywhere, then you can get failures that
start to cascade. And we saw that with COVID, we saw that an issue in one province of China
became a completely global issue affecting almost every sector of the world, that needing to stop
the transmission of the virus in a much more transportation-based world than any previous
plague or pandemic ever happened in, also meant shutting down critical supply chains where
fertilizers and pesticides that were needed for agriculture didn't happen, driving food insecurity
at massive scale, which means that the solution to one problem drove other problems. Second and
third order effects became very problematic. And so the interconnectivity that had advantages
also has these fragility disadvantages, and the interconnectivity also wanted to have maximum
efficiencies, and the efficiencies also drive fragility. We also see that in that World War II
till now-ish kind of Bretton Woods time, we had one catastrophe weapon. And so one catastrophe
weapon could be responded to by that same catastrophe weapon. And so the game theory of it was somewhat
simple. And for the longest time, we only had two superpowers that had it. And as a result,
mutually assured destruction was very effective. You were able to create a kind of forced Nash
equilibrium. And also because it's very, very hard to make nuclear weapons. There's not that many
places that have uranium. Enriching uranium is difficult. You can even see it because of
radioactive tracers from satellites, so it's easy to monitor. And so you could do mutually
assured destruction. Obviously, we're in a situation now where we don't just have two
superpowers that have nukes. We have many countries that have nukes, but we also have
lots of other catastrophe weapons, meaning lots of other weapons that are big enough that they
could cause kind of catastrophic loss of civilization harm. And they aren't hard to make,
and they aren't trackable anymore. It's not hard to make crisper bioweapons or drone-based
infrastructure attack type things. It doesn't even take a nation state to do it, not traceable.
That's a very different situation. So when you have many different catastrophe weapons and you
have many, many different actors that can have them, including a very difficult situation to
be able to monitor which actors, how do you do mutually assured destruction? And so how do you
get the deterrent strategy right? And so what I'm bringing up is that catastrophic risk before
World War II was one phase, all of human history up to that point. Then World War II till now was
kind of one phase, and now we're entering a new phase where the Bretton Woods mutually assured
destruction, IGO, exponential growth of a globalized linear materials economy,
set of solutions doesn't work for the new set of the catastrophic risk landscape that we face.
So we need a totally new set of solutions which will require innovation in our social technologies
of how we coordinate game theoretic type issues. Now, when you say how well prepared are we,
we come back to the UN, we recognize that we have not succeeded in nuclear disarmament.
Even while we kind of claim to succeed in nuclear disarmament in some very limited ways,
we still had arms races of faster delivery mechanisms, hypersonic missiles, whatever,
to try to win first strike and other things like that. We got more countries with nukes rather than
less during that time. We got more other countries that could affect the movement of a new nuclear
weapon through other kinds of geopolitical and less military advance, but engaging the bigger
military type tactics, plausible deniability attacks that get blamed on a larger superpower
and things like that. And during that time, we've also had every new type of advanced technology
create an arms race. There's an arms race on AI autonomous weapons, on
the application of CRISPR technology to bio weapons, cryptographic type weapons for cyber
attacks. And so we have succeeded in preventing no arms races. We have not been able to reverse the
one really critical one. None of the sustainable development goals can really be said to have
been achieved well. So I would say that our global coordination on all of the most critical issues
is inadequate to the timeline and consequentiality of the issues. That seems very, very clear.
And the as exponential tech is advancing, the total number of catastrophic risks and the total
probability of each is increasing. And the capacities that we're utilizing to address them
are not increasing accordingly. So there is a gap that we need to be focused on, which is what you
guys are focused on, which is this kind of global governance topic. We have global issues, not just
local issues. Everybody's scared of global governance, the frame, the term global governance,
or at least global government, for a good reason, which is we have a good
long history of reasons to not trust consolidation of power with no checks and balances.
So nobody wants this kind of massive, unchecked global government. And at the same time,
you have to have governance at the scale that cause an effect is occurring. And if we're having,
if, if nobody can fix climate change on their own, in terms of nation states,
and yet they're all affected by it, and they can't fix overfishing, they can't fix nitrogen,
run off dead zones and oceans and et cetera, there have to be
global coordination solutions. Otherwise, multipolar traps ruin everything, right?
Multipolar trap being some kind of race to the bottom. Arms race is an example, as we've already
mentioned. Tragedy of the commons is another example. But the key to both of them is where the
agent focused on their own short-term well-being does something that advances their short-term
interest, but then makes everybody else have to do the same thing. And where everyone doing it
creates the maximally bad long-term situation. And so if we try to create some treaty around not
overfishing a particular region of the ocean and anybody violates it, then why does it,
if anyone else doesn't violate the treaty, if they can't figure out enforcement,
then you're just a sucker for holding to the treaty, right? Because all those fish are going
to get killed anyways, the ocean's going to get messed up. It's just going to feed another
population that's going to grow and have more people to engage in economics and armies. And so,
yeah, how do you do enforcement on a nation that has nukes or a nation that has some critical
aspect of infrastructure or, you know, or the globalized supply chain? And so enforcement
becomes tricky. So then you get these types of things, tragedy of the commons and arms race,
multi-polar traps. So you have to figure out how do we solve those coordination issues globally,
because we have global issues that can't just keep getting pushed down the road.
And yet we want to figure out a solution to do it that isn't a kind of global government that
becomes its own catastrophic risk of under the name of some problem that is scary enough,
we agree to some totalitarian power structure. And that's the thing you mentioned about order
and chaos, is that we can see that the thing we call civilization is a way of having some order,
some coordination between lots of people, so that they can do specialization and division
of labor, creating a richer world for everybody, and then coordinate all that, they can coordinate
their activity for not just those kind of productive purposes, but also protection purposes.
So the thing that we call civilization is how we coordinate behavior of lots of people.
And that's actually a pretty hard thing to do when you think about people that want different
stuff and believe different stuff and aren't necessarily connected to or bonded to each
other, like how do you get them to not just do the immediate advantageous thing to them
for people that are fundamentally strangers to them. So typically a civilization will try to
create order through some kind of imposition, some forced religion, forced patriotism, law,
whatever it is, and it can air in the side of an order to have everybody
participate with that order becoming increasingly tyrannical, increasingly dictatorial.
If it doesn't do that, people end up orienting towards tribalism naturally
and fragmenting kind of towards each other and you end up getting the thing failing in the
direction of chaos. The only other answer is how do you get order without it being imposed?
How do you get emergent order? And this was the kind of idea of democracies and republics and
open societies is maybe we could actually get emergent order if we, and it was based on the
idea of a culture that invested in the people enough, that the people didn't just believe
