to then possibly be able to converge towards doing more stuff. Both of those are valid
on their own and in combination.
What I would say is that you're increasing your understanding of the world, that you're increasing
your sense of your ability to act meaningfully, and that you're increasing both the depth of care
and the emotional resilience in the presence of that care simultaneously are things you want
to be tending to. There's not one good answer for how to do that, but they're things you want to be
tending to. Now, we spoke briefly before the recording started about the very real practical
inquiry of what kind of jobs are there in the space. And it's if, let's say, working in existential
catastrophic risk are some of the most important areas in the world and pioneering new types of
social technologies that both apply and combine physical technologies. If these are some of the
most important areas, but there's not really jobs, there's not financial incentive there.
And as you're focused on them, there's more emotional difficulty and psychological difficulty
associated with looking into the abyss. The incentive landscape is wrong for getting the
people engaged in the things that matter. So institutionally, we should try to fix that
and say, how do we start to put incentive on the things that matter the most, which the Manhattan
Project did, which is why I'm calling for Manhattan Project type things. And in some ways, you can say
Ethereum and Holochain and other orgs are trying to do that. So maybe some of Elon's
companies, whatever, we're taking on a problem and we're trying to be able to create a lot of
jobs and incentive to get people to be able to work on problems that matter.
But the other part of that answer I'll just share is for me, a big part of, because I was thinking,
like there's a lot more people thinking about X-Rest now, but I was thinking about it from
quite young age. I just knew I couldn't focus on anything else and I couldn't focus on anything
that wouldn't converge to being adequate. It was okay if what I was working on wasn't
adequate. It just had to seem like it was on a path of increasing understanding and capacity that
could maybe converge. So I kept, for most of my life, my overhead as close to nothing as I could
keep it and figured out things that I could do for work that took the least amount of time possible.
So most of my time didn't have any market need on it. Most of my time was self-directed study in
these areas because that was the only thing I could actually do and be congruent with myself.
So sometimes I did construction to pay the bills, sometimes I did teaching or I became a therapist
and did different things, but I kept my bills low enough that it didn't take that many hours.
And so most of my time could just be allocated based on my intrinsic
orientation of what would be most meaningful, which I highly recommend that path.
Brilliant. Well, thank you, Daniel. I think we're rolling to a close.
We've covered a lot of ground. It's been really an exciting conversation. I hope we'll have a chance
to continue this another time. It does seem that we are in something of quite a sort of
incredible moment, possibly a unique moment. We're facing a lot of daunting challenges
and we're all trying to grapple with what that means, I guess, for us personally, professionally.
For me and in the seminar room, in the university, in society, in my interactions with my loved ones.
But I guess it's also, in some ways, it's a time of opportunity as well. It's kind of a
cool to adventure, as you sort of said, is there anything more important than really sort of
putting your shoulders to the wheel on some of these issues that we've addressed?
And yeah, I'd just like to say thank you for all of your work. And I don't know if you have any
final closing thoughts, anything that we haven't covered that you'd just like to share with us,
to close? It is a thought that comes to mind, kind of following where we just were.
One way I think about how to live a meaningful life, a simple but kind of elegant model is
we can think about life in terms of the mode of being, the mode of doing, and the mode of becoming.
And if you were to describe the mode of being, it is, in the moment, focused on appreciating
what already is, appreciating the beauty of life as it is. The mode of doing occurs in time,
and it's focused on adding beauty to life. If it's focused on anything else, it's not the
mode of doing very well, right? Most people are in the mode of doing, doing shit that if they
didn't do it, the world would be better. But the mode of doing that matters for a meaningful life
is adding beauty to life and or protecting, serving the beauty that's there. The mode of
becoming is increasing your capacity to appreciate life as it is more fully, and to add to beauty
more fully, right? Increasing being and becoming and being and doing. So then there's a virtuous
cycle between those. But the doing only matters and the becoming only matters because of the
intrinsic meaningfulness of being. If ultimately the meaningfulness is grounded in experience,
and the fact that experience is just intrinsically beautiful, that taking reality is intrinsically
beautiful. So if you, because of the crises, you don't focus on that enough, you'll actually get
disconnected from the source of what matters. And then your, your motivational complex will,
if I, if I wake up, so like, I wake up, I go sit outside with a cup of coffee and I look at the
trees. And I just love watching the trees move in the wind and the clouds in the sky and just
like how beautiful this planet is, how much I appreciate it. And there is a fullness in that
mode of being that doesn't need anything. So then I'm not motivated based on what's in it for me,
because I already feel like I could die right now. And I feel lucky, right? I feel like I have lived
a really rich full life. So now it's not what's in it for me. It's not some doing that I have to do.
It's that I actually want to protect that beauty. And I want to protect other people's ability to
keep experiencing it forever, or at least for a long time, because I can. And because as much as I
appreciate it, other people do too, or can and I, that matters to me, right? Like it's intrinsically
meaningful. But that's a different come from it. It has a certain anxiety and angst and feverishness
that isn't there. And it has a sacredness that is there. And then there's also a courage of like,
maybe I fail. I mean, maybe we fail, right? And life has been meaningful each moment. It's not
like it wasn't meaningful like it. Okay, maybe the whole thing comes, this whole thing, part of it
comes to an end at some point. But I will do what I can to be in service to it. But that service is
arising out of seeing it and loving it as is, and then wanting to be of service from there.
So I can be in the mode of being just kind of chill and watching TV. I can be in the mode of
doing doing a bunch of to do this shit that doesn't really matter. I can be in the mode of
becoming trying to get better at doing shit that doesn't matter. I want to think about am I engaging
in each of those modes? And am I engaging in them deeply? If I'm in the mode of being, I want to be
looking at the sky and I want to be listening to music, I love and be wrapped. I want to be
feeling moved by the beauty of life. So why do the mode of being any other way? I want to be with
friends that I love where I'm like, yeah, I could die right now full. And in the mode of doing,
I want to know that the world would be worse if I didn't do this. Otherwise, I go back to the mode of
being, just chill and enjoy it. I want to know that the thing I'm doing adds something of meaning
somewhere, right? And the mode of becoming of am I am I developing my ability to appreciate
everybody and everything around me? And am I developing my knowledge and agency and capacities
to add to it? That's a good framework to think about, you know, when you inventory your day and
your week, what being on track means. Wonderful. Well, thank you, Daniel. Thanks so much. And
if people want to engage more with you and your work, your website is called Civilization Emerging.
Is that correct? Civilization Emerging is just like a personal blog where there's some podcasts
and old stuff up there. And you can check it out. And the project that we're focused on that's
really just in the earliest beta phase right now. But that is kind of the project where we're
trying to bring the information forward that will help decentralize innovation of what the new
social technologies that can employ and guide exponential technology are. That project is
called the conciliants project conciliants project.org. And that will get increasingly
interesting over the next, you know, few months. Yeah. And I'm hoping that we'll have a conversation
about how I contribute to that project. Super exciting. And I hope people will go and check out
that website. Thank you, Daniel. Look forward to picking this up again at some point. Take care.
Thank you. It was good to be with the three of you.
Thanks for tuning into Imperfect Utopias. To get access to all of our content and to stay up-to-date
with future Zoom calls, workshops and events and more, check us out at ucl.ac.uk forward slash
global dash governance. If you like this content, please do leave us a comment and subscribe.
Till next time.
