actually pervade out well for certain reasons. To a certain degree and then not beyond.
And the same is still true for running water and hygiene and medicine. There's a very unequal
distribution of problems we have solved. I would say that many of the most critical
issues we need to solve, the solutions don't exist anywhere. It's not true that somewhere
has figured them out well. We actually have to do innovation. How do we solve global
multipolar trap issues is not solved anywhere. And that's the most central thing we have to figure
out. How do we create digital open societies? You can say that it's kind that there are some
places that are trying to pioneer like Taiwan and Estonia. That's true. But those are very far from
have really got worked out solutions that are adequate to all the other places in scale.
I think we have to acknowledge that many of the most critical solutions don't exist at all
and need to become the primary focus of innovation. And then where they do
start to develop, we have to say what type of governance and incentive landscape would be
necessary to get them everywhere they need to be in time. And who would have to be participating
to make that happen? And what kind of oversight and enforcement would be necessary to really make
it happen? We know in the US, the government making deals with Native Americans and then
not keeping them whenever it's inconvenient almost all the time. It's not just about did you
say when you developed a new technology that will get it to the world? Is there a method of
enforcement that will actually ensure that that occurs and that it occurs within time? That becomes
critical. I just had a follow up to that. We talked about how we understand problems and how we
understand solutions. Why do you think certain maxims are held in higher esteem than others?
In another podcast, you talked about survival of the fittest and how we've almost
fetishized that concept above all others. And how can we make sure that other maxims are
discussed in a kind of equal or more celebrated light? And is that there a logic that pervades
a lot of these more harmful maxims? Yeah, it's apologism. So if I win a war and we kill a bunch
of people that we call terrorists or infidels or some bad thing that makes them not human,
but what it means is we blew up a lot of civilians and a lot of women and kids and whatever it was.
But we got more land and resources and whatever it was out of doing that thing.
Survival of the fittest is a nice narrative to say that's how nature works and that's the way
that it should be. And it's actually the predators that keep the prey animals from eating themselves
into extinction and that drive them to evolve by eating the slow ones so that the good genes
kind of inbreed. And most people are like prey animals to the some more predatory humans that
cold heard and that kind of drive them who are otherwise kind of lazy eaters. Like that whole
ideology is apologism for whoever is winning at an extremely damaging rival risk kind of system.
Naive techno-capital optimism is one of the best examples of apologism of this kind where
like if you have a theory that criticizes capitalism, nobody who's winning at capitalism
who has the money is going to upregulate it. And if you are criticizing tech, nobody that was
winning at tech is going to say, yes, I like your idea of why I suck and I'm going to upregulate
that. So you realize that for narratives to catch on, somebody has to upregulate them and
there's cost associated in doing that and there has to be a motive associated with that cost. So
it's not just like the ideas that are the most true and the most beneficial proliferate. The
ideas that have the most agentric basis to drive them through the society are a lot of the ones
that proliferate. The idea which is often held up sort of as counterposed to survival of the fittest
is mutual aid, which is this idea that Peter Kropotkin proposed in the late 19th century and he
essentially saw out there in nature. Actually, it wasn't the species that competed most fiercely
that survived. It was those that actually cooperated that moved into a kind of a situation of symbiosis
if you will. So is that notion of mutual aid, is that a useful reference point for thinking about
these vaccines that need to inform how we move forward? How do we actually begin to have meaningful
productive conversations within the classroom or within the UN forum or within government
corridors of power? How do we begin to chisel away at the memetic sort of structures which
seem to reinforce that particular mindset? If we think through the wrong metaphors, we're obviously
going to come to the conclusions of those metaphors predisposed, but they're the wrong ones, then
there'll be the wrong conclusions. So what kind of animals are humans? Are humans predators?
Are we prey? Are we fungus? Are we slime molds? Are we the relationship between trees and animals
where we can see gas exchange? There's lots of different biological analogies we can try to use.
And none of them apply. So let's say we do the most popular one, which is that we're apex predators.
Pick an apex predator, lion, polar bear, and orca. Orca is maybe the best example, the biggest apex
predator in the ocean. Compare what an orca does to a school of tuna to what an industrial fishing
boat, a commercial fishing boat with a mile long griff net does. The orca misses almost every time,
and when it finally catches one, it catches one, right? And as there's less of them, it misses more
often. And we can pull up the entire fucking school in a net. We're not apex predators.
Apex predators can't do that. If a polar bear decides that it's super pissed off and wants
to go on a rampage and destroy as much stuff as it can, like, what's it going to do? And
look at human nuclear capability if we were similarly disposed. Like, wait, the idea that we
look at, that we don't factor the way that technology means that we are not like the rest of
nature. So of course, we need to see in nature, yes, there's some competitive dynamics and some
cooperative dynamics. This is true. Where there are competitive dynamics, there are mostly
cemeteries of power. The tuna get away as often as the orcas catch them, right? So the slow orcas
die, the slow tuna die, the faster of both happen. So the co-selective pressures have them both kind
of get better together. And so there's the symmetry of power, right? The orca is not a lot more
powerful than tuna in terms of that particular dynamic. And so we can see that if we were to
figure out some way to quantify all the interactions that were happening in nature, almost all of them
are symbiotic, right, of some kind. Some of them are directly rivalrous and competitive. And sometimes
it's kind of both, right? It's a place where the competitiveness at the one-to-one level
ends up leading to symbiosis at the species-to-species level. Obviously, both the predator and the
prey animal depend on each other. Predator dies, prey animal eats itself to extinction,
prey animal dies, predator serves to death. So micro rivalry ends up leading to macro symbiosis
because of the symmetry of power thing, right? So we can see that there are certain types of
competition, but they're limited, the symmetry is power, and then there's a lot of symbiosis.
Well, as soon as humans started making tools, we were able to hunt any species to extinction
anywhere and go become the apex predator in any environment and more powerful than the apex predator
in any environment. We broke the symmetry, right? We became more lethal predators faster than the
environment could evolve to become more resilient to it. As a result, that was the beginning of an
extinctionary process that was following an exponential curve that was slow for a long time
from stone tools and started to really pick up with agriculture, then really pick up with the
industrial revolution is now verticalizing in modern tech world. But stone tools were kind
of the beginning of it, right? And the other stone tools and language and that type of coordination
that came along with the abstraction capacities. So do humans need to ensure, as the metaphors of
nature go, that where we have competition, that it's symmetrical and that it's constrained
and that the micro competition really does lead to macro symbiosis? We need to ensure that. This is
true. Is the competition between Facebook for your attention and you for your attention symmetrical?
No, of course not. Well, you say, well, there's a competition, the competition
between supply and demand is symmetrical because there's an equal number of dollars flowing from
demand to supply. Bullshit, right? The demand side is not coordinated. The supply side's coordinated.
And so even though there's a total symmetry and aggregate, there's not a symmetry of coordinated
capacity because it isn't Google against all Google users as a Google user labor union
that is also applying similar exponential technologies to bind this thing. It's Google
against one person in terms of the person didn't think that they were about to spend the next
three hours on YouTube and now they do, which is better for their advertising model, not necessarily
for your life. That kind of, and so then you can have supply side driving manufactured demand.
Well, now there's not real, market ideology is broken now. That's not a market ideology,
was that there was a thing called demand that was foundational, that people wanted real
shit that would improve the quality of their life and that created an environmental niche for supply
and the rational actors would buy the product or service amongst all of them at the best price
that would drive innovation. Well, the moment supply started to get much bigger than demand
because of coordination, it realized that it could manufacture supply and the humans weren't
all that rational, all the behavioral economics. And now the entire logic of markets is broken,
right? Like market theory is broken with manufactured demand and radical asymmetries
on the supply side. Okay, that's important to know. And so if you go back to the nature example,
where there's competitive forces, do they need to have symmetries in order for them
competition to lead to symbiosis as a whole and metastability of the ecosystem? Yes. If you bring
something in that is not symbiotic with the rest of it, you get an invasive species that can destroy
a whole ecosystem, right? So we should study biology where we're not trying to compare ourselves to Apex
predators or slime molds or whatever. We could just study general principles of things like
cooperative dynamics and competitive dynamics and metastability. We can kind of get a sense of that.
What is needed for metastability? And then say, how does that apply in the human world? But it
will be different. It'll be very different. The rest of the animal world is not forecasting the
future and making game theoretic decisions based on forecasts of the future. And so this is why,
like complexity theory, where we model us as termites is silly, like we don't behave like
termites. So it's not that it's useless, but it's profoundly inadequate as a set of metaphors. So
we have to recognize our human's part of nature, of course. Is there a distinction between humans
and the rest of nature that is fundamental in type? Maybe it was just a change of quantity of
neurological complexity that crossed a threshold that became a change of kind, but it is a change
of kind. And so we will have to have fundamentally different metaphors for thinking about that,
which is why it makes sense to just think about the problem space and make sure that
you understand the problem space well and that your solutions are aligned with the problem space.
Yeah, yeah. What an exciting research agenda. And of course, an agenda to live by as well and to
engage with deeply. And another maxim comes to mind, perhaps, which would be know thyself.
It's not just a situation of impersonal inexorable forces bearing down on us, but we're also talking
about systems of, I think, human intentionality, which raises the crucial issue which we discuss
with Forest Landry in an earlier podcast on how do we make good choices, which perhaps our education
systems are not really equipping us with the tools we need to answer that really important
question. I know that Zoe's got a question. I want to hand this over to Zoe. So go for it, Zoe.
So I kind of building on sort of the meta, we have the wrong metaphors, I guess, we're using
the wrong ways of thinking. I kind of wanted to know how do we deal on like, on a societal and
a personal level with the amount of cognitive dissonance I think we're existing in, because
I think part of the difficulty with coming up with solutions is that some of the challenges
are so overwhelming that I feel like majority of people just kind of stick their head in the sand
and they're like, no, and so we're existing in like, I feel perpetual cognitive dissonance.
And I was kind of wondering what your take on that was and how, yeah, how do you deal with it
personally and how does a young person who's trying to sort of move forward in society deal with
that as well without, and, you know, exist as a functioning member of society without sacrificing
maybe personal ethics and values, even though I kind of, I guess I know that I'm going to have to
compromise somewhere down the line.
You as an individual probably can't solve those issues,
probably not one of them, let alone all of them.
And you can't focus on it and really look at it and feel the scope of the current harm and the
possible harm and not be able to do anything about it and have continuing to look at it make any sense.
So let's say that our social institutions were adequate, as they were at previous points, to deal
with whether they were adequate or not depends upon which group you were a part of and which
problems you were looking at. But let's just take for a moment that for some things they were adequate.
But then if there was a problem you really wanted to solve, you could think about joining
the CDC to work on pandemics or joining the military to work on terrorist-mediated
ex-risk or joining an intelligence group or whatever it was.
If you look around and you see that the scale of the issues requires institutional solutions,
whether they're state or network-based decentralized autonomous organization or whatever,
but collective intelligence of lots of people, not just a person.
And you don't see anyone that is currently doing that, then there isn't something you can join,
then what do you do? It's a tricky problem because there's a fairly small number of people that have
the right psychological disposition to try to found something of that type.
There are a few people who are either going to try to start a new type of company or a new type of
non-profit or a new type of social movement or whatever.
There's a lot of people that can contribute value to one of those that are probably not
going to found it for really not just developmental but typological reasons,
different typologies or into different things.
So to the degree that there are particular issues you care about
and you can find organizations that are doing a pretty good job that you could
join or participate with, that's a good answer. It's something of an answer.
To the degree that you feel like you have the typological orientation to make a new thing
or to be part of make a new thing, to find other people that could co-found some kind of new process,
whether it is trying to get an upgrade to an institution with existing government,
build a new institution, build Ethereum, some kind of platform for decentralized
autonomous organization that maybe will create the future of governance via networks rather than
nation-states. Those are all possibilities for, is there some new capacity that I believe
is needed that I could help to bring into being?
So either you have to join something or you have to make something or you have to join
people that are interested where maybe somebody in that scene or some combination of them will
be able to make a thing. And it's very hard to know that the thing that you're focused on,
even if it's awesome, is not adequate to the scope of issues you're aware of
and put all your energy into it and not go nihilist or just anxious all the time.
So for a lot of people, I would say they should put their sense-making into things that they feel
like they have agency in or could develop agency and that there's some relationship between their sense-making
and their agency. So let's say they feel like, okay, well, I don't know how to fix AI, AGI risk issues.
Silicon Valley attentionalism issues. But I feel like if I apply my sense-making to the problems
in my community, I could actually help improve the quality of life of my community. I could
bring warm data labs there and have the people start really getting to know each other in a
multi-contextual way much better. I feel that kind of thing. If a lot more people did that,
they paid attention to where they could have agency, applied their sense-making there,
a lot of problems would get better. And a lot of other people in those communities would evolve
to want to do things as well. And some of them would have different aptitudes and people communicating
better would have better collective intelligence. And once you solve problems at one scale, you get
better at problem solving. You might be like, maybe I can do this for a second community. Oh,
I've just figured out a generalized principle. Maybe I can help create a way to do this for
communities writ large. All of a sudden, it starts to be able to kind of inductively scale to the
scope of the problems. So one thing I would say is like one approach is just try to understand
what the world needs without understanding what you can do. Just take you out. Just what does
the world need? Because as you come to understand that better, you'll start to have insights of
what needs to happen. And then you'll at least be able to parse where are the places doing closest
stuff? What is nobody doing? How do I help make that happen? Right? That's one approach.
The other approach is what is the stuff I feel like I could do and how do I apply my study to be
able to do some of those things where then in the process, I can be increasing my agency
