the point is that, yeah, that charity or that website, that list is public. So you get all
the perks of being visible. I think we've covered everything. I hope to get listener
feedback about this because there's a lot of things that we didn't talk about that I'm hoping
someone asks about, but no spoilers. Yeah, no spoilers. Okay, I hope so too. Now, if you don't
mind, we got an email that I'd like to read. This is from Phil. Phil says, Hello, in the most
recent episode of the podcast, Tinder, actually, the conspirators express like confusion over the
origin and the use of the term social justice warrior. Given its current connotations, you may
be surprised where the term originated and who it originally referred to. The term originated on
internet forums in the early aughts in the early oos as a portmanteau of social justice and keyboard
warrior. If you're not aware, a keyboard warrior was a dismissive term for someone who spent all
of their time making noise online, but never did any actual work, i.e. volunteering, community
building, donating, etc. It was used almost exclusively by people who engaged in social
justice work as an insult to people who never got away from their keyboards to help people in the
real world. The fact that the term is now used as an insult for people who care about race, sex,
gender, or other identity issues today is an odd quirk of history and language evolution.
Note, keep in mind, this was over a decade ago, the keyboard warrior term was being used.
Online activity didn't have the same reach or impact it does today. Well, thank you for
writing in. We're all the wiser. Yeah, I appreciate you writing in as well. I didn't know about the
history of the word. I did have a little, I guess, quibble with at least the way that I colloquially
see the words social justice warrior used. It's not used to insult people who, quote,
care about race, sex, gender, or other identity issues today. I think it's more used for people who
generate social media campaigns against professors that they found offensive, or I think it's much
more, at least the way I see it, for the fringe people that most of us probably don't think are
doing effective altruism, or who are being very fair. Maybe that's how you see it used.
That is how I see it used. Remember, it was used against me in the last episode.
Yes, but I think he used it derisively, assuming that you're one of those people.
All he knows is that I have out of the mainstream ideas about gender. That is it,
that's what he was going on. And I see it used, I see it thrown at people who are just like me,
or care about race in different ways. To care about social justice, period.
I've heard that term used on those people as a derogatory term.
Yeah, I have so too, but I think that would be misapplied to somebody like you who doesn't
warrior yourself out there isn't a keyboard warrior, right? I mean, unless maybe you are.
I'm enough of a warrior. I've talked about my thoughts on air. I've shared them. That's all
it takes. Yeah. And I certainly wouldn't defend anyone being pejorative or mean to anybody,
even people that we can agree are doing inappropriate and mean things on the internet.
It wouldn't make sense, I would assume, for somebody to insult you for having a wide care net.
And if that's why they're insulting you, then yeah, they're missing a mark in more than one way.
I was assuming that they were lumping you in with these bad people. So like there's...
For certain groups, certain words just start to mean bad. Like for a lot of conservatives,
the word liberal is a slur. When you call someone a liberal, that means they're a bad person.
And we don't have that connotation to liberal. Fair enough. Yeah, I had no idea that the word
social justice warrior had that wide of a net. If that's the case, then I need to reevaluate.
I always saw it in the context of people who... And I can link to 100 things if anyone cares.
You know, like we talked about Jonathan Haidt a couple episodes ago. He showed this awesome video
that he'd been showing for, you know, how long he's been teaching and it's been around for 50
years. It's this fun exploration into, I guess, what they call the Yuck reaction in philosophy
where people are opposed to something not for any good reason, other than it gets kind of gross.
The classic example is like an incestual sibling couple. And people will say, well, you know,
bad genes for their offspring, poor family relations. And the instructor could then,
you know, refute all of those saying, well, they're both infertile, none of them have families,
etc. Now what's wrong with it? And they always hold back on, well, it's gross, but no one
puts that forward like as an actual argument. But that's what they've been coming from the whole
time. And anyway, so he showed this video. And I think the person in the video, again,
this was like 50 years ago, they had said that I might personally find the sight of two men kissing
unpleasant, but that doesn't mean that they shouldn't do it. And there was a girl in his class
who apparently before class had even ended had written the Dean. And her friends had started
a social media attack against him. This took up six months of his life. He almost lost his job.
And it was all over just showing this video. And he was like, I wrote a paper, I put forward
research on, I forget what it was specifically, something about as pro gay as a professor could
possibly be. And so this, this is what comes to my mind when I hear social justice warriors,
maybe that's how people use it as an insult. Because it's hard to say like why it's an insult
that you care about somebody, right? I once saw a video of a guy being assaulted,
like physically assaulted for his hairstyle. That is also a bad thing. What was his hairstyle?
Dreadlocks and he was a white guy. Oh, I see. Yeah, those, I think those are people picture
on the picture, social justice warriors, at least that's what I pictured. So that, and now that I
know that there's a wider net for it, that doesn't seem quite so disingenuous to me. But
the way that it was phrased from my previous understanding made it sound like it was almost
like, and I'd like to clarify, when I say physically assaulted, I don't mean like he was
beaten up. This person was verbally berating him and then like grabbed his backpack and yanked it
or something. So it wasn't like he walked away with a bruise, but again, it was a physical
manhandling. Yeah, no one should be assaulted for how they dress or at least I would argue some
might disagree. And I think that they would be wrong. You know, I'm a big fan of like,
if you're not hurting anybody, you shouldn't be beaten up in the street. That's just me.
But sorry, you had some more feedback, Inyash? I have two pieces of feedback that have gone
way back to the animals episodes. Oh my gosh. Yeah. And we haven't covered it yet?
No, these were new. Tell me. We have people catching up with older episodes now. So Daystar
Eld, who I would like to say real quick is from the rationally writing podcast and also
writes rational fiction, which we should have an episode about sometime. But we say that about
a lot of things. Anyways, Daystar Eld says that it was asserted by another listener that we
can't know in quotes, what an animal is thinking in the same way we can't even know what a human
is thinking. Or if they're thinking at all, since we're just making up what we believe animals
think the same way we do with other humans. It was implied that we can't even know what other
humans are thinking and just make up what their beliefs are. So how can we pretend to know what
animals are thinking or what they value? Isn't this a false equivalence that throws out what
evidence we do have? Namely, we know that the physiology of the brain has a connection to
intelligence slash consciousness. Even if we don't fully understand that connection or how our
brains work. And we know that other humans have brains similar to our own. So even if we don't
know how intelligent animals are with their very different brains, we do know that other humans
share the same overall brain structure and complexity as ourselves. And we at least can
be sure that we ourselves are intelligent slash conscious. So it's strange to me to ignore that
and pretend that all animals and humans operate out of an equally opaque black box.
Was that a response to something that we said or a response to one of the comments on that episode?
I believe it's a response to something that I said, since I was saying that you can't even
know what other humans are thinking. Well, you can't know, but you can ask and get reports and you
can be pretty sure that there's something going on in there. Because like they said, they have a
brain like yours, that implies that there's probably something more akin in your head that's
like in mine than there is in this sound board, right? That's a really good point. And I don't
think that's evidence that we should ignore. No, he says as a note that this isn't strong evidence
for the assertion animals aren't conscious or even animals aren't as intelligent as humans.
He's not discounting those possibilities at all, just that it's a stretch to say that it's not at
least strong evidence that other humans probably are conscious as much as I am while animals might
not be. You know, Edgar from that episode wrote us. Mind if I read his comment? Please do. If you
don't recall or you didn't hear the episode, we use Edgar's comment kind of telling us how would
you don't don't talk about stuff you don't know because you don't you don't know how animals feel
um as a jumping off point for that entire episode for two episodes. So from Edgar,
I realized this follow-up is rather belated, but I did a bad job of articulating my point. At the
time I listened to the episode, I kind of shrugged it off, but after listening to whichever more
recent episode it was, where my comment came up again, I feel I should clarify my meaning. Here it
goes. I said some stuff to the effect of don't just make stuff up, talk about what you know. I just
assumed that everyone would take from this meaning I intended, namely, do more science than talk about
the results, what counts as known stuff, science stuff of course. As so often happens, I was
interpreted in a slightly different manner. I seem to have been read as questioning the limits of
our capacity to know, or positing that there are some things, the minds of animals in this case,
that are inherently unknowable. Although I was to grinned at the realization that I left out my
actual point, after listening to what you made of my comment, I reconsidered rearticulating myself.
The point I was interpreted as making seemed to serve as something of a devil's advocate
role on the podcast, prompting some interesting discussions. As time wears on, I would like to
say what he originally meant. Sorry, I'm paraphrasing. And here it is. There are limits to where unbridled
speculation can take you. It's not a bad thing to pretend your way into the mind of a mantis shrimp
or onto the surface of the sun, and those who wish to truly know may do these things in order to procure
hypotheses. Despite this, if you do not let your imaginings be ruled by reality, you can go nowhere
but deeper into your own imagination. I apologize for my previous lack of clarity. Thank you so
much for clarifying your point, Edgar, and we really appreciate it. That was really good clarification.
I think we all appreciate it, and we appreciate you letting us uncharitably interpret your first
message to give us such a long discussion. So whether that might not have been something that
you said, that's something that some hypothetical person probably would say. And so let's amend
what we were talking about instead of beating up your position to beating up some hypothetical person.
I also really enjoyed your comment. Thank you. And I specifically highlighted the last line
and really appreciated that because I feel that is one of the... When we remember we were talking
about the classical, what a philosopher looks like thing, and we went back to Socrates or Socrates,
as they call him. One of the things that always annoyed me about the Greek philosophers is that
they just sat around and thought a lot and didn't actually go out into the real world and test what
they thought about against the natural world. And they would have made so much more progress
if they had just done that, but apparently it was considered plebeian to get your hands dirty
with the real world. I have a related comment on that. One, I had a professor once call the
Greek philosophers, the three-year-olds of Western history, because they're just
why on everything. And two, I think Aristotle himself asserted that men have more teeth than
women, which would have been, as far as talking about getting your hands dirty and solving a
quick empirical problem, he could have opened Mrs. Aristotle's mouth and counted her teeth and
then counted his own and falsified that position, but it's in one of his books. Maybe his wife had
a missing tooth. Yeah, you mentioned that. Maybe they didn't have the good rules for generalizing
from one example, but still, this would have been a correctable mistake at that time even, right?
Yeah, so Edgar, I deeply appreciate your imaginations must be ruled by reality point.
All right, well, thank you.
Last thing I want to cover, this is our one-year episode.
That's right.
This is the one year ago we aired our first episode.
That's right. We've been doing episode every two weeks for the last 26 weeks,
so here we are at a one-year anniversary.
Well, we've been doing it for 52 weeks, which gave us 26 episodes.
Right. 26 episodes, yeah. Anyway, happy birthday, Bayesian conspiracy.
Happy birthday, the Bayesian conspiracy.
Two more years and we can be Greek philosophers. Perfect.
All right, so thank you so much for listening to this episode.
You can contact us at BayesianConspiracyPodcast at gmail.com.
You can go to our website at thebayesianconspiracy.com and you can comment on our subreddit,
BayesianConspiracy.
At our website, thebayesianconspiracy.com, we do have a bunch of links to various
things that we talk about in each episode.
There is also now a direct link to the subreddit.
We do now have two Patreon donors and we would like to thank them personally.
Adam donated at the $4 level where he gets thanked on air.
Adam, if you want to send us your full name or anything like that,
we will read it on air as a major thanks.
And we also have one other donor at the $1 level.
Nick, thank you.
And both of them will go up on our permanent.
These people have donated at least $1 to us page.
We appreciate it.
And we're working on expanding the site a little bit too.
We're going to include a sub tab for other podcasts that we're listening to that some people
of our audience might find interesting during the off weeks that we're not on the air.
So I think that's it.
Yep. Thanks for listening. Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
