consider meaningless, valueless.
Sure.
And that's a fair distinction.
And so they're not trying to create an Fi.
They're trying to make the Fi that maybe does come about be aligned to our values.
Right.
And I should have, I guess, been clear about that.
And I think that was the express goal of the Singular Institute,
which they changed to Mary a few years ago.
So yeah, fair point.
They're not, I guess, yeah, they're trying to solve the problems of how to make things
better.
They're not actually sitting there writing this thing out and starting it now.
I mean, if anything, the stated position of some of their members is that we would like
to prevent AI being made the longer we can push that out, the more time we have to make
it actually be a friendly one rather than an unfriendly one.
Yeah.
And that's a completely reasonable and obvious, I think, position that anyone should take.
You can't just rush to the end line and hope everything works out great, right?
Hey, where can people find effective charities, lists of effective charities?
Oh, goodness.
Okay, so.
Give well.
Give well.
Give well.org.
They research charities and using various metrics try to determine which ones are the most
effective at reducing misery in the world and saving human lives.
They are specifically interested in disease, as far as I can tell.
Because diseases seem to be the cheapest on per dollar in life saved right now.
In terms of humans.
Yes.
So if you're concerned about animals, there is another group called Animal Charity Evaluators.
And that's kind of interesting because I think recently an article came out
saying that some of the charities that they've evaluated and listed as the highest worth charities,
which are pamphlet pumping charities, pretty much.
They're vegan advocacy charities that the research on them is flawed.
That, yes, that is also what I saw.
If you guys can name names, this might actually help, I'm not saying to.
The impression I got was that flawed would be putting it lightly.
That the pamphlets did almost nothing and there was some serious problems with the research.
So take that with a grain of salt, I guess, when you're looking at animal saving charities.
But on the plus side, this has come to light and they are working on rectifying it.
Yeah, so that's good.
So it's not like they're trying to hide their priests or whatever.
Yeah, something else that I did end up giving to was the Good Food Institute,
which was also listed by Animal Charity Evaluators, along with the other two, which
now we're wondering, the two vegan advocacy groups, which now we're wondering how effective they
really are. The Good Food Institute is a relatively new charity, which what it does is it helps
fake meat and lab grown meat kind of get to market.
I also gave to the Against Malaria Foundation, and that is almost always listed as Give Well's
first charity because they suddened out treated bed nets in malaria prone areas,
and that saves children's lives.
Part of what Give Well does is, well, they came about from two rich people who were,
well, they had great jobs, they're making more than they could reasonably spend.
And they're like, well, who should we donate to?
And I think they were like stockbrokers or hedge fund managers, and they were calling
around different charities asking, hey, how effective are you guys? What's going on here?
And they were met mostly with hostility, like, you know, what are you guys asking for? We don't,
you know, whatever. But it turned out they just didn't have that information.
And part of that is because paying a statistician to keep track of your stuff is something you
have to do if you want to provide these numbers. So Give Well evaluates the effectiveness of
charities based off of their expressed goals. I think they have separate categories on Give Well's
website. So if you're interested in, say, if it's not curing disease, you can look for
ones that are about treating existing illnesses or for developing new medicine or new vaccines.
But it is very medical. You cannot find any animal charities on there at all.
I would like to give a very strong recommendation to a website, the Effective Altruism forums.
They're at effective-altruism.com. It's where a lot of the Effective Altruism community goes and
discusses these things, shares what research they do have, and talks about subjects of interest to
the community. All right. Thank you for sharing. Yeah, I'll be sure to check that one out, too.
Are you ready to close? Not quite. I feel like we didn't... I had a couple more things.
So part of it, I mean, there's a bunch of other objections that people have to effective altruism.
So I mean, part of it is, you know, why are you telling me that the way that I satisfy my impulse
to be charitable isn't good enough. Part of it is, I can imagine at least one person that I know
saying, I'm not interested in maximizing the number of healthy humans out there. Not that they're
going to spend their time killing people, but that some people worry about like overpopulation
or something, right? Or they're worried that the more people that make it through childhood just
go on to have miserable lives and life's terrible. So if for whatever reason you have a position like
that, like we had a guest on one of our early episodes, Jason Hurtrider, I don't think would be
an advocate for like bed nets for children, right? I think he would be.
He actually is, yeah. Well, I know that he's an effective altruist,
but there are other ways to effectively altruistically donate.
Yes. I believe his position is that if he could kill absolutely everything he would,
but until then people should have better lives.
Fair enough. So maybe not Jason in particular, but there are some people I think who are
concerned about overpopulation and there are charities that you can give to that are effective.
I would like to point out if they are concerned about overpopulation, reducing child mortality
is one of the best things you can do to combat overpopulation because once people can count
on their children living, they form, first of all, they form more emotional bonds with them,
which helps a lot for the child's well-being, but also more importantly, they don't feel
like they have to have a lot of children as, you know, spare children in case the other ones die
to put it bluntly. The more child mortality is reduced, the more population growth actually
tends to decrease. Absolutely. And there's also international versions of Planned Parenthood.
I think a charity called Interplast does surgery that treats injuries that are
routine to fix in the United States, but super basic corrective eye surgery,
which treats burns or wounds so that you can use your hands again and keep working for the next
50 years rather than just die in your 20s. So there are other ways to be an effective altruist
rather than just, I guess, what I'm trying to say, give straight to, I guess, give malaria,
or the Against Malaria Foundation or whatever. In other words, it depends on what your goals are.
Yeah, the stress- The effective altruism is not always about saving lives.
Exactly. It's whatever you want to point your energy at. And the stress of it is that it's
evidence-based charity, that you're actually caring about what your money does and how well it does.
Right. The effective altruism isn't like donating to these 10 charities that we have determined
are the best charities. It's take the time to look into these things and actually care that
you're getting the most bang for your buck. That's what I'm trying to stress. I feel like
there's this attitude that it's like, oh, well, if I'm not interested in alleviating suffering
in Africa for some reason, then I'm not going to be an effective altruist. And I don't want people
to walk away with that. While I think you should care about those things, you can care about things
locally. Being an effective altruist at home. Yeah, exactly. And if it's some rally in your town
or something or other, there are good ways and bad ways to spend your time and money. And that's
sort of the point. I have an anecdote that's kind of a more extreme version of what you went through
in Yash, except it was just one friend. He was my roommate at the time, and we were leaving
Kingsupers in December where there's the person in the Santa suit chiming the bell for the
Salvation Army. And he puts his change, which is a little under a dollar in the guy's bucket.
And I was like, you realize that they're like an anti-gay, anti-Harry Potter. All the absurd
things that you think about like extremist groups are against the United States. That's what
they support, right? And my friend was my friend's gay. And I was like, you realize that you're kind
of actually shooting yourself in the foot. And we're talking about this on the way back to his car.
And he was like, I just felt good, like I just felt good giving it. And I was like, even to them,
even to them was his answer. And I was like, okay, so that was not an effective use of your charity
money. But it did effectively give him the warm fuzzy, right? Yeah, it was less than a dollar.
Right. That's what he was going for. So you probably ruined it for him, but he just didn't
want to admit it. I hope I ruined it for him because then he won't do it again. This is like,
that's almost anti-charity, right? I would also like to point out that the Salvation Army contests
these charges. They say that there was one branch that was very problematic, but they have dealt
with them and they dislike being tarred. Fair enough. I don't know how true either side is,
but we can link to both sides. I appreciate you giving the balance. What I read was 10,
15 years ago and it successfully tarred them for me forever. So if there is a charitable version
of their position and they're doing better stuff than I was aware of, then good on them.
From what I've heard, they've really tried to clean up the act quite a bit.
That said, I think they're the bad actors. The what?
It's like the Boy Scouts. Are the Boy Scouts better now?
Yeah. Okay. They were great for a while, then they got really bad, then they got...
Well, they were bought by the Mormons. Yeah.
And so the Mormons imposed their ideology and people were like, screw you guys. And they're
like, oh, yeah, it was, that was fun too. This is Eniash with an interjection. I did some quick
googling after we recorded. The Salvation Army removed the last of its anti-gay wording from
its official statements and documents in 2013. So a bit late to the game, but at least they're
working on it. On the other hand, they are still a fundamentalist Christian organization whose
core mission includes converting people to their religion. So any good that they might do is offset
by that, which is another thing to take into consideration. I feel like I came off kind of
harsh thing of an obligation to give to charity. I'll be happy to refine that if anyone writes
under any specific questions. But I think for now, if you guys are ready, we can move on to...
I have one last thing I would like to chime in on. I am a big fan of Eliazer Yodkowsky's post,
Money is the Unit of Caring, where he... This is where I got my $5 test from. So probably not
my own thing. He never mentioned $5, but he did mention that lots of people are very willing to
make bold statements and be out there in front. And then when you ask them to actually give
$5 rather than what that $5 could buy, all of a sudden it's very personal and painful.
And I mean, I agree. It can be because at least when you're spending the $5 on a coffee,
you know you're getting a coffee and you know what good will come of that. Whereas if you give
your $5 to an organization, you no longer have control over that $5. You don't really know if
it's going to anything good. And if this will have any effect on the world at all, it's kind of
like throwing your money in the dark and hoping for the best. So yes, it is painful to take a risk
rather than going with this sure, you know, you're going to get this nutrition and you know you're
going to get this great taste in your mouth. So it is a bit of a sacrifice, but money is really
how you show caring. That's how you can tell that you care about something because you really are
willing to give it $5 rather than getting that nutrition and that joy. $5 doesn't do terribly
much on its own. But if you're following the crowdfunding ethos, then it's a start. And when
other people see you giving, then if they pitch in, everybody giving $5 is way, way better.
Yeah. And if you want to give more, that means you care even more. I mean, money is how we show
caring a lot of the times because money really is so useful that by giving it away, you're showing
you care about something. There's also fun experiments where people, I mean, so everyone
knows this is one of those things from the Department of Science of things you already knew,
but now we've demonstrated. People go really funny in the head when you make them think about money.
You can be, you know, in one of those rooms where you're doing the standard pitch of, you know,
here's this little girl and here's a picture of her and here's what she needs and here's how she's
dying and here's how you can save her. If the wallpaper on your computer is denominations of
dollar bills, people give substantially less. You don't even have to talk about the money,
you don't have to bring it to their mind. But just having this reminder of cash,
I think it's just that resource hoarding that's built into us, right?
Did it replicate?
I believe so. I've seen it in more than one book by popular authors over years.
It could have still just been the one thing though, because I remember there was a thing for a
long time where there was one study that showed if people see a picture of eyes,
they become more moral because like, oh, there's something watching me.
20 years later, it's been cited so many times in all these publications and 20 years later,
they tried to replicate the results and they couldn't do it.
Yeah, sounds like a lot of social science.
Yeah, sounds like a lot of fundraising science. I know somebody who's a photographer who's
specifically tried to get the eyes or something that looked like an eye of critically endangered
species to help connect with people. It certainly makes intuitive sense,
but that doesn't actually mean that much.
Yeah, I'm the same way. I can see it going both ways. On the one hand, if there's an animal
looking you in the eyes and you're about to be violent to it, you're much less likely to,
some people are probably less likely to do it. But if it's faceless, like a starfish or something,
and it's like, I don't even know where it would be showing me its emotions. Therefore,
it doesn't have any. But yeah, that's the kind of thing that could see research going both ways.
Anyone's free to look up. It was in Science by Kathleen Voss, Nicole Mead, and Miranda Goode,
G-O-O-D-E, Goode, Goode. And that was about that one with...
The money?
Yes. Or no, that's a... So these are actually different studies. I'm skimming through the
life you can save by Peter Singer, which I recommend and we should have cited directly.
It's basically targeted to people who are sort of on board with philanthropy,
but there's a little page in here where you can sign to the I pledge and
better bang for your buck, give this book to your friends. There's like 20 slots on here.
And then it asks, when this page is full, please mail a copy to Peter Singer at Princeton University.
And then that will add them online, which is something that we didn't mention for the pledge,
that it's online so that everybody who cares to look up can know that you say you don't add that
much. That they can know that I say I do it. Well, unfortunately, that's all that they can know.
Me being cynical, somebody could take it just for the prestige, but you know, we talked about
that signaling. Yeah, they don't ask you to post your receipts on there or anything. Anyway,
