Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. My name is Katrina Stanton.
I'm Yash Brotsky.
And I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we're talking about effective altruism.
Woo-woo!
Yep.
Guys, what's effective altruism?
I'm really glad you asked.
How is it different than non-effective? How is it different than normal altruism?
They should really call the alternative non-effective altruism.
Yeah, but that's very pejorative. It makes it sound bad.
Yeah, that's kind of what I was going for.
Okay. We don't want to make people feel bad for being altruistic, though.
Woo!
We'll find out.
Okay. So, effective altruism is the idea that if you have a set amount of money and
you want to use that money to help people, you should probably be using that money in
the most effective way possible. So, if, for example, you have enough money to buy a meal
for one child, that is good. But if you can buy a less expensive but more nutritious meal
and feed 10 children with the same amount of money, that's 10 times better.
So, basically, it means shopping around.
It can mean shopping around, yeah.
For your, specifically, for your charity dollars.
Yes.
How about for how you use your time?
That is also very important. Did we want to start with the charity dollars before we
went to time?
Well, I'm wondering, what are the different aspects of effective altruism? So, there's
how you spend your charity dollars and then how big of a component of it is how you spend
your time as a human being doing human stuff.
Sure.
So, I think one thing to consider is that, basically, if you're on board for effective
altruism or if you're part of the target audience, you're kind of already inclined to be a charitable
person. We can talk about why people, at least in my view, have an obligation to be charitable,
but that might be an aside, but as far as...
No, no, no. That is very interesting. I want to know, because I think that it is good
to be charitable, but I'm not sure about this obligation thing. Why do you think there's
an obligation to be charitable?
Well, sometimes when you're little, people tell you that you have to.
Yes.
And then you forget that you don't actually have to.
Okay. I mean, there's a lot of things people told me when I was little and a lot of them
were lies. This might be one of those.
I think it's hard to draw a defensible position to say, you know what? That's not my problem.
If you see someone else suffering, or even if you can't see them, but you know that they
are, and that to know real sacrifice to yourself, you can save them or help them in a huge way.
Okay. So no sacrifice to yourself is not a thing that happens in the real world. It's
like a spherical cow.
Well, I said like... Did I say no sacrifice?
You did say no sacrifice.
I should have said not sacrificing anything of comparable moral worth. How's that sound?
That is still not good, because there's an infinite amount of need out there. Okay, not
literally infinite. There is a functionally infinite amount of need out there in the world.
Are you saying that you are obligated to spend your entire life doing nothing but helping
the most destitute?
It's a slippery slope, right? So it's hard to know where to draw the line, but I think
that... I think if you're making $55,000 a year, you're in the top 1% of the world's population
in earning. And obviously that's adjusted for global, not for whatever country you're
currently in probably.
That's mean income in the US.
Yeah, exactly. So if you're making average income in the US, you're making more than
99% of people on the planet. I guess as far as why you should be helping the bottom percent
or the bottom 10% or 25%, you can't solve it all yourself. But that's like... Thought
experiments and analogies are useful here, right? Burning buildings and buses are popular
thought experiments. If there's a school bus on fire, you only have time to grab a kid
in each arm. But because you can't grab all 30 of them, do you just say, eh, fuck it.
Not my problem. Where do you go grab a couple?
Do you go grab a couple if you can?
That's like there's a difference between a burning bus in front of me and I don't know
one million people in a country across the ocean.
Is there? So these are all the objections, I guess, to giving charity at all, but I guess
diving into what the differences are. I think that they're psychologically important differences,
but not morally important differences.
Are you talking about the differences between effective altruism and other forms of giving
charity?
I'm actually just meaning just giving it all.
Okay.
I think... So like I said, you're not going to get somebody who's against philanthropy
in general to be an effective altruist, right? I guess that's the first hurdle to overcome.
If you don't feel like you have any duty or... Some people, I guess...
No, I agree with you. Effective altruism is aimed at people who are already looking to
be altruistic. It seemed strange that you started right off with a very strong claim
that everyone has an obligation to be altruistic, whereas I just think it is a good thing to
be altruistic.
Yeah. I think it depends on your flavor. And I guess I don't want to beat that point home too
much. I think a case can certainly be made for...
I was just going to say, for all you anti-charity people out there, just be glad that Stephen
is not the king of the world or he would force you to give to charity.
Right?
No, I would just say you're not living a morally good life if you're dying with a million dollars
buried with you and the people around you are dying and they could use that money to live,
right? And that's an extreme hyperbole example, but that's sort of the case that a lot of us
are in. We're like, you know what? I think I've earned this $60,000 car or this...
I guess most of us aren't buying yachts, but whatever. And yes, while this car...
While my car that I have now is only five years old and it works great, I think I work hard.
This is my money. I'm going to buy this car and I know that a lot of people are going to
die because I'm not giving it to them, but I deserve this car more than they deserve to live.
I think it's kind of what you're saying if you're not feeling any compulsion to be charitable.
Well, do you think about that every time you buy something for yourself?
Yes.
I mean, I sort of beat myself up and there is a midline road to go here and that's where I think
the important ground is to cover and that's why I wish we didn't dive too much into this at the
beginning.
You want to give you a hard time?
No, no, you're fine.
Well, that is kind of the Cengarian view, right?
Yeah. And so it's tough because every time I go to Starbucks or I buy a... I got dinner or
something or even I guess buy more than just like base food, I'm deciding, you know what,
this Frappuccino is worth more than saving X% of lives, right?
Whether it's a number of lives total or a fraction of a life, you're still saying
me enjoying the Starbucks for the next 20 minutes is more important than
helping somebody in extreme poverty.
And that seems like a weird thing to say.
So I guess it's hard for me to see how you feel like...
And especially if you gave nothing your entire life and you made those decisions
for every time you spent money.
And like I said, if you ended up with, you know, I guess more than you needed
down the line.
I don't think that that... I think that's an unhealthy way to look at things because it leads
to endless guilt unless you are literally as destitute as the worst people off in the world,
which humans can't live their lives that way.
But I have what I call the $5 of caring rule where this came up when the...
What was the pipeline going on?
Understanding rock when they were trying to put the oil pipeline through standing rock
and a bunch of people were doing their, you know, Facebook posting activism.
And I said, you know, I'm happy about your Facebook posting and all, but have you given
$5 because I realized there are people in the US who really can't afford $5 to give to a charity.
It would be like taking $5 away from their children's medicine or food fund, but not
anyone that I know.
And I like to say to them, I don't believe you care about an issue unless you
care about it more than you care about $5.
So once you've given $5 to something, I'm totally on board with your right to complain
and post as much as you want.
But if you haven't given at least $5, I'm going to call bullshit.
Is that an Eniash original, the $5?
As far as I know, I may have picked it up somewhere else and just forgotten.
Okay.
I think that that's a fine metric.
And to be perfectly straightforward, I agree that it's hard for me to find the
logical point to stop as far as, if I'm giving 10% of my income to, I guess,
alleviating suffering and the worst, and I guess in the worst population or the most
suffering populations on the world, someone can say, well, come on, 11% is why is 10% your line?
And I think there are good consequential reasons for saying that I'm going to draw a line,
some arbitrary place that keeps me still happy and relatively affluent.
But that said, it seems as far as a personal note, where do I get off buying a fancy new car?
Especially, I guess I need a car to get to work rather than the bus or something,
but why not get this $5,000 car as opposed to this $35,000 car?
But transitioning, I guess, into effective altruism, the stopping point, I'm sorry.
I was thinking, you mentioned Singarian, Peter Singer, who I believe is associated with the
website Life You Can Save.
I believe so.
So could you tell us a little bit more about Peter Singer?
Do you want to hit Peter Singer?
Sure.
Okay.
I know you're more of a singer fan than I am.
Yeah.
And Peter Singer is also a major philosophical proponent of effective altruism.
Yeah.
He has been arguing for people to get off their asses and do stuff since like the 1970s.
Should we start with the classical example of?
Yeah.
Yeah.
But he also was the guy behind All Animals Are Equal, and he's a big proponent in the animal rights
movement for the same reasons he's a proponent of effective altruism.
He is an Australian philosopher of ethics.
I think he does teaching positions there and in Europe.
His famous thought experiment is the kid in the shallow pond.
So you're walking through the park and whatever it's six in the morning, there's no one else
around.
This is another important aspect to it.
And you see a kid flapping away in the pond.
And as you get closer, you realize that they're not just playing.
They're struggling to keep their head above water and they're clearly losing.
So you can run in and save them sacrificing your $200 pair of shoes, I guess maybe whatever
your outfit, however much it costs, you know, pants down are going to be ruined and you're
going to be late for work.
And they've done surveys on this, but something like 95% of people say, well, of course you
have to run in there and save them.
You'd be a complete monster not to.
Even if they're $2,000 shoes.
Yeah.
And so his conclusion then is, okay, so we've agreed that that child's life is worth more
than your stuff or the inconvenience of being late to work one day.
And so then he wonders, well, what's the difference between that kid and a kid dying
in sub-Saharan Africa?
And Singer argues that there's no clear moral difference.
There are psychological differences, but there's not a morally salient reason that
that kid's special in the sod experiment as opposed to all the ones that are actually
suffering in the real world.
It's the same difference between a pig and a dog.
It is.
Oh, you mean in the sense that we care about dogs just because?
Yes.
Um, maybe, like there is something psychologically salient in us about watching someone die and
knowing that it would be mildly inconvenient to save them.
And if you never have to know that they're there, then, or if you'd, I guess, if you
know, but you never have to see them, you never forced to watch a video or something,
then that's important, right?
At what points does our personal responsibility switch trip?
Right.
