So he is being an effective altruist
by only asking for 10% rather than 98?
It sounds kind of kind of intuitive, but yes, exactly.
You know, it's interesting.
You're making me think about something that Tim told me about recently.
There was a general world knowledge survey.
And one of the questions was, in which of these countries
do people give the most to charity per capita?
And it mentioned the U.S.
And then it mentioned a country like Sweden and a couple others.
And a lot of people answer Sweden.
And my immediate answer was, it's got to be the U.S.
And here's why.
Sweden's got really high taxes.
And if I know anything, it's that people,
they feel certain responsibility to give.
And then once they have reached that, and in our case,
we're talking about 10%, maybe once we've reached 10%,
they feel like they've done it.
Well, because people in Sweden have very high taxes,
they give a very small amount in addition to charity.
They feel that obligation has been discharged through their taxes.
Obligation discharged through the taxes.
Exactly.
That's one of the reasons I kind of dislike that churches
are Canada's charitable organizations.
Because while they do do some good, they, a lot of times,
use the money for not such good things.
And if people are tithing their 10% of the church,
they are less likely to give to other things, I think.
I'm not sure about that.
I thought that people who attend church,
people who are religious are more charitable than people who are not.
I've also heard that, but that includes their 10% of the church.
Does it, though?
I imagine it depends on who.
We're going to find out.
I imagine it depends on who's doing the survey.
But I do have the numbers about US's donating numbers.
How much do you think of your taxes go to foreign aid?
Oh.
Actually, you know what?
You guys are probably more calibrated bunch,
especially since I've just ruined the thought experiment.
So what you're talking about, Stephen,
is that people often think that a lot more goes to foreign aid than it does.
Median polls put them on 15% to 20%.
Really?
Which is...
Oh, I've known for a long time it's less than 1%.
Yeah, which is far, far, far higher.
Yeah.
So it's pretty low.
0.1.
0.18.
0.18%.
So which is more than other countries.
And then as far as our US's gross income from private philanthropy is 0.07%.
So that's $0.07 in every $100.
And yet we are still the most charitable nation in the world.
That depends on how you calculate those numbers.
So like if you calculate in donating your time,
some other countries come up higher after that
because they give more than we do.
In time.
But in time, and I guess I'm not sure how they're doing the math for money versus time.
I hope it's not as blind blankets.
Probably is.
But yeah, but unfortunately, 0.18 of the US's,
of your taxes in the US go to aid.
I think it's 0.18 go to foreign aid.
But some larger percent, I think it's 2.2% goes to charity.
But one third of that goes to religious organizations.
And I think another third goes to education,
which doesn't really include scholarships for third world poor people.
It includes subsidizing a new stadium or something.
Are you on the optimal means for cosmopolitan teams?
Yes.
Okay.
Every time there's another one of those grants issued,
I believe just a few weeks ago,
there was some rich guy that gave Harvard another million dollar trust for something.
And it's Harvard.
They don't need another million dollars.
And there's always a meme that comes up,
showing like, oh, how much money could have been doing something good
as opposed to giving Harvard even more money.
Yeah, it's tough.
And so I think that's...
Harvard does some cool stuff.
It does do some cool stuff, yes.
But a million dollars is a lot for people that are already in the top 1% of the US.
I would argue that that's probably not an effective use of your charity dollars
to give it to Harvard.
On the other hand, I mean,
the colleges are where we do a lot of our basic research.
So it's not nothing, but...
And Harvard's doing a lot of cutting edge research.
But is Harvard law school?
No.
Harvard has all of the things.
Oh, it does?
Yes.
Okay.
It's a really fully functional college.
Harvard law is popular, though.
Okay.
In fact, I know, I believe that they're doing really great cutting edge Alzheimer's research.
Oh, fantastic.
But that said, did this million dollars...
Which we're all concerned about, right?
Actually, yes.
Yeah.
Did this million dollars go to funding grant money for research
or to go to building a new wing in a library?
Right.
So people probably get to decide that when they donate to Harvard.
And many of them probably want their name on a plaque
as you walk into a building on an ancient historically in the US standards campus,
then on the bottom of some research paper that 50 people are going to read, right?
Yeah.
So...
I totally want to get someone to debate this now,
because I know there is some debate in the community as to whether money should be used
to give people malaria drugs and food right now,
or if it should be used for basic research, which will pay off in a few decades.
That's a really important question.
Or sooner, depending.
I mean, you could specifically give your money to things that you know are going to pay off
in just a couple of years in terms of research.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Why not?
Do you know that it would pay off in a couple of years though?
Well, there are things that are more likely to pay off and things that are less likely.
So if you're asking people for projections,
so when can this be a viable vaccine?
How close are we to making that happen?
How many dollars are we away from making that happen?
Yeah, but on the other hand, you know, some basic fundamental research sometimes doesn't
pay off for hundreds of years, but it's super important anyway.
So that raises the question.
So that would make it less effective?
I don't know, would it?
Yes.
That actually...
It absolutely would, because there's a discount on things that happen further away from now.
Yeah, but what is more effective in the long term than Francis Bacon's,
you know, launching of the Scientific Revolution?
That has made huge impacts on human life, and that took several hundred years to start paying
dividends.
So this was something I was going to say for like bonus at the end if we had time,
but we're right on it.
So I give most of my charity money to immediate aid for the world's poorest people,
which currently isn't that much money.
I don't make that much, but I plan to make more and I plan to give more and feel awesome.
But I give a little bit every year when the Machine Intelligence Research Institute is doing
its annual drive or someone's matching donations to for one, because that way I can double my
money.
So for 50 bucks, I'm now donating 100.
An argument can be made pretty soundly that, you know, look, if in the next century we
succeed in the FAI project and bring about utopia for everybody, well, that's just
maximized utolons forever and it's hard to say that if you can bring that about one day earlier,
you're saving however many number of people from dying or something, right?
And you're saving or bringing about utopia a day earlier.
Yeah, but the chance for payoff.
The chance for payoff is so you were talking about Sir Francis Bacon, right?
The Scientific Revolution.
If you were choosing where your charity dollars went back then,
there's no way it would be effective to give it to him.
No.
No, because there's no way you would know.
Right.
So.
But I'm glad that people did anyway.
And that is that is one of the reasons invested in Sir Bacon.
Well, that is one of the reasons there is this debate going on because you want to
do what is actually most effective.
And if that is donating to Sir Francis Bacon for a couple hundred years,
rather than saving the people that have, you know, what is it, crickets?
Not crickets.
When your bones get all wobbly because.
Rickets.
Rickets, yes, rather than saving the orphans that have rickets because they're working in the minds,
then crickets.
Then that is that is what you want to do.
They wish they had crickets.
I also would like to quickly interject because I think you are
misrepresenting what Miri does while I'm having friendly AI would be awesome.
And I also would like to do that.
Miri does not actually work on creating friendly AI.
What they work on is preventing.
They work on the alignment problem, which is making sure that trying to make sure
that once an AI does arise, it will not destroy all of humanity.
Putting it that way is makes people think of Terminator and Skynet, which is stupid,
but it will not have goals.
Which is awesome.
Well, I mean, yeah, it is a great movie.
But so that when the AI is made, it will not have goals that are different enough from human
goals that it ends up in it taking over all our resources and using them for purposes that we
