Well, I mean, I think it's a wonderful example from utilitarian grounds because it points out
the fact that all lives are equal and there's no good reason to privilege one life over another.
But I do think that it ignores the whole moral sphere of responsibility thing where if you
see a child drowning and you're the only one that can save them and you're nearby, you do have
a responsibility to go and try to save them.
Whereas, uh, with him trying to generalize this, he, his example would have to be that
there's over one million ponds around you, each one with a child within it.
And all you can do is spend your entire life trying to save children until you die of exhaustion,
which, which would be much closer to what the real world actually is.
And at that point, you have to start thinking, okay, if I'm taking embarking on a long-term
one million child saving project, I need breaks.
I need to make sure I have food and clothing and such.
I think Singer would agree with you on those.
And I don't think so.
And so that is why people generally prioritize people that are close to them,
that they can save more easily.
Because they, they didn't actually, what's specific.
You have a moral responsibility merely due to the fact that you are physically closer.
I see.
Or that you're the only person there.
Right.
Yeah.
So that's bystander effect is a big part of that.
Bystander effect is the, the phenomenon whereby people don't act in emergencies.
If they're with people who, I guess if they're with people, uh,
alone, you get people to respond to like somebody falling off a ladder and some,
there's all kinds of fun experiments.
So you can check out the Wikipedia page and bystander effect.
But, um, that's one aspect of it is that if you're surrounded by people
who also aren't doing anything, well, why should I be the one to do something?
Well, I mean, but there's also the thing that you can't save everyone unless you're God.
And while the classic answer is to hurry up and become God,
that's not entirely feasible in the immediate moment.
That's the classic answer, huh?
Among certain circles.
Yeah.
In some groups.
So given that, if you can't do that, I guess the response would be,
okay, so you can't save all million, but you can save 10.
And why shouldn't you be doing that?
Right.
You could even do that with less costs to your, or less, um,
I guess inconvenience to yourself than running into one pond.
Yeah.
Right.
So that's where the effective part comes in.
Well, yeah, but I guess I'm also trying to just,
just to kick back on that, just because there's a lot of,
there's a lot of suffering out there.
It doesn't mean that you can do literally nothing.
You know, there's that standard parable about someone throwing starfish back into the,
into the ocean on the beach.
And it's like, well, there's so many.
What are you, what are you doing wasting your time?
Well, what difference does it make?
Exactly.
And then the person picks up one more, throws it in and says,
it made the world of difference to that one.
Interesting.
I didn't know that that was a parable.
It is a very famous biology story, ecology story,
about predator-prey interactions.
Wait, what?
Yeah.
It's the scientists went out on the seashore and threw the,
the predatory starfish out into the ocean,
creating a place where I guess the shellfish that the starfish had been eating
could live in enemy free space.
And then they looked at the impacts of that.
Wait, this is a thing that actually happened?
Yes.
Oh, I heard about it.
Holy crap.
I'd only heard about it as a moral parable.
Same.
And I think that the stress of the parable version is different than just like,
there was no mention of like the test on the environment and stuff.
It was more about just like saving lives of little starfish and the cute little story version.
Yeah.
But the, but the real version is interesting too.
They were, they were harming those starfish,
or at least taking them away from a very plentiful food source.
Whomp.
So yeah, that, that's what I'd say to that.
You know, it's just that, yes, you can't save all million of them,
but you can save some of them.
And why shouldn't you do that?
Okay.
And I agree.
Oh, all right.
All right.
So we have figured out why charity.
Well, no, we've made an emotional appeal,
but I get that's all you really have with charity, right?
Don't be a monster.
But we're here to talk about effective altruism.
Yes.
Now, effective altruism is distinct from giving to charity,
because a lot of times the charities that we give to are determined by
emotional appeals, like what you're just talking about,
what's close to you, what, what impacts you,
what you feel like you can have the most impact on.
Can I give my favorite example of an ineffective charity?
And it's my favorite example because it happened to me personally.
Yes.
Go for it.
Okay.
So the place that I used to work has a program where every year they want
everyone in the office to contribute eight hours of labor to a charity of some kind.
And they give that they pay them for this eight hours.
And it's so that they can say, you know,
at their reports at the end of the year,
we paid our employees this many hours to do volunteer work in the community.
Look at how great we are.
It's a good PR issue.
And they probably get a tax write-off on it too,
but it's mainly for the PR.
Anyway, so my employer has the incentive to pay their employees
for a number of hours of charity every year,
but they don't really care where the charity happens.
They just want charity to happen.
So they bring some charities into the office to make it even easier for people.
You don't have to go out anywhere.
We will bring charities to you.
And one of the charities that is fairly popular is,
I'm just going to call it the Blanket Tying Charity.
What they do, these people come in with a whole lot of blankets,
fairly thin blankets.
They're not like these big comforter things.
And they will take one blanket and they will layer it on another blanket.
And the job of the people in the office
that have gone into the lunchroom to volunteer for an hour to do this
is to cut, make like three inch incisions all around all the sides of the blankets.
Fringes.
Fringes, exactly.
And then tie the fringes together.
So now what was two blankets is one blanket.
That is literally the charity.
And it infuriates me because first of all,
you have not added any practical value at all.
The two blankets tied together are just as warm as two blankets not tied together.
If anything, you've made them less useful because before,
if you were too hot, you could remove one of the blankets
and now you can no longer do that.
They have added aesthetic value, I will admit.
They are the ones with the fringes tied together do look a little prettier.
But it is the worst use of human labor I've ever seen in my life
for a quote unquote charitable cause.
Did those charity people explain to you why they were tying the blankets together?
They did not.
Is there a good reason to do that?
I'm guessing.
Otherwise, why would they do that?
I don't know.
I think it's just to make people feel good.
Look, we did a nice thing for the poor people.
We made their blankets prettier.
So what are what's the what's the impact of that?
Other than now you have two blankets that are tied together.
You have some people who feel better about themselves.
Yes.
You have a company that has now spent more time on charity.
Some people are warmer, maybe.
They would have been warmer anyway,
but that thing that warms them is slightly prettier now.
Yeah.
And that's and that environment is beautified a little bit now.
So it is it isn't nothing, but it is extremely ineffective or or is it negative?
Because now the people who the people your coworkers who have spent that time tying
blankets together are going to feel like they don't have to spend any time doing something
else that might be more effective.
Exactly.
Or giving money because now they've absolved themselves of their need to participate in
charity.
Yeah.
And if they were if they were trying to fulfill our company's eight hours a year
mandate, then that is one less hour that they have used for something that can actually
make a difference in someone's life.
I I use this as the extreme example, but there's somewhat less extreme example.
As one year I went down to the food bank and I worked basically as a
stalker in the warehouse for four hours, which I mean was fun and kind of a bonding experience.
But it is it's basically minimum wage labor.
And the classic argument not classic in argument from effective altruism is that
I as an accountant could spend four hours of labor moving boxes, or I could spend those
four hours working and take the money that I make working to hire someone to do that
for me for 12 hours, since I in theory make at least three times minimum wage or three
times what a stalker would be making.
Yeah, or you could become the accountant for the soup kitchen.
Exactly or pantry.
I mean, if I am an amazing stalker, and that is where my comparative advantage lies in the
workplace, and I want to be charitable, I should go to work for the charity being their stalker,
making their stocking more effective and getting paid for it at the same time.
If I'm better at doing accounting, I should either do accounting for them or work, you know,
another hour as an accountant and donate the money instead.
So the thing is, high functioning economies have great efficiencies from specialization
in labor.
And when we go and contribute highly skilled people's labor for really low skill tasks,
we are we're probably making those people feel better and making them feel in touch
with their community, which are also important things.
But that should be taken not as a replacement for doing the more effective thing of giving
