money, which will help you buy many hours of labor rather than just your one.
Okay, so effective altruism, it's specifically about giving money.
It can be.
Because that is, in most cases, the most effective way to make a difference, right?
Usually, there's the also the 80,000 hours group, which helps steer people into careers
that do take advantage of what they are good at to be charitable and effective in the world of
altruism in a labor way, rather than just donating money.
I believe that's 80,000 hours, right?
80,000 hours, yeah, is one of Will McCaskill's charities, and it comes from the number of
work hours worked in the typical first world working lifetime.
Yeah.
So this, this is kind of brings in one of the standard kickbacks to effective altruism that
people get.
So, but Inyash, where do you get off telling me that my time moving boxes or tying blankets
isn't?
Where do you get off telling me where I can get my warm fuzzies from?
I'm not trying to tell you where you can get your warm fuzzies from.
You can do whatever you want.
I'm merely saying if you want to be effective and help the most number of people, if that
is the thing you care about, you should maybe do a little bit of work to verify that you
are actually helping the most number of people.
I mean, if all you care about is the sense of community and the bonding, then go for it.
I'm told, do not hold that against you, especially since you are making some difference.
I do not want to be the enemy of the good by demanding perfection.
But the effective altruism movement is for and by people who are really concerned about
the effectiveness.
They want their one hour labor or their $100 that they're donating to do the most good it
can do with that time or that money.
What about somebody who might argue that the time that they spent tying blankets together
inspired them to research effective charities and give much more than the otherwise would have?
Does that make it effective?
Kind of by accident, I think.
I mean, you would think that even just something like showing them a picture of the family you
saved with giving 5% of your paycheck one month or something would be more of a drive
through that than what just happened by accident from tying blankets or moving boxes.
Well, you might think that intuitively, but is there research to back that up?
I don't know.
I know that there was a push by an organization I can't remember, but everyone remembers these
commercials probably from 10 years ago where you can sponsor this child for $20 a month,
which is less than $1 a day.
You'll put them to school, you'll feed them, you'll clothe them, and in exchange you would
get postcards from that actual human, and that turned out to be pretty psychologically satisfying
for people.
Yeah, I think for the most part, especially like...
I must be a weird person because those turned me off.
Maybe because you feel bad because it's like, oh man, I'm just imagining all the people that
you walk past your way to school or something.
No, because I didn't want postcards for people.
I'm pretty sure you can opt out.
And then that way too, that money probably gets recycled back into it.
And I'm not sure if that's this particular charity or other ones, but there are like when
you're donating to Oxfam, they could say, do you want status updates from the stuff that
you're doing?
I'm like, no, safe postage.
I don't really care.
I've given, so that's a box you can check on their website.
From the fundraising world, I can also confirm that that's the standard knowledge is that
people want to see where their money's going, the more specific, the better.
The more people can connect to the better so that if you can help somebody connect with
somebody across the world as strongly as they could connect to somebody in their community
that they're helping, then that's a great thing.
It makes the child more like the child in the pond rather than the one of the million
nameless, faceless people on the cross the world, right?
Exactly.
I think one of the major criticisms that EA does get is people say,
why are you sending all my dollars overseas?
And what kind of monster are you?
I guess would be the question.
My answer is because it's much cheaper to save lives overseas and I want to save more
lives per dollar, but a lot of people want to help their community more than they want to
ship the money overseas.
Yeah, that always makes me raise my eyebrows too because I'm wondering how well after they
really want everybody before like, all right, now it's acceptable.
Everyone's well enough off.
Now you can start donating money overseas.
Yeah, or why are they valuing lives differently locally versus far away, versus globally?
I don't know.
That's another one of the psychological differences between the kid and your
neighborhood dying in that pond and one of the ones across the ocean, right?
You feel more attached just as a quirk of our evolutionary heritage to people
physically near you, which is to me not very morally salient, but psychologically,
it's very important.
I think one of the, my main response to people, yeah, it's also way cheaper.
I could pay off somebody's medical bills in the United States if they needed a
life-saving surgery and I could write a $250,000 check and cover their medical expenses,
or I can save tens or thousands of lives overseas and it's not super clear to me why
I should not maximize just the number of lives saved, but the other thing to consider is that
people in the developed world, even those in like the bottom rung of our society,
are still doing way better than people in the bottom rung of the world society.
They have access to emergency medical care.
They can get all the water they need, clean water.
They typically have enough access to food that they're not starving to death.
I mean, it's calloused maybe to walk pie somebody on the street and say,
you know what, I've got 10 bucks, but this is actually part of my EA budget, sorry.
But the reality is that that person is not suffering as much as some people are in the world.
Yeah, you know what you just said reminded me of when we were talking about signaling
and charity is signaling.
So it's a much stronger signal when you can have local buildings named after you and plaques and
or even if it's not something visible like that or people know that you've donated and that you
can get some of that back in person, some of the status.
Some of charity does seem to be the fact that it does give you a reputation boost when you do it.
And I think that's not necessarily a bad thing though, because it gives people a motivation
to give to charity.
If you get some status, that's one of the reasons that as far as I know,
the EA community has been pushing for people to publicly state how much they're giving
so that they can get praised for that by their peers.
I think it's also not just praise, but there's the other really important factor there that
if I see that you know, as you're giving 20% of your income,
that might inspire me to give 20% of my income.
Just for the record, I am not giving 20% of my income.
Hypothetically.
Okay.
Let's say we're both making a lot of money.
We both have tons of expendable income and we decide that that's the best use of it,
or rather you do.
And then me seeing, whether it's a sense of social inadequacy,
or just me feeling like, hey, I could be as cool as you are by doing this thing too,
I'll start donating my money.
And then you've, by being vocal about it, you've doubled your life impact
by getting at least one of the persons to donate too.
That is literally the entire idea behind crowdfunding.
Well, no, that and the power of the viral, the power of the crowd.
In that case.
Small donations.
I believe you said that you have taken the giving what we can pledge.
I have.
Would you like to tell the audience what the giving what we can pledge is?
Sure.
So you can go look up giving what we can.
Look up giving it what we can online.
And you can take a pledge to give 10% of your income every year.
And I thought, oh yeah, I'm definitely doing it this year.
But then it's actually kind of tricky because I've worked in nonprofits
for as long as I've worked and I'm currently working for a nonprofit.
I'm currently on the board of a nonprofit.
And then I realized that you didn't know that.
No, congratulations.
I didn't realize you were on the board.
It's been two years.
Yeah.
Now she's being taken away.
She would have told me.
That's awesome.
Okay.
Maybe I'll get you to give a little bit.
Maybe I'll get you to our next event.
I'll let you know about it later.
Okay.
But I realized, you know, as a board member,
I am responsible for giving a significant donation to that organization.
And I was like, oh, well, I want to give the same amount that I've been giving every year.
But last year, I didn't have a job all year.
So I didn't have much in the way of income.
And once I had given to that organization,
I was already at 14% of what I had brought in.
Yeah.
So I was like, uh-oh.
That's...
This isn't...
They require you to donate a certain amount of money every year?
Like to stay on the board?
It doesn't have to be a certain amount of money,
but I don't want to disappoint anybody.
Okay.
You know.
No, I do, yes.
I mean, not from personal experience, but I can sympathize.
But then I was like, oh, no, I've given...
I don't have more money to give.
Well, luckily, somebody gave me some money,
more money, and I was able to give more to other organizations.
But...
And just to clarify, the giving what we can pledge
is that you'd be giving 10% to what you consider effective charities.
What you consider effective charities.
So now I'm wondering...
So I think I get out of it, all right,
just because I didn't have an income last year.
No, if you don't have an income.
I mean, technically, I'm giving 100% of my income right now.
Well, I had a minor income, but it was really minor.
So for students and the unemployed,
I think they have it at 1%.
There's something like that.
So I think I get through on a technicality just for last year.
And keep in mind, too, I think that,
especially with the giving what you can pledge,
it is giving what you can.
And it scales based on how much you earn.
If you're a student working part-time
and you're making $12,000 a year,
Singer is not gonna...
Or it was Singer who put this charity online,
but in this case, he's not gonna say,
you should give $1,200.
He's gonna say, give 20 bucks or whatever, right?
So I'm not familiar with giving what we can,
but I thought it was actually 10%.
It is.
It is absolutely.
