Like nobody does that.
That's the whole point is data or like data storage is ridiculously cheap.
I believe it's part of their pay us initiative.
Okay.
So they are available.
If I'd give them a couple of bucks, pretty sure.
Okay.
That's fair.
Okay.
Sorry, we got distracted.
I got distracted.
Yeah.
No, I'm sorry.
I'm just saying I like the Hippocratic Oath idea.
I do too.
And we've recently had, uh, something like that come up in the subreddit.
If you guys want to go to the subreddit, you can see some talk about that on the
Matt Freeman episode.
Uh, we're not going to cover that here, but maybe someday in the future, we will
discuss that more with someone who's trying to launch something like that.
Oh, it was, it was the second.
It was don't give up Freeman.
The follow up to Matt Freeman episode.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
Give it a shot.
All right.
Second one.
Clean bias, which is being honest about our biases and tribal affiliations.
We could abandon the pretense to neutrality and more honestly engage with each other,
knowing where we stand, which I also really like because everyone has biases
they come to.
And I would be, you know, when someone tells me like, no, I'm
neutral about things.
I don't see color.
I'm like, fuck you.
Stop trying to pretend that like, or, or like, especially the old timing newscasters
are like, we just give the news.
We, we don't judge or anything.
I'm like, no, just, just give us your actual biases.
Everyone knows that you are left leaning and you guys all vote Democrat.
There's, there's no secret to it.
Just say it upfront.
And so that we can be like, these are the biases I'm coming from.
And now it's having normal conversation.
Yeah.
And I want to reread this section of the article because that again,
sounds way too simplistic to be doable.
I was like, maybe you don't know all your biases and me pointing them out to you
isn't very helpful, especially if you're not a rationalist.
Yeah, but it's like, I have a friend who is a, um, just right wingish conservative.
And he's, uh, he's not, he's, um, a lawyer.
He's argued before the Supreme court, which is really cool.
And, uh, he, he despises Trump with every fiber of his being.
But the thing is, like, I always knew that he was kind of to the right, you know,
he's socially liberal, but politically he usually votes to the right.
I'm like, okay, I know that about you.
We can talk to each other like fucking adults.
So I have most fruitful conversations.
I've mentioned this before.
We're from my roommate through college or through part of college.
He, he's a never Trump.
Everybody's a conservative.
And, you know, like we, we were able to have because, you know, we weren't hiding
where we're coming from.
And part of it for me, and this is what the other thing too, is like, sometimes I
am coming from nowhere.
Like I, I, I now have a political affiliation and I, I leaned left before, but
I'm going to, I'm voting blue, no matter what, I got everything for the next few
elections, but, uh, until Trump gets fucking out until the damage is done or
until the damage is fixed.
But, um, the, well, I'll get into that later.
Someone's going to accuse me of being biased and they're probably right.
And they are well at this point, but not, but now I'm owning it.
Yeah.
Um, but I don't know, it's, it's one of those, like, this is the kind of thing
where someone said, Hey, you're privileged, you know, whatever.
And so it's like, what do you do with that information?
You're like, okay, I'll shut up now.
And it's like, well, uh, that doesn't seem like the solution either.
Right.
Um, it could be the, something valuable to say, despite being white guy or
whatever your privilege is, you know, having, having the social ease of being
able to, uh, get online and say stuff without feeling attacked or something,
or without worrying about being attacked or whatever it is, right?
So like, I don't know.
Again, I'm in favor of this.
This sounds great, but this, that sounds too easy or that sounds too, well, I
don't think any of these are like solutions.
I think they're just steps forward that could help.
Yeah.
So if you're declaring where you're coming from, and that's good, but then
of course too, you've got to be dealing with intellectually honest players.
Yeah.
You know, Fox news, what's their motto?
Uh, you're invalid.
Yeah.
Uh, it, it's scary.
It's weird, but I'm in favor of it.
Yeah.
Be, be straight up.
Yeah.
That's the thing.
You know, if I were to come to, especially a politically charged argument and say,
look, here's where I'm coming from.
Who's I voted for?
Wouldn't get that out of the way.
You don't have to like say, well, you're just saying that because of this murder.
And the thing is, it's not like people don't know that Fox news leans hard right.
People know MSNBC leans far left.
Yeah.
I think people is different groups of, is, is not everybody.
Right.
Everyone knows that Fox news is on the right, but how far right they are.
You know, like when, when Trump got in front of the UN and said, my, my
administration's accomplished more than almost any other.
And he got laugh out loud, a reaction from the, from the assembly at the UN.
Fox news edited that out when they, when they heard that.
And so to someone who only watches Fox news, to see the real clip on Facebook or
something, they'd say, ah, they're editing that in to make Trump look bad.
Which speaks to that, you know, fracturization that, that Scott Adams is going on about.
But it's, I don't know, it's not enough to just declare your bias or even be aware
that like your source might be a little biased.
I don't know how you check to see how biased your source is.
I know I'm digging way too philosophical for 10 p.m.
So let's, let's, let's move past it.
Okay.
Mimetic meat or weight knowledge is short one.
Uh, reinventing debate is bullet point three.
Yeah.
Um, separate into sports debates and sense making debates.
And I like this idea because I really like sports debates.
Uh, I truly enjoy them, but I also realize that they're not actual ways to get to the truth.
So it's a sports debate.
Sports debate is basically what we see nowadays.
It's, you know, people just trying to make their opponent look bad and score points
and get the audience to be like, oh snap.
You know, it's like a rap battle for intellectuals.
So what was the sense making debate then to contrast that with a sense
making debate would be something like an ideological Turing test or, uh, the antagonistic
collaboration that, uh, Scott Alexander just recently hosted four of them, uh,
gave away prize money for them and they were all pretty good.
And tach, antagonistic collaboration is when two people who have, uh, opposing
viewpoints on an issue come together to research it and they put out their
conclusions and they will only put out things that both of them agree on.
Oh, I read the one on, uh, um, mandatory vaccination of kids.
Cool.
Yeah.
Okay.
I didn't know there were three more.
That sounds really fruitful.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I can dig it.
But I guess reinventing debate is to acknowledge what kind of debate you're
having.
Um, that's fair and say, look, I'm just saying, you know, so I made an effort in
having both like, I'd kind of say here's where I'm putting on my charity at and
that's me switching to my, my sense making debate.
But a lot of my, a lot of my points about especially politics were sports debates.
Um, so that's fair.
All right.
What's the, what's the next one?
Next one is memetic mediators.
Memetic mediators could be called in for memetic battles where both
participants prefer peace to continued civil decay, but cannot come to an
accord without facilitation.
These mediators would require a multitude of tools at their disposal.
They would need to be fluent in multiple tribal paradigms and would need to
give the impression of fairness.
And because each tribe has their own method and claims to truth, the medic
mediators would have to be skilled at finding any common ground and building
from it.
And I think this is probably like the coolest idea, but also the absolute
hardest to put into practice because it's going to be really hard to find
someone that two groups can both agree on.
I actually love doing these though.
This is what I did.
This is like, again, I keep bringing up Friday's lunch, but I like doing the,
this is, this is maybe, Hey, this is a good call for rationalists.
Cause we're the, we're one of the observer tribes.
Yeah.
This is what we could do to save the world.
I don't think I would be very good at it.
I, I tend to become emotionally invested.
I try, I can do it for some things, but in general, there's other topics
or absolutely could not do it, but
that's what I was going to say is do it on the topics where you know,
you'd be good at it.
Cause you can acknowledge it yourself.
And I, and I bet that if you're meeting a, an argument between me and somebody
else, and I'd said, you know, if you're not being, uh, just passionate and
unbiased here, I think you would be able to say, you're right.
I'm going to sit this one out or I'll, or I'll try and be better or something.
Right.
In our friend group, I love, love Shelly for this.
And she's been on the podcast, I think once or twice, at least once, hopefully
at least once, but she is, oh my God.
Anytime anything flares up on Facebook and she is involved in it.
She's just like, Hey guys, here's this person's point of view.
