They can ruin the environment.
Not the, no, not the basing, but corporations in general are, uh, oppressors.
And yet they can also be on the side of the oppressed through these HR and PR
gambits, really fractured the left in the post-occupy thing and created, instead
of having one homogenized left, all these little splinter groups that had their
own things that they ran after.
Yeah.
And I, I'm going to pronounce, I'm going to just pronounce this name, probably.
Um, the second one was, uh, Obergefell, Obergefell.
That's a hard name to say.
Sorry.
I think that's what it is.
I don't know either.
Obergefell V. Hodges.
That was the legalization of gay marriage in 2015 and, uh, what to say
there, except that this was a blow to, you know, it, I don't imagine it's a
large portion of our listener base, but there are people out there who aren't
total monsters that believe that gay marriage is, is a bad idea that, you know,
gayness is a bad idea.
Um, that it's getting more and more fringes that go along.
Um, I can't believe that was just 2013.
20, was that 2015?
2015.
When we do the latest gay marriage, wasn't it?
Man, they're way behind.
Yeah.
It's, it's mind blowing.
Um, but to them, this was like an important point, right?
Uh, this was probably, I, it's, it's what would be an equivalent for us.
It doesn't look like this happened.
This might be a useful thought and exercise.
This might be like reintroducing prayer, criminalization, abortion, criminalizing
abortion.
That's a good one.
Or like, you know, compulsory prayer in school or something, right?
Um, uh, yeah, this, this is, well, I think the abortion thing is, obviously, I'm
going to say it's not like that because it's worse, but it's not like that
because it's worse.
You're causing harm that way.
Right.
Um, whereas nobody's hurt if gay people can get married other than your, your
spiritual pureness, right?
If that's your, something you're concerned about.
Um, and do you think that that would harm it?
So, uh, I guess I wanted to, I, well, or all of society, if you
think gay marriage degrades all of social fabric.
Right.
So I, I, I don't want to belabor it because we only put, uh, you know, just
the definite, what it was, the legalization of gay marriage.
But the, I, I wanted to belabor it because it is a big thing.
If you're on the losing side of that to us, it's just like about fucking time.
Can't believe it took us this long.
That's super embarrassing.
But to people who lost are like, I can't believe this is it.
We've, we've been pushed back.
You know, this, this, again, I'm not sympathizing.
Well, I'm sympathizing because they're humans, but I'm not, I'm not, uh,
supporting where they're coming from.
If you can't see a difference, fuck off.
Um, so number, number three was Caitlyn Jenner.
Yeah.
I was surprised by that one.
Existing was, was, was what she did.
Um, yeah.
So what, oh wait, there, oh, there were only four.
I thought there were five major events.
Yeah.
So we want to dive into what the, the, the, the split factor was there other
than like the fact that I guess I can give a rough definition and you can tell
me it's wrong and correct it or say good job, Steven.
I guess the, the positive acceptance of trans people, she was on the cover of
Vanity Fair and this, this, this fractured the left who, you know, we were
all felt, we were all just coming down from the high of, of gay, gay marriage
being legalized, literally like a week earlier, um, maybe two weeks.
Really?
Uh, it was June that we realized gay marriage and early, I think July of one
or July three that Vanity Fair came out.
That was in the article, but the dates aren't on our notes.
Um, so it was like, oh yeah, we did it.
We're all so woke.
We're great.
Oh wait, you know, Bruce Jenner's a girl now and, uh, that, that's weird.
Bruce Jenner's Bruce is a guy.
Caitlin, Caitlin's really a guy under there.
And I don't know if that's, I don't know if that's split the left though.
I think maybe there was more splintering in like the more the center areas of
the country, like, were there really left people?
I guess it did split like the turf's off from the rest of feminism.
It's split off turf's, but I think in, I guess being trans exclusionary radical,
radical feminists for those unfamiliar.
Right.
And I had to learn that term just a few, few, few months ago, or a few months ago,
I don't know.
I think when I said split the left, I meant that these are people who were, who
were pro gay marriage.
And then they, they were confused by this.
Um, so I guess, yeah, on the left of the middle, but you know, there's a
center ground there.
They didn't, nobody on the far left is probably boned about this.
I guess, I don't know, do you want to just dig into that much as much as we
did the last one?
There's not a whole lot to say there other than this upset some people and has
widely been regarded as a confusing move.
I'm kidding.
I'm quoting that Douglas Adams thing.
I'll cut that out.
No, that's fine.
And number four is my, uh, favorite was the chaos president.
Yeah.
Um, and it opens up the Trump, a quote from Donald Trump.
He says, uh, I love chaos.
It's really great.
Yeah.
Which is his fourth level speaking, his fourth grade speaking level.
Right.
I'm not going to hide my digs.
But he makes a great chaos general.
No, he doesn't.
So it was a lot of chaos.
That's the chaos general genius behind it.
The chaos general isn't just about something chaos, right?
It's about winning.
Yeah.
And so behind all that chaos is a masterful plan that will more or less
guarantee victory.
Whereas I'm not sure there was that often a master plan.
Like sometimes there was, but for the most part, I think Harry was just like,
I can deal with chaos better than my opponents.
So more chaos is better for me.
Yeah.
But since he tended to win.
Yeah.
I guess since he was smart, he could deal with chaos better than his opponents.
Right.
Yeah.
So anyway, Trump sent the establishment right and left spinning, self questioning
and delegitimized.
And so now, yeah, now there's really not just two sides.
They're just all all through everywhere.
Yeah.
And to the extent that, I mean, this is one of those things.
You know, everyone on the left never took Donald Trump, or we never took him
seriously, but we took him literally because he would say things.
And it's like, oh, people say what they believe, except when cases where people
are mind reading or whatever.
I'll leave that at all.
I won't dive into that.
And then people on the right, you had lots of never Trumpers because like,
we're not going to have this, you know, cartoon maniac be a, you know, who's only
credential of being, you know, leading people is running reality TV shows bursting
into locker rooms of beauty pageants and doing all kinds of weird shit.
No, fuck that.
We're going to be never Trumpers.
And then some of them stuck to it and almost, you know, many of the famous ones
didn't, you know, Mitt Romney came out and spoke out against him and then was
down looking boots.
You know, Paul Ryan, he said his dad was part of the JK assassination called
his wife, ugly.
And, you know, there he is, you know, licking his boots all the time.
I don't know.
It's, it's a weird thing.
And this, I'm not, I'm being politically inflammatory, but, you know, this is a
point where like, I think these, these are, these are, these are
questions of fact.
Like this isn't my partisan opinion that the right is worse than the left.
This is my, this is my, I'm going to argue, uh, like non-partisan opinion that
Donald Trump sucks as a person and as a president.
I think what it really did to the right is it split off the populist right, the
majority, um, from the intellectual right, the intellectuals on the right are the
only ones that I personally had an easier time identifying with.
And they're almost all against Trump, but the ones that are in politics and need
votes are basically unwilling to not tow the party line because he has the
votes.
The intellectuals are a small minority and everyone else is voting.
Yeah.
And then it's hard to look at polls in today's climate because things are weird.
But when you see that he has like a 32% approval rating in only 40, low 40% of
the country's registered Republican.
This was like one in four Republicans were scared off by Donald Trump, right?
So it's not like, not just one's political power.
It's the muggles on the street too.
So, um, uh, it's, it's a thing.
I guess to be, I'm making an effort to being charitable at all of these.
I would suspect that many people who are in favor of Donald Trump think that he is
succeeding at what they wanted him to do, which was kicking up the system.
And if that was your goal and that's what you think he's doing, then you win.
Um, well, that means the rest of us and for the country is a different thing.
But, but I mean, I'm not trying to be an asshole.
I went ahead and slipped and dastled him towards the end.
Yeah.
So that's what I got there.
We can, we can move on.
Uh, they give us a quick anatomy of him, a medic tribe, which I thought was really
interesting because this is the part where you like get the cool horoscope or, um, or,
um, mixed briar personality test, where you can like look up yourself and see like,
Oh, hey, that was neat.
My, my, my, my, is Briggs.
Oh, did I say, I said backwards?
It doesn't matter.
Okay.
