But anyway, I'm sure that there's much more to it, but that was my, all right, if I'm this tired early on, I got to get myself in gear.
I'm going to stand up and stretch really quick.
All right, no problem.
Yeah.
We're jumping ahead a little bit.
So stepping back just a bit.
The article is called memetic tribes and culture war.
And so they think it's probably important to define both memetic tribe and culture war near the top.
Anything that uses the word memetic almost always has me immediately hooked.
Nice.
So they define memetic tribe as a group of group, a group, a group of agents with a memeplex that directly or indirectly seeks to impose its distinct map of reality.
Along with its more imperatives upon other minds.
Memeplex is basically what it sounds like.
If you know what meme is, it's, it's the, it's an ideology.
Yeah.
Ideology is good for it.
Yeah.
That works.
So memeplex is more fun to say.
Yeah.
To put it in, yeah, it definitely is.
Well, I mean, and it, it, I think points more directly to what an ideology is.
It's a group of individual memes that are interwoven to be self perpetuating.
Right.
And self reinforcing.
I'm in the name of what they're talking about really paints the picture of this is, because they talk about, we talked about Tristan Harris and I'm jumping around, but we'll, we'll get in order.
They talk about Tristan Harris, his, you worked at the Google ethicist, the Google something ethicist.
Yeah.
About how our attention isn't really under our control that much anymore.
Our attention is the new scarce resource that everyone's fighting over.
And we're constantly being hijacked with, you know, memetic invasions or parasites, if you want to call them that, right?
So I'll stop derailing us.
And just in case there's a confusion here, we're using meme, not in the colloquial term of a funny image, but meme in the traditional definition of an idea that reproduces itself.
Yeah.
That's actually all right.
Last derail.
Well, who am I kidding?
My last year off for the next 90 seconds.
My first exposure to the word meme was like a couple of years before it got popular before the word meme was memified in common culture.
It was from Richard Dawkins.
I think he's one.
He didn't coin the word.
I believe he is the one who coined it.
He says he's not.
He popularized it in 1975 with his book, The Selfish Gene.
And he was looking for an example of something that could mutate and it was basically an allegory for evolutionary change.
But rather than then have its chain go down through generations, it goes across populations.
And he said, I could have done computer virus or those were around back then, but it happened to be memes and that took off.
And now memes is any picture with captions under it or whatever you want.
So yeah.
All right, ready to go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So basically in easier terms, it's a group of people with an ideology that want to spread the ideology.
And I'm going to just, I got several quotes out of here that I just dropped in and I'm more or less going to read them exactly as they appear.
The new memetic tribes share to varying degrees, a few characteristics.
Most are unscrupulously optimistic in quotes, meaning they see social problems as soluble through large scale adjustment.
They see themselves as spokespeople for larger groups, whether that be regular folk or the marginalized.
At the same time, they see their existence or their prime value as under threat.
They do battle both online and off.
And crucially, their memetic warfare is just as much about firing up members and creating conflicts out of noncombatants as it is about winning particular battles.
And they did a great job putting this line near the top because this summarizes exactly what we were trying to, you know, when I was throwing out a bullshit definition of culture war, right?
Yeah.
This is exactly what's happening.
And then I was, because we were both adding those to this throughout the day and I was going to add that exact quote and then I saw that you already did.
So I added the next short paragraph, which I thought was just as good when it was part of what I was going to add.
So I'll try and read that one.
Well, everyone vote who likes who's reading voice more.
I already know who's going to win.
So the next line.
From the perspective of the tribal memeplex, the ideal host exists in a state of permanent agitation and interprets all phenomena through the memeplex's filter.
In short, a paranoid ideologue.
Memeplexes that have not agitated their hosts into reproducing them will lose out to those who do.
Only some of the room inside your head in ideology expands to fill the available space.
Yeah.
That was also a damn good quote.
Yeah, it was great.
They then define culture war as the memetic war to determine what the social facts are at the core of a given society or to determine society's boundaries of the sacred and the profane.
And since social fact was not a term familiar to me, I looked at it or I looked it up rather a social fact as a way of acting, whether fixed or not capable of exerting over the individual and external constraint.
Luckily, they linked the Wikipedia definition of that word in the article because I had to click it too.
And it's things like the concepts of marriage or of kinship or honor or things that, you know, things that are not physical facts about the world, but they are social realities which constrain how you can behave.
I saw this as a probably weak example, but it's appropriate.
There was a change my view thread on Reddit in the last day or two.
Someone is complaining about tipping.
This comes up like once a month.
Yeah.
Tipping shouldn't be a thing.
Tipping's a good one.
It's not obligatory.
The poster is like, but it kind of is.
Yeah, totally.
And it's like, yeah, exactly.
It is.
You're an asshole if you don't.
That's the social truth.
Yeah.
So yes, it's not required.
They will, in theory, be paid minimum wage.
So if you know any service workers who may live on tips, they definitely almost never paid out minimum wage if they don't make enough.
So it's one of those things like, I was going to make an example from a movie, but it's not important.
So moving on.
And yeah, you do see them changing quite a lot too.
Just a few years ago, I was reading a book which came out not too long ago, where the word retarded is used quite a bit because back then it was still okay to say.
It was like, yeah, how do you refer to something that's really lame or stupid?
Yeah, that's retarded, dude.
Now you can't say that anymore.
Yeah.
Actually, fun fact about that.
And I'll need to double check, but I'm confident enough to put this on the air and go on the record for saying this.
I know somebody who is in their 60s and they live with their adult sister who is mentally retarded.
She's a diagnosis because she's in her 50s.
And so when she was diagnosed with re-dardation 50 years ago, because she was a child when she was diagnosed, that rode through up until sometime during the Obama administration.
And when that was removed as like a legal diagnosis, they removed her benefits.
Oh, shit.
And so because that's not what we call it anymore.
So she's better now, right?
So they got her back on, but there is a few Harry months where there was nothing coming through to help support the full-time care that she needs or anything like that.
So that was kind of interesting.
Yeah.
So not only can you not say it, but you also can't legislate it anymore.
Right.
Which I'm in favor of that.
Language policing is if he in this article talks about Jordan Peterson and his firm stance on that, but at the same time, I'm a big fan of this sort of my general policy on language policing.
In general, I'll be descriptive in a way that's not asshole-ish if I can.
And if I'm told that's wholeish by somebody who is an authority on the subject, I'll change my general descriptors.
But in person, I'll say whatever someone wants.
You know, like, I think we talked about the word black before as like, as term is like black American as opposed to native or African American.
And I always said black American because not all Africans are black.
Not all black people are from Africa.
And it always struck me as weird to say, oh, you're black.
You must be from Africa.
And this kind of like weird, like, you know, you're not from here since.
Okay.
Which you don't do that with, you know, other white people or even other like not black people.
You don't do, you know, Mexican American or Puerto Rican American for the most part.
I think you do.
Some people do Mexican American.
If they're from Mexico.
Right.
But not if they're not that they've been here for 300 years.
Yeah.
Right.
So that's, that's the, that's the part that always worked to me.
But if someone in person wants me to call them African American, I'm all over it.
And I'm not going to protest to them.
Yeah.
But then my other joke, I'm sorry, I'm derailing us.
Elon Musk is African American.
Right.
Oh, South Africa.
Yeah.
So on paper.
And then there's that person who applied to college a few years ago, also from South
Africa, I think.
And she got affirmative action, benefit, you know, perks for applying to different colleges.
And when she got there and she was white, there was some kickback.
But she was African American.
Her family was from Africa.
Yeah.
So I know someone personally who I'm not going to give out name here because she wants to
put this whole thing behind her.
But she wrote a number of stories which were well received and she used the pen name and
the pen name she used was the nickname that her grandmother called her.
And she is, was actually born in South Africa.
Her parents are South African, but they're the Dutch South African.
They're white.
And her parents, interestingly, fought against apartheid like hardcore and were eventually
stripped of, I think, most of their possessions and kicked out of the country for, for their
fight against apartheid.
But anyways, she had a nickname that her grandma called her.
She used it as her pen name.
And the nickname, I mean, it's just, it's a, it's a collection of vowels and consonants
and stuff that you just call a kid when they're all cute and young.
But it kind of sounds like it could be sort of African and like a African ethnic sort of
name.
Would giving away the name, describe, tell her who you're talking about?
Possibly.
Okay, that's fine.
And, and she comes from South Africa.
And like, she didn't ever make a big deal about this.
She just wrote some stories.
But at one point, a anthology contacted her and was like, Hey, we'd like to include your
story in our anthology of African American writers.
And she was like, that's totally cool.
You can do that if you'd like, but just so you know, I'm white.
And she explained the situation.
And there was like a scandal.
People were like, how dare you represent yourself as, as, as black and use this ethnic name.
And she was like, no, this was what my grandma called me.
And yeah, and she abandoned that pen name.
And it's just never going to write under that name again.
That's lame.
No one should make you feel bad.
I agree.
And I mean, that was really shitty.
But yeah, that actually, that sort of thing can and that does happen.
Man, that sucks.
Yeah.
Anyway, that's interesting.
Yeah.
