Here's this person's point of view.
Look how reasonable you both are and it can be about this.
And oh my God, she is amazing.
I'm like, I wish I could just have you everywhere.
That's true.
You've done this a few times too.
Like when, um, during the, uh, sensitive, sensitive issues, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You, we worked that way for us.
Uh, I will say that like, since our most people are not in our community, this
isn't very useful, but, uh, I was surprised.
The article said that they can't think of any examples of someone like this.
And I was like, Oh, come on.
Have you guys never read the unit of carrying Tumblr?
The unit of caring is amazing.
Like more than on, on more than one occasion on this blog, I've called her the
best person in the world, or at least the best person on the internet.
Absolutely think she's the best person on the internet, just so reasonable and
kind hearted and just, she could be a mediator for anyone, in my opinion, at
least anyone in our, in our, in, uh, from the rational side would gladly
accept her as mediator with anyone else.
That's dope.
As far as I can tell, man, I haven't actually read that because I'm never on
Tumblr, but I will, I've read it open now.
I'll check it out.
Yeah.
Um, one of my favorite, my favorite Tumblr period, hands down.
Fantastic.
I don't know.
Have you seen the one that's, uh, like just repost the, uh, we rate dogs Twitter?
Cause that one's pretty cool.
Okay.
Um, so anyway, you said, uh, like Shelly, just that sucks that I'm missing out on
these interactions on Facebook.
Maybe there, there, so there are some things out there.
Well, I mean, they're really rare.
But it'll be, I see, you know, candle in the dark there once in a while.
Yeah.
Well, where'd you go, Shelly?
That's, that's awesome.
I wish, uh, if you see any screen caps or something that you can, you can share.
Uh, if you have to censor names or whatever, not, not, not necessarily to the page,
but, you know, put them, share them with me because I want to see them.
Yeah.
All right.
Um, so there were, there were three more.
And, uh, I didn't actually finish this part.
I was running short on time this evening, but, um, I've got the notes.
So you let me know what I missed.
Reclaiming philosophy as a way of life is number five.
Yes.
And that sounds nicely poetic and, and lofty, but good luck with that.
Good.
You can't, there's no philosophers on the battlefield.
Dude, I don't know.
Like, um, stoicism has been handed having quite a comeback lately.
That's cause we need stoicism, man.
Well, for whatever reason, it's, it's kind of being a thing.
I can dig it.
Okay.
That's, that's a good example.
I'm picturing just, you know, somebody advocating stoicism, you know, in the
mid, like walking across no man's land in World War two.
Oh, right.
It's like, yeah, good luck out there.
Um, gray pilling.
All right.
So I didn't read this.
So I'll take your guess.
I didn't really get what gray pilling is.
It seemed like basically to be street epistem, as street epistemology, like
it's like quite a questioning of people, just asking them, why do you think that?
And, you know, trying to, trying to get them to question their own stuff
without being a dick or anything.
The gray pill is the process of relearning the values and of questioning
and doubt after you've been seduced by your answers and certainties and
leaving comforting secret societies for continued intellectual growth.
Yeah, all that.
I don't know what that means.
Basically finding rationality.
Okay.
Okay.
Come join our secret society for intellect, continued intellectual growth.
Yeah.
Everyone listens gets the in jokes.
So let's see, workshops for depolarization.
Exactly what it sounds like.
Yeah, that sounds great.
Yeah, getting people to come.
Yeah.
Yeah, they give the example of the open mind platform is a psychology based
educational platform designed to depolarize campuses, companies, organizations
and communities.
And I guess for like, if it was a mandatory thing as part of your job or
something, it could work.
Yeah, I don't actually know anything about it.
I don't either.
But workshops would be nice.
But again, like getting to people to do them is hard.
And I get the feeling forcing people to do them would be the same kind of the
same sort of effect as sensitivity training.
It'd be useless.
Yeah.
Yeah, you could people to do whatever, to say whatever they have to say, check
all the right bubbles in the Scantron and then just leave.
So that's why I was not entirely enthusiastic about that one.
I'm like, I don't, I don't know if it could happen.
But these are helpful things.
And maybe, maybe as we work our way there, you know, this sounds like the kind
of nerdy thing that rationalists would be into.
I know I keep putting us at the top of the list, but whatever.
Since we're not in the intellectual dark web train yet, or the, you know, what
are some of the other crazy ones, other ones on this list, forget it.
Um, yeah, fingers crossed, you know, this might be the cool thing to do.
Like maybe if you're in college or something, because there's already a bunch
of, you know, meeting places and communities like that.
It's tough because if you're the only one attending these, you know, like I
could imagine going to see a speaker you disagree with or something.
But if you're the one going, then you're just suffering from it.
And it's not making society any better.
Right.
And you could try and learn and become less polarized that way.
But I don't know.
Well, that sounds like a stretch goal.
I can see why you put the last three in a separate category.
Did we want to cover our three or less wrong posts tonight?
Or if we went out for two and a half hours already.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
We'll start our less wrong posts next week, next episode.
I was really excited about them too.
What if we, what if we do in advance, tell people what ones we're going to talk?
No, well, yeah, no, actually it's a good idea in case they want to read two.
Yeah.
If you want to, if you want to read ahead.
All right.
So instead of doing AI rationale, instead of doing rationality AI to zombies,
we are actually going to be reading the original sequences in the order they were
posted.
Uh, and you decided that.
Yes, I did.
Curious why?
Because that was the way I read them.
That's fair.
Yeah.
Enough said.
Yeah.
Why go for the, the organized refurbished version when you can get the old model
that, you know, runs on diesel.
This is like being, you know, just slightly post-counsel of Nicaea and being like, yeah,
I see you got a nice cannon over there, but fuck you.
I like all my original 117 apocryphal books of the Bible.
Thank you.
That said, there wasn't much cut to put in rationality AI to zombies.
It was just sorted better.
It was sorted better.
What, there was some cutting too.
Okay, fair enough.
So the first three essays we read, what you can find on less wrong.com under the
sequences, uh, it's kind of difficult because yeah, the sequences takes you to AI
ration, uh, rationality AI to zombies.
Uh, there, there is a resource that posts, uh, all of the less wrong posts in the
order that they were originally posted and actually includes the ones put out by
other people too, not just Eliezer, but we're only going to be reading Eliezer's
ones.
Anyways, I'll put a link up to that, but we will also link the first three less
wrong posts ever posted, which we will talk about in our next episode.
They are the martial art of rationality, why truth, and what's a bias again?
The and separated posts two and three.
So yeah.
And, uh, yeah, we'll have links to those on our website, um, Bayesian
conspiracy, the basin conspiracy.com.
And so you can go to them straight from there, um, or just find a way to read them
on your own.
Yeah, but they were, they were, yeah.
Good posts.
We're going to be reading through this thing.
Totally.
And if you just Google the first one, martial art of the martial art of rationality
and click next post, next post takes you to the next ones in the right order.
So cool.
I think about that unless you wanted to pitch what video game you were playing
me lately.
Oh yeah, right.
I did want to do that.
Um, so since you pitched one last time, I was like, oh yeah, I got to talk about
this video game.
There's a really fucking cool video game called Soma.
It's a first person game and the tutorial part starts out like more or less
modern day, maybe five years in the future.
Uh, your guy has a brain injury and he's going in for some treatment and then,
uh, like you wake up after the treatment and you're like in a, uh, bunker under
the ocean, the thing is overrun with, uh, not zombies, but like machine mindless
destroying things and it's, it turns into a survival horror game from there.
Uh, but, and it's one of the survival horrors where you don't get weapons.
You get to run away from the big thing before it kills you and then solve
puzzles and try to not die.
Uh, so it's, first of all, it was, I, I thought it was really fucking well
done as a horror game.
There were a number of times where I was like actually scared.
