I had physical reactions, you know, which just does not happen anymore.
I, I get the feeling I'm jaded enough that that was, that was really
well done, that I actually had those reactions and I would have to stop playing
the game for a bit.
Oh, you got to play like Outlast or something with the lights off and the
volume up is, I played like half an hour of that game.
I can watch playthroughs.
That's fine, but like, uh, I don't play a lot of horror games and I think
cause I, I get pretty into it and I get, I get into all the games and stuff.
So, you know, if there's a, there's a jump scare or like even a loud thing,
you know, and I was playing Horizon Zero Dawn, something snuck up
and me, I jump in my seat, um, I'm like a horror game and a good horror
game does what this game does.
Like you said, there's no weapons, uh, or, you know, if, if, if there are
weapons, ammo is limited, um, that's hard to find, you know, the brittle weapons
aren't, they don't get OP until the end of the game.
If they get OP ever, there's never a sense that like, all right, finally
got all this shit, I need to be safe.
You're like, you're always, you're always stressed out.
Well, this game was interesting because there is safe periods and, uh, dangerous
or safe spots and dangerous spots that you alternate between.
So yeah, you get a break between every moment of mind bending terror.
Then after that, there's like a level where you get more of the storyline
and you talk to people.
And that's where like what I really loved about this game, uh, it is.
Super transhumanist almost.
I mean, it's a horror transhumanism, but it is at the point where like it
tackles issues of identity and who you are once you're uploaded.
And what does it mean to have these memories and what does it mean to be
interacting with non-human intelligences that don't have the values
you think they have at first?
It's, I don't want to spoil too much about this because saying much of
anything is very spoilery, but yeah, it's very transhumanist where you, uh,
you get to make deal with the, the ethical issues that we sometimes have to deal
with or that we never have to deal with in real life.
But, you know, as transhumanist thought experiments that we sometimes run across.
Did you read, uh, Dan Dennett's Where Am I?
Yes.
It's there's, there's a component of that game.
That's a lot like that that stuck with me.
I watched this playthrough years ago.
Oh, of Soma?
Yeah.
Oh, cool.
And I, cause I never played it, but if anyone wants, I'll link to the
play through of this YouTube, uh, YouTuber who does playthroughs that I
really like, um, back when I was watching, he had like 300 subscribers or less.
I think I mentioned this to you when you asked that, oh, when you told me
about this game, yeah.
Um, for whatever reason, Xbox throughout like random, pointless achievement,
like you don't get any points for the achievement when you're just doing
things that aren't games.
And one of them was, uh, it was like indie guy or something, indie, indie
viewer, watch three hours of YouTube videos that have less than 300 views or
something.
And, uh, nice.
And so Marshall Dyer does these playthroughs and he's just got this
nice gentle voice and he talks about what he's doing.
If he's doing something that, you know, it is that he talks to his thought
process, he doesn't have a YouTube voice.
He doesn't say, be sure to smash that like and subscribe button.
Like we're about to at the end of this episode.
And, uh, um, it anyway, and, you know, no floating head.
It's, and then he'll quietly do the parts that, you know, are supposed to be
quiet and he'll talk the parts where he's, you know, inventory managing or
something or whatever.
Um, anyway, give it a shot.
If you want to watch it, if you want to play it, it's something great to play
it too.
Yeah.
But if you're like me and don't play horror games, but just watch
them, this sounds fun.
Cool.
See, I think that's all we got for today.
Cool.
Yeah.
Oh, we got to think of patron.
Let me ask you real quick and we'll like put this next part only into the, uh,
patreon supported part because it's also spoilers for the game.
Do you want to, uh, save this after, after we close the episode?
And it doesn't matter.
I'll, I'll chop it out.
I can, I can handle it.
Oh, uh, do you want me to?
Okay.
All right.
Uh, but yeah, uh, this next part only for Patreon subscribers.
So subscribe to Patreon.
Um, oh yeah, we can, we can let's, let's plug that really quick.
Oh, okay.
I forget.
So we have a Patreon account.
Yes, we do.
Patreon, just search the basin conspiracy.
You're welcome to support us.
It's not required.
If it's anything like a financial hardship, or you'll even notice the loss,
don't, but if you have a free buck a month or, you know, whatever by all
means you're welcome to, uh, it really means a lot to us.
It does.
And it, it, it, you know, I was thinking about this just yesterday that, you
know, you put up all the forward costs for the show, which included the time to
build the website, the hosting for like the first year you bought the mics.
You bought the, the mic, uh, you bought all the equipment, the mixer.
Um, so you just recoup the costs for that, like last year.
Right.
Um, so, or yeah, last year, um, you know, it, and, you know, down the road,
we could get better mics.
We could do, um, whatever you guys think we could do with this.
Uh, it's not like a big money in our pocket kind of thing.
It's just something to make this, um,
it feels nice to be able to go out to dinner a few times a year on, on like,
Hey, this is Bayesian conspiracy money.
Yeah.
Or, you know, one of these days, maybe we'll want to guess who wants money or
something like that, right?
So, um, you know, maybe they have a time budget.
I don't know, but, uh, whatever it is.
So we're, we're trying to, to make it useful, not just make it, make, give you
more than just feel good for being a patient supporter.
So, um, we do have some patient only content out there.
Um, usually just us chatting about random stuff.
My goal is down, but we're going to start getting more and down the road.
I want to add some more like interesting conversations.
I don't think we'll get to the point where we ever do full episodes that are
just patient only.
Um, but maybe we'll start doing things where patients get to vote on the next
episode or something, um, or at least put out ideas.
You know, we'll take them from Reddit and stuff now too, but, um, maybe we'll,
we'll highly prioritize the ones from Patreon.
Um, so, uh, those are things that exist.
If you don't feel like doing Patreon or if you already do, uh, that's awesome.
We appreciate it.
And, uh, there is, um, iTunes.
You can like an episode.
You can like the show there, leave a review, tell other people about the
episodes that also helps.
Yeah.
Just, you know, if you think this is valuable to you and you think that
there's anybody that you think it might be valuable to us or other resources,
rationally speaking, is another good podcast.
It's not the same exact thing.
It's not rationality with the capital R, but it's, it's rationality adjacent.
Um, you know, the reason that I think I wanted to do this show was that
there isn't really a thing like a rationality podcast that I could find.
At least there wasn't two or three, three years ago.
So, um, in any case, no, I'm rambling, but thank you.
We really like our listeners and I can tell that I'm rambling.
So.
And this episode, we in particular like, dun, dun, dun.
Thank you, uh, to our, uh, call out Patreon supporter this month or this
episode, uh, Crystal, thanks a lot.
Fuck yeah, Crystal.
You know what we might actually do one of these days?
Uh, our sound engineer got busy with a paying job and, uh, we've been editing
the last few ones, which is time intensive and, and, uh, doesn't sound as good.
So we could actually pay a real person to do this for us.
One of these days we might pay a real person to do this.
Oh my God, that'd be so nice.
I'll look into what the costs are.
I want, you know, we don't need a, we don't need a, an amazing sound engineer
to add effects and do this and that, but you know, something to clean this up
and save us four hours a week, four or five or six, it seems like.
Yeah.
So that'd be really cool.
Yeah.
Anyway, so the reason I brought up all the Patreon stuff was because we are
going to go into some Patreon only content, which maybe we'll start announcing
when we do that.
All right.
So all of that last part up until the mid-afterno, I think should go into the,
um, the, listen to the Patreon supporter thing.
Sounds good.
All right.
Thank you for listening.
Bye.
Thanks.
Bye.
