Okay, do you want to, do you want to check into this?
My body is ready.
Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Meneesh Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Siburd.
And today we're addressing things that we've wanted to address for a while but haven't gotten around to just yet.
Such as?
Such as the fact that it is the two-week anniversary of Petrov Day.
Yay.
I feel like a complete idiot because we actually, we didn't realize when we were recording but our last episode came out on Petrov Day which would have been a fantastic time to like talk about Petrov Day.
So why don't you go over what Petrov Day is then I'll say my one disappointing thing about it.
Okay.
Or why don't I put that up first before I forget.
I heard the whole story is apocryphal.
It's not.
So it's a great like, you know, the Apple fell on Newton's head kind of story.
No, no, I mean, it may not be as dramatic as it was first portrayed to be but like that actually happened.
Oh that's, yeah, it must have because he was actually fired.
Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
So he's an actual dude who exists.
Something like that.
Yes.
I mean there was an actual false, false, what do you call it, false positive I guess of missiles being launched and he actually didn't retaliate as he was instructed.
I think what I read was that it's possible that this wouldn't have that retaliation wouldn't have occurred even if he had confirmed like if he had said go for it.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
That's certainly possible.
But the point is the box stopped with him and it might not have if he hadn't stopped it.
Exactly.
Okay.
There's another situation during the Cuban Missile Crisis where a submarine lieutenant, Arkapov refused to turn the key when his supervisor on the sub ordered him to launch the nuke.
And I mean that also might not have been a nuke launching because there were other people on the sub too and it may not have it may not have you know resulted in a launch and a nuclear war but it was good that he stopped it where he did.
Totally.
So let's let's go over the brief history of Petrov day.
Oh Petrov day is on this day, not actually this day, September 26 of two.
Oh God.
I don't I don't remember what year it was.
1883 or 1983.
Okay, on September 26 of 1983.
The Soviet Union was informed that the US had launched a first strike nuclear salvo at them.
And it turned out later to be the case that this was actually sunlight reflecting off clouds and digging the pinging the Russian satellites that were watching for this for a nuclear launch.
But it looked like a nuclear launch to them.
And there was chaos and alarms going off.
And this guy Stanislav Petrov was ordered to fire his nukes at the at the Americans, as is standard procedure for when you're under a massive nuclear attack.
And he did not do so.
He decided that all things considered he didn't want to destroy the human race.
And given various I'm not going to get into the whole details here because you know we want to we want to get into the rest of the episode.
But we will link to the entire story if anyone's interested.
There were other clues as well that when he saw them he was like this doesn't quite feel right to me.
I'm not sure this is actually a nuclear attack.
He didn't launch the missiles and as a result, the entire human race is saved.
And as Steven just said, it may not have resulted in a nuclear launch anyway.
There was like another layer of precaution, but the important part the important part is that he did stop the chain at him when he had the ability to do so.
And he eventually lost his he was fired he lost his military pension and all that.
And that's that's what he got for saving the human race.
And so we like to celebrate this day as a day when we all try not to destroy the human race and to think those of who are in a greater position to not do so.
And you know, remember how fragile life is and hope that someday he will be as well known as like, you know, a Kardashian or one of the other celebrities that everyone seems to know.
Yeah, because think of all everything the Kardashians have given us.
Right.
We want to at least put Stanislav Petrov up there.
Right.
At least as much as you know, really nice but pictures.
And I think instead of linking to the Wikipedia page on Petrov Day, I'm going to link to the XKCD that explains Petrov Day.
Okay, or I mean, we should also link to the original Less Wrong Post which started the Petrov Day tradition.
That works too.
Yeah, that might actually be linked in here somewhere because this is one of the explain ones like a few paragraphs underneath.
But the pictures funny as always.
Yeah.
And it's somebody reading their phone and she's like, hey, Wednesday was Stanislav Petrov Day.
We missed it.
And he says, ah, shoot, I've got a calendar alert for it, but I assumed it was a false alarm.
Very appropriate joke.
Totally.
And because we also missed it.
Yeah.
It's great.
It's true.
Couldn't be better.
And then the title text is, I was going to get you an alarm clock that occasionally goes off randomly in the middle of the night, but you can ignore it and go back to sleep and it's fine.
Okay.
So.
Did you hear about the Petrov Day celebration that went wrong?
I hope it didn't go as wrong as Petrov Day couldn't.
Well, I'm trying to make a pun here about Petrov Day not happening.
So, no, I didn't hear about it.
Okay.
So they, since there are, you know, a number of rationalists around the world at this point.
And this really doesn't have us.
Yes, literally dozens.
And this is a kind of our only holiday.
There's some people that, well, I guess there's also the solstice celebration, but this is one of the big ones.
There's a number of people that got together and have had Petrov Day parties.
And there is a game that some of the groups play where two parties will link to each other via server or some other method.
In this case, they use the server.
And in each party, there's a big red button.
And if someone in one party pushes the big red button, then the party that they're linked to across the nation or across, you know, wherever the other party is has to immediately shut down.
Douse the fire because there's a, you know, traditional fire going, throw away their cake and everyone goes home.
Like the party's over.
It's the equivalent of launching a party nuke, right?
And they both managed to not press the button at all for the required amount of time.
I think the game went on for like four hours or something.
That's nice.
Yeah.
Doesn't sound that hard.
Yeah.
It was Seattle and Oxford that were playing.
Then again, you know, war, not shooting, not launching nuke doesn't sound that hard either.
So.
Well, here's the funny thing.
There were a few times where they were false alarms launched, you know, to, to simulate the uncertainty of shit happening and like, oh no, they launched us and they didn't retaliate and everything was okay.
Once the game was over, one of the people in Seattle touched the button on the screen, just be like, haha, timer's over.
Let's just, you know, touch it, whatever.
Their computer and the server weren't synced completely.
Perfectly.
They touched it literally one second after the timer ended on their end, but for the server, it would still had a few seconds left.
And so Oxford was, um, was told that the nuke had been launched on the plus side.
Oxford did not retaliate.
That's nice.
Yeah.
So only half the world was destroyed.
That's about that.
That's about as wholesome of an example of like nuclear war that I can think of.
Yeah.
That's also kind of like appropriate in that it shows just how easy it is through technical glitches to accidentally destroy the world.
You know, I mean, it's not, it's not quite the same level of, of, of problems that we have.
But it was a great demonstration of exactly that problem.
Like these, there's lights shining off clouds or there's, there's a warning depth charges going off, which you don't realize are only warning depth charges or, or someone pushes a button one second after the game is over and things are out of sync.
Whomp.
Yeah.
Hey, that's cool though.
I love it.
Yeah.
And I'll post, we'll post a link to that as well.
Totally.
So I had a quick, um, we've had a little bit of, of feedback on the AMA thread that's sitting on Reddit.
If anyone ever wants to hit that, um, one here from a Chiba Tron, which is one that we need to do a whole episode on.
I just wanted to acknowledge that we've seen it because it came in 25 days ago and all I did was like it.
So, um, uh, basically, are there any guides or how tos for practicing rationality in everyday life?
So there's a, it goes on to give some examples and things that they're looking for.
Um, but basically we haven't done, I think we inject a little bits and pieces here.
They're like living like a rationalist ought to live or tries to live or something.
But that sounds like, that sounds like something we need to cover in depth at some point.
So we'll get some kick-ass rationalist on here to, uh, give us some example.
Of course.
Another kick-ass rationalist.
Right.
Right.
Of course.
And then Chlorine Crown and I are going to keep talking via, um, private message here on Reddit,
but I wanted to bring up the public one because there's a generalizable lesson in it.
So, um, and these were in three hours ago.
So I have a huge difference between, uh, Chlorine Crown and, uh, Chiba Tron here.
We didn't forget about you, Chiba Tron, but we, uh, well, we didn't forget forget, but it slipped our minds.
So, um, Chlorine Crown said, uh, I'm thinking I want to change jobs and become a coder.
And I remember you said you did it and it was easier than you expected.
What was your path like?
So I gave a quick response here because I did it via phone, but, um, I'll go over it really quick.
And then I'll, I'll talk about why it's generalizable.
So, you know, obviously advice is hard and your mileage may vary.
And just to calibrate expectations, when I said, I thought it would, I thought it would be like inventing calculus hard
and not just like tons of work hard.
Um, because I mean, before I got into anything computers, I assumed it was just some, you know, black box of arcane knowledge
that, you know, what you couldn't get into unless you were coding your own games while you're still in diapers and stuff.
And it turns out it's like, oh no, it's human readable.
And if, if I can do it, anybody can do it.
So it's a skill like any other.
Yeah, totally.
But I think, and this is actually, this is the second generalizable lesson that, and this is something that I had to learn over
and over getting into the field is that there's this sense, at least for me, and it was noncommon among other entry level people
of just like, holy shit, I can't do this.
This is too much.
You know, what do I do?
I've never seen a problem like this before.
Um, the key is to get over that, like everybody feels that way to start off and it's totally normal.
So you just need to find good strategies for getting over that, that challenge.
And I feel like that's true for a lot of things.
So anyway, if anyone wants to look at programming and never has before, there's a free book online called, uh, automate the boring stuff,
which is a Python tutorial.
Um, if you hate that, you'll hate coding.
And if you find it fun and interesting, you might like it.
So that's your, that's my first step.
I'd recommend it to somebody, which was recommended to me by one of our guests on the show, Zeke Aran, who, uh, really got me into all this stuff.
So thanks, buddy.
Cool.
And, uh, let's see.
So the other, the other lesson, or I guess the thing that related to it is like, I don't know any car stuff at all or really any repairs of anything.
But like me getting into coding was, I think my first example of, or my first real.
Yeah.
One of my first real serious attempts at, instead of the, the rationalist, um, uh, motto of like shut up and do the impossible.
Mine is just like shut up and actually try.
Okay.
Um, because almost nothing is as hard as it, as at least as I think it is.
Maybe, you know, I think some other people have anxiety about stuff too, but it's more just like, I'll look at some problem and just assume, oh, it must be really hard.
You know, otherwise I'd know how to do it, but why would that be the case?
Right.
So like, just try, figure it out, especially at the cost of entry is low.
So, you know, I'm going to go to work on my, I'm going to, my brother's going to help me.
Well, rather he's going to do all of it and he's going to, I'm going to get to help him, um, replace my pads and, uh, probably my rotors on my car.
Cool.
Um, cause I don't know how to do it.
