obey the logic of bipolarity.
Agents do not see allies behind the line and enemies in front of it.
Instead, the lines surround them and are constantly shifting.
Attacks can come from right or left, from state power or mob rule, from
Twitter pylons or swatting.
And this is, this is, uh, for everyone else is reading the terror, not a series
right now by Ada Palmer.
It's the same thing that you get there.
It's the same thing you get in most civil wars nowadays, like in Iraq, one of
the major problems was like you're living in the city, your next door
neighbor's a Sunni, you're a Shiite.
You've been great all along, but now all of a sudden there's like huge issues.
Like everyone is on some other line.
You don't know who to trust.
It's, it's paranoia inducing.
And I think that is the big problem.
Yeah.
And well, one of the big problems.
And I think the paranoia inducing, and they talked about your enemies turn
along, they're in front of you.
They're everywhere comes from like, like, and they, they talk about this.
They're, they're more eloquent about this than I am, but the
multi polarity of the, the current war landscape.
You know, like a fun, annoying concession I used to make to people that was fair
for me, because I, this is something I could probably have, this is something
I probably believed and probably still believe, but it was nice to get like a
quick rise out of people, but it was still an easy issue.
And the example was like, yeah, totally.
Um, we can teach, uh, intelligent design at school, just not in science class.
Right.
Um, so like, uh, it was, it was the response to some prompt that, you know,
our philosophy professor, you know, how does like say, all right, raise your
hand if you think you should teach evolution and or teach intelligent
design at school, hands went up.
T raise hands if you say that you shouldn't, my hand went up and along with
most, you know, other people, all right, now everyone switched sides and argue
for that side and you've got like 10 minutes and my team settled on and
like, Hey, sure, teach it in school, teach it in social science.
Um, not, not in, not in biology.
And that was kind of like a, you know, sideways dig.
Um, but that was the, that was the kind of sideways middle of the road answer
that you could give and not lose friends or gain enemies.
Right.
You, you would, you would irk people because you weren't really making, you
weren't really making a fight, but it was, you know, a sideways shot didn't
hit anybody back then, right?
And now it does.
And now, you know, if you were to make some middle of the road comment, I
can't think of one right off.
I should have thought of one, but, you know, something that I probably
believe that's not, or yeah, private gun ownership is okay.
And you know, it is okay.
Um, that's going to piss off some people.
And that's something I probably believe that, you know, it is right.
If you, if you're a responsible adult, you should be allowed to have a gun.
Um, I'll also say that you should be forced to register it and, uh, that it
should take, uh, licensing to acquire one.
Um, so there are pissed off both sides.
And, uh,
Piss off me.
I also think every gun should be registered.
Yeah.
Well, we're unfortunately, we're both too sensible.
Yeah.
Damn, but if we're shooting to the sides, now we're hitting people.
And even that, I think to me, it sounds like a very equitable, uh, compromise.
That's going to piss off both people or that's going to piss off people on both
sides rather.
And I think that's like the problem because the feeling of betrayal by your
own side really sucks.
I mean, I, yeah, totally.
I think everyone I know has lost like close friends.
Over this culture or stuff or people that they thought they could trust.
Uh, have you?
I'm trying to think of any examples on the plus side.
It's easy to not lose friends.
You don't have that large of a pool to start with.
I'm kidding.
Like, I know Zeke Iran like lost almost his entire, a large chunk of his
support network over something.
Honestly, I probably would have, if I was still on Facebook, um, you know,
like I said, I got off before, it must have been in 2016 then.
Cause yeah, it was before things totally went to shit.
So, um, if I was still on Facebook, I probably would have lost all the friends
that I know or all the friends that I don't know, rather who voted for
Donald Trump or something.
And you know, again, I've got friends who voted for Trump, but, uh, we won't
miss all about him, but he's a big part.
He's one of the big five factors that happens to make all this shit happen.
So, well, for me, I remember the first time this happened, uh, I like always
considered myself a feminist, like a hardcore feminist at that matter.
I totally defended it.
I still like all their ideals, right?
Uh, but, uh, I was just like chatting on Facebook with some friends and someone
was like, Oh my God, these people I know got someone to do their feng shui.
And this guy's totally not an Asian dude.
They got some white person to do feng shui.
I was like, yeah, because it's so much more real when an authentic Asian
person is doing his racial magic, right?
And there was like a massive blow up about how like having a white person
do feng shui was cultural appropriation.
And I was like, it's all bullshit.
Anyway, what the fuck are you talking about?
Who gives a fuck?
And seriously, are you telling me there's racial magic that exists?
And if you are, that's super racist.
Yeah, right?
Cause it's like, unless, unless there actually is racial magic, then it's
just a fact of the world, right?
In this case, we should all know about it.
Different races have different magics.
And we should have certain people, certain races are rearranging our
furniture, right?
Right.
When I was, and we should be careful not to mix the bloodlines because then
the magic gets diluted.
Yeah.
So be careful what you're arguing for.
Those are all, that's a very, uh, sensible implication of that argument.
But it was like, it was, I mean, looking back on it now, I'm like, man,
I can't believe how you were not even enough to make that joke.
Well, no, no, I can't believe how much importance I associated to the event
because it was socially traumatizing.
Like this was a person that was respected.
Uh, and more to the point, like this was someone I trusted as like an ally
in the fight against right wing assholes.
And, and all of a sudden they were like, fuck you.
Fuck everything about you.
I hate you.
And everyone who is my friend should hate you as well.
And it was, when did this happen?
Three or four years ago.
That sucks.
Yeah.
It really sucked.
And I mean, I got over it, but it took a while.
Like it seriously ruined my week and fucked up my month.
Well, and you can't even agree on the rules for discourse that would
have resolved that argument, right?
Cause, and I bring that up somewhat tongue in cheek to bring it back to the article,
but also like that maybe it's because your position seems so sensible to me.
But even putting it from where they are, I guess, you know, it's inappropriate
to make that joke or something or, you know, whatever.
But like, to them, it wasn't even a joke.
It was just cultural appropriation to have someone who's not white, do your
phone or someone who's not Asian, do your function way.
And therefore I was being a colonial oppressor.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I'll leave that one there and we'll move on because we won't, we won't
finish if we dive too much into that.
That's true.
Yeah.
We've been going for a while anyway.
Okay.
They say there's four major events that ushered in culture war 2.0 and they're
laying down the history because they've, they've told us what medic tribes are,
what, um, the characteristics and, um,
Oh wait, we actually left at the last sentence of the, uh, the previous section,
which was thus the conditions of 2018, strange allegiance, strange alliances,
rear guard action, unstable positions, and everywhere flux and insecurity.
That's, that's a great for a, a nightmare of interacting with people.
But yeah, they, then they go on to talk about the four major events that have
led up to us being in our current culture war 2.0.
Yeah.
Uh, the first one they say is the end of Occupy, which was my personal
favorite one because Occupy kind of fizzled out without getting anything done
really.
And, uh, they say disheartened by capitalism's invincibility,
people gravitated to identity politics and away from class politics.
We cannot ignore the explosion of social justice act activism post Occupy and
the relative lack of anti-capitalist activism until 2015.
And they say this is because corporations can be woke,
but they can't be anti-capitalist.
This corporate embrace of the culture wars because they can be woke.
They, they can, they, they can't be anti-capitalist though.
They can certainly, they can also definitely be pretend woke in order to
get people, more people to buy your, uh, your non-racist coffee as opposed to
your racist coffee or something like that.
Right.
Or to go to your non-racist, um, your non-racist burger chain, chicken
burger chain, as opposed to your racist homophobic.
That's right.
Yeah.
That said, I think I mentioned this.
I've eaten at Chick-fil-A since they lost the war.
Okay.
Yeah.
And yeah, this corporate embrace helped accelerate the spread of identity
politics throughout society.
So I, I personally hate corporations, so I love that particular aspect of this.
It also served to neuter the anti-capitalist left by embedding issues of
social justice into corporate policy through HR and PR departments.
If corporations can be allies of social justice, then the radical leftist
assertion that all oppression is intersecting has the ground torn out from under it.
This helped fracture the left on questions of its goals, its methods,
and its true enemies.
So the fact that the, the corporations who are, you know, oppressors in a
way, they have a lot of money.
They, uh, employ people, they exploit people, according to some others.
