What was that planet earth?
Um, anyway, yeah, just like that.
Couldn't be more real, couldn't be more relevant.
I challenge you to disagree.
No, I do not disagree at all.
Excellent.
Uh, their, their actual quote that we pulled is evolutionary trap.
Adaptive instincts turn maladaptive due to exposure to super normal stimuli,
magnified and more attractive versions of evolved stimulus.
Humans are just as fallible.
Whether it be junk food, laugh tracks, pornography, or likes on social media,
these artificial triggers addict us and hijack our agency.
And I think they really brought that up so they could, uh, get into
weaponization and the warfare crisis, which I want to get into immediately after
this, but the, the social media thing I wanted to just hit for one more beat,
which was, uh, this is where they brought up Tristan Harris talking
about our attention hijacking and, you know, fuck it, we're doing this.
We, we see our download numbers.
It's nice to watch them go up and it's, it's, it hits, um, a, a vibe that is
very primal because, you know, imagine giving, I don't know how, you know,
I can, I can make up a just so story of how this sort of thing evolved, but,
you know, it, it'd be a lot like giving a speech, you know, just somebody,
or giving a talk to 10 people and then, you know, doing another one to a
thousand people and that feels a hundred times better.
Right.
It just, it, it really hits you.
So, um, anyway, the, they, they talk about the get off Facebook, uh, ideas
a little bit in that section too.
So, which was also very valuable.
Yeah.
Um, so that does lead us into weapons, weaponization and warfare crisis and
the warfare crisis transformed our minds into weapons for hidden wars and
plain sight and the, well, the big quote that I pulled from this is outrage porn
is the super source, super normal stimuli of the culture war.
Yeah.
And that, that's a good summary of it.
I like that a lot.
And I pulled out a bigger quote, which you guys are going to have to suffer
through me reading, which is, um, I did like an ellipsis dot, dot, dot.
It was some book that advise, it was written in like the 92 94 and it was,
it advises, and I didn't get the name of it, it's an article, um, it
advises Russian operatives to introduce, to quote, introduce geopolitical disorder
into internal American activity, encouraging all kinds of separatism and
ethnic, social and racial conflicts, actively supporting all dissident movements,
extremist, racist and sectarian groups, thus destabilizing internal, internal
political processes in the U S unquote.
After the Cold War, Russia no longer competitive with America in the, in hard
power, pivoted to an aggressive soft power to regain their geopolitical influence.
And anybody who's followed politics in the last two years has very good reason
to believe that they've been very successful at that.
And I think it's worth pointing out, I believe we covered this also in our
episode on, on basically this exact topic, uh, that the, the, the analysis
have been done on, on, uh, the sorts of articles that get shared.
And the more outrage provoking article is, the more it gets shared.
It is, it is a memetic fitness trait to be as outrage provoking as possible,
because that will get your supporters to share it.
And that will get the people who are, uh, on the opposite side to share it as
well in outrage that they're being portrayed this way.
It's, it's like they said, outrage porn is what we have been running on for a while
now.
And I'm kind of getting tired of it, which is kind of nice, but I'm not
sure everyone else is at the same rate as I am.
And it's a horrifying ingredient that it's, it's horrifying that this ingredient
is so successful.
Again, the more outraging, the more it's shared by both sides.
And the fact that you're going to start sitting these out, people, somebody,
maybe not you, but if you were, if you were a, a more involved in, in
some of these outrage fights or something that he said, you know what,
I'm going to sit this one out.
They're going to say, both sides will say, see, he's complicit or see,
he's with us.
And yeah, this is sort of a bleak picture, but we'll get
toward the, to the, you know, hopeful part later on.
So, all right.
So then they dive into culture war 2.0.
And you actually touched on exactly what they're about to say here.
Uh, they first, uh, talk about the types of polarity that are commonly
used, uh, to describe historical periods.
Unipolarity being one superpower exists that creates order, like the, uh,
Pax Britannica, by polarity, two superpowers keep each other in check,
like the Cold War or multi-polarity where multiple nations have
competing influence.
And this is the really unstable one, which is what resulted
in World Wars one and two.
And the contention of this article is that culture war 1.0, uh, for those
of us who are around for it, I don't remember, do you remember culture
war 1.0 at all?
They talked about the Bush era.
Yeah.
And that, that, I mean, I think 1.0 went on for longer.
We're in the first few years of 2.0.
Okay.
So I think we all remember 1.0.
This was, okay.
I wasn't sure if you, yeah.
I mean, I'm young, but not that young.
Okay.
Cool.
You also look kind of young for your age.
So yeah, I get, keep getting fooled.
Uh, but yeah, no, uh, culture war 1.0, which was a lot of fun to be in
partially because we want it, uh, was between, uh, the coalitions and secular
liberals over what they called the soul of America.
Yeah.
I mean, it was like, are, are, is it okay to be gay?
Basically would be the big one, right?
Yeah.
And, and we, I only gave a, uh, kind of a gesture at we want it because like we
won, but then we got Donald Trump.
So like it, well, then it evolved into 2.0.
Right.
But, but, but, but, but it's not like, if you win World War one, but then
cause a worse World War, it's like, who really won here.
Right.
So, but yeah, the, I mean, the first one, like they could no longer force kids to
say the prayer in school, like they could no longer, uh, push, push religion in
school, basically.
Those are so much easier fights.
I know, right?
Well, they weren't at the time.
Like it was a fight to like not have creationism taught in schools.
I remember being incensed about that back in the day, man.
Yeah.
It was a fight to be like, I, I once heard from someone that was close to me say,
uh, and this, this is not a thing that he actually believed in retrospect, but
he was just saying it like because we were in culture war and he was fighting
me.
It's like, yeah, the one good thing Hitler did do was the concentration
camps for the gays.
Right.
Yeah.
No, right.
That's, that's.
Yeah.
My face made a gesture and I'm not a very emotive, facial expressive person.
Yeah.
That was intense.
Yeah.
It was, um, and now like no one gives two fucks, like even hardcore.
No one, no one gives two fucks about people being gay.
About people being not about the concentration.
No, no, no, no, no, no, God, no.
But no, like even people like on the far right for the most part are now like,
yeah, being gay is totally cool.
I mean, they're still there.
There are still some there, but vice president, for example, but like, and
probably our current president, if he has, if you can be said, if you can be
said to have any beliefs.
Right.
Okay.
Right.
Yes.
Yeah.
So he'll, he'll say whatever, whatever we'll get him votes.
You'll do absolutely anything on Twitter, but yeah.
Um, but yeah, like even the Pope, you know, I, that's true.
Yeah.
New pop's pretty dope.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
All right.
So the only people who aren't cool with it are like really the orthodox hardcore
now, like, you know, I mean, almost all Mormons are totally on board with people
being gay.
They're just like, ah, our fucking leadership is anti-gay.
So all right, I guess we're toeing that line.
Yeah.
The Mormons have a weird history with being on the right side of the
fence though, what, what they had in new revelation in like 1970s that black people
were humans too.
Um, so, you know, they can, they can catch on, but at the very least they're not
causing a lot of damage that I guess maybe their numbers are too small.
But I'm just saying every single Mormon I know in person is totally liberal and
on board with, uh, with gay rights.
Same.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Although I do want to go back and say that you, you said that the problems, I
said that the problems back then were like nice and easy.
And I was listening to, um, Elon Musk's episode on the Joe Rogan experience,
which is a lot of fun.
I've heard you listen to it and then I was looking to see what other new ones
were out and Neil deGrasse Tyson was back on recently.
And he was just talking, you're making some of the same talking points.
I heard like 15 years ago.
And, um, not much because they don't need to be said that much anymore.
Cause those, those fights are over, but I maintain those fights were easier.
I, you weren't alienating your friends by saying that, you know, I think that, uh,
we should teach science and science class that, you know, you got, you can get
in fights on the internet, but you weren't like, like there was, there was
never a sense of, of alienation that came about saying these things.
And more to the point, like you knew were your friends and your peers stood.
I mean, like, yeah, as they say in the article, it was a bipolar affair.
There was the right wing questions.
There was the secular liberals.
That was it.
It was like the U S and Russia.
You knew, uh, who was on your side and who you could count on.
And they say nowadays we have multipolar distributions of power, which do not
