Yeah.
And you know, if I, I'm kind of, he knows what he's doing.
So we're going to, we're going to do it.
And I'm going to get some practice, but it's just like a little thing of, you know, I was like, I could take it to a shop and get this taken care of.
He's like, nah, dude, screw that.
You know, it's 30 bucks for pads, you know, 25 bucks for rotors.
Like let's just, you know, let's save you $300.
So, um, yeah, it's great.
But I guess, you know, it's just a little thing of I have yet to come into something that I guess I haven't tried that, that many, very hard things, but most things that I've thought of, like, oh, that's too hard.
I'm not going to try.
They're not that hard.
And you should try.
And then if you can't do it, then it's like, all right, let's, let's outsource and get some help or something or whatever it is.
But I think things are doable.
Everyone's got this.
So I think before you shut up and do the impossible, you should shut up and actually try.
That's going to be my motto for the, for the episode.
It's good, good motto.
Yeah.
It still sounds a lot easier too.
I'm all about that easy path.
I got a quick feedback from Christopher James on our Patreon.
Cool.
He commented actually on the Patreon post, which was really neat.
I was like, Hey, awesome.
I don't think I've seen this before.
Chris James, Christopher James says, could the intellectual dark web be a good example of owning bad associations?
According to Eric Weinstein, the nature of the moniker is intentionally cringe worthy and jocular, so as to preemptively get the jeering out of the way, or at least put it on the table.
I don't know if you guys think this approach is any merit in the context of spreading rationality, but I couldn't help but notice the similarities during the episode when both came up.
And yeah, I was actually soilent.
I thought had the exact same thing because when it first, the guy was first talking about it on his blog and he was like, I would really like this.
This product where I just like dump nutrition and calories into my mouth and keep can continue going on my day.
You know, I don't want to waste time cooking.
I don't want to waste time cleaning.
I don't particularly care about food that much.
I just want fuel so I can focus on what I want to focus on.
And first of all, I thought that was fucking brilliant and I loved the entire concept of it.
But yeah, he, he knew that people were going to have the reaction that they often do and compare it immediately to soilent.
And he was like, you know what?
Fuck this.
I'm calling it soilent.
I'm going to lean real hard into it.
Yeah, exactly.
And now we all have soilent, which we love.
Yeah, I like that.
And I think to Christopher's point, I think, I think there could be, but luckily, maybe luckily, depends on the audience, rational rationality slash rationalists doesn't have the same immediate connotation that Intellectual Dark Web has.
I think it depends on if you've run into the term before.
It's definitely like anyone who's run into rationalist before has some kind of pre existing ideas.
Maybe.
Well, maybe not.
I don't know.
Well, I think, like I said, it's not, it's, it depends on the audience.
Some people definitely do.
And it's like, you know what?
Fine.
And you'll, you can run with it.
And I like it to that.
I think.
I think what he's saying is like Dark Web is, you know, the place where you go to get drugs and child porn and stuff, right?
And so Intellectual Dark Web is just putting it out there like, yeah, a lot of people hate us and think that we're spreading shitty things, but we're just talking about stuff.
We're just, we're just ones who are, who are going to not be afraid to tackle the hard subjects.
You know, and then there's that article that came out that was like, that really got this around.
And I'm not sure if Weinstein invented the term or made it up on Harris's podcast or if they discussed it shortly after and that's where it kicked off.
But he was on, he was doing a live event together.
Okay.
And, and for those who couldn't see, because that would be everyone except for me, Stephen was like making sarcastic hand gestures when he said, tackle the tough subjects.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
You guys can't see my gestures.
I hoped to convey air quotes.
I guess the other main difference is that rationality and rationalism didn't start as a joke.
Right.
And this didn't really, well, the name started as a joke.
Yeah.
But I do see where they're coming from.
And yeah, to lean into that doesn't sound, you know, I certainly don't think, if anything, this is definitely a case for not bothering to try and find a new name or something, which I can get behind.
So I like that.
Cool.
Yeah.
No, thanks for writing that.
Yeah.
I think I had one more listener feedback.
If we wanted to hit that before we jump into the rest of this show.
Yeah, totally.
Hanky USA says, I have ADHD, which requires me employed large amounts of productivity tricks.
This is a back to our productivity episode a little while ago.
And we will be having a part two at some point soon.
Hanky says, I easily feel overwhelmed by small tasks or big tasks that have a clear and easy to apply solution.
Pomodoro helps address this overwhelming feeling.
I tell myself I will work on it for X amount of time, and then I will take a break.
I focus on that block and forget everything else.
I just kind of sprint through the task without letting my emotional brain time to think about what an imposter I am, or I'm bound to fail.
This works for tasks that would be overwhelming.
If you find yourself saying I'll just do one self indulging distraction before I get to work on that thing that gives me anxiety to think about, then perhaps you should respond.
I'll just work on it some benign amount of time before I enjoy a short bit of self indulgence, which is where the timer helps.
And sometimes when the timer goes off, it's like, yeah, I'm indulging right now. This is awesome.
And other times just keeps going for a little bit longer anyway.
They do mention that another way to help deal with the feeling of overwhelmingness is to break projects down into smaller components.
Just keep getting the smaller and smaller components until you get to one you can do.
I actually heard that as a good way of dealing with depression too.
If you can't quite tackle the task of getting out and getting food or something, break it up into like, okay, I'm just going to get dressed.
And if that's too much, you're like, okay, I'm just going to get out of bed.
And if that's too much, you're like, okay, I'm just going to roll over onto my side and just keep going for the smallest possible task until you can actually accomplish that.
I think that's a good way to achieve really any goal. But certainly if you have a huge motivation problem.
I think I mentioned before, like one little thing I do is since now I have stairs in my place, if something belongs upstairs or downstairs and I see it on the floor, I'm on.
I never make a trip empty-handed.
Another thing is, you know, I'll try and tell myself like, all right, well, I need to get around to doing these dishes.
For now, I'll just do the one on the top of the pile.
I like doing the dishes. So I tend to just dive into it and finish them because it's one thing that I can get through and then see it clean and done five minutes later.
Whereas everything else, you know, a lot of other chores don't really work that way.
So I tend to do most of the dishes because I find it rewarding and I get to like clean myself as I'm doing it.
It's like garbage. I hate handling. So anyway, yeah, sorry, I didn't mean to derail too much there.
No, that was cool too. They also say time limits can also help with perfectionism and completionism.
I tell myself that I will do something for only so long and set the timer.
I don't feel a liberty to obsess or doing everything just right.
Once again, I'm sprinting, which is actually a really good point because lots of times I can get wrapped up like in perfectionism and I'm like,
okay, this thing is not quite right. I got to got to go back and adjust it a little and then keep going back and forth.
I lose a lot of time that way. So if you got just that sprint time that you have to work on, it can help quite a bit.
That's a good point. And you know, perfectionism where it's needed, but everywhere else, it's like, fuck it, good enough is good enough.
And then their final tip is separate planning and doing. It's hard to make the right decision in the heat of the moment.
Trying to decide what you should do now is the moment you are most likely to make the choice that you would otherwise recognize to be wrong.
Make plans for future you, make plans for future you to execute so future you won't have to think about it or decide in that moment.
When it's time to execute the plan past you made, just submit to their will. They know better than you.
I like that a lot and I've done that too where I make pre commitments to my future self in the conscientiously minded moment.
Also a lot of like these, you know, divide up your tasks plan ahead and that sort of thing that makes its way into like good,
like good lean development, whether you're working in software or like an assembly line, all that same sort of stuff of, you know,
get a small task, you know, get as perfect as possible plan ahead, that sort of stuff.
So if you find that interesting, there's a great book on the history of lean that I can't remember the name of so or who wrote it,
but you can probably go to the Wikipedia page for lean, I guess lean development and look at basically like Toyota and other car companies invented this sort of stuff as like their assembly line deal.
Okay. Oh, oh yeah, I remember hearing about that.
Yeah, it's dope.
Like this was coming out with the, the introduction of like industrial organizational psychology where instead of just like, well, this will probably work.
And that's just what people did since the Industrial Revolution.
It's like, wait, what if we actually check to see what would work?
And it turns out that when you do that, you can, you know, build what a bomber every 24 hours on a on a mile long assembly line during World War Two,
you know, cool stuff like that.
So well, it's cool as bombers are, but the feet is really cool.
Yeah, because yeah, bombers are not simple things.
No, totally.
Although I guess in World War Two, they were less complex than they are now.
But just think of the size of the finished products, but also the complexity of a mile long assembly line, keeping everything stocked along the way and having everyone doing their little part as it moves through is that's pretty cool.
Right. Yeah.
Do we want to hit our main topic?
So I don't have much else to go on before we dive into the main topic.
What I'm actually excited about, because you had me, you sent this over, what, like a week and a half ago?
Uh-huh.
And it's, it's long.
It is.
But it's not as long.
It doesn't feel as long as it is.
And I'm actually eager to go back and read it again.
But luckily we took great notes.
So we've got stuff to go into here that hopefully will give you enough of an insight to determine whether or not you want to read this.
Yeah.
I suspect many of you will.
So we'll link to memetic tribes and the culture war.
2.0.
2.0.
Yeah.
The culture war 2.0.
This was a, I don't even remember how I got linked to this article, but I find this a fantastic summary of everything that's happening right now and being able to put things in, in terms of actually looking at them and getting a handle on what's happening was really valuable to me.
Plus it uses all the nerdy lingo that we know and love.
Yes.
And it really, it really sings to that part of my, my spirit.
So.
The guys who wrote this are definitely rationalist adjacent in some way.
Yeah.
Peter Limburg and Connor Barnes are the, are the authors.
So it is as it sounds like an article examining the current culture war and trying to make some sense of it, give some history of what happened and maybe a few suggestions about what we can do going forward.
So we don't have the culture war defined in our notes here, but I'm going to just take a pot shot guess and that it's how fucked up everything is interacting with your fellow humans today.
Yeah.
Is that, is that a fair summary?
Well, I mean, there is actually a definition here, but yes, it's, it's basically everything we see around each other right now.
Yeah.
The reason that you can't chat with anyone about anything anymore.
Yeah.
Oh, and there is, there's definition here.
Yeah, I was just being kind of flippant because it doesn't take a sociologist or a, or a social psychologist to notice that things are not like they used to be.
And I'm not even that old.
So like, if I'm noticing it, it's, it's got to be something, right?
Right.
So you paint a really good history of where things got to this point just from like the last basically five year, well, I guess seven.
Ten?
Yeah, ten.
Ten years at this point.
Was it, wait, 2001 or 2011?
2008 is when the financial collapse happened.
But 2011 was their first big event when the Occupy thing fell through because the mission statement was we're unhappy.
Okay.
Not trying to be disingenuous, but, and well then again, I can't trust the Colbert report as like, you know, the best source of anything, but other than making me laugh.
Yeah.
But he had on two leaders from the movement on the show or he went and interviewed them or something.
You know, he was like, so what is it that you guys want?
And they didn't really have an answer.
And it's like, so what, what is, what's, what's the grievance?
They're just like rich people have too much money.
And don't get me wrong, that's true.
But that's not like, that doesn't have an attainable goal at the end of it other than like, can, you know, fuck you guys.
That's not really like an objective.
Right.
