Uh, it's like a horoscope.
So you might as well just call it horoscope.
Yeah.
They say anatomy of a medic tribe, each tribe, they're, they're saying what
consists, a medic tribe consists of, they say each tribe has a telos, an objective
to obtain or a state to attain.
He said, an objective to obtain or a state to attain.
Yes.
Those words sound similar.
And then I put in quotes, do they though?
I think they do.
Does every medic tribe have a telos?
Like, for example, the Occupy one didn't really have a, a, well, it had a state to
attain, it's not a rejected.
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah.
They gave a really cool breakdown that I couldn't pull up my phone because it was
a Google doc of how many were there?
Like 35 or something that a couple of dozen groups.
Yeah.
So that's linked to in the article too of, uh, well here, let me go through the
way.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Go ahead.
Okay.
Each tribe has a telos and objective.
They have sacred values, which are non-negotiable and involve, involve,
viol, invite, they're not negotiable within the medic framework.
There you go.
They can't be violated within us either.
Uh, if these values are transgressed, it will trigger the tribal member.
They will also influence the prime of virtues that the tribal member will signal.
They have master statuses being the dominant identifying characteristic of the
tribe.
Each is persecuted or haunted by an existential threat, which necessitates
tribal affiliation for survival.
They have campfires, like greeting meeting areas, places where the ideas are exchanged,
uh, online or in meat space where they communicate and cooperate.
Each tribe has chieftains who either direct the tribe or provide the theoretical
foundations for the tribe, or are apologists for the tribe.
They each have mental models by which they conceptualize and navigate reality.
And each tribe has forebearers, whether they'd be progenitors of the tribe or
personal inspirations of the chieftains.
And, uh, the rationalist diaspora is on his list, which, uh, I thought was really
cool.
And so I'm going to use their entry for the rationalist diaspora.
They did, they didn't cover though, why they call it the rationalist diaspora
other than the rationalist movement.
Uh, because that's kind of what the rationalist movement had been calling
itself, uh, after the original less wrong broke apart.
I thought that's what happened to it.
Not what it like it is.
I mean, you can use it as a noun too.
I'd seen it used as a noun a lot because there used to be just less
wrong where everyone was, and then that stopped and everyone fragmented and,
you know, had a diaspora throughout the web.
Maybe I only know the dictionary definition of diaspora and it's not
sufficient, but that sounds like a negative thing.
Like we're, like we're, we're wandering now.
We were lost.
Yeah, I see, that's not really the case.
I mean, it, it's, well, we have been much more united since, uh, Scott Alexander
kind of took over the reins and then less wrong came back again.
We, we are more centralized again now than we used to be, but for a number
of years there, there was just like a bunch of individual blogs and tumblers
and things and it wasn't, but they were united about the same thing.
They weren't, they weren't like going off it.
Well, I guess some of them go off in different directions and yeah.
I mean, you know, we got, uh, what was it?
We got a lot of splinter offshoots.
That, uh, more right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
More right.
Exactly.
That went their own way and not entirely went their own way, but somewhat.
It was definitely a bit of a diaspora I would say.
Yeah.
All right.
That's fair.
Okay.
Anyways, they say rational diaspora as the example that we are going to give in
this podcast, uh, the goal of the tribe is overcoming biases.
Their sacred value is rationality.
Their threat is unfriendly AI.
Their campfires are less wrong, slate star codecs and meetups.
Their chieftains are Eliezer Yadkowski, Scott Alexander and Robin Hansen.
Stephen Zuber and Enya Shbrodsky.
Wow.
We made the list.
Dude, that's awesome.
Their mental models are Bayes' theorem, effective altruism and cognitive biases.
And their forebearers are Thomas Bayes and IJ Good.
Are our forebearers Thomas Bayes and IJ Good?
I hadn't heard of IJ Good.
I had to look him up.
He's the guy who defined the term singularity or intelligence explosion.
Okay.
Okay.
No, wait, that's Verner Vingy.
Um, Verner Vingy is the one that you used to create the term singularity for.
Okay.
IJ Good might have been intelligence explosion then.
In any case, I would, I, if I, I mean, I definitely put Bayes on there.
That's what we need our conspiracy after.
Well, that's, that's what Harry named his conspiracy after we ripped off his, but
yeah, I, I, I'm nitpicking maybe because I don't know what forebearers means.
Does that necessarily, does that necessitate and, you know, a dead person
that's no longer involved?
Or like, I don't think so.
Cause I would say our forebearers would have been more like
Eli Zeudkowski and Robin Hansen.
Uh, and they're, they're also our chieftains, but they, because our, the
movement didn't start with Bayes or IJ Good.
I don't know.
If you think about Christians, like, I think the forebearer would be Jesus.
Cause like he didn't, well, you know, assuming briefly that there's a personal
Jesus as opposed to the myth, but like the Jesus myth is the forebearer because
if there was a Jesus person, he didn't know shit about Christianity or about
organizing a church or anything.
And then the actual chieftain would have been, uh, like, um, John Paul or was it
John Paul?
He was, he was the, no, just Paul, not John Paul, uh, Paul.
Yeah, you're the Bible expert.
It's getting late though.
Paul, Paul was the guy who founded the first church and really started
spreading Christianity in the Mediterranean.
And he was a guy that actually existed.
So he had that going for him.
Yeah.
But whereas like Jesus was just like a guy with some cool ideas that God has
asked killed.
I was, uh, looking at the, the list of memetic tribes here that they have in
the Google doc, um, and there are 34 that they put down here and, uh, street
epistemologists is one of them, which is fun.
And they're, and their forebearers are Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris, which is
interesting.
Um, but like when we'd had, uh, Steven on, you know, Peter Bogessian and Anthony
Magno Bosco, I can't say his name are the, uh, chieftains.
So, okay, that's fair.
They don't have to be dead and long gone, but I guess maybe Sam Harris, Richard
Dawkins popularized, uh, maybe, maybe should do postmology evolved out of, uh,
talking across religious aisles or from our religious to religious.
And they did that in a way.
Sometimes, sometimes nice, sometimes not so nice.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I like it.
Um, yeah, I like, uh, I'm going to read one more too from the, from the post,
but before that, I want to read what they put before they start listing out a
few of them, which was a quote, um, in the spirit of charity, we've attempted to
describe these tribes using terms that they would use to describe themselves.
For example, the term social justice, well, it doesn't matter.
I just like how they, they say that forthcoming.
And so, you know, they're, they're saying, I can't find the quote.
They had, they had to think about like listing these.
Doesn't mean that we think that I want to just find it.
Sorry.
While presenting the following, uh, we're adopting a view from nowhere position
in order to demonstrate similar mimetic anatomy.
However, we do not believe that there's an equivalence between these tribal
claims to truth, morality, practicality, or even interestingness.
That is for you a reader to evaluate.
But I did love the, the, the attempt at view from nowhere and charity to say,
look, here's how we think they'd describe themselves.
Um, so let's grab, uh, one that we all hate.
Let's do Neo-Nazis.
Yeah.
That one seemed almost too easy.
I'm scrolling down a little bit more.
Post-rationalist sounds like annoying to get into.
Oh, of course.
Sorters in the intellectual dark web.
Jordan Peterson is the common, and this isn't someone we all hate, but I just
wanted to bring this up because intellectual dark hub was something we're
discussing earlier.
So this is another one of the mimetic tribes.
Um, so Jordan Peterson is the common denominator with these two tribes,
the sorters in the intellectual dark web, which he sorts in, which the
article sorts into one, one of the most important figures in the culture are 2.0.
His central message in the war is an emphasis of free speech and the
importance of self-truthing.
His followers, which we dubbed the sorters, mostly comprised of young men are
attracted to Peterson style and his message of personal responsibility.
The intellectual dark web coined by Eric Weinstein consists of a group of
thinkers who have experienced what they view, who have experienced what they
view as thought policing by political correct elements of the left.
With the ever increasing popularity of Peterson's brand and platforms, such
as Quillett and the Reuben report and the Joe Rogan experience, watch for
both of these tribes to gain further members and make strong push for return
to a classically liberal center in the culture.
I would not have thought that Rogan was part of the dark intellectual dark web.
I would, I would definitely put him at least adjacent to it.
I don't know if he had to consent to be putting on any intellectual web.
Well, that's not really his choice now, is it?
Well, he does have to pose for one of the dark pictures.
Yeah.
