They actually say that just a few lines later.
Yeah, I, I, I got that right after to mitigate, no, it's all right.
To mitigate loneliness, anxiety and other adverse conditions that lack of
belonging brings people are primed to fly into the arms of others.
All they need is an offer of togetherness and a few convincing means.
You know, I'm not dumb.
I'm smart.
I anticipated what these, what these geniuses were going to say.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, I imagine the more shunned and atomized you are, the more likely you
are to find an online community, you know, like r slash incels or, you know,
some hate group, uh, in fact, you know, there was that reformed neo-Nazi that
was on Sam Harris's podcast last year.
That's how they get all their members.
Right.
That was a fantastic episode.
Yeah.
It was, it was put me, it was emotional.
It's put me in a weird mood too.
It was intense.
I remember I was like at the store listening to this and I'm like, I need
to go out to my car.
Like I finished shopping and stuff, but it was just like, holy shit.
Um, it was great.
So that was one of the Christopher, you know what?
If I Google Sam Harris, neo-Nazi, I'm not going to get that episode.
So, uh, I bet I'll find something else.
Um, in any case, it's search on there for Christopher something.
It's in the last year of his episodes.
That's a bad reference, my bad.
I'll link to it if we have to.
All right, fair enough.
Cool.
So yeah, these, these are the things that help tribal, tribal,
uh, memetic tribes exist.
And then we go on to globalization and the proximity crisis.
You know what?
I should have put the summary at the end, but whatever the proximity
crisis removes distance from conflicting views.
They say the internet pornifies our private lives, including our political
views, leaving nothing to the imagination.
When everything is laid bare, respect vanishes for our proximity
exposes all of our ugliness.
This manifests in what psychologists call dissimilarity cascades, meaning the
more we know about someone, the less we like them and environmental
spoiling, meaning proximity with those we don't like spoils the environment as a
whole mutually exclusive mean plexus have no distance from one another.
Thanks to the global village.
This is the proximity crisis.
Good fences make good neighbors.
And the power of media has flattened all social fences.
That's an interesting, that's not one.
I think I could have guessed, you know, thought about from my arm chair.
And that's a really good one because, uh, it's staring in the face once you
see it, but yeah, like name any insane fringe fringe group that exists.
And there was actually a great XKCD about this just a few days ago, um, where
it was that it was that one, you know, that it was the exact same drawing of
that one of the guys pouring over the computer and honey, come on.
It's like, no, I got someone's wrong on the internet.
Um, it's, I thought of this really annoying thing.
I need to see if anyone online actually believes this.
So I can be mad at them and somebody does and there's no looking for them.
Cause they're one Google search away.
Right.
Or they're, they're on your Facebook or they're on Reddit or whatever it is.
So there's, there's no shortage of people to be mad at, mad at, even though
you would never see them in real life.
Cause they're so, they're so small in fringe.
They're fringes don't exist anymore.
Like that.
Yeah, fringes are no longer fringes exist.
They're no longer that far away from you.
Right.
Yeah.
It used to be like, I mean, my neighbor over there, he's pretty cool.
Like he lent me power when he had the fire here and I couldn't do anything
without any power around extension court to his place.
He's a pretty chill guy for the most part.
Uh, he seems kind of like a dude, bro.
I don't think I would like him if we like had to hang out all the time, but I
see him every now and then I'm like, Hey, what's up?
He's like, Hey, sometimes we chat for like a minute or two about like the dog
or whatever.
And that's, that's cool.
That's a good measure of distance.
I'm, I'm happy to have this relationship with him.
But if like, he was in my living room on my computer every single fucking day
posting about like how he loves the sports ball and the beer and bitches and
hoes, I'd be like, the fuck I, I mean, it must start a movement to expunge you
from the earth.
That, that, that summarizes my like, my sense of, uh, I can't think of the word
that that, that summarizes my, my empathy for anyone in the service industry.
Cause there's no telling him to get the fuck away from you.
Right?
Right.
Um, that's why when I was in the service service industry for like four
years delivering pizzas, I delivered, I, I, and you know, it was a small enough
place you could do whatever you wanted.
So, um, but the best thing about delivering is my interactions were
necessarily very short and I was great for like 90 second intervals, but if I
just talked for some customer for, you know, two, three minutes and it goes on
and on and every customer is an idiot.
If you ever worked customer service, then it's, then I, I, I get annoyed and I
can't handle it.
So, um, that's why I lasted six months at the bank because nobody knows what
they're doing goes to the bank and nobody knows what they're doing goes to
the bank four or five times a week.
Right.
These, there were, there were a dozen people that came through our small
branch that would come through four or five times a week.
What were they doing?
Fuck if I know, I mean, so, I mean, I can, I can tell you what they did when
they were in the branch, but I think they're just there because they're
bored or something.
They'd come in like check on their balance or they'd come and withdraw $20 or
come and withdraw in cash from one account, move it to another account.
And like, I know, because they could do this all from the toilet on their phone.
Maybe they really were just like lonely and you wanted to see a human.
Yeah.
Or maybe they feel like our receipt makes it real or something, but like a receipt
exists at the branch.
Like, you know, if, if the one I get, if the one I give you in the branch is
real, so is the one that happens online and how I'm going to lie about the one
online, I could give you a fake, I can give you fake receipt in the branch.
And then people come in and just do the dumbest thing.
You know, like, so I'm going to come in, toss this card at me and I'm like,
and what's your account number?
And he's like, I'm not going to say it out loud, get it off the card.
And I'm like, first of all, don't be such a prick.
And second of all, your account number and writing number, full name and address
are on every check you write.
Are you kidding me that this is some secret information?
Don't be a, don't be a, you're not even being good at security right now.
Anyway, so you can see even years, years distant, the horrors of customer
service last with me.
And that's because they're, they're the proximity crisis to other people that
suck bringing it back, bringing it back.
Yeah.
All right.
We've got the stimulation and sobriety crisis as the fifth part here and the
sobriety crisis reduced our agency and turned us into addicts.
Yeah.
And this, this talked about what I was getting on Facebook.
I think this is where they bring up Tristan, Tristan Harris.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is basically where they explain super stimuli, which I think is tying
together points four and six, and they had to put this in here to explain that.
But, uh, I'm assuming most of our listeners already familiar with the concept
of super stimuli, uh, it's things like, um, Snickers bar, which has a combination
of fat and sweetness and cocoa that you would never find in nature, but, uh,
exists nowadays.
And so it overwhelms all our natural instincts to, to seek out that sort of
food, which is very bad for us, but it is, you know,
it hits all the notes that our ancestors wanted at intense levels.
Yes, exactly.
And there are good versions of that too.
Yeah.
Um, like music, um, you know, music, art, even, even tasting something that, you
know, isn't necessarily bad for you or having a moderation.
Is, or that's why it feels good.
Um, they bring up the example of the, uh, the beetles.
I forget which kind of beetle it is, but, uh, they, yes, there's a little picture.
Yeah.
There's, there's beer bottles that look, uh, like a super, super attractive female
beetle, like so much more attractive.
It hits all the things that the male beetle, uh, looks for in a sex partner is
attracted to, they will just have sex with these beer bottles until they die of
dehydration or get eaten by ants and they'll continue to bang these bottles.
In the presence of female beetles.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause the female beetle can't compare to this bottle.
This actually ties in really well to something I just finished doing this
afternoon and I can't remember why this came up.
It was relevant to something else we were just watching.
Um, so I was showing Rachel the episode of Futurama, which I think is the
finale of season three.
Um, I forget what it's called.
Now that sucks.
Um, but it's one of her fry is dating that Lucy Lou bought.
Oh, right.
And, uh, they were both big fans of Lucy Lou and she did the voice for this,
which is hilarious.
And so basically they, it's the future.
You can clone whatever robot, uh, whatever personality you want into a robot
and then it'll make out with you and love you.
Um, and, uh, this is the, the, the super stimulation of that beetle
reminded me of this because that's not that unimaginable, you know, it'll
probably be in some digital form before it's in, you know, robots actually
touching us, but, um, we're going to, there's, there's going to be a point
where, uh, fake mates are more appealing than real mates.
And anyway, that's exactly what there's, they, in the Futurama episode,
there's this, uh, propaganda film, the show, everybody in the year 3,000,
but fry never saw cause he's from the other 2,000.
And it's like, you know, this guy's sitting in, in his room, making out
with his Marilyn Monroe bot and he's missing out like a chance to like
get a job and, you know, have a date and procreate and all this stuff.
And then, you know, the next day hit the, the, his planet exploded.
