Yeah.
Oh, right, right.
If you don't have the dark picture, you're not in the dark web yet.
Yeah, it's on, it's on your, your badge.
Yeah.
And I'm referencing these pictures from an article that I'll dig
up and put on the episode notes, but it's, it's funny and it gives an overview
of the history of the intellectual dark web, but it has pictures of like the
top six people and they're all just like standing next to trees or like
under street lights and, you know, crossing their arms and looking gruff.
And it's like dark out and it's like, get a less.
That to me is what made me think this whole thing was a joke.
Like that couldn't be more like on the nose, but they're leaning into the joke.
Yeah.
And I just, I love that visual aesthetic too.
So I was like, this is pretty.
I like it too.
I don't think I'm wrong.
I love it.
But it, in the sense of like, if they were trying to be serious, it's like,
you guys are being the opposite of serious right now, but they're not.
So it's funny and it's, it's our, it looks good too, whatever.
Anyway, so yeah, uh, back to your notes.
And when I interrupted about Thomas Bayes and I J good.
Okay.
Yeah.
Sorry.
So rationalist diaspora.
Oh, and yeah, then afterwards they have like a little paragraph on each of the
thing, on each of the memetic tribes and where they see them going as well,
which I don't know, did you want to bother with that?
Yeah, I'm going to read the one on rationality.
Cause if we give the intellectual dark club one, I'll give us ours.
Okay.
Incubated on overcoming bias and less wrong.
This is an observatory tribe in the culture war, though similar to the new
atheists and that they prized rationality.
They do not define themselves in opposition to, in opposition to religion.
Thanks to the strength of Eli Zudkowski and Scott Alexander's writings and
Stephen and Niosch's podcast, the beliefs and epistemic virtues of the diaspora,
they command an increasing respect in the culture war.
Watch for popular, watch for a popularity boost to effective altruism, a struggle
with the downsides and downsides of increased attention and possible
pressures by the SJ AEs, which they call social justice activists.
I don't know.
They changed the name until I read this.
For the rationalists to commit progressive value, excuse me, pressure
from the SJ AEs for the rationalists to commit to progressive values.
Cause right now we're kind of watching like I did at lunch the other day.
I'll watch and point out the occasional stupid thing, but not really take
a side cause I don't feel like it.
Yeah.
So it's true that like, I, like I pointed out when you're sitting, when you,
if you set up fights on Facebook, someone's going to call you out and say that
you're, you know, Hey, you're either with us or you're against us.
Right.
Um, and they, they, the authors anticipate that that might happen to
observer groups like the rationalists.
So yeah.
I've seen it happen.
Oh, you put the quote in here.
Oh, no, I put the quote in here.
Good job me.
Um, so I put that quote that I couldn't find in here earlier.
And then in parentheses, I fucking love their writing style.
All right.
So last, this end on the bleakest note of this is how the world ends with
world, culture, war 2.0.
There are proposed steps forward.
This isn't a solution to save the world, but it is little things that we can try
to do to play to fight in the war, I guess.
Yeah, they had one, two, three, four, they have five, they had seven all
together, but I only really liked four of them.
So I put those at the top, but we'll, we'll mention all seven.
I am an arbiter of what is the best solutions of theirs.
And they kept name dropping us in the article.
It's only fair.
Right.
Yeah.
We've got to return the favor.
Uh, so the first proposed step forward is a Hippocratic oath of the culture war.
At bare minimum, a commitment to good faith dialogue, the principle of charity and
intellectual humility, acknowledging I could be wrong.
And I think that would be really neat.
Um, that's a lot easier said than done though, cause we're, we're raised.
Well, we're raised where we've ingrained those into our brain, that, that
lesson to our brain by now.
And it's okay for me to say to you, I think I could be wrong.
But if I'm going to go talk to somebody about something really important, like,
um, you know, uh, being inclusive and not a dick to Caitlyn Jenner.
Um, if I was to go talk to one of my SJA friends and do we have to call them that?
I find that a lot less annoying or excuse me.
A lot more, I hate name changing.
I, I, when you change names, you make me confused.
It seems like a deliberate attempt to do confusing.
Anyway, if I talked to one of my social justice activists, g-warriory friends
and say, I could be wrong about this, they'll say, fuck you.
This is important.
We already, they already talked about early in the article.
These, these are, these, these values are inviolable and they're non-negotiable.
So to say I might be mistaken about this is Tantamount to
shooting your troops in the back.
I've experienced the same thing where, yeah, it's, it's really hard to.
It looks good to us, but only to us.
Well, cause we're the only reasonable ones, right?
Yeah.
I mean, that said, if you can, if you can put out some epistemic and intellectual
humility, um, the thing is, if you, if you do like try to do this commitment to
good faith dialogue and principles of charity and intellectual humility, you
get called out for having privilege.
Like only someone who is white and rich and male has the ability to be like, oh,
so, you know, calm about it when black people are dying.
And then yeah, just it's, it's really frustrating that you're, you're supposed
to be really upset about these things and not take any prisoners.
And if you show any sort of, any sort of willingness to listen to the other side,
it means that you've abandoned the people, you know?
I don't know how you return the charge of privilege and say, therefore, shut
the fuck up, or therefore, we don't have to listen to you.
Like, because you're right, that's going to happen.
And I guess this is a, I'm going to toss this out to listeners.
I have no idea what to do about that.
Like you can't just write those people off because those people might be
eminently other, eminently sensible on most other things.
And we don't exactly have the numbers to be thrown away, potential allies.
So if we agree on enough, that's the thing, man, we can't agree on 90% and
then say fuck you because we don't agree on a hundred, right?
We need to say, we'll work on the rest, you know, um, but they're not willing
to play it by that rule too.
Then how do you, how do you do it?
I mean, I am a big fan of Lacey Green and I have gotten a lot of shit from
people who are like, how could you possibly like that horrible, transphobic,
misogynistic person?
I'm like, I don't know who you're talking about.
Oh my God.
She was one of the earliest YouTubers, uh, sex positive feminist YouTubers out
there that was, became really big and popular for, for being a sex positive
feminist, just helping teach people about feminism and sexuality.
Lacey Green.
Yeah.
Okay.
The name rings a bell.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She was awesome.
And, uh, then it somehow actually got to the point.
There's actually great This American Life episode about it, but to not, you know,
belabor the point for 30 minutes explaining how it all happened, basically
nowadays this sweet, uh, feminist sex positive person is the horrible Nazi
loving alt right, you know, what's the opposite of feminist, anti-feminist.
Sure.
She's a big fan of it.
Just throwing anti in front of anything.
Yeah.
She, just all the bad things that, that, uh, that those people, like they're
on the same side basically.
And I, I got a lot of crap from a couple of people in particular for saying
that no, Lacey Green is actually pretty cool.
Stop trying to be, you know, shitty to her because she's done a lot for the
movement and she's still a good person.
Can you find the, oh wait, that's the, oh, that's weird.
This American life only has four episodes on iTunes.
They only ever have the four latest episodes.
Well, it shows 49, 657, 66 and 402.
Um, the, the last four episodes that they aired on air and they often air repeats.
Oh, I see.
So where do you find this?
Their website or something?
No, it wouldn't be on the website because like I said, they only have the
last four episodes.
Um, would you buy them?
That sucks.
I want to listen to this.
Yeah.
I mean, I still have a copy.
I believe I can send it to you.
And I'd be, I'd be interested in doing that.
Yeah.
But I mean, I can't put it out there in public because they'd be upset about that.
Yeah.
Well, I don't know.
I'll, I'll see if I can find it anywhere.
If, I guess.
Yeah, but I also don't want to have to like have my laptop opened to listen to this.
I'd like to listen to it in the cars.
I mean, I will if I have to, but yeah, anyway, that's, that's super annoying.
It is.
So if I subscribe to this American life, I'll get an episode per week.
Okay.
Well, that doesn't sound like too bad to subscribe to.
It's about time.
Everyone talks about this show.
Um, I only listen to about it like one side of every six or seven episodes to be honest.
Well, listen, I'll read the descriptions.
All right.
Just every now and then I get lucky.
Well, I, what I was mainly worried about is I knew that this had been going on
forever and I want to go through 500 hours of backlog.
Right.
But if I know that at max, I have four, then that sounds a lot less scary.
So yeah, I can't believe they just remove content from the world.
