Moreover, there is a lack of agreement on what the conflict even is collective understanding
problems of what reality is, amplify collective action problems of what reality should be.
And also grassroots and underground media productions keep the tribes up.
Well, actually, let me get to that in a second.
But um, yeah, I thought I also feel like I've seen that I have, like you see the two sides
talking about the news issues these days and they're like just radically different.
Yeah, it's, um, even though I highlighted the part a situation where conflicting parties
cannot even agree on the rules for dispute resolution, um, it's remarkable even seeing
people try to politely play the middle on some of these that, you know, I would like
to think I had through, through practice, I'm above average at reaching across the plud,
the ideological aisle.
And I think I am, I did a good job, you know, of keeping a level head in this and just finding
things that we could all agree on.
We were debating the, uh, Kavanaugh, I don't know how to say his name, the Kavanaugh, the,
the alleged serial rapist that Trump dominated for a Supreme Court justice.
Who was the we fun to ask?
Oh, uh, co-workers at lunch Friday.
Um, and nobody seemed to for it, but one guy who's trying to play the middle too hard was
arguing basically how bad it was that this was, you know, being a thing, um, cause his
family votes right and he, you know, thinks and, you know, he, I think fairly he says,
you know, they're not idiots.
They think what they think for the right, you know, for, for what seemed to them good
reasons.
So those guys sitting across from me and then the guy on my left is like, nope, our
Republicans are stupid.
And like, that's his, that's his position.
And I'm like, look, you guys, he's being, you know, the guy across from me, I'm just
drinking straight ahead is being more generous.
You need to like not paint such a broad brush.
You know, these people, anyone who, who votes in a way than you was doing for what seemed
to them good reasons, even if their reasons are objectively terrible, they're not just
stupid.
If that's, if that's your explanation, you're not thinking hard enough.
Um, but I mean, just these, these, you know, we're all left as nerds who all agree.
But even like trying, I don't know, is this, this seems like a, um, relevant to bring
up the ideological Turing test, which I think we've talked about before.
Yeah, it does come up later in the post, but I skimmed a bit.
So, um, then if it comes up later, then it's probably more appropriate there.
So we'll save it.
The, yeah, no, it's, it's weird.
I have a friend who's like kind of on the left.
And when the Brett Kavanaugh thing came up before the testimony, he was like, oh,
well, looks like the Democratic party is going to shoot itself in the foot again per
usual.
And I'm like, what?
Because apparently like all his family and a lot of his friend circle are more
right-leaning and they just see like Democrats throwing a hissy fit and over,
over nothing, I guess, over like someone getting drunk at a party and groping
someone drunk.
I don't even know.
I, it's hard for me to, to see it, but yeah, apparently.
I guess even if you're just see different things.
Yeah.
So, I mean, one way to view this thing is like all those women are liars and they're
just coming out now just to stir, you know, kick, kick mud and do this.
Well, I mean, they could think like that they're over sensitive, over exaggerating.
Like someone stole a kiss at a party and they are traumatized for life.
That's not what many of these descriptions include.
I know, but that's what they see.
Oh, well, that's, that's fine.
So yeah, if you're, if you're going to say, if you've ever met someone who does
blow things way out of proportion, which I've met one person who does.
I was like, I don't remember what the situation was now, but I remember
hearing them tell the story and I was like, dude, I was there when that happened.
That is nothing like what you're describing.
It was like some minor thing and it was being blown up into this like my
honor was questioned and my life was on the line and I could have been seriously
injured and I was like, whoa, that will actually come up probably in the
belonging crisis and weaponized in the warfare crisis, probably.
Yeah, but I'm not, I have written already a whole blog post
about how much I hate fucking breadcalf now.
So I'm not on his side.
I'm just saying how different the things that people are seeing are and how it
can be like portrayed that way by their media and by their social reality, that
it's not that we're discussing rape and we're like shocked that they can be
so cavalier about someone attempting to rape someone.
We're literally discussing two very different events.
Right.
And I guess, and when I had said that's fine earlier, what I meant was if that's
what they're going to say their narrative is, that's fine.
But if you're going to, you know, I guess what I brought to the table was like
listening to these guys talk and then I was like, you know, look, we can just
however this goes down, we can agree that refusing to call witnesses because
they will either have to say that it strongly believed that they'll either have
to say incriminating things or perjure themselves.
So if you're refusing to call witnesses, you're probably on the wrong side.
And that's true no matter what.
If you have to lie or hide the truth to defend yourself, you're not defending
the truth. That's not a political statement.
So it's, you know, I don't know.
That was just my throw into their thing.
What's the third bullet point we hear we have under the fragmentation
and reality crisis?
Oh, right before we move on, one of the things in that section was talking
about how these ideas get spread to, to the groups, to the meta groups,
grassroots and underground media productions keep the tribes up to date
on opinions.
And I'm like, and they say with wildly different perceptions of the same
event, but that kind of struck close to home.
Are we a grassroots or underground media production, Steven?
Hmm.
Are we keeping our tribe up to date on opinions?
No, in fact, check us.
Please God, no, in fact, check us.
We post all these little links for no reason at all.
Yeah, no, by all means do.
Yes.
And we are.
I guess.
Yeah.
I mean, I mean, I just, I like talking with you about community stuff.
I don't, I don't, from the inside, it doesn't feel like I am part of a gigantic
war that's bringing a lot of our society down, you know?
No, if anything, we're doing the opposite, but that's what everyone
thinks.
So, I don't know.
Yeah.
I did notice speaking of liking doing this, that this is, this is like my,
my social outlet for doing things or my, my, my replacement for social media
basically, because we started doing this in February of what?
2016 sounds right.
I think so.
And I think I stopped using Facebook in November of that year.
Or maybe the, maybe it was the following year, but whenever it was, I, I don't
get that much of a compulsion to like, you know, shop, shop my thoughts to the
internet.
Yeah.
And so I'm able to save it for every couple of weeks and get it all out of
once.
That's awesome.
And I, I, I think this is much better replacements.
So I still have to shout on my blog too.
I haven't been caught up in a Facebook fight in years and it's great.
Oh, that's awesome.
Yeah.
So I strongly recommend someone try it.
I don't know.
I'd live it off.
Everyone should have their own podcast.
Yeah.
I have their own podcast or just get rid of Facebook or not.
I'm not going to, I do think this is a wagon worth jumping on and saying that,
you know, everyone should get off Facebook, but it sounds, it sounds
cliched to get on that wagon.
So what I'll say instead is try going without it for a week.
You'll probably notice like this weird separation anxiety of like, I'm missing
out on stuff, what's, what's happening here.
But then, you know, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that especially if
you're one who gets heated on Facebook somewhat frequently, as many people do
because of all the shit we're talking about here, um, it's, it's refreshing to
say, you know what, I'm going to sit this one out and they sit on enough of them
and then no one expects you to get involved in it anymore.
So it's great.
Much of my Facebook use is like more of a bulletin board service.
Like half my links that I get are from interesting people sharing them on Facebook.
I'm pretty sure I saw this linked on Facebook as well, uh, which is where I
first got it, although I'm not positive about that.
It could have been a different source.
That's true.
So that's something that's something to think about is you've got to supplement
your media income from somewhere else.
And luckily I outsourced it to people like you and Zeke and other people who
send me fun things.
So, but I, yeah, I basically don't socialize on Facebook anymore.
That's probably a good call.
I don't know.
I, it, it's one of those things that like this is a new social media is like a
new tool and it's, it will probably be at a really cool place with it in
generation or so, but just imagining what it could be like in 40 years is weird,
right?
Because of how far it's come in the last 10 or 15, whenever my space came out.
So, um, yeah, I don't know.
It's, it's, uh, it's a precarious situation.
It's already such a powerful thing.
It's, uh, it has me wary of it, like an old man get off my lawn.
So, right.
All right.
Atomization and the belonging crisis.
All right.
The belonging crisis took away a genuine feeling of community.
The belonging crisis is, the process by which individuals come to
experience themselves primarily as separated individuals who are not
part of a greater whole.
The freedom that comes with this is accompanied by feelings of isolation,
alienation and depression, um, which is another, another problem with the
whole breakdown of, uh, of the meaning of this, right?
The, the, I mean, the atomization is the same kind of thing.
Cause when you're a part of a group, even like a large close knit extended
family that has some kind of goal, you're still a group and you have meaning
in your life through how you contribute to them, right?
But the more atomized you are, the less meaning there is because we
find meaning in other people.
Yeah.
Most part.
And then you're, you know, the more atomized you are.
And they might talk about this.
I did, I did skim through because we took the best notes for this section of this
part.
Um, maybe they talk about this, but imagine the more atomized you are, the
more susceptible you are to joining some fringe, scary style thing.
