Yeah.
But yeah, no, getting back on the language thing.
I don't know.
I, I agree that, you know, words like gay or retard are bad and hurt people.
But, you know, it feels weird because there's always going to be insults and insults are
going to be like calling people weak or calling people stupid, right?
Yeah.
So people who actually are those things are going to feel bad.
And I mean,
Well, you can't say stupid anymore either.
Oh, you can't say stupid now.
You can't say stupid.
You can't say crazy.
Yeah.
I knew you couldn't say crazy.
That was what I was about to bring up.
Crazy actually bugs.
Well, okay.
We're way far afield.
Yeah.
But the loss of crazy bugs me too.
Some ideas are genuinely crazy.
And I think you should be able to call them crazy.
And especially in a way that isn't pejorative.
Yeah.
Because what else can you say to deliver what you're trying to say?
There was that guy who wrote a book a couple of years ago.
He was on Julie Gayles podcast.
And this wasn't the point of why he was on, but they, they, he changed the name of the
book.
I think like a crazy philosopher, which conveys exactly what the guy was writing that was
the ideas in this book.
And I don't know what he changed the name to, but you know, it wasn't going to be, it
wouldn't convey the same shorthand of message.
That's part of the problem with euphemistic language in the first place is that it's
almost necessarily, first of all, it almost, it's almost necessarily more syllables, which
is annoying.
But it's, it's, it's more vague and less, less clear and, and.
Well, and it'll, it'll always spread.
I mean, when I was a kid, the, the term that you used for intellectually disabled people
was special.
They were, you know, they were special kids.
And then that became used as an insult because everyone would be like, oh, you're one of
those special kids, aren't you?
And like whatever the term is for someone who has that disability, it's always going to
get turned into an insult.
Well, the special isn't okay to say anymore.
I don't know what is cause some things are special and awesome.
But again, it depends whether you put a sting on it, right?
There was a famous comic who must not be named, who had a joke about that Jew is the one like
ethnic group that is both the accepted term and the pejorative term, depending on how
you say it.
Yeah.
And if, you know, you can, you can put, you can put, if you can put a bad spin on special,
you can do it to literally anything, right?
So.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just reminds me of that, this American life episode where there's a Jewish producer
and he's talking to one of his coworkers and the coworker would not use the term Jew
around him.
He's like, but I'm a Jew.
And he's like, yeah, it's okay for you to say it.
It just doesn't feel right to say.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And we're not going to say the other word that it's said, that other people that you,
you know, even if you're in permission to say, you might feel weird about saying so.
Yeah.
All right.
I was going to try and just buy myself a ticket to that interdellectual dark web by
volunteering it, but I really want to earn that, that seats.
Yeah.
We'll have to take a dark picture in the bushes outside.
That's right.
All right.
You got to earn this.
No free cheap tickets for you, sir.
Deal.
All right.
Getting back into the article, we will go through the summary of parts.
They, they identify six things that have brought us to where we are now.
Do we want to name what they are in broad strokes really quick and then go and teach them in
detail?
No, because I always forget lists like that.
I say we just go through them one at a time.
Let's do it.
Yes.
If you lose count, there's six.
Okay.
The first is the secularization and meaning crisis.
The, did you want to read that first line since you put those in?
Yeah.
I'll read the short ones.
They'll be the long ones.
Okay.
Good trade off.
The secularization and meaning crisis, the meaning crisis weakened our collective understanding
of what ought to be is the short summary.
And the longer quote I pulled out was secularization theories predict an untethering of religious
authority from society would bring about a widespread embrace of rational and scientific
worldview.
And let me just pause right here.
God, I'm so sad that didn't happen.
Like I see those like kind of steampunk era.
I know it's not steampunk, but like enlightenment era people, they're like, yes, we are finally
overcoming the shackles of religion.
And now everybody is going to be, you know, scientific in the progress of man.
And now we are enlightened and God, it just, it didn't happen.
Just ran for new, ran for new shackles.
Yeah.
And it was, oh, cause you think, you know, I would have thought anyway, I would have
been one of those people.
I was like, yes, we're breaking free.
Luckily we're both perfectly sane.
So, oh yeah.
Right.
Obviously.
Continues.
Nowadays, multiple viewpoints compete with Christianity for control over the social
narrative because they were saying earlier in the articles Christianity used to provide
all the meaning, all the narrative that ran life.
It was the big overarching structure that let you make sense of your life.
By the way, this whole thing is just about the Western world.
Yes.
Well, since that's where our culture was taking place.
I don't think we said that.
Okay.
That's a good point.
But you know, every, every religion, every region had their own religion.
It was always a religion that did this thing.
Totally.
This society-wide secularization has given rise to the meaning crisis, which we define
as a meaning famine where numerous contenders are competing to satiate our meaning hunger.
So yeah.
Now we've got, we're searching for meaning and instead of finding it and finding it
in science and rationality, people are scrabbling for like crystals and you do big
foots and UFOs and shit and Deepak Chopra-esque spirituality and that sort of stuff.
Yeah.
Mimetic tribes offer one solution, a raft to navigate the open seas.
They're totalitizing worldviews and the roles they provide are an attempt to satiate the
meaning hunger and the meaning famished.
And I will just say, I totally see that in some of the people that I know that like get
really into some of these things.
It seems to be a lot because they don't have any, anything meaningful in their life and
they see this and they're like, yes, I can, I can change society.
I can help these people that have been oppressed by the colonizers or whatever and it becomes
their thing that makes their life mean something, you know, because everyone needs their life
to mean something.
Right.
Otherwise you sink into depression and smoke pot all day.
Why does this sound familiar?
Kind of like that, that rationality thing I've been hearing a little bit about.
Right.
Um, we'll just, I'll just go ahead and dodge that by saying some rafts are sturdier than
others.
All right.
So we have the step one is the collapse of Christianity that provided meaning to everyone
and now people are searching for meaning.
And part two is the fragmentation and reality crisis.
The reality crisis fractured our collective understanding of what is and anyone who heard
the Sam Harris episode with, uh, who's that comic book or that, that strip comic writer?
Oh, Scott Adams, Scott Adams, um, Dilbert, he was a nightmare to listen to, but this,
this, uh, the, um, the two narratives thing.
Yeah.
Exactly.
He brought it this whole, he brought this up exactly.
The two movie screens.
Yeah.
And each side can only see one and they're showing a different movie.
There you go.
And they, they bring up that in the article, but they say it's not, it's worse than that.
It's like a Netflix, uh, smorgasbord of things.
Not just two used to be kind of just two.
Yeah.
Um, now it's 60 and I'm throwing up and making up a number.
Yeah.
Now you can view it through the lens of the, you know, literally anything white supremacists
or yeah, the, uh, the, the, the crazy people who think the lizard men aliens are behind
anything.
Or is that, was that the QAnon thing, the lizard men, or were they some other conspiracy?
I think lizard men is older.
I'm not sure how old QAnon is, but the QAnon is pretty recent.
If anyone had, no, QAnon was like the entire democratic party is a front for child pedophilia.
Right.
I'll take it.
I had an effort actually heard a QAnon before this article.
So luckily I live a happily sheltered life.
So speaking of lizard people though, anyone who's gone through DIA in the last few weeks
and has noticed that they're under construction and their signs are leaning really hard into
the conspiracy jokes.
It's great.
It's awesome.
Uh, the article says this fragmented array of narratives has caused a reality crisis.
For without some semblance of consensus reality, constructive cooperation becomes extremely
difficult.
This resists and this results in what the leotard le, leotard.
Okay.
And what leotard calls a different, a situation where conflicting parties cannot even agree
on the rules for dispute resolution.
