Bacteria can do it too. And this is this is a study that we did in collaboration with with Ben Wolf, and Catherine Williams, Kate's and under was an undergrad and in our lab.
And what she found was that there are bacteria that live natively they're part of the microbiome they live natively on these planaria. And when we interfere with the relative proportions of the different types of bacteria.
They can they can exert a strong influence on their host, for example, to make their host to headed, or to make radical changes in their visual system. So this is the normal here the icepots here the optic nerves.
Radical changes in that visual system, all driven by again no genetic change but all driven by signaling from the bacteria that are able to interface to the native controller that sets things like head number head shape and and so on.
So what we're doing now is we're trying to unify two very different approaches that people take the problems like this on the one hand, the, the state space of the biophysical circuit that that shows you all the different, all the different ways that that it could that it could be,
and some ideas from connection is machine learning and dynamical systems theory that tries to understand how do networks store information how do they recover from partial input, and so on and so these were trying to unify and some of that is is described here.
Now, interestingly, it's not just about head number it's it's it's more general than that it's about head shape as well. So if we take this nice triangular headed planarian amputate the head, and then confuse the bio electrical circuit about what it should be doing.
Then you sometimes get flat heads like this people Lena, or you get round heads like this as Mediterranean. These, these creatures are between 100 and 150 million years distance from this guy again remember no genetic change here.
Not only the head shape, but actually the shape of the brain, and the distribution of the stem cells changes to be just like these guys.
So this hardware this perfectly normal genetic hardware is happy to visit other attractors in that morpho space that belong normally to some other species but that that hardware can go there no no no problem.
So you starting to see this idea of reprogrammability this is what I, what I said at the beginning we the biological tissue has the ability for you to call large, large scale sub routines with very simple triggers very simple signals.
And then and then everything else gets handled underneath. It has the ability to remember and to store new patterns that you write into it using this physiological physiological interface.
And it has the ability to, to visit different different attractors other than what the default of the hardware normally is. Now, you can even visit some attractors that you wouldn't say belong to Plain area at all so you can go further.
And we've, we've, we've made these spiky forms like this, these cylindrical things that are not even flat. And then of course the hybrid kind of these kind of hybrid shapes. And so you can think about exploring and this is something that Darcy Thompson wrote about as early as
1917, explore the latent space around any particular form to see what else it's actually capable of.
And I think this this this space is if we were doing a bioengineering talk I would show you that the space is actually quite quite enormous and fascinating.
The last story I want to tell you on the bioelectric front has to do with repair of birth defects.
So, and, and a new, a new way to, to address the repair of very complex structures. So, so here's a frog brain. You've got the forebrain midbrain and hindbrain you can see it comes in two halves left and right.
And if you expose these embryos to various kinds of teratogens, and that might be nicotine alcohol various mutations, you can get characteristic defects, like, like, like this for example.
So, we sought to ask a question.
How could we repair something complex like this and to do that, we created a model a computational model of the bioelectric pattern that normally tells this brain, what shape and what size, it should be.
And the thing about this bioelectric pattern actually is that it has this very characteristic bell curve shape, and, and make it flattening it out either up here or down here, both has the same effect it gives you terrible brain defects.
It's very important that this particular shape in the electrical pattern be there. And so we simply asked the model then. Okay, but if the pattern is wrong, what channels could we open and close to get back to that pattern right so it's the ideas is using a predictive
computational model of the bioelectrics to say how do we fix that memory the pattern memory of what you're supposed to be.
And amazingly, the, the models made a suggestion about some a very interesting channel called hcn two. And when we tried it to test the predictions of the model so we basically up regulated hcn two in these in these creatures.
Here is a normal brain. Here is, and I'm showing you the actually the what I consider to be the most impressive or the or the worst kind of teratogen this is a genetic mutation.
And the gene called notch notch is a very important neuro genesis gene. So with that overactive notch mutant. There is no forebrain, the hindbrain and midbrain or a bubble these animals have no behavior these lay there.
And so this is a very severe defect. And so we asked could we possibly fix this could we, could we repair the state, and it turns out that if you up regulate hcn two channel activity just like the model said, either by injecting new hcn two RNA, or by using
drug openers of existing hcn twos and these are human approved anti epileptics that if you do that, you get back to the correct brain. In fact, these animals have not only the right brain shape, but they have the right gene expression in the brain and they have
and they have their and they have their IQs back because we can do behavioral testing, and they learn in a way that's indistinguishable from controls.
Now, I find this remarkable because it turns out that using using bio like the bioelectric interface guided by a computational model, you can sometimes fix certain hardware defects in software.
I'm not claiming that will always be possible but in this case, a hardware defect a broken notch signaling pathway can be overridden by giving these cells a reinforced memory of what they should be doing.
Right. So this is one of many examples where where the physiological state trumps the genetic state.
So more more more generally, what we're doing now is setting up a system system like this, where you could go from the initial issue of okay I have an incorrect pattern that might be a birth defect it might be a tumor whatever.
You know what the correct pattern is because we're working on the physiomic data sets, and you know which channels are in your tissue of interest because though that already exists because all this stuff has been profiled and online.
And so, so if you integrate the simulator, you can ask which of those channels can be used to get the pattern back to normal and so this is just the beginnings you can you actually play with this it's online.
This is the beginning of the interface where you can you could pick different different tissues either normal or transformed and then see all the channels that are your potential targets.
So called electroseuticals, because there's a there's a huge database of drugs that target all of these channels, many of them are human approved.
So, so this is what we're looking for looking at in the future is the use of computational platform guided electroseuticals for birth defects for regenerative medicine and for cancer.
And I will mention just for this audience I will mention that there's there's a the bioelectric system also affects immune function. So we in particular studied the innate immune system, and we found that survival of embryos when they were challenged
with genic bacteria is much, much improved if you hyperpolarize these the tissues with with with specific specific drugs, or in fact RNAs, and some of that some of that functionality is mediated by serotonin.
You can put a serotonin transporter dominant negative in you can you can abrogate the activity. And when we looked at using next gen sequencing so or so RNA seek.
We found that that changes in bioelectrics, alter many different targets that belong to the inflammation infection, and other kinds of immune relevant endpoints.
We also found this is kind of interesting we found that the presence of the brain is an important component of that loop. So, in the absence of the brain and the nice thing about these this this model systems as you can remove the brain the body
continues to develop it's, it's, it's okay that they're completely viable, but what they do have is decreased ability to fight off infections.
There's this really interesting interplay and I don't have time to go into all the details but you can you can catch that here, and even some information about macrophages and the adaptive immune system.
But but there's this there's this really important interplay between the brain and the non neural bioelectricity of other cells, and the immune response that leads to either tolerance or susceptibility or to clearance of bacterial infection.
One of the things that we found this is a cross section through a frog embryo is that if you inject fluorescent bacteria so this is pathogenic E coli made fluorescent by expressing GFP.
This pattern is very familiar to developmental biologists this is exactly where neural crest cells travel in the body to make various organs. So the bacteria are following these the same paths that native cells follow during morphogenesis.
There's much more to learn about this we're just beginning to scratch the surface.
So, for the last, the last few minutes, I want to kind of bring it back and think about what this means for questions of of biomedicine but but specifically about infection and, and things like that and I want to focus on this notion of of hacking as a fundamental
What we've seen up until now is that collect cellular collective so groups of cells use bioelectricity to keep collective memories of what they should be doing specifically in anatomical space.
And they have the ability to respond to various cues, for example, novel by electric signals, and take journeys in that more for space and build various organs and repair organs and things like that.
And so the idea is that we really have a collective intelligence here, it's held together by bioelectricity very much like your collective intelligence of your individual neurons is held together by the bioelectricity of your of your brain and nervous system.
So, so let's think about how that how that looks in in in other spaces.
So, these are some some examples, and I'm sure I'm sure you all know more about this than I do, but but there are many examples in which parasites actually hack behavior.
So this is toxic plasma that is known to to to affect the behavior of the animal hosts that it's in and the human so it does things like a lower risk aversion and things like that.
And then then of course there's this zombie and fungus which again controls the body of the ant and then forces it to take various behaviors to that facilitate the fungus lifecycle and so on.
So the idea is that creatures hack each other's policies for navigating three dimensional space there are lots of parasites that do host altered behavior.
And that's not all because these parasites can also hack the behavior of of life in anatomical and physiological spaces. And what do I mean by that.
Well, here's, here's development and we really did developments amazing but it really allows us into a false sense of understanding because we look at this the reliability of this process here's an acorn.
And we tend to think that we know what the oak genome does it takes you from for it takes you on a particular path and morpho space from here to here. This is what happens 100% of the time this is what happens.
So so that's what we think that that the hardware encoded by the genetics we think that that's what it knows how to do.
One thing we would never have guessed is that these exact same cells are also capable of forming this, or this, or who knows what else, because there's a little, there's a little hacker.
In this case it's a it's a wasp that lays down an embryo, and that embryo signals to the plant cells. It doesn't it doesn't build this thing they have these are not wasp cells these are plant cells.
It puts out some signals that convinces the cells of the leaf to build this kind of crazy structure. And from looking at that leaf, or from looking at the oak genome we would have absolutely no idea that these cells are even capable of doing something like this taking this journey in morpho space.
Until it was we found that it was prompted by this. So, so this idea of we call it, we call it bio prompting this idea that that if you're dealing with a reprogrammable competent material.
It's not all you don't have to micromanage it you can find some some very high level signals that are going to exploit the competencies of that material to build specific things and to take other other journeys.
And so, the key questions here are something like this, that has a multi scale biological system. How do you know when you are being hacked. How do you know when, where the border is between you and the outside world.
What what is, which signals are yours which signals are coming at you from from outside what and when you're born what what are you what what sensors do you have what effectors do you have you really don't know.
And there are many examples in psychology as well as physiology of disorders in the ability to set a border between you and the outside world right there are lots of lots of patients who have trouble figuring out whether various impulses they have are coming from them or from from the outside.
And there's this there's this idea think about the difference between learning versus being trained. Yeah, when when you're learning.
The implication is that you're the boss and you're functioning in this sort of dumb environment and it's up to you what you're going to learn from that environment.
If you're trained, the situation is similar on one hand but on the other hand there's another agenda on the other side of that, that that environment is no longer zero agency right there's another agent there that's serving their agenda by training you in a particular way.
And so, being able to tell which signals are yours, which signals are coming from your own body parts and which signals are coming from a parasite means that it's really important to know the boundary computationally not just physically this, you know, skin or whatever
but the computational boundary between you and the outside world. And for biomedicine, the other thing that's really important is really to get the buy in from cells on whatever signal you're trying to send, because oftentimes if you if you if you trigger this kind of resistance,
then what you're going to get are things like drug drug habituation and failure of the ability to reset permit you to affect any kind of permanent cures, you can manage symptoms during the while you're giving a drug but as soon as you take the drug away goes right
back or in fact sometimes it gets worse with most of our drugs have that property. So, so the idea to avoid resistance is to change the set points, not to micromanage the symptoms or the current state, but to actually change what it is that the collective of the cells is trying to do.
And so, let's just, let's just think about this.
How do you set the boundaries between self and world. This is, this is a schematic of an embryonic blaster term, let's say 50,000 cells we were all something like this one's flat sheet.
When you look at this and you say, Oh, there's an embryo. What, what are you really counting when you say there's one embryo. What is there one of I mean it's 50,000 cells what is there one of.
Well, what there's one of is alignment both physical be in the sense of planar cell polarity, but also in anatomical alignment of all of these cells towards a specific goal, all of these cells are working together to build one specific thing meaning they all are going to take the same journey in that anatomical
space from a single cell to a particular complex anatomy.
And, and this is actually quite similar to a problem that you might have when looking at a brain if you didn't already know what a human was, and somebody showed you a three and a half pound or whatever it is of brain tissue and said, How many individuals do you think fit in there, how many
cognitive cells do you think it fit in there. We have absolutely no idea you know we don't know what the density of a, of a typical of a neural medium is for a typical human type of cognition we really don't know how many you can fit in there there's all kinds of interesting clinical work on that.
So, the same thing is true of the embryonic blaster term on when I was a grad student I used to do this experiment.
Take a little needle and scratch of this is a duck duck embryo scratch a little, a little put a little scratch in that blaster term, and for the for about four hours until they heal back up.
Each of these little islands doesn't feel the rest, and it decides that it's the embryo and it and you get a con joint twins like this or triplets.
And this means this is this is really interesting it means that when you look at one embryo.
The question of how many cells or how many individuals are in there is not fixed by the genetics.
It might be zero it might be one it's usually one but it might be actually maybe up to half a dozen, depending on what these cells decide to do and how how did how the collectivity works.
Because every cell is every other cells neighbor, right every cell is somebody else's neighbor, then in this kind of joined lacerum you see that that each, each individual has to sort of decide, where do I end and where does the other guy begin that that idea is right there from from embryogenesis
setting up that that border between you and the outside world has to be calculated in the beginning, and some cells are actually confused they're not quite sure, and that gives rise to actually laterality defects and conjuring twins this is something
that we worked out back in 96 or so why it is that conjuring twins have laterality defects, it's because some of these cells don't know am I the right side of this one or am I the left side of that one.
So, what happens is that, and this is just the last couple of a couple of ideas here, what happens is that when cells get together, they are able to inflate or enlarge their cognitive like on in space and time they're able to perceive more signals they're able to have larger
computational capacities. And this is what evolution has given us based on the ability for using this by electrical and other interfaces to scale up our goals from the tiny little goals of the cells so metabolic and so on, they scale up to these very grandiose goals of keep
retaining a limb and repairing it if anything happens to it, but that has a failure mode and that failure mode is cancer. And when these cells disconnect from the electrical network, they can no longer support these complex representations of things they should be
doing they go back to a single cell amoeba lifestyle basically proliferate and migrate to wherever life is good and this is glioblastoma. And so, on this kind of weird idea that cancer cells are not more selfish than other cell types, right
in theory, model cells is being less cooperative or more selfish, but not more selfish, I think it's just their selves are smaller, whereas the self here is quite large and it maintains this whole thing.
These have a little tiny amoeba size self. And so using that using that crazy idea, we've actually developed a therapeutic around inflating the, the boundary between self and world for these transform cells not killing them.
These are the co injecting ion channels that force them to remain in electrical connection to the rest of the tissue. And here this is these and nasty oncogenes like KRAS mutations and so on.
But, but if you if you manage the bioelectrics appropriately, even though the oncoprotein is blazingly expressed look look at that in fact it's all over the place. There's no tumor, this is the same animal there's no tumor, and that's because it's not the genetics
it's not the oncogene that drives the phenotype it's the physiology. It's the decision of the cells in a collective that they're not going to be more acting as amoebas they're going to be making nice skin nice muscle and so on.
And so, remarkably that process actually involves bacteria it involves butyrate made by bacteria. So here's yet another and we study that in this paper.
It works at a distance from where the oncogenes actually are because there's this there's the signaling used by you, depending on a butyrate transporter, that's part of this part of this whole process so once again the microbiome is key here.
And so, I'll just end here by pointing out that this idea of cells hacking each other is ubiquitous we're only able to do these things because that is what the cells expect anyway they have an interface that allows them to hack each other.
So when, you know, come back to this example when when we inject an ion channel to force the cells to build an eye. If we only hit a few of them so this is a cross section of a lens sitting in the tail of a temple.
The blue ones are the ones we injected. What do they do well they hack all their neighbors to cause them to participate with them because there's not not enough of them.
They know there's not enough of them to make a proper lens so they recruit their neighbors. And that of course is seen in other kinds of collective intelligence is like ants and termites where a few of them will take on a project is not enough of them so they will recruit their their
So the cells are constantly hacking each other and trying to convince each other to do new things. Sometimes they cooperate sometimes they compete. This is all discussed here actually competition between your body parts is quite important.
And so all of this focuses on not a bottom up approach where we talk about micromanaging specific pathways, but a top down approach where we ask, what does the collective remember what are the goals that it's trying to reach what where are the set points encoded, and how could we hack them by
rewriting the set points and talking to them at a very high level. So this is this is kind of my layout of biomedicine where most of what's going on is here these kind of bottom up interventions that are trying to micromanage certain things.
And all of this is what I think of as future medicine, this idea that it's going to look a lot more like a kind of somatic psychiatry and a lot less like chemistry, because all the key models in this field are going to be around information.
They're going to be around what to what do the collective agents at different scales. What do they believe what are their, what's their calculus of decision making and so on, and you can you can read more about that here.
So, lots more lots more papers if if anybody wants to dig down and some of the philosophical aspects about what machines are and what cognition is and so on.
And I'll just stop here and I want to thank the people who did all the work. So, JF Paré who did the immune, the native immune system by electrics and Celia Herrera-Rincon who did the brain and immune system work.
Py, VipeHivePy did all the the ectopic eye work and the planaria work was done by Johanna Bischoff and Fallon Durand.
Danny Adams did the the voltage dies and Juanita's work and Brooke are working on the bioelectrics of cancer. So I'll thank our various technical support that we have in the lab, our many amazing collaborators, our funders here that have supported the work that I told you about.
Two disclosures, so more facuticals and astonishing labs, which are two companies that support some of our work and most of all the model systems because the animals really do all the hard work. So thank you very much and that's it. I'll take questions.
