of the network. And so when you do this, what you can do is we can induce whole organ, so we can
induce inner ears. This is all in the frog model right now, I'm showing you. Inner ears, we can
induce hearts, ectopic beating hearts. We can induce forebrain. So here's where the forebrain
normally stops in this tapioca. We've made this extra large forebrain. We can make extra limbs.
So here's our five and six-legged frogs. And we can make some structures that don't even belong
on this animal, like fins. And there's a whole story that I don't have time to tell you today
about changing the actual shape of an animal to a different species without changing the genome.
And we have several stories about that. So one of the amazing things about this is that these
changes can be permanent because we're dealing with a tissue-level intelligence that has memory.
So when we take this flatworm, so here's a flatworm, it's got a head and a tail,
and we amputate the tail, we amputate the head, we leave just the middle fragment. So this middle
fragment will normally regenerate 100% of the time to make a normal worm, one head, one tail.
And we ask the question, how do they know? How do they know how many heads they're supposed to
have? And we found this electrical gradient that says one head, one tail. We change that gradient
to say, actually, two heads. And so what you get is this two-headed worm. And this is not photoshopped,
these are real. You can see the video, these two-headed worms in their spare time, what they're
doing. And the amazing thing is that once you've got this two-headed worm, that's it. From then on,
if you amputate the primary head, you amputate this ectopic secondary head, this middle fragment
will continue to regrow two heads. The genetics are untouched. We never did any genomic editing
here. There's no trans genes, no new circuits, no synthetic biology, nothing. All we did was a very
brief physiological stimulus that rewrites a pattern memory. This is literally the way that
people read the memories of a brain by looking at the electrical activity. We can now read the
memories of the collective intelligence of the body. And so what we can see is that once you've
rewritten what the system encodes as the correct morphology, well, it will continue to build this
new morphology, as far as we can tell forever. And we now also have a way of changing them back
to be one-headed. Now, I'm going to show you one other example, and then we'll get to some of the
biomedical stuff in the biorebotics. So this has to do with organ-level induction. So we can inject
a certain ion channel RNAs that will induce, for example, we can copy that eye spot that I showed
you in the electric face. We can put it anywhere in the body. So if we put it on the gut, these gut
cells happily make an eye. And this eye has all the right lens and retina and optic nerve and all
of that stuff. But notice a couple of interesting things. One is that we didn't have to put in
all the information about how to make an eye. In fact, we don't have any idea of how to make an eye.
What we do know is that there's a high-level subroutine call that says to the local cells,
make an eye. And then all the stuff downstream, all the morphogenesis, all the gene expression,
all the gradients, everything else is taken care of. The other thing, so that's really a
really attractive property, this modularity. But the other thing is that there are other hidden
competencies here. For example, this is a lens sitting out in the flank of a tadpole somewhere.
And the blue cells are the ones that we injected with this potassium channel. And so they go to
make an eye. But there's not enough of them. There's only a few of them. So what do they do?
They recruit a bunch of their normal cells, which are not blue. That's how we have not
manipulated them. And these brown and clear cells participate because these cells hijack them.
They recruit them towards this goal. This is the mark of a good collective intelligence,
like ants and termites. When there's a task that's too big for the individuals that have started on
it, they will recruit their neighbors to all work together. So again, we didn't have to orchestrate
any of this. This is already, this competency is already in the tissue. So discovering these
subroutines and discovering the various competencies and the abilities of these networks to restore
the correct structure and function with minimal intervention, with minimal tweaks is the name
of the game here. And so moving to the regenerative part. So in a frog, unlike salamander, if it loses
a leg 45 days later, there's nothing. Although interestingly, once you do the amputation,
the opposite leg lights up bioelectrically. Within 30 seconds, it lights up exactly the
location where the damage took place. So the whole body knows about this. And you can think
about this as surrogate site diagnostics and things like this. Already you can read out where
the damage was. Now, what we did was we came up with a cocktail of ion channel drugs that induces
regeneration. So here the pro regenerative genes come on within 45 days, you've already got some
toes, you've got a toenail, eventually you have a very nice leg and it's touch sensitive,
and it's motile. And what we found is that one day, so 24 hours of a wearable bioreactor made by
David Kaplan's lab, with the right payload gives you 18 months, a year and a half of leg growth,
during which time we don't touch it at all. So this is not about 3D printing. This is not about
micromanaging what the stem cells do. It is about convincing the cells at the very beginning that
they're going to go down the regenerative route and not the scarring route. And that's it. After
that, you don't touch it again. So we are now, this is our efforts through Morphosuticals. Again,
David Kaplan and I are co-founders. And what we're using is that we're now in mammals,
and we're attempting to do this in mice, right now with a bioreactor that controls the wound
environment, and then it's got a payload of drugs that try to convince the cells that they need to
regenerate. So there are also applications to cancer. I showed you this picture a minute ago.
Once you start thinking about this as these electrical networks as a way of
creating a larger scale system that can pursue large goals like building nice organs instead
of little tiny amoeba level goals of proliferate and migrate, then what we can do is we can artificially
reconnect these cells when the oncogene tells them to disconnect. We can force them to be in
the right electrical state. And so you see here, the oncogene is labeled and read. This is the same
animal. There's tons of it, right? And so if you were to sequence this, you would see that there's
a nasty K-eras mutation or something like that. And you would say, ah, there has to be a tumor there.
And in fact, there is no tumor because what we've also done is co-inject an ion channel that forces
these cells into electrical communication with their neighbors does not let them detach. So there's
a cancer therapeutic thing here. Okay. So the last bit I want to show you in the last couple of
minutes, I want to show you some synthetic life. So we call these xenobots because they come from
the skin cells of the frog called Xenopus lavis. And we think this is a bioromatics platform.
And this is a collaboration between Josh Fongard at the University of Vermont and myself.
So Doug Blackiston is the biologist who does this work in my group. Sam Friedman was
Josh's student who does the programming. And what you see here is this thing swimming along.
This is a piece of, this is this, this, this proto organism self assembled from cells taken
scraped off of an early embryo. These are just skin. Again, there's no neurons here. There's no
brain. This is what the skin will do when left to its own devices, when when freed basically
from the instructive influence of the other cells. And you can see what happens here. They can move
in circles. They can patrol back and forth like this. These are all spontaneous behaviors.
They have collective behaviors. They can interact with each other. They can sort of go on these
longer journeys as great individuality here among them. And what you're looking at is,
is the answer to the question, what would skin cells do if given a chance to reboot
their multicellularity taken away from these other cells? Now, here's one navigating a maze.
You can see what it's doing. It's swimming here. It takes the corner without bumping into the
opposite wall. And then here for some internal reason, it decides to turn around and go back
where it came from. Okay, again, completely spontaneous. This is, and this, these, these,
these xenobots have all kinds of calcium activity, which you would normally see in the brain.
But again, no neurons, just skin. And one of the most remarkable things about this is that we can
now in that we can now use AI to control their, their behavior. So, so here, what you're seeing
here is these, this, this white stuff out here, these, these little particles, these are other
skin cells, just loose skin cells that we provided them with. And what we did this, so what, what
Josh and Sam did was, was to do a bunch of simulations that showed us that if we make this,
this little Pac-Man shape, they become really, really good at this task. So what they do is
they collect the cells, they sort of push them together into a little ball and, and they, and
they polish that little ball. And because they're dealing with an agential material, meaning the
cells are not passive particles, they have agendas, they, they like to do certain things.
Once they're pushed into this ball, that then matures into the next generation of xenobots.
And guess what they do? They run around and do the same thing, although not quite as well as the
first generation. And so there's a few things we, we learned from this. One is that we can use now
AI to begin, and this is just the very beginning, we can use AI to begin to control the native
behaviors, the very rich native repertoire, very surprising repertoire that nobody had any idea
that skin cells can sort of implement Von Neumann's dream, a robot that goes around and
builds copies of itself from loose material it finds in, in the environment. But there are these,
there are these amazing competencies and the research program now in the roadmap is to learn
to recognize them and then to learn to control them and reprogram them for applications in
regenerative medicine, robotics, and ultimately to take what we learned from the intelligence of
these cells and use them to create a new, new artificial intelligence. And so because biology is
so incredibly interoperable, they find biology finds a way to live coherently under so many
circumstances. In the future, almost any combination of evolved natural material, designed material,
and software at whatever scale is some viable feature. And so I think in the future, we are going
to be surrounded by all kinds of hybrids and cyborgs and chymeras and all kinds of things,
which are going to require a new kind of ethics for relating to beings that are nowhere on the
normal tree of life with us. In other words, we cannot use familiar criteria of where did you
come from, meaning evolved or designed, and what are you made of, meaning do you have a brain,
does it look human, that kind of thing, those criteria are going to be out the window.
Everything that Darwin meant when he said, endless forms most beautiful are a tiny corner
in this enormous option states possible bodies and possible minds. And so I will just end with
this by saying that there's some very deep new ideas coming in the space of biomedical
interventions rooted in this kind of idea by Fabrizio Benedetti who studies placebo effects,
which is that really what you have here is the role of top-down cognitive information
on molecular events. You do that every time you get up out of bed every morning. Your intention,
your mental intention of getting up feeds down into the molecular properties of your muscle
cell membranes that make you get up. And so the idea, especially using bioelectricity as this
transduction layer, that software layer between the intelligence and the actual execution machinery
and AI to actually manage this, gives us a whole range of strategies here that are
in complement to all the successful kind of mainstream strategies. So that's it. Just to
summarize what I've said, the right limiting step in truly transformative technologies are
the communication of goals to cellular swarms, not just the, not just the molecular details,
but actually the algorithms of life. And we have a roadmap for exploiting the native computation
and the competencies of living networks. Bioelectrical signaling is a really crucial
protocognitive medium of that collective intelligence. And we now have tools that
appropriate all kinds of deep concepts from neuroscience to help us understand this in
other contexts. And at stake are a huge number of really transformative applications.
And so I'll just, I'll end here by thanking the postdocs and the students who did all the work,
our funders, and most of all the animal model systems because they do all the heavy lifting.
And then once again, there's some disclosures that I need to make. So thank you very much.
