is interested in any of the details, the software, the data sets, or getting in touch with me, this is
the website where everything is. And so what we're going to talk about is the opportunities around
bioelectricity and in general around cellular collective intelligence in biorebotics, regenerative
medicine, and so on. So the design challenge that we have is can be summed up as the total
rational control of growth and form. And what I mean by that is that if we had the ability to tell
groups of cells what to build in terms of three-dimensional anatomical structure,
many medical problems. In fact, most medical problems would go away. So birth defects,
regeneration after traumatic injury would be possible. Cancer could be reprogrammed, aging,
degenerative disease. And not only biomedical problems, but also synthetic biomorphology. So
not just reprogramming individual cells, but actually programming a large-scale shape and
structure. And also actually non-neuromorphic AI would become possible. And so all of these
things boil down to one problem. How do we communicate our morphological goals to a group
of cells? And here I have to do disclosures because I'm involved in three different spin-offs from
my lab, which I'm happy to talk about afterwards. So morphosuribals, astonishing labs, and fauna
systems. Now, the solution to these problems we call the anatomical compiler. So the idea is that
at some point in the future, you will be able to sit down in front of a computer and
draw the animal or plant that you would like to have. So you would draw the three-dimensional
structure, the anatomy, not the molecular biology of it, but actually the anatomy of what you want.
And this system would compile that anatomical description into a set of stimuli that would
have to be given to cells to get them to build whatever you want. And in this case, here's this
like three-headed flatworm. I'll show you some flatworms in a minute. So now the two really
important pieces to this. One is that this is not a 3D printer. The point is not to micromanage
the position of every cell and try to assemble something complex piece by piece. It is also
not anything to do with genomic editing or CRISPR or anything like that. This is fundamentally the
right way to think about this is as a communications device. This system and the AI that will make it
possible is for translating our anatomical and functional goals to the goals of a collective
intelligence of cells that are going to build this thing. Now, we don't have anything remotely like
that. We can only do this sort of thing in very few specific cases, but I wanted to lay out the
opportunity. I had this as the roadmap. So why don't we have this? Genetics and molecular biology
have been doing great over for decades. Why don't we have an anatomical compiler? Well,
let's just remind ourselves that we all start life as a group of cells and these embryonic
blastomers reliably build something like this. So this is a cross-section through a human torso.
You can see the incredible complexity of all the tissues organs. Everything is in the right
place and relative to each other. And so the question is, where does this shape come from?
Where is this order stored? Where is it recorded? And you might think, well, the genome, the thing
everything's in the genome, but actually we can read genomes now and we know what's in the genome.
What the genome encodes is the tiny protein hardware, the molecular hardware that every cell
gets to have. There's nothing directly in the genome that says anything about size, shape,
the number of organs, the types of organs. And so the fundamental scientific challenge here is to
understand how this group of cells exploits that hardware to build something reliably. How do they
know when to stop? Why do cells sometimes defect from this plan? And then that results in cancer.
And then as workers in regenerative medicine, we'd like to know if something is missing,
how do you convince the cells to regrow it? And if as engineers, we would like to say, well,
what else can these cells build? Okay, is there, what a standard genome? Can you get
the exact same hardware to build something completely different? And so these are the
questions that that faces. Now, I want to show an extremely simple example to remind us why genetic
information is not enough. So this is the larva of an axolotl. So baby axolotls have little four
legs. This is a tadpole and baby frogs at this point do not have legs. So in my lab, we can make
something called a frog a lot. So what's a frog a lot? Well, it's a chimeric embryo that's part
cells from an axolotl part cells from a frog. And now I can ask a very simple question. Well,
we have both genomes. So the axolotl genome has been sequenced, the frog genome has been sequenced.
Could anybody tell me whether frog lottles are going to have legs or not? And the answer is no,
there is no existing model that will go from genomic information to being able to predict anatomy
in cases like this. In fact, even even within a single organism, we can't go from the genome to
a description of what the anatomy is going to be without cheating, basically comparing that
genome to something where you already know what it is. And so, so there's this fundamental disconnect
between the molecular hardware and the large scale anatomical decision making of the collective
of cells that's going to decide to build this large scale structure, possibly involving cells from
the frog. But this is the frontier. The frontier is understanding how large scale
collective decisions are being made that determine our anatomy and our function. Now,
the bad news is that by themselves, these very important technologies such as genomic editing
and molecular biology are not going to give us everything that we want. Because this process
of going from a single cell egg to one of these complex bodies is that this this morphogenetic
process is incredibly complex and recurrent. In other words, all of these cells are doing
various things. And together, there's they end up building something like this. But reversing
this is extremely hard to give you a very simple example from, for example, the fractals. This
is a simple mathematical formula. It's very short, very simple. If you iterate it and plot the plot
the kind of a version of the Julia set, you will get this very complex pattern. But now and so
that's great. Going forward is easy. Going starting with the rules and getting something complex is
very simple. But going backwards, if I if you were a worker in regenerative medicine, you said, well,
this thing isn't quite symmetrical. And by the way, I don't want three of these. I want four.
How would you have to change the formula? It's there is no there's no way to do that. This is an
intractable inverse problem. And so figuring out what you would have to change on the molecular
genetic level to make large scale changes and repairs is extremely difficult. It'll be possible
for some cases, but it needs to be complemented with a top down approach. Now, here's here's where
we are today. We're very good as a community in manipulating molecules and cells. And there are
amazing kinds of advances all the time in terms of synthetic biology and protein engineering and
things like this. We're actually still a very long way away from control of large scale form and
function injuries, cancer, birth defects, these things are largely yet not addressable. And I think
that's because we are still fundamentally in molecular medicine. Somewhere here, this is where
you know, computer science was in the 40s and 50s where in order to reprogram the machine,
you have to physically interact with the hardware, right? You have to have a physically
rewire. And this is this is where all the excitement is today. So, so gene regulatory circuits,
novel novel molecular interactions and so on. But but in addition to that, we have the opportunity
to do something amazing, which is to take advantage of the high level information processing,
intelligence in the layers of biology. Now, what I'm saying intelligence, I don't mean,
and this is this is the good news is that we have now opportunities to do this,
I don't mean a human level second order, I know that I know and that that kind of thing. I mean
something else that might be at different locations along this continuum. This is this this sort of
continuum is due to Norbert Weiner and colleagues. And William James defined intelligence as the
ability to reach the same goal by different means. And so I don't have time to show you too many
examples, but I'll show you a few biology is really good at this. And what we now have the
opportunity to do is to use AI as a kind of translator between us and this robust intelligence
of cells and tissues that are navigating something we call morpho space, morpho space is simply the
space of all bits of it's a virtual space of all possible morphogenetic outcomes or anatomical
outcomes. And so we have the ability to, to control how the living system navigates that
morpho space. And it's possible because biology, unlike most of our technology, I sometimes give
a different talk of why robots don't get cancer. And the reason the reason that biology is so
special, and there's no reason why we couldn't emulate this, is that it uses a multi scale
competency architecture. The idea is that at every level, right, so from molecular networks to,
to, to cells, the tissues to whole bodies, whether in behavioral space or anatomical space,
or even collectives, each of these layers solves its own problems. They are not just structural,
they are problem solving systems that operate or navigate in the space of gene expression,
the space of physiology, the space of anatomy, and of course, three dimensional behavioral space,
in our case, also linguistic spaces, and so on. And they all have different levels of sophistication
and different competencies to do this. But the key is that rewiring them physically is not the only
game in town. We also have the opportunity, because their intelligence is higher than, than, than a
simple hardwired clockworks, we have the opportunity to communicate with them, to reset their set points,
and to have various other kinds of interesting interactions with them. So the thing to recall
is that fundamentally, we are all collective intelligences. There's no such thing as an
indivisible kind of some sort of indivisible diamond of intelligence, we are all made of parts.
And the parts that we are made of are individual cells. Now here's a cell, this happens to be
a free living organism known as a lacrimaria. One cell, there's no brain, there's no nervous
system. This thing is incredibly competent and very local, tiny little goals, metabolic,
physiological, and other kinds of states, you can see it here feeding in the environment.
Anybody who's into soft robotics should be drooling at this, we don't have anything
remotely like this level of control. And again, just one cell. And it is made of molecular
networks that also have all kinds of competencies. For example, the gene regulatory circuits and
pathways inside cells are capable of at least six different kinds of learning, including
associative conditioning. And this is all without changing their structure at all. So this is not
about rewiring GRNs with gene regulatory networks through experience. This is in situ exactly how
they are, they're capable of learning. So this multi-scale architecture of competency, meaning
that we are made of cells that used to be independent organisms and didn't drop all
their intelligence when they joined together, means that we have lots of different competencies in
morphogenetic space. So for example, when you take an early embryo, let's say a human embryo,
and you cut it into halves or quarters, you don't get two half bodies, you get two perfectly
normal monosygotic twins, because each half can recognize that the other half is missing and
rebuild what it needs. In fact, you can think of embryonic development as a kind of regeneration
of the entire body from just one cell. And so there's this ability of different systems. Here's
the normal embryo, here's the embryo cut in half, and so on. The ability of different systems to
navigate this space to reach the ensemble of gold states that we associate with normal target
morphology or normal anatomy for that species. And in fact, in many cases, going around avoiding
various local maxima that would trap a less intelligent system. So this is one example
of regulative development. Here's another example. Creature like this, this is an axolotl,
and these guys regenerate their legs, their eyes, their jaws, their portions of their heart and brain,
their ovaries, spinal cord, and so on. And what they do is if you amputate, and in fact, they bite
each other's legs off all the time, so this is a natural experiment that keeps happening,
you can amputate anywhere along this line, and the cells will very rapidly build exactly what's
needed, and then they stop. Now, this is the most amazing part of this whole process, is that not
only does it regenerate no matter where you cut it from, it makes exactly what's needed no more,
no less, but that it ever stops. How does it know when to stop? It stops when a correct
salamander arm has been completed. So this now tells you that this kind of thing is some sort of a
navigation policy in this anatomical space. It's an error minimization scheme where errors like
this become corrected over time, and when the error is small enough, then they stop. So we really
need to understand this ability, this ability to navigate so all the tools of autonomous
self-driving various vehicles and all of this kind of control theory stuff from
engineering and AI becomes very relevant here. Now, this is not just for salamanders and worms,
I'm going to show you in a minute. Let's do this too. So humans regenerate their livers, human
children regenerate their fingertips up until a certain age. So if you just leave it alone, an
amputated fingertip actually becomes cosmetically a very nice finger, and deer are a large adult
mammal that regrows basically meters of new bone, vasculature, innervation, and so on,
and it does it every year, and it does it at a rate of about a centimeter and a half of new bone
per day. So it is not the case that mammals are somehow unable to regenerate, but our
capacities at present, and I do think this is changeable, are not as good as those of certain
other organisms. Now, we've been studying for some years how it is that this happens, how does a
collection of cells know what to build and when to stop, and we took our inspiration from the
nervous system, which is basically a collection of cells that guide your body through behavioral
space using memories and goals and so on. Exactly the same thing, it turns out happens in anatomical
space. So the way it happens in the brain is that the hardware looks like this. It's a bunch of
cells we call neurons, they're electrically active, and so they have these little ion channels
in their membrane, that set of voltage. That voltage sometimes is communicated to their
neighbors through these gap junctions or these electrical synapses, and so there's this network,
and there's this physiology. So here it is, this group imaged all the electrical activity of a
living zebrafish brain, as zebrafish are thinking about whatever it is that zebrafish normally
think about, and so you can see all this activity, and it's the commitment of neuroscience that all
of the cognitive activity, the goals, the preferences, the memories, the behavioral
repertoires of this animal are in this physiological activity, if only we could decode it. So there's
this notion of neural decoding where you can scan a brain, decode it somehow, and figure out what
the animal is thinking about or looking at, and there's been some success in this both in humans
and in model systems. The amazing thing is that brains and neurons didn't learn this trick on
their own or didn't invent it from scratch. This is something that living systems have been doing
since the time of bacterial biofilms. Back, already that long ago, evolution discovered that
electrical networks are amazing at storing and processing information. So every cell in your
body has these ion channels, and figuring out what is a neuron and what isn't is actually not
trivial at all. Most cells are connected to their neighbors with these electrical synapses,
and what you can do is you can look at early embryos or regenerating limbs or anything else
using the same techniques, basically electrical imaging, and try to do the same decoding program.
You could ask, could we learn to decode, to understand what the cells are saying to each
other, and then to rewrite those patterns and get them to build something else, and this is what
we've been working on. So I'm going to show you very quickly just two examples of these
bioelectrical patterns. This is using a voltage sensitive fluorescent dye, so here the gray scale
colors represent a voltage of the cells. This is a time lapse movie of an early frog embryo
putting its face together. Now one thing you'll know, this is a frame, one frame out of that one,
call this the electric face. Why? Because already before the genes come on that are going to pattern
this whole structure, already you can see this is where the eye is going to be, this is where the
mouth is going to be, the animal's left eye comes in later. This is the, the placos out to the side
that give rise to all kinds of tissues. Already you can read the electrical pattern memory that's
going to guide what happens next. I'm going to show you in a minute why we know that this is
actually an instructive set of interactions, but this is a normal pattern, this is required for
normal development. This is a pathological pattern, so here we've injected a human oncogene into an
embryo, eventually it's going to make a tumor, eventually the tumor will metastasize, but already
using this voltage dye you can see what's going on here. You can see that these cells are electrically
decoupling from their neighbors. They're acquiring a weird depolarized membrane potential and they're
just going to roll back to their amoeba lifestyle and migrate and treat the rest of the body as
external environment. So that's why we read these patterns and we've developed tools to rewrite
these patterns and we don't use, there are no electrodes, no applied fields, no waves, no frequencies.
What we do is we exploit the native interface by which the cells are normally hacking each
other's behavior, which is these ion channels that are on their surface and these gap junctions
that allow them to talk to each other. So we have ways mostly appropriated from neuroscience using
optogenetics and drugs and so on to open and close these channels and to control the topology
