very different from ours. If you still can't find it at the time that you're listening to this,
I am on SoundCloud as GSV Bemusement Park. Excellent. And I will include a link to the
SoundCloud at the very least and see if I can find the one to the Google Play and the iTunes
when they're available. Awesome. With that being said, do we want to move on?
Yeah, that was awesome, by the way. I didn't contribute much because I was mainly just,
yeah, it was like a lecture, which that sounds, well, to us, it's not pejorative. To others,
it might be. That was awesome. So thank you. It's going to be really interesting for people.
The book was a blast to read and the process of podcasting. I've learned a lot from,
I know, about podcasting and also about the content from it. I strongly recommend it as a
read, even if you're not the sort of person who listens to podcasts, but those people probably
won't hear it. Me saying this. And as you were saying, podcasting, not quite as terribly hard
as people think. It is a thing that you, the listener, can do if there's something you're
passionate about. Every single person in this room has done it. So that's true. Yeah. Alrighty.
We are moving on to Less Wrong Posts. Yeah, sounds great. The first Less Wrong Post we have this
week is the virtue of narrowness. This is a post about basically going back to how your belief
should constrain what you are going to experience. And he starts out by saying that, well, he gives
a number of examples. The one of the examples I got was that specialists know much more about
their speciality than people out in the public, like a car repair person knows the difference
between a carburetor and a distributor and would not refer to them both just as car parts.
Unlike me, who would? I'd be like, I need a new part for my car. The old one is broken. He says,
a janitor does not wipe the floor with window cleaner, even if the bottles look similar to one
who has not mastered the art. Outside their own professions, people often commit the misstep of
trying to broaden a word as widely as possible to cover as much territory as possible. It seems
undemocratic and exclusionary and elitist and unholistic to call some pebbles diamonds and others
not. It seems narrow-minded. I think the point of the post is this is a case where we really want
to be narrow-minded. The problem with not using narrow categories is that they lead you into
other specific errors. Scott's non-central fallacy is probably the best example. Is that the worst
argument ever? Yeah. We should paraphrase because it's wonderful. Nelson Mandela and Martin Luther
King are both criminals in the sense that they did things that were illegal under the legal system
they lived in. So is the person who breaks into your house and steals all your stuff. The non-central
fallacy and the reason that we want to be narrow occurs when you use this broad category of criminal
enough that you're applying to Nelson Mandela and Martin Luther King the same emotional reaction
that the guy who breaks into your house and steals stuff generates. Yeah. Because they're both
criminals. Yeah. When we think of criminals we think about that awful person that we hate because
he stole our stuff. And so when someone says Martin Luther King was a criminal they're trying to
make you feel that same way about Martin Luther King even though he's not an example of what most
people think of when they think of the word criminal. And he's not a negative example of
things that you should avoid doing that like as a moral matter you should avoid doing because
they're crimes. Ideally we would have a legal system that captured most or all of what was
actually wrong to do and not anything else and then criminal would be a useful descriptor that's
not misuseable in this fashion. But since it's not we have to be narrow enough to recognize
when we're... What I get from this is that it's important to recognize the domain in which you're
thinking about a category when you start using category terms. Yeah. I think he points out that
it's very good to have more narrow categories because while you could take all a bunch of pebbles
and say they're all pebbles there are certain things that tie the ones that you call diamonds
together. They have a different refractive index. They have things in common with them that they
don't have in common with other pebbles. And so yeah someone else could be like well they're all
pebbles man stop being so elitist but on the other hand drawing those categories and narrowing things
down gives you information. It lets you make more predictions about the world and maybe even use
the resources that you have in a better way once you're using diamonds for things that only diamonds
can be used for. I could just imagine someone trying to make that argument in a like in a sense with
actual application. I mean it's all metal man and you're like yeah but we're trying to we're trying
to wire a circuit board here. We're not going to use aluminum right or whatever. I'm not an expert
but it's just it's like yes there's it's hard to imagine even a fake argument of this happening
in real life when there's two people disagreeing about what to actually do but what he's doing
in the post is saying yes that's sort of the point. Like if there's real if there's real
experiences that you're trying to in a lingo of the book if you're trying to constrain actual
outcomes and I'm blanking on the word but yeah that's the point. You would never I don't think
there's any context in which you would it would be remotely helpful to lump copper and mercury
together under the label of metal. Anything you try to use copper for mercury is going to be
profoundly unhelpful for. That's a much better example perfect. They can both conduct electricity
yeah but you you couldn't use copper very well in a mercury switch. No you could not.
I like that he also makes the comment in here that this leads to some people especially like the
the far out hippie types being like everything's connected man it's everything's one and he says
that okay yeah sure maybe but a fully connected graph with an edge between every two vertices
conveys the same amount of information as a graph with no edges at all. The important graphs are
the ones where some things are connected and some things are not connected. I think I just
read that but basically yeah. That's yeah you with on a on a completely connected graph you
can't tell what the right path to follow is yeah if you've got some disconnections if you've got
five points and all four of them are connected to the fifth but not to each other knowing that
fifth point knowing having information about that fifth point on the graph is going to tell you a
great deal more than anything you'd ever learn looking at the connected graph. Yeah he ends
this with the important categories are the ones that do not contain everything in the universe
good hypotheses can only explain some possible outcomes and not others. There's nothing wrong
with focusing your mind narrowing your categories excluding possibilities and sharpening your
propositions really there isn't if you make your words too broad you end up with something that
isn't true and doesn't even make good poetry. To mix his other metaphors your sharp category
your sharp category distinctions will help you carve reality at the joints. Yeah I'm just
picturing a graph with everything connected everything and it's just a black square compared
that to no graph or just a white square. Either one isn't going to help you at all right I feel
bad moving on so fast because I agree with him so much is there anything do we have things that we
can disagree with this about? Honestly I feel like it's one of those ones that not really even a
disagreement but it's not an introductory post maybe this this has a lot of kind of presumed
understanding but yeah I mean if you have that then no it's great I think it's a sink to make a
point and it does so and is in only the way that Eliezer could. I'm kind of like the fact that he
called it narrow-minded mindedness I'm often remembered of the old 40 Warhammer 40k quote
that a open mind is like a fortress with its gates wide open. The 40k universe is a very dark
universe where they everyone has a strong vested interest in controlling your thoughts so a lot
of their sayings are things that we would recoil in horror from but on the other hand I do I do
sometimes you know run up against people who are like oh god just yesterday I walked past a conversation
where someone was saying like but everything was energy in the beginning man all particles are just
energy like I was walking by and I could hear this and someone was protesting something about
physics and she was like but metaphysics is bigger than fit and I was like wow I'm so glad
I'm not involved in this and that that is what I think of when I think of people who are like
you're so narrow-minded man I'm like yeah there's some things that you know what I just I'm not
going to accept and I think I have a darn good reason for that because sometimes it's good to have
distinct individual categories that actually mean things. In the words of Carl Sagan it's
it's good to be open-minded but not so open-minded your brain falls out. Yeah. Alternatively in the
words of Inquisitor Ravner if we're quoting 40k chaos claims the unwary and the incomplete
a true man may flinch away from its embrace if he has stalwart and girds his soul with the armor of
contempt. Nice. What's that one from? That's from Gaunt's Ghosts. Okay. It gives us title to like
the seventh or eighth book. Cool. Now that we are on board with censorship and not allowing people
to think free thoughts let's move on to You Can Face Reality which is a very short post
so we can just read it in its entirety right now. I feel like I can handle this one. Let's go for it.
This is also called The Litany of Gendolin. What is true is already so owning up to it doesn't make
it worse not being open about it doesn't make it go away because it is true it is what is there to
be interacted with anything untrue isn't there to be lived people can stand what is true for
they're already enduring it. It's written in the form of a poem I don't know if it was originally
written that way but if nothing else Ellie has reinterpreted it that way. So what does this
mean basically what I always took it to mean is that you shouldn't look away from things because
you're worried about finding out the truth like specifically sometimes people are like
I don't want to go in and get this test at the doctor because I don't want to know if I have
cancer. That was the example I was going to use. Okay okay and I'm always like you know whether you
have cancer or not you already have it or don't your knowledge of that isn't going to change
the fact of the matter. Right it could change other facts like how you live the rest of your life
or something but it's especially if you take truth as a virtue then it's better to know and not
then to not know. I don't know finding that sorry. Oh as I was going to say you can you can you can
actually make better decisions based off of what you learn where sitting in your uncertainty doesn't
help you at all. Finding out that you have STDs is not what makes you a risk for spreading them.
That's a really good distillation of it I like that a lot yeah. I get reading this the sense
that I get from this one and the last one together is that it's directed to at least some extent
specifically at religious thought the it's all evolution man therefore we're entitled to reject
because we reject Darwinian evolution we're also entitled to reject the entire cut like physical
cosmology of the universe that's assembled by a completely different means and also quantum
mechanics because we describe both of those systems as also evolving even though the evolving has
nothing in common we have one word that is broadly used and that forms an excuse. I think
a lot of times people don't want knowledge because commonly in society if you don't know
something that absolves you of responsibility like if you didn't know that it was against the rules
to do something in a particular place well the first time you make that mistake they let you
off the hook so if you don't know that you have an STD you can't be morally morally culpable for
spreading it and I think I think that is a problem with society in general people should be held
responsible for when they're negligent. I've brought up the example of what was that Clifford's
argument about the sea captain yes about not wanting to investigate whether or not his boat
was seaworthy right because if he didn't know that it's not seaworthy you know then it's not in
my hands clean yeah but Clifford argues that no they're not yeah yeah I think the bright line here
is once you've even can once that choice is even something that you know about as a possibility
responsibility has attached to you and you're not going to scrub that off even
if your response is to ignore the fact you have the choice that's in fact that's about as I would
argue it's almost as bad not quite as bad but almost as bad as knowing the bad outcome of the test
and going ahead and acting as if you hadn't received it yeah the part of those that gives me
her mining and her method of rationality has a panic attack like this where like what else am I
missing out on and she freaks out and goes to McGonagall and stuff and the you know so like I
try to be mindful of if my you know to take the sea captain analogy you know is my car safe
but what are the questions I'm not asking that if I thought to ask them I could prevent something
bad from happening and I don't know of a refined way to go about figuring those things out I
yeah because you don't know what the dark areas to look into are yeah you're not even you think
sometimes you sometimes you do maybe but if you don't um two bits of the Jewish
law thing that are actually briefly relevant to that may a monotheist says in the Talmud that in
order for religious for Jewish religious law to impose capital punishment the defendant must
have been told by two separate people immediately before the offense that it was to be that it was
punishable by death and then done it anyway and there has to be a witness to has having been told
this what that's that is that is the the depth of so right before you're going to murder someone
two different people have to tell you you know you could get executed if you murder this guy
yeah in order for the death penalty to be imposed the amount of the the degree to which the
these religious requirements are added to and hedged around like the stoning of the disobedient
son in chapter four is one of the things that Friedman brings up as an attractor and religious
law and it it occurred to me as an example but uh the the other one relevant to the what questions
am i not asking um this i think is the root of the reasonable person stand this is what the
reasonable person standard in common law and other systems is supposed to embody uh in Jewish
law i think this falls under the the grazing ox tort category um or the the goring ox if you took
reasonable precautions and the ox isn't known to be an angry thing that gores other animals
then you aren't liable for full damage for the full value of the injury if it gores another animal
because it was an unknown risk uh if the ox has gored before you're liable for the full
extent of damages but you're responsible in any case if you took what should have been reasonable
precautions um and the the we moved to the the fire category of torts hazards that spread
if you're responsible for the circumstances under which the fire occurs and you took reasonable
precautions then you're not liable if you didn't take reasonable precautions you're liable for
the full amount of damages period and even if you took reasonable precautions if you did it on
someone else's property even with their permission so that you're not the primary immediate probable
victim of anything going wrong you're also liable for the full amount of damages so it's nice that
there's legal understanding of that but just as as as a person i want to be better than reasonable
right so like um fire puts me in mind of if i didn't know for example that grease fires
were different from other kinds of fire and i'm cooking at inyasha's house and the the the oil
that i'm cooking on the stove suddenly burst into flame what historically works really good for fire
right yeah i got i got a big bucket of water and i throw it on it and then suddenly i've
splashed fire throughout the kitchen and i burn your house down i mean so i might be legally
safe there because you know i did my best with my best understanding but if only i knew better
i wouldn't have done that right so it's i the reasonable person with the information they had
is safe there but i i want to be wants to be better i want to be better but i don't know
questions to ask myself so you can hear it so you know if i said it right but not you tie
okay yeah that's so we we want to be better than that i think we would all agree there is some limit
at how far uh how many causal steps removed from a given situation your you should try to be knowledgeable
before your responsibility is kind of diffused into the background but it's definitely we would
definitely desire as rationalists to be more than one causally causal step aware the to me one of the
most important lines of this litany is owning up to it doesn't make it worse whether you know you
have cancer or not or whether you know this thing is true or not once you find out things aren't
worse off it's exactly the same it was before all that changed as your knowledge so you're
better off having that knowledge well like like gray said it this is easy to point at a religious
person um and so if you if you if a religious person seriously considers and decides all right
you're right god isn't real they might argue they're worse off because they like living in
their diluted bubble right but god never was real in that point so they aren't worse off at all
all that changed was their knowledge and now they can take better steps in life the magic was in you
all along yes or there was no magic all along i actually have pointed that um borrowing from
not you can uh borrowing from is that your true rejection um at a couple of religious people um in
the christian case all right so god comes down from the heavens and looks you in the eye and says
outright everything in the old testament is true and everything in the new testament is not
what's your reaction to this and the first response that i got when i asked somebody
to this was uh along the lines of hooker and hookers and blow until we all died
and i i said really like all you have to find out is that you made one large mistake to turn
into a suicidal hedonist straw man and he said well only if i thought suicide would be enjoyable
