Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and I'm Gray,
Gray, welcome, what are you doing here in Denver?
I've been on a vacation visiting some friends, a friend of mine was back from Iraq for the first time in a couple of years, so it was good to get out.
And since my airport at each end of the trip was Denver, it was a really good opportunity to drop in.
Yeah, thank you for dropping in, this has been really cool, it's really neat meeting people from the rational community that I only know online, you know?
Yeah, and I don't get to do that very often, where are you from? I know it's on the east coast, right?
Midwest, I live in Minneapolis, St. Paul in Minnesota.
Okay, I thought Minnesota was on the east coast, I don't know where our states are.
We're on like the western tip of Lake Superior, the northern end of the state is.
Okay.
Iowa's to the south and North Dakota's to the west, if that helps.
It does, it does a little bit. I guess it's not on the coast, but I still think of it as the east.
I mean Lake Superior is bigger than some things people thought were oceans, so you could argue that it's on the north coast.
There we go, cool.
The United States had a north coast, that's it.
All right.
Well, welcome, how do you like it here in Denver?
Big fan, everybody is astonishingly polite, the driving people in cars are polite to pedestrians, everyone's got an animal that they're nice to and everyone expects people to be nice to animals.
Do you not get that in Minnesota?
No, Minnesota's got all of that, but what I've noticed, how is it that most transplants put it?
I grew up in a whole bunch of other countries, and to the extent that I grew up in the US, I was in Virginia.
Minnesota has a lot going for it, the problem is that people from Minnesota always have enough friends already.
Okay.
And so as someone who moves there, either all of your friends are going to be transplants or you just don't have a lot of them.
Okay.
Denver seems a lot more, there seems to be, I guess, more churn, you'd call it here.
Oh yeah.
So we've had huge, I don't know, can you call it a population explosion?
You can call it whatever you want.
Okay.
Influx of people.
I don't know if it's an explosion, I don't know what makes an explosion an explosion,
but we've had a lot of people coming here over the past six years or so, just every year, huge growth.
So yeah, there's a lot of new people here still meeting everyone else.
So cool.
I am glad to hear that you'd like it here.
We're always trying to get more people to move to Denver, create our own little Berkeley in here someday.
Speaking of Berkeley, that's where Jess is this week and next week.
Hear that it's a great time out there.
Apparently.
Except for the swatting.
Yeah.
Which I need to hear more about.
I want to hear more details about that too because Jess mentioned it to me and they did not know what was going on.
But just that it had happened.
And I hope that the reason is something amusing, but it sounded like people might be a little bit nervous.
It's always funny when the SWAT team shows up.
Yeah, you know, that's a great time.
I feel like that should be the end too.
It's all fun and games until.
Right.
Yeah, until the SWAT team shows up.
There was a flashbang in your baby's crib.
Sorry.
It shouldn't have gone there.
I mean, I don't know about baby's cribs, but I mean.
I mean, it's happened at least once.
I mean, just yet.
I don't want to say it's par for the course, but if someone told me that it had happened in a raid that was definitely botched in other ways, my prior would lean significantly in the direction of it having happened.
I mean, the police are way too militarized as it is, but also anyone who intentionally swat someone.
That's got to be some kind of serious assault charge nowadays.
You're basically unleashing a rabbed Rottweiler on your neighbor when you do that.
I know that at least some swatting cases do produce some very pointed visits from the FBI.
There's a YouTuber, I think Wings of Redemption was what he was called, and he accused someone else of swatting him.
He was swatted and accused a particular person of it, and that led to a great deal of flame war and an FBI visit to the person accused, even who the FBI determined hadn't done it, but they did take it very seriously.
You think the FBI would just be able to see who made the phone call?
But I guess I'm not.
They definitely have the technical capability to determine it by that means, but I'm not sure that they want...
That might actually not be admissible evidence, and I don't think they want to take the chance of the non-admissibility of that evidence becoming a precedent that they're required to abide by.
That's a good point.
Well, at this point, it's all speculation anyway. We should wait till Jess is back and get the actual details.
No, no, let's just keep speculating.
So what are we talking about today?
What are we talking about today? Wait, no, we're not talking about things yet. I want to know some more about Gray.
Is Gray okay?
Yes.
Okay, just wasn't sure if you only want to go on GSV on the podcast or anything, but no, how did you get into this whole rationalist thing?
As we often ask rationalists when they come.
Let's see. I think five or six years ago, I found rational wiki reading about some medical silliness or other,
and I read their article on Eliezer, which contained a lot of scathing criticism from...
And the tone of what I'd read on rational wiki to that point was generally pretty clinical, if sometimes snarky,
but some of the treatment of Yadkowski was so hostile that I felt myself intellectually obligated to read some of what he'd written
to see if the criticism actually worked, and then I found that it didn't.
That's a hell of a backfire.
That's awesome. Yeah, because that's actually my only exposure to rational wiki as I first went over there after I heard about it at Google's name.
I was like, oh, this is some place for cranks. It's like conservapedia or something, but apparently it's legit-ish.
It depends on what the topic is.
Yeah, which is a drag. That shouldn't be how it works for rational anything, but yeah.
So you got reading from there and kind of fell into it at that point?
Yeah, I started the sequences. I've been trying to start the sequences from scratch for five years, and every time I just try to binge the whole thing,
I get distracted before. Yeah, so I need to just set a proper reading schedule like you're doing with the podcast,
go through three or two, three, maybe four sequence posts daily for a while, intermixed with other entertainment,
because if you try to binge it, I actually calculated this once.
Going off of the word count, telling someone to read the sequences is about like telling someone to just go read Worm or to read one and three quarters King James Bibles.
Holy crap. Yeah. That's almost two Bibles.
Yeah. Rationality from AI to Zombies is curated and somewhat shorter than that, but it's still a large time commitment to just ask someone to do.
I believe Rationality AI to Zombies is still too big to be bound into a single copy. It would have to be in more than one volume.
That sounds about right. I've got the PDF copy on my phone, and I think it's eleven hundred, eight and a half by eleven pages in PDF form.
Yeah.
So that's at the very least, that's at the very upper limit of what you can bind in paperback.
Maybe, yeah, yeah. Maybe if like you got a textbook publisher, because they got some good, good binding tech.
Or like some really, the mother of all spiral binders.
Yeah.
Neat.
Discord or subreddit?
Discord.
Okay. Have you ever been on the subreddit?
I've read the subreddit. I've read it as something I've wanted for years to be more active in, because I have enough of a spectrum of interests that people tell me, oh, you should, you should read it about this sort of thing.
And it would just be a rabbit hole for people to go into on other subjects.
But it's not that I don't like the discursive atmosphere of Reddit.
It just feels like too large a commitment in a way that Discord doesn't.
I have a hard time giving a legible description of why, but it may be that Reddit feels too much like social media.
Discord offers most of the benefits of social media, and I don't, but it doesn't feel like I'm using social media, so it's actually replaced almost all of my Facebook use since I found a couple of servers I like.
Cool. What are the other servers you're on?
Slate Sarcotex Discord, another rationalist Discord called ACA and a Comfy Neighborhood.
A couple of specialist servers for games that I like.
That covers most of it.
Cool.
I find that even online interactions with other people involved in rationality are significantly lower effort by default than interacting with the baseline human.
The normies, as we call them.
That's, yeah.
I like the term baseline human.
That is less pejorative and more sounds like, you know, something Spock would say.
We could use Sline from Neil Stevenson's Anathem.
No, we could not.
That would make a sound really bad.
It actually, no, that's, that's gotta, when you say the word out loud, it definitely sounds like a word that's supremely insulting.
It's, yeah.
No, let's not use that baseline human is okay.
Sline is pretentious.
Yes, yes.
It's almost, it's, I think that's even worse than Brights.
Like, I mean, because Brights was a self description, but God, that was just so pretentious, you know.
And then, and then Slime is like the opposite side of that.
Sline.
You said Slime with an M.
Oh, Sline.
Sline.
Sounds like the Slime though, so, yeah.
That's probably why it comes off sounding so insulting.
Yeah.
Maybe if you, if you used it, like, if you directly used it as a loan word in another language, maybe it would sound better.
Yeah.
But in English, it has that quality of conveying an insult even when you don't know what it means.
I think a lot of words like that, like the mouth feel is important.
Like, Slime, it just feels yucky.
Like, I've heard the term ASPY for Asperger, which sounds, you know, alright, some people refer to themselves as that.
Then I've heard the term Spurg used as an insult.
And that's just like, you feel the difference in your mouth between those two words, right?
Like, one of them is like, oh, yeah, okay, kind of nice fun.
The other one's like, eugh.
Those, the sibilant consonants definitely make a difference.
I'm reminded of a conversation near the end of Saka Barone Cohen's The Dictator, where he's using Yiddish words in casual conversation with
another person who's definitely not Jewish.
And he says, well, you know, I have to hand it to Yiddish speakers.
Those words like schmuck, they really sound like what they're supposed to mean.
You don't need to know what a schmuck is to be insulted when you're called one.
Right.
Yeah.
So welcome.
How have you, how have you liked the discord?
Just curious.
It's, it's great.
We have a couple of subject matter experts who are entertaining to interact with.
I play at an RPG now with other people from the discord.
Oh, excellent.
Yeah.
With, with Wes and David Spearman and the other David Youssef also, we Thursdays usually.
Cool.
And we're, we put that in the servers voice channel so people can listen to it.
Yeah.
Are you able to keep up with all the stuff?
Because God, it's really hard to keep up with some of those channels.
I don't find like the, the basing conspiracy discord in particular I find pretty easy to
keep up with.
It's not like the slate star codex discord has a user base that's at least an order of
magnitude larger and trying to follow everything that's going on.
Well, most of the channels are pretty low content anyway, but even if you try to keep
track of just the effort posting, you're still trying to drink from a fire hose and it's
not that apart from the distinctly different discursive environment, I'd have a hard time
giving a legible description of why, but I like the conspiracy discords environment
more than most of what I do online.
So it gets a lot of my time.
Cool.
Before we dive into the, the main topic, I was also wondering like, do you have a lot
of friends, family that rationalist?
Have you tried breaching the subject with anyone?
I've, let's see, I've tried bringing it up with immediate family.
My parents, for one reason or another, are not receptive and my brother, he works a very
demanding, weirdly scheduled occupation that makes it hard for him to just schedule time
to read something.
So it's been, I feel like I could get him interested if I found the right hook, but I don't have
a hook that's able to get him to devote some of his very limited free time to it.
I think there was a deliberate effort to make a hook called Harry Potter and the Methods
of Rationality.
See, he doesn't even, he doesn't like anything about the canon Harry Potter.
Well, then he might like, I mean, if he likes literally nothing about it, then he might still
not like it.
But if he, if it just because the characters were boring or whatever, then.
Yeah.
