They're supposed to stay there until, not just through the pregnancy, not just until
birth, but until the child has been weaned so that it's no longer visibly connected
with an individual mother and then the woman's kin will smuggle the mother and child separately
back into the household and the man will be expected to show public penitence for violating
the norms of his community and undergo some potentially expensive and painful purification
rituals.
That sounds bizarre to me.
Very different from our own system.
And after that, the child is expected to treat every woman of its mother's generation as
equally co-parent.
Neat.
It sounds easier from the kid's point of view.
Like if that's just what you're told, no one tells you who your mom is, then it's all
right, cool, you're all my mom.
Sounds like an adaptation for people with a high female mortality rate at any rate,
so that you aren't left motherless.
It definitely solves that.
They're taking, it takes a village all the way up to 11.
What's particularly cool about it and thankfully quick to describe is that they actually follow
through to a considerable extent on the logical implications of their denial of sexuality.
Other Romani groups have taboos associated with menstruation like a lot of cultures do.
The Kala don't because if you had taboos associated with menstruation, you'd have to
admit that menstruation was the thing that existed.
And they don't because if it doesn't exist, you can't possibly enforce rules about it.
The Vlachrom are the largest of the groups.
These are the Romanian-descended ones who have undergone a large diaspora since the
abolition of serfdom in Romania.
And they're the group that I think Freedmen pays the most attention to.
They're interesting because instead of completely avoiding gaja authority, they use it as a
weapon amongst themselves.
The Vlachrom, when they have a large-scale dispute, the sort of thing that you actually
would feud over, they eventually settle it in a communal court, which is supposed to
have as judges or jury representatives of as many Romani families from as many Romani
kinship groups as you can possibly get together at once, depending on the severity of the crime.
And they can issue a final settlement with a sentence up to an including exile from the
Romani community and additionally exiling anyone who refuses to accept that settlement.
But they don't conduct their, like the procedure that leads up to a Chris, that's the Romani
court proceeding, consists of a feud in which the participants try to manipulate their contacts
in the non-Romani world to impose costs on each other.
One of Sutherland's informants mentions he was accused by his son's father-in-law, basically
that they set up a deliberately non, they put the girl in this new marriage up to deliberately
not consummating it so that they could then accuse the father of the recent groom of trying
to go after her instead.
And this is a really serious offense in Romani culture for a man to make advances against
his son's wife.
So he tells, he knows that the girl has picked someone's pocket before and can prove it.
And he knows other issues, apparently other legal issues that the father might have.
And his way of prosecuting this feud, before it goes to the Romani court is to convince
the police or to just get the police to arrest them both and cost them a lot of trouble and
money.
In other situations, you might say talk to the, the leader of a Romani community might
talk to the truant officer or the welfare officer in order to delay qualification for
benefits, get extra visits to where the parents have to contend with a righteously indignant
truant officer.
They, yeah, their, their feud prosecution leading up to the court takes the form of
manipulating non-Romani to annoy each other or otherwise inconvenience them.
So it sounds kind of like what rich people do when they're suing not rich people in the
United States, where it's just like, I'm going to make life hard for you.
You know, like, oh, who's a good example?
Someone comes to mind.
Donald Trump, for example.
He had that guy write that book about him that he thought was going to be all glowing
and nice.
And the guy published that, because then he get, then Donald gave him access to all of
his records and like, oh yeah, by all means, gloat about me.
And he published that his net worth was something like 150 to $250 million, and so Donald Trump
sued him for $5 billion, which would have made him worth $5.2 billion afterwards.
And this was expensive.
Trump ended up, what was it?
What do you call it when you like cancel a lawsuit?
Drop.
Yeah.
He'd dropped the suit after a while, but slap suits.
Let's see.
Strategic lawsuit against public participation.
Yes.
Thank you.
There was a good episode of John Oliver's show on that just a couple weeks ago, which
we should put in the show notes.
If you want to be, it's funny.
I love that show, John Oliver's thing.
If you want to laugh and feel indignant about something in all the same time in 20 minutes,
it's great.
And he can do things.
I know this isn't really related, but on whatever random topic and it's like, oh, I should
really be pissed about that.
Like trailer parks, for example, or mobile home parks, like the shadiness involved in
owning the land and what they do to raise prices and how they basically ring out the
people who live there is nuts.
And it's not the kind of thing that you would even be aware of.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The slap suit one was fun.
The only other thing I can think of, because I don't know a lot about, I'm more just learning
that's why I'm being so quiet.
But there was, there's a blog I've been reading called ProSafe Folk that is kind of like when
Scott Alexander does like an analysis of like, here's some medical thing or whatever.
And he's like, oh yeah, you know, all that confusing mumbo jumbo, like here's what's
actually going on from a medical point perspective.
This is that, but with legal stuff.
And so like, I think one of the first couple of posts was on that cake shop in the Colorado
area who refused to sell to gay people.
And then they challenged, then like they countersued saying your religion's garbage and it's making
you act like this.
And he's like, hey, you guys can't sue me on my religious garbage.
You have to do it for some other reason.
And so it, it takes like an objective, like, you know, forget where you stand on the fairness
and morality of this, but like what, what legally is going on here.
It's kind of fun.
So we should put a link to that too.
I just took a note down.
I actually have them already to send over.
So perfect teamwork.
Yeah, the slap example you bring up is a good one.
Several of the chapters do focus on systems that recognize the risk of what we moderns
call vexatious litigation and have different means of dealing with it in the imperial Chinese
system, self-consciously lawful evil, though it is, though it was, if you made a false
accusation of some crime or other, you would receive the penalty that would have been imposed
on the defendant if found guilty.
I think that's a really good thing to have in general.
They, they took it in a weird direction, though, is the risk of that is obvious, especially
if you go after a high status person who might just be able to ride their status to an acquittal.
That's a big problem.
So you might avoid that risk by making the accusation anonymously.
And the Qing dynasty, at least, dealt with this problem of anonymous accusations in a very
straightforward way for a magistrate to read an anonymous accusation in court was a criminal
offense, and for the person who submitted it, it was a capital offense.
They had a lot of capital offenses, although one of the things the chapter focuses on is
how many things they insisted on making death sentences for and then walking them back to
something slightly more reasonable.
Yeah, I, that was the chapter that I listened to.
I found it was really interesting that they seemed more concerned with like a karmic balance
to the universe than justice necessarily.
I think the example that you read out into that you read in the podcast was if a group
of people like committed a crime and one of them was sentenced to death for it, but then
someone else in the group managed to die before he was executed, then that execution was commuted
because, you know, a death has been dealt for this crime by the universe.
Yeah, there's been a life for a life.
Well, that sounds really hard to manipulate to your benefit, right?
Just kill your co-conspirator.
Yeah, so there were a lot of death sentences the imperial system issued that would end up
being commuted either to a couple of years at hard labor or an unpleasant beating with a
weighted piece of bamboo.
Yeah, that was, that was really interesting.
I'm wondering, so all of these are very interesting and I look forward to hearing about all of them.
Is there additional benefit besides the fun of hearing something interesting about different
legal systems?
So Friedman mentions, Friedman will frequently contrast the way a given legal system does a
particular thing against the way that we do it now.
And he'll mention in particular when something comes up that just seems absolutely bizarre
when it's done a particular way.
The book gave me a serious case of cultural relativism for about a week and a half
when the first time I read it, I mostly got over that.
In particular, I think Friedman may be giving Sharia a bit too much credit in his chapter on it.
But there's more to than just the specific institutions in that knowing that there are
other ways to do things leaves you a lot better equipped to optimize.
And there is an entire chapter at the end of the book dedicated to specific things that
Friedman thinks we might be able to learn from in the in the current legal system from these
ancient ones.
So that obviously is the question.
Are there things you think that weird legal systems use that we would be
well advised to incorporate into ours?
I think that the biggest one and the one that Enrico Capital is spring up most often,
I think is the transferable tort model that the Icelandic system used.
Do we not have that?
I know you can sell debt to other people to collect it.
You can't sell the right to initiate a court proceeding.
There is one exception, which Scott actually brought up in his review of the book as the
best example of a way that you could improve on the existing system this way.
So in the status quo, if you work for an evil big box retailer, which no point in naming,
that just cuts an hour off of everyone's time sheet every paycheck for a year
and they employ a million people.
If you're paying biweekly, by the end of the year, they've stolen 26 million man
hours of labor, which at the current US minimum wage is somewhere in the neighborhood of $180
million, but it's spread across a million people and no one is going to take the
evil big box retailer to court for $180.
And there are a lot of issues in our current just in modern society like this,
which is why we have class actions.
The class action exists because we don't want a situation where committing sufficiently
small crimes against a sufficiently large number of people will let you get away with a large pay
day and no risk of punishment. And so in our class action system, some enterprising lawyer who
learns of the existence of this large scale low intensity wrong will go into a court and get
himself appointed as attorney for the class. And the judge just says, all right, you are allowed
to represent everyone who had their money stolen by this retailer in the form of wage theft during
this period. And because you want to transfer other sorts of rights than that, right?
What the class action does effectively is transfer the tort.
That's actually one of the bad parts of the existing system.
So you'd like it if like individual people could transfer a tort from one to another.
Right. So to use the class action example to make it a little bit clearer what's
happening at scale, in the status quo, the lawyer would go out and get appointed
attorney for the class and he'd go to the evil big box retailer and say,
I have the right to sue you for compensation for 26 million hours of stolen wages.
I'm also in charge of negotiating the settlement. So I want half a million dollars and give everyone
else a $25 coupon to TGI Fridays. And this isn't this isn't expressly illegal. I suppose a judge
could in theory object to the settlement. I don't know how often it happens. But there is a serious
principal agent problem because the lawyer the class action attorney can get his payday
regardless of how good a deal he gets for the victims of the large scale wrong.
In the Icelandic system, you would have to get from individual victims the right to pick up their
compensation. So if you found out there were a million people subject to this problem, you might
as the as someone who wished to litigate the case with the big box retailer,
