Rationalist Harry is pretty different.
Yeah.
That's a valid point.
I will suggest it to him and see if I, if I can get him through chapter 10, that anybody
who's willing to reach, who I can get willing to read chapter one has been and through to
at least chapter five, where Eleazar himself says it kind of hit its stride has continued
to 10 and everyone who hits 10 goes to the end.
I've, I've tried, I don't know.
I've, I've dropped some hints to my parents.
It's not like they don't know that I have these two podcasts.
Well, I guess down to one now, but it's a pretty big thing in my life.
And so it's not like my parents and siblings don't know about it.
They just aren't terribly interested.
And, you know, I don't want to push anything on anyone if they're not into it because that's
the best way to turn someone off to something.
It's just, yeah, get a crammed down your throat and you're like, fuck you.
Maybe I would have liked this pizza if I got to eat it myself.
But then you get Scott Alexander's most recent short story, the one about the meditation cult.
Yeah.
That was fun.
Yeah.
I don't want to be enlightened and you can't make me.
Yep.
I didn't read that post.
So it's fun.
It's, yeah, it's called samsara and.
Oh, I keep hearing about it.
It's on.
I've got to open on my phone.
I haven't read it.
Pretty much all of Scott Alexander's short stories are fun.
He like, he knows how to write humor.
Yeah.
Which is really hard to do.
And, you know, it's entertaining, I guess, because it's humor.
The only fictions of his that I know that I could think of off the top of my head were
unsung and whatever one where the person's having a trip and trying to like universal
love or something.
Said the cactus person.
I haven't read that one, but I know about it.
That one's really short.
I keep meaning to.
But they're both funny.
I think you probably heard the study of anglophysics because that was.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's right.
Okay.
I like that one too.
Yeah, you're right.
Everything you write is funny.
Yeah.
Scott's fiction has gotten really polished over the years and I enjoy.
All of it that I can think of.
But I have a weird feeling about it.
It's sort of an anti-psychedelic experience.
The archetypal description I've heard of a psychedelic experience is that there's this
overpowering insight that you can't put into words.
And I have the opposite experience.
I guess not the opposite, not to say that there isn't, that there's no insight.
The problem is that I have the inverse experience.
I have a bunch of words and I feel like there's an insight, but I can't for the life of me
map it onto a thought.
Okay.
I think that's good though.
That's insidious and it gets into your brain.
I keep thinking that in some way if you have all these words that you kind of feel are
pointing at something, but you can't figure out what it is, that somehow in the back
of your head it's going to alter the thinking a little bit.
Scott's a sneaky one.
Yeah, but occasionally it's not always ideal.
Sometimes you end up with things like unsong, which Scott himself says, this is not didactic
in any way, but it's deliberately written about a subject that is so entwined with centuries
of enthusiastic pareidolia that you're intended to feel that there's an insight there even
when you know that there are specific reasons to think there's not.
Yeah.
I love that in the comments of his chapters as you putting them out, a constant refrain
was this is not a coincidence because nothing is a coincidence.
Anytime anything was a coincidence in one of his stories.
That was immediately quoted or in any of his chapters.
I did have a blast reading on song in part for that.
I should give it a reread just to see how many extra cabalistic entanglements I can
pick up on another pass because I missed a whole bunch of important stuff I know on
my first read.
I feel really sad that he's saying he's going to like edit it and cut down some things that
are unnecessary.
Apparently, I think I heard him say that he's going to take out all the references to
that drug because it really didn't do anything.
I'm like, no, don't do that.
I don't care.
This whole story was an awesome meandering experience.
It was the journey, you know?
Yeah.
And while drug was a part of that.
It's a great piece of Americana.
I actually, I was there like.
Yeah.
Leave it in.
Leave everything untouched.
Don't become George Lucas.
That's going to be the refrain.
Don't colorize unsong.
Yeah.
Don't Aaron shot first.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You've never actually done in psychedelics?
No.
Okay.
Yeah.
I'm just going off of the archetypal description there.
My personal experience only once have I had any sort of insight and it wasn't like a
grand insight of to everything.
It was just like, oh yeah.
Yeah.
I guess this is true and I should probably pursue this, but that's the closest I've ever
had and even then it wasn't really that big a deal.
Have you had anything?
I think with LSD, there's the sense of profanity to everything where it depends.
Like I've had, I've had experiences where I forgot that I took a drug and like you kind
of lose your history and you're just there having raw experience.
But then you come back from that after a few seconds or millions of years.
It's hard to say.
So like there's this sense like, oh, this, like it just feels profoundly, but it's not
attached to anything.
The closest I've had to an insight would be like, I had this long like level of like
recursion back and forth in my head of like my mental model, someone else's mental model
of my mental model of what I'm trying to explain.
And I realized, if anything could be realized in that sort of mindset, it was like, oh,
okay, there's really no way to get someone to like to know that you've explained something
accurately to somebody.
But that's not, you know, an original insight.
It was just one that was somewhere clarified.
MDMA gives you sort of the insight that, I mean, it can in the right, it's hard to not
be in the right mind space on that one because it's not really psychedelic, but it like,
it makes it so that you're not really capable at least while on it.
And you can carry this feeling forward of feeling like jealous of people where, you
know, if a coworker is more successful, you just feel happy for them rather than feeling
spiteful about it.
If that's an insight, I guess.
Maybe if you had like a thought that seemed important while you were having one of those
super profound moments, I might seem like a big insight.
That might have been the thing about trying to explain stuff to people.
Alrighty, in that case, let's get on to the thing that you are doing, which is the podcast
legal.
No, it's it's about.
Okay.
You are podcasting the book legal systems very different from our own, which was written
by David Friedman, Peter Leeson and David Skarrak.
So David Friedman is actually a writer of this book, too.
Yes.
Interesting.
Okay.
Didn't he co-write The Elephant in the Brain?
I don't know.
I will double check that.
Yeah, that doesn't sound like Friedman, but he's got a variety of weird interests.
I don't know anyone else with a PhD who plays World of Warcraft, so.
Oh.
All right.
I know he did at the last time I read the Wikipedia bio about him, and he does SCA in
his either 70s or 80s.
Damn.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's that's pretty hardcore for someone in his 80s.
You're doing this with permission from them?
Yes.
I reached out.
I didn't.
I had never, I heard of Friedman like 10, 11 years ago when I was in an edgy teenage
phase of reading everything about Austrian economics.
I probably would have come out of that one a little bit better if I'd gotten more Friedman
and less Mises Institute sort of people.
But I knew about the machinery of freedom.
I didn't buy it at the time, and by the time I had complete discretion over what books
I bought, I was no longer in the Austrian phase.
But the name Friedman kind of cemented itself in my memory.
And then I found through the SSC podcast, Scott's review of legal systems very different
from ours, and that primed a whole bunch of old associations to Friedman.
I read it on the strength of the recommendation.
I actually got the chance to thank Scott in person for that at a meetup about two months
ago.
Sweet.
And I enjoyed the book so much that I wanted to be able to point friends to it.
And it's not a huge book, but it's not something that you tell people to just read in an afternoon.
So I thought I'd have an audio format.
I know a lot of people who have jobs at a desk like me that give them some time to listen
to things.
So it's easier to say work this into your podcast rotation or listen to this audio book, then
go read this.
And I found when I searched, there was no audio book.
So I emailed.
You decided to fix that.
I emailed Friedman and I said, hey, would you have strong objections to this being released
as a podcast?
And the only condition that they insisted on was that everyone be credited by chapter.
There are only two chapters in the book that aren't written by Friedman, but for that's
why almost all of the episodes begin with chapter whatever by David Friedman.
It's just to hold to that commitment.
Okay, neat.
