send out a bunch of mailers that say, Hey, we understand that you worked for this
evil big box retailer and over the year of 2019, and had 26 hours of wages approximately stolen
from you. This is something you should be compensated for. But we totally understand
that you're not going to go to court for half a paycheck. So instead, we'll give you 90% of
that value if you send us back this mailer that says we're authorized to collect the money from
the retailer. And then once you've assembled a big pile of we have you have the right to collect
this money from the retailer, you go to the evil big box with a big stack of forms, say these are
the 792,000 people who've authorized me to collect 26 stolen hours of pay from you. The in this case,
unlike the present system, the victims have necessarily accepted the settlement they're
eventually getting 90% of the value of the stolen money. And the attorney is getting his payday.
But you an attorney wouldn't go after a class action in this system without a without a strong
belief in the probability of success, or the the the fraction of eventual compensation offered to
the people you were buying the claim from would have to be much lower. So I think it's an opportunity
to make to get some spurious litigation out of the market and make this market for justice more
efficient. It's the single biggest thing I would take away from the book. Okay, is there anything
more esoteric and weird that you would like to have incorporated? The Athenian system seems to
have been crafted by a team of bunny ears lawyers, Czech TV tropes folks. Can you quickly tell us
what a bunny ears lawyer is? Someone who's more than a little bit unhinged, but his antics are
tolerated because he's demands he's absurdly good at his particular task. Okay. In the case of the
Athenian system, there's a bunch of stuff that's outright amusing to hear, but actually sounds
like it would work as a way of addressing real legal issues. For example, the, so if you had
something stolen from you in the Athenian legal system, you could bring a case to against the
person you thought stole it. And in the course of that case, you could search their house and
try to recover your property. Now, in the modern legal system, if law enforcement just comes barging
in, we might be without a warrant, we might be concerned that they were planting drugs in order
to be able to arrest you. The Athenians were concerned that you might bring your own property
into a house in order to plant it, provide have unimpeachable evidence recovering it in the search
that this person had stolen it and then be able to collect the value of the property, the property
itself and compensatory damages. The Athenians dealt with this problem in a shockingly and
amusingly straightforward way. You can search the house of someone you were accusing at theft,
but you have to strip naked at the front door so that you can't be, you can't have anything
palmed or up your sleeve or otherwise concealed that you'd be able to plant.
That's pretty awesome. I mean, well, I guess I got to think of the ramifications of that
before I wholeheartedly agree. So the downside is that some naked dude could just come knock on
my door and walk in and say, I'm here. They had an actual court system. This would occur as part
of a prosecution that you were bringing. But presumably, it would still be a surprise to have
them at your door. Otherwise, if you knew they were coming, you could hide the stolen goods
or the allegedly stolen goods. That is not clear from my reading on the subject.
A lot of what's known about the Athenian legal system actually comes from
the detailed accounts of speeches at court that are given in Greek theater,
which assume that the reader is familiar with procedure. So it describes the procedure
as if you'd be familiar with it. And you can sort of feel out the edges of their legal system from
that. Just like no one knows how ancient people saluted. Right. Now, I don't know exactly how,
I don't know where in the Athenian court proceeding for theft, the strip naked in search
would fall, but... They were pretty big on nudity. You had to do the Olympics in the nude too,
so that you were visibly of the sex that you claimed you were. Didn't have guys dressing up
as girls to win the woman's 10,000 meter or whatever. There was a great South Park episode
on that that just came out, but great if you could tolerate South Park humor. But I still
have to think that if my accuser, who I didn't know, was out there until they called and said,
hey, detectives and I all be by sometime or sometime tomorrow between three and six p.m.
I think what happens is you probably like have someone knock on your door,
pull you into court, and then you have to defend yourself, and then they can do the search after.
I guess having not trafficked and stolen goods, I'm not really sure how this would work,
but I'm just thinking that if I had a heads up, I would move them out of my house. Right.
It might not be that many places you can move things in ancient Greece.
Yeah, that's a possibility. And also, if you're aware of that risk, you could hire a couple of
people to watch the house, and that would just be part of the compensation that the thief eventually
owed if you caught them. There is another really, Friedman calls Athenian law the work of a mad
economist. And the best example is one that he ends the chapter with. Can we put in like a skip
ahead to spoiler? Oh, yeah. Right now, if you want to not get the spoiled for you, skip ahead by
three minutes. That too should be plenty. Okay. Okay. So the Athenians had, in addition to regular
taxes, a system for producing public goods that they called the liturgy. And the liturgy consisted
of city officials coming around to some group of the ex richest people in Athens every other year,
and saying something like, Hey, guess who's sponsoring the Olympic team that we're sending
to Sparta this year, or look at that shiny new tri-rame down at the docks, gets who gets to pay
the salaries of the crew this year and be captain. This was, I think it's actually a pretty cool way
of progressivizing the tax burden and guaranteeing public good production, despite the vagaries of
a legislature. But the way that you got out of it when the city officials showed up, they would
tell you that you were paying for whatever, and you could pay it on the spot, you could
show that you had already been consulted this year about performing a liturgy or had done one last
year, or you could refer to the city's attention, someone richer than you, who had not done a liturgy
last year and was not doing one this year. Now, this presents a problem because you can't really
tell in a society where there are no, in a society with no property tax records,
no real estate listings, nothing, it can be really hard to tell if you're richer than me.
And the Athenian solution to this, and the reason that we're spoiling this,
is the way that you did it. The way that you prove someone is richer than you
is to offer to exchange on the spot all of your property for all of their property.
If they accept, then you've either made an expensive mistake if they're actually poorer than
you, which is an incentive not to do this recklessly, or if they're richer than you,
then you've just gotten a bunch of free money and can now pay for the liturgy that you were
previously unwilling to. Cool. Either that or they refuse, thus signalling that they are in
fact richer. In which case, they are immediately, they are required to pay for whatever the city
was going to ask you to do. Cool. That was, I feel like if you wanted to switch stuff with me,
I guess if it included accounts, then maybe I'd be okay with it. But if it was just all the stuff,
like I like my stuff, that's why it's my stuff. I'm pretty sure it would include all your holdings,
like the mines that you have off in Dacia or wherever.
Real property at least. Even real property, if you're talking about the 300 richest people
in Athens, which was a pretty unequally distributed society, you're probably dealing with people who
do have remote holdings, but these will either be known or difficult to conceal.
Dude, the inequality and wealth in the ancient world was crazy. At the height of the Roman
Emperor's power, he controlled literally more than half of all wealth in the Roman Empire.
And like a fifth of the entire world. Yeah. But one person with literally half the wealth,
that's, I mean, in the US, we make like 14 trillion a year GDP. That would be like if
one person made seven and a half trillion every single year. That's fucking nuts. Jeff Bezos
says I'm not there yet, but growth mindset. Yeah, that was the number I was trying to
think of was, all right, how close are we to that distribution is different now because there's
more people working and there's more money involved altogether. It's radically more equal than the
past was. Although I have seen an estimate that the genie coefficient, the standard
econometric of inequality is actually higher in the US now than at some important period in
Roman history. So yeah, there's that to consider. It was one of the fun things when reading up about
the ancients that, yeah, the liturgy thing that you were talking about. And oftentimes it wasn't
even like a thing that was required and imposed by the state. It was just the rich people were
expected to, as part of the society's worshiping of the gods, I guess, is to throw big feasts and to
basically spend a lot of money on the public. And that would, that was part of like, you know,
you got respect and you got prestige as a person by doing this, but you also
used a lot of your wealth to help pay for food or for clothes for people that were really poor.
And I mean, it's kind of a shitty system because it also only makes sure that
public projects that are visible get funded. Like aqueducts might if your name was attached to them,
but something less visible than that didn't get that much funding. But still, it was,
I thought it was neat that like the richer you were, the more you were expected to contribute
back to society as part of their religion even. Yeah, yeah, exactly. How far through the book
are you right now? I've got, I think, seven episodes out of a planned 12 up right now.
The eighth one I'm hoping to finish this week with voices provided by one of the discorders.
And that'll hopefully go up today's the 17th. Yeah, that'll hopefully go up on the 24th.
I've been trying to stick to a two week production. I tried initially to stick with
a one week production schedule. I this became untenable. And then it occurred to me that
I was doing an episode twice the length of a typical HPM or podcast episode at twice the
frequency. And I understood with that sense of scale why this might not be sustainable.
Yeah, why you're feeling overwhelmed. So I walked the schedule back to two weeks.
I had some trouble meeting that although one of the discorders actually
the hobo demon, the one who's appearing in this upcoming episode edited the last one
together for me to help keep it from getting too far off schedule. Thank you for that hobo demon.
Which one, which legal system is this one going to be? The one that's coming up
this week is going to be Plains Indian law. The Comanche Kiowa and Cheyenne and a general overview
of feud law systems, of which the Plains Indians are one example, the Romani, the Icelanders,
the Somalis all have their own takes on that system. And Islamic and Jewish law both show signs
of having been developed from systems like that, where private force and individual
vindication of your rights is the way that things are done. Before we wrap this up, before we started
the episode, you were telling me something about how what great lengths was gone through in Jewish
law to make it look like their God was enforcing the law when he really wasn't?
That's not exactly. So there's a whole chapter on the issues with religious legal systems. And
one of them is he actually kind of lumps US constitutional law in this category.
So we have in theory in Jewish Islamic and US constitutional law a single unchangeable
source of authority. The Constitution is not written on stone tablets, but it's treated as if
it were. And this is a really serious problem when the society changes to a sufficient degree
from the one in which the law code was written down to make some institutions suboptimal or
when you need to add prohibitions that God didn't think to include.
And so in Jewish law in particular, the first solution to this problem that they hit on
is very, very broad interpretation. The rabbis over the centuries developed some very elaborate
rules by which to construe the meaning of the Torah. On the basis of some other doctrines,
the oral Torah is the main one, to defend interpretations of the Torah that you could
not plausibly derive from the actual language of the text, because there is an oral Torah,
which includes correct interpretations of the Torah by which you can modify this sort of thing.
They also over time established some communal like the
for the 2000 years after the destruction of the almost 2000 years after the destruction of the
temple until Israel was established. The global Jewish community was a bunch of
separated populations living under non-Jewish authority, usually allowed to enforce their own
law. And the religious legal system was not ideal for everything. So the secular Jewish
community authorities developed the authority to promulgate new rules themselves. I think the
sort of consensus they settled on was that the secular authorities could forbid what the Torah
permitted, but not forbid what it required or permit what it forbade. So the only thing that
struck me as confusing there was that the United States Constitution, at least in idealistically
and historically, isn't treated like stone tablets because it's the rules for changing
it are expressed in it. I actually absolutely understand what he's saying. The way we treat
it as a society is very much like a holy document. People treat it like a holy document,
but you have to interpret it, but it doesn't have in there. You can't change this. This is the
final word. It has the opposite. No, but like the Second Amendment, the right to bear arms thing,
it has the arms they had at the time are so different that it doesn't really apply nowadays.
So they've had to interpret it in what they thought the founders originally meant, you know,
which how could you possibly know? It's very much a sort of trying to interpret the word of your God
to apply to modern situations. That I don't think though is the main parallel that Friedman draws.
So Jewish law over time allowed, had methods by which you could add rules that were completely
not part of religious law, or that were absurd stretches of the text that you could still claim
were completely in compliance with it. Effective, there actually is a story in the Talmud where
it's basically established that divine religious truth is a matter for God to decide, but the law
has been explicitly entrusted to the care of humans. And the law is in this effectively whatever
the rabbis agree it is. Post New Deal Supreme Court in particular, Caroline products, US versus
Caroline products is one example. Wicked versus Philburn is the more famous one, where the court
held that feeding your own cows on your own farm, wheat that you yourself grew on your own farm,
counted as interstate commerce, because it could affect the interstate wheat market.
Effectively, at that point, we've just the court decided that constitutional law is what the
Supreme Court says it is. And the Islamic law event over time developed the same institutions,
the Ottoman Empire had a sort of pair had they had secular laws and a lot of religion adjacent
proceedings that were either conspicuously different from or outright contradictory to
Quranic law. The Quran explicitly prohibits loans at interest, and the Ottoman secular law
stipulates a maximum interest rate. Basically, the religious laws, as far as I can tell,
Freeman doesn't say it, but this, the law is whatever the interpretive authority decides it
seems to be a very common attractor for legal systems that are viewed as discovered
in a religious sense rather than created. Cool. Yeah, that tracks. I can follow that,
especially the way that we constitutional scholars will bicker on what this exactly meant. It
strikes me as hideously analogous to interpreting the Bible. Okay, yeah.
And this one is quick. There's another simple parallel he draws between Islamic law and the
constitution. If a law professor is talking about what's constitutional, then he's talking about
whatever the Supreme Court says the Constitution says. Yeah. And if a judge is saying this is
constitutional or this isn't, he is in theory measuring it measuring it against some platonic
ideal of constitutional interpretation, trying to get what the actual intention out of it.
Whereas the law professor just cares about what the court ends up deciding. Islamic law has Sharia,
the divine legal code that's actually laid out in the Quran and studied. And it has Fik,
jurisprudence, the actual human legal institutions and the rules deduced from the Quran.
The law professor is talking about Fik and the judge is talking about Sharia to go with that
analogy. I recall hearing that there is no actual right to privacy in the Constitution
laid out explicitly that it's been interpreted back into it.
That's, yeah, that sounds reasonable. It's a sort of logical extension of a lot of Fourth and
Fifth Amendment case law. But it's the word privacy isn't found anywhere. This is one of the
things that your civics textbook will mention about, for example, the Roe v. Wade ruling,
which mentions a right to privacy that's not there. I don't disagree with the conclusion,
but it's pretty obvious that they're not going to the text for the meaning.
Cool. That's awesome. Yeah. All right. So real quick again,
where can people find this podcast? I will be putting it up on the iTunes store. It's currently
on Google Play Podcasts. And I'll try to get it up on Stitcher and the others as the podcast,
