We know that adversarial third parties can come and change what we've done so that they fool us into thinking that we've remembered something that we haven't, and so on and so forth.
That whole picture of memory is actually encoded in this picture that Feynman drew in the late 50s to represent scattering of particles.
So what we've done here is started with this simple idea of asking questions, and we've actually constructed a fair amount of quantum theory.
We constructed the Schrodinger equation.
We constructed the unitary propagator.
We constructed the idea of a reference frame, which we'll talk about intensely next time in July.
So we can sum this up by saying that quantum theory simply is a theory of communicating agents and that quantum mechanics of the theory that Feynman was complaining about
in that earlier slide, that quantum mechanics generates this problem that seems intractable of how to understand measurement because the theory is in fact about measurement.
It's not about mechanical motion at all.
So quantum theory actually tells us nothing about ontology.
And this is why the interpretations of quantum theory, the many worlds interpretation where you have all these branching universes and so forth, are not really science.
They're philosophy.
They're attempts to understand an ontology that's generated by a theory that doesn't talk about ontology.
It talks about communication between agents.
But we've left something very important out.
We've left out a consideration of what happens when Alice and Bob don't mean the same thing by up and down.
And we've left out the famous phenomenon of entanglement, spooky action at a distance, as Einstein called it.
And it turns out these things that we've left out are very, very closely related.
And we're going to see why in July that I'm going to give you a brief preview now.
So what happens when Alice and Bob actually mean different things by up and down?
What if their reference frames aren't aligned?
Well, the first thing to note is that nothing in the theory says they have to be aligned.
So we have to consider the possibility that they're not.
And in fact, both Alice and Bob have to have what's called free choice of reference frame.
When Alice prepares her instrument, she has to be able to prepare it any way she wants to in order to do an experiment.
And when Bob makes up a sentence to tell Alice, he has to be able to choose any language he wants to use.
He's a free agent in this way.
And if they don't have that freedom, it turns out they're entangled.
So reference frame non-alignment and entanglement are very, very closely coupled.
Now, misalignment of reference frames is what produces superpositions of outcomes.
So if Alice makes her measurements with her up and down arrow arranged vertically, for example,
that Bob prepares his qubit with his up and down arrow arranged at 90 degrees to Alice's,
Alice is not going to have any idea what Bob did.
I mean, she can't see distinctions in the left-right direction.
She can only see distinctions in the up and down direction.
So all she can do is flip a coin.
If she wants to know what Bob prepared, it's 50% likely he prepared up for her what she calls one.
And it's 50% likely that he prepared what's down for her.
She can't tell.
Now, if Bob's reference frame is pointing at about 45 degrees,
so up for him means 45 degrees off of Alice's up,
then she can sort of tell what he did.
If he's pointing 45 degrees from up, then she's probably going to measure up.
And if he's pointing 45 degrees from down, she's probably going to measure down.
So her outcomes are 75% for one and 25% for minus one if he prepares at this 45-degree angle.
So we can write this in a particular way.
We can say that the value that Alice gets acting with her M on a qubit that Bob prepared
is some number times what she measures is up, plus some other number,
plus times what she measures is minus one,
where the squares of those numbers add to one.
So why do they have to add to one?
Well, they add to one because of the Pythagorean theorem.
One is the total distance between the two outcomes
and A squared plus B squared are the other two sides of that triangle.
So another way to think of it is that the metric distance in possibility space is one
and A squared and B squared are just the Euclidean distance components.
Again, Euclidean distance is based on the Pythagorean theorem.
So this is the Born rule in quantum theory.
It's the rule that tells us what happens when we're trying to measure a superposition.
And it tells us where these superpositions come from.
We have a mismatch in reference frames between two agents that are communicating.
So if we go back to the free energy principle,
which is what this whole active inference class is about,
and we formulated it in quantum theory,
we get a very simple idea of what the free energy principle is.
The FEP in quantum theory just says that interacting systems
are going to behave in a way that aligns their reference frames.
And that makes their communication as good as it can be.
But since aligning reference frames perfectly leads to entanglement,
the free energy principle drives systems asymptotically toward entanglement.
Well, the principle of unitarity says that all systems will approach entanglement asymptotically.
So we can see the FEP is actually a classical statement of the principle of unitarity.
And what we'll see in the next session is why this is the case,
why active inference, when we think of it quantum mechanically,
is a way of talking about the principle of unitarity,
which is the deepest axiom of quantum theory.
And we'll also see that this question of alignment becomes more and more complex
as the complexity of the messages that the systems are trying to communicate to each other increases,
and that message complexity correlates with system complexity.
So that aligning complicated systems is very hard,
although aligning very simple systems is fairly easy.
And if you think about what's the simplest possible theory in science,
it's particle physics because you're dealing with these very simple things that interact in extremely simple ways.
And the really difficult parts of science are things like sociology,
where you're dealing with incredibly complicated systems like humans that interact in incredibly complicated ways.
And all we have are very vague kind of folk theories of how that works.
But we know from that example that aligning complex systems is extremely difficult.
That's why humans don't get along very well.
So the second discussion section, which Andrew will be leading,
is on Saturday the 1st of July, a couple of weeks from now.
The third lecture session will be on July 13th.
And I hope you all will contribute to the interactive question and answer session on the web
and show up for the discussion on Saturday the 1st of July.
And join us again in July for the discussion of quantum reference frames and reference frame alignment.
So thank you very much.
Thank you, Chris.
All right. Thank you all. Again, please check out the course syllabus.
Ask questions through the site and see you at the discussion. See you next time.
Thank you. Bye.
Thank you.
