Hello everyone, it's June 15th, 2023.
We are here in lecture two of Chris Fields course, Physics as Information Processing.
So thank you Chris, looking forward to the lecture.
Thank you Daniel, and just welcome to this session.
This section is titled Why Quantum Physics?
And if you will recall from the first session, we reviewed the history of physics and some
of the history of mathematics and computer science, or from the end of the 19th century
through to the beginning of the 21st century, and discussed the slow development from classical
thermodynamics of quantum information theory, and specifically characterizing quantum information
theory as a new kind of physics that describes systems that are exchanging finite amounts
of discreetly encoded information across some intervening boundary.
And so we use this very conventional graphical notation of two agents or physical systems
Alice and Bob, A and B, that are exchanging energy and information across some boundary.
And I always use a blue ellipse like this to indicate the boundary that separates Alice and Bob.
And this new approach to physics is entirely topological.
It's not geometric, so it doesn't assume a particular background space time.
So it doesn't assume that Alice and Bob are spatially separated.
And so this makes it a very different kind of theory from classical information theory
in that the channel that separates Alice from Bob, this boundary, is a boundary in
state space.
It's not a boundary in some geometric embedding space, and in particular, it's not a boundary
or a channel that's embedded in a three-dimensional space that separates Alice from Bob.
So that's what we talked about last time.
And today, what I want to discuss is how quantum theory in particular makes this idea of physics
as a theory of communication simple and obvious.
And quantum theory, of course, has a terrible reputation of being abstruse and mathematically
incredibly complicated and counterintuitive and difficult to understand.
And this is one quotation among many from leading physicists pointing out that quantum mechanics
is just difficult.
And as you probably know, there's an entire philosophical industry of interpretations
of quantum theory that try to make sense of its ontology.
And so what I don't want to do today is try to introduce quantum mechanics.
We're not doing any of this.
Some of you will recognize this as the table of contents, the first part of the table of
contents of the famous textbook by Landau and Lipschitz, that if you've studied quantum
theory in undergraduate or graduate school, you've probably dealt with a textbook structured
much like this one.
And you've probably been introduced to quantum mechanics as it was traditionally conceived
as essentially a mechanical theory, a theory of motion with wave functions and particle
representations and on and on and on.
So we're not going to try to do that, this.
What we're going to do instead is take a completely information theoretic approach and we're going
to characterize information transfer in a quantum theoretic way without any assumptions
about mechanics or spacetime or any of that.
So instead of this, we're going to ask a simple question.
By a simple question, I mean a question with just a yes-no answer or a binary answer.
So let's use up or down as our example question.
And to ask this question, we need three things.
First, we need an action, we need a way of asking it.
For example, making a sound or writing something down.
Second, we need a thing that we can ask the question of.
We need an environment or a friend or the rest of the world or an experimental apparatus
or some system or other that we're going to act on to ask this question.
And the third thing that we need to ask this question is a shared language.
And it's the shared language that's often neglected in models based in physics.
And I think the importance of the shared language became clear in classical information theory.
And it's become clear again, of course, in quantum information theory.
But this has only happened over the last few decades.
So what I want to do today is to construct in a step-by-step fashion a formal representation
of these three things that we need to ask a simple question.
And what we'll find is that that formal representation is, in fact, quantum theory.
So it's quantum theory that provides us with a formal representation of asking these simple
binary questions.
And, of course, if you can ask a binary question, you can ask any finite number of binary questions
so you can construct an arbitrarily complex finite decision tree that ends up formulating
an arbitrarily complex but still finite question.
So this really is a general model of communicative interactions between agents.
So let's go about this and talk first about the action of asking a question.
And so the first thing I want you to do is actually say out loud, up or down, actually
ask a question.
And then note two things about what just happened.
The first thing to note is that it took some time to do that.
That action actually required a finite amount of time.
A couple of seconds, not very long, but it's not zero.
It always takes time to ask a question.
And the second thing to note is that it took energy to actually say up or down.
It requires a little bit of exertion to ask a question.
So let's put those two together and define a word.
We're going to define the word action to mean some energy that's spent in some time.
So asking a question is an action, and it qualifies as an action because it requires
spending some energy in some finite amount of time.
And so we can write this as action equals energy times time, or I'll sometimes use the
abbreviation E times T.
And action is always required when there's some interaction or two-way action between
systems.
So whenever we talk about physical interaction, we're always talking about two systems doing
something to each other that requires both energy and time.
So let's define another concept, a concept of a minimum action needed to ask a question
and specifically a question with a binary answer.
And we'll just pick a symbol to stand for that minimum action.
And the symbol we'll use because it's conventional is H.
And it turns out that this H is Planck's constant, the number that Planck came up with when he
was trying to solve the black body problem back in 1900 that we talked about last time.
And recall, that was the problem of characterizing the spectrum of radiation emitted by some
physical system that was hot.
How much energy comes out as a function of temperature?
And if you assume that the spectrum of energy coming out is continuous, you get predictions
that are wrong, and Planck got predictions that were correct by assuming that that spectrum
was discrete and that this H represented the minimum amount of energy that could be emitted
in a particular time.
So it represented the minimum energy times time or action.
So let's look at an example of that.
And here's an example that may be familiar.
That's the example of your own visual system.
So in the retinal, the cells of your retinas, there are many, many molecules that are the
dopsons of one variety or other that respond to different wavelengths of visible light.
And they have some efficiency for capturing light.
And let's just assume that they're optimally efficient, that they're as efficient as they
could possibly be.
And that means that they require the minimum amount of energy to change shape, which is
what they do when they're impacted by light, to capture the energy and hence the information
that's available in the light.
And the minimum energy to do anything that records one bit of information, so yes or
no, up or down, is 0.7, so log 2 of Boltzmann's constant times the temperature.
And again, we saw this last time.
This is from roughly 1875 and was then built into classical information theory by Shannon
and then by Landauer in the mid-20th century.
So what we're doing is assuming that, since Rodopsin's optimally efficient, all it requires
is this amount of energy to change shape.
And it's known experimentally that Rodopsin takes about 200 femtoseconds to change shape.
So that's 200 times 10 to the minus 15 seconds.
So it's a very, very fast reaction, chemical reaction.
So we can just calculate what the action is.
And at 37 degrees centigrade, so human body temperature, KT is about 4.3 times 10 to the
minus 21 joule, and joule is just a standard unit of energy.
And so we can multiply everything together.
KT times 0.7 times this response time of 200 femtoseconds.
Multiply it together gives you an action of about 6 times 10 to the minus 34 joule seconds.
And if you're familiar with quantum mechanics, you'll instantly recognize that number because
it's very close to the value of Planck's constant, which is 6.6 times 10 to the minus 34 joule
seconds.
So this says that Rodopsin is very near to optimal.
The best it would be able to do would be Planck's constant.
That's the minimum action that can be undertaken.
So Rodopsin is clearly doing very well.
It can't be as efficient as we're assuming it to be, but it's pretty efficient.
So this number Planck's constant is, and this idea of a minimum action, is not something
we just pulled out of the air.
It's something that one can observe when you're looking at what real biological systems in
particular do and other physical systems do.
So let's think about the second component of this project of asking a question.
That's the thing to be asked.
And we want to ask a very simple question.
We want to have a theory of asking very simple questions.
So let's define the simplest thing that we can ask a binary question to.
And let's say this is the thing that we can ask a binary question of using just this minimum
action H. So we're going to ask for the minimal thing that it's possible physically to ask
a question of.
And this thing needs a name, so let's call it a qubit.
And that word is a contraction of quantum bit.
And we can draw it like this, a little sphere with an arrow through it.
That's called a block sphere.
And we use a symbol Q. And that notation with the bar and the angle bracket is called a
bra notation and it originates with Dirac.
So it's a traditional way of writing inner products actually in quantum theory to indicate
the state of Q.
So this thing called a qubit only responds to binary questions, so it clearly can have
only two states, the state that answers yes and the state that answers no.
And conventionally, we draw the arrow going up if the answer is yes and the arrow going
down if the answer is no.
And so those are the two states that the qubit can be in when it's answered a question.
So now let's draw a picture for the act of asking a question of Q in the state Q. And
let's draw it like this.
This curvy arrow is the action of asking the question and getting the answer back.
And we're asking it of this minimum system, the qubit.
And let's call this entire act of H. And write at H acting on Q by this expression HQ.
So again, we're developing the notation of quantum theory which all of you who know the
theory already will find familiar.
So the third thing that we have to build into this picture and into the theory is the shared
language.
So we have to know what we mean by up or down if we're going to ask the question up or down.
And we have to have some representation of what it means for the qubit to distinguish
up or down.
So let's say that to us, up and down mean this little diagram with an arrow that's labeled
up on one end and down on the other end.
So we're defining up and down in a very simple way as just opposites.
We don't know anything else about them except that they're opposites.
So this is a stripped down one bit question.
We could have called them one and minus one.
We could have called them A and B. We could have called them anything.
We're just indicating that up and down are two opposing concepts.
And so this object that we've used to make this definition of the relationship between
our two words up and down is called a reference frame.
It's a physical object that encodes a concept or a meaning.
And if you think about using language, using English, for example, you can understand me
speaking in English because your brain has the right sorts of neural circuits to allow
you to understand English and produce English using your hand and your mouth.
And those neural circuits are reference frames in your brain for understanding and producing
English and they encode the relationships between different words.
So you all know about chat GPT.
You can think of all of the weights on all of the 10 to the 19th or however many parameters
there are in GPT-E4 as a reference frame that describes the relationships between words
and phrases in English and many other languages.
So this idea of a reference frame is an instance of a Landauer's principle, which is often
summarized as saying that information is physical.
What that means is that information always has to have some encoding and that encoding
that object can always be thought of as a reference frame.
So let's put all this stuff together.
What we have now is a reference frame that defines the difference between up and down.
We have an action that we've labeled H and the action acts on this object, the qubit,
