which is in some state.
What we've drawn here now is an experiment.
And you can think of the incoming part of the arrow that goes from the reference frame
to the qubit as a preparation of the qubit.
So you can think of it as I'm doing something to the qubit to put it in a particular state
like up because that's the state I want it to be in.
And I can think of this returning part of the arrow as a measurement of the state that
the qubit is actually in.
So if the qubit's actually in this state with the arrow pointing up, then I'm going
to get back the answer up when I act on the qubit to measure its state.
So now we can recognize this action, H, as the Hamiltonian operator in quantum theory,
which always takes some time, which we represent by an interval, dt, to act on some state,
and in particular this binary state, q.
So this whole picture depicts the action of a very simple Hamiltonian operator.
And again, I want to emphasize that we've just defined the qubit as the simplest thing
that we can ask a binary question of.
So how does this H work?
We can use H to prepare this qubit in one of two states, which we're going to label
one and minus one.
The state one corresponds to the up direction, and the state minus one corresponds to the
down direction.
And doing this to q, so preparing q in one of these two states, takes energy.
And we know how much Boltzmann told us back in 1875 that the minimum energy to reduce
the entropy of the universe by one bit is log two of kT.
We saw that earlier when we were thinking about Rodofson.
So we can say that acting with H always requires some number times kT, where that number is
bigger than the log of two.
And remember, the log of two is just in there to get units of bits of binary questions,
as opposed to units of nats, which are questions that have e answers, where e is the exponential
base, the natural exponential base.
But we want to use units of bits, so we have to always have this factor of log two.
So this lets us write H in a particular way.
We can take out this energetic term that Boltzmann tells us we have to include beta times kT.
And what's left over is, in a sense, the pure representation of the action stripping
out the energy requirement.
And we're going to call that M, because M is the standard symbol to use in quantum
theory for a measurement operator.
And M is now dimensionless.
H has units of energy, kT is an energy, and M has no units at all.
So it's H without the energy.
So now we can ask, what is this operator M that we've defined as the simplest possible action on a qubit,
but abstracting away the amount of energy that we have to use to act on the qubit?
Well, what M does is just encode a bit, or decode a bit.
So we can use this operator M to say, I want q to have the value one.
I want it to be up.
So I can sort of reach out with my operator M and grab q and turn it so that its arrow is pointing up.
And that's the operation that's called preparation in physics.
It's what it means to prepare an experimental apparatus, for example.
You actually grab hold of the apparatus and you twist some knobs and flick some switches to prepare it to be in some state.
And you can use M to measure a state that isn't known.
So I can use M to grab a hold of q and look at it and determine whether it's in state one or minus one.
And I can represent these as just a cycle that starts with measuring and then prepares, or that starts with preparing and then measuring.
And if I represent it that way, what I see is M having a value, which is either the value I want to encode or the value that I have measured, and q.
And M acts on that value and q to produce a particular state of q to put q in a particular state or to realize that q is in that state.
And so M is actually an identity acting on some value and q.
So it maps one and q to one and q and it maps minus one and q to minus one and q.
If you do the whole cycle of preparation and then measurement, and that makes sense.
It's actually an axiom in some formulations of quantum theory that if I measure the state of some object, what I'm doing is also preparing it in that state.
So if I immediately measure it again, I'll see the same value.
And that makes sense physically.
If I, you know, put my coffee cup on the table and then I look for it, it's likely going to be on the table unless something else intervenes.
Well, what does this mean?
It means that we can do a little bit of algebra.
It means that we can write this original expression of acting on q with our Hamiltonian in this somewhat more explicit form of using the energy beta k t and our operator M on q.
And what I get out of that is the energy beta k t multiplied by q.
So hq equals eq.
That's the Schrodinger equation.
So that's one of the central equations of quantum theory.
What it says is that this operator h is the total energy operator on a system.
Its eigenvalues are the total energies of the system.
And we can now see where that energy is coming from in this very, very simple stripped down kind of representation of an action.
The energy is the thermodynamic energy that has to be spent to determine one binary outcome up or down.
Now, if you're familiar with quantum mechanics, you will have seen exponentiated operators like the next line here of algebra.
This operator p, which is time dependent, and which is the exponential of h multiplied by it over h bar.
As called the propagator, it's the unitary operator in quantum theory, the operator that conserves probability or conserves information.
And so using the representation of h as beta k t, we can see that this operator p is just e to the minus beta m.
If we recall the wick rotation from the first session, this strange equivalence of it over h bar with one over k t that wasn't discovered until 50 years after the invention of quantum theory.
And that's still a very debated thing.
I mean, people worry about what this what this equation really means.
But one thing that it means in this setting where h has this particularly simple form is that the propagator is now just the exponential of a number multiplied by this very simple stripped down operator that encodes a bit or decodes a bit.
But we know something about the exponential propagator just by looking at its form.
If you're, again, familiar with these sorts of exponential operators, you know that they're wave equations.
And we can make sense of that using the diagram up above.
What m is doing is just performing a cycle.
It's just mapping one and q back to itself or minus one and q back to itself.
So we can think of m as just taking this object and flipping it back around until it's until it gets itself again.
And that kind of cycle can always be turned into a wave equation.
And e to the i over h bar times h t is a canonical form of a wave equation where the the horizontal axis here on the wave is time.
Or if you look at the little cycle that I've drawn as a circle with an arrow, it's the time of the thing spinning around like this, which is exactly the same thing as a wave traveling through time.
So that tells us something very important.
It tells us that this equivalent expression e to the minus beta m is also a wave equation.
So it tells us that this operator m has built into it some sense of time.
It's the sense of time of this prepare measure cycle.
And that's implicit in m, right?
We've used the wick rotation to get rid of the kind of what I'll end up calling the external time t, the objective time t.
And we'll see in July where this internal time comes from in terms of the wick rotation.
But we can say now that it's an agent specific time.
It's an internal time reference frame.
That's built into the our idea of this system Alice that can act on the world.
And it represents the time that's required to ask this question.
Okay.
Can I ask a question at this point?
Yes.
So on this slide with the operator m, I'm curious, that's how can the agent deploying the operator m tell the difference or break the symmetry between preparation and measurement?
Or are they just completely dual pictures?
Yeah, they're completely dual.
So the agent, the agent never breaks the symmetry.
The agent can't actually distinguish the act of preparing from the act of measuring.
Every preparation is a measurement and every measurement is a preparation.
Right.
That's, that's in fact what this axiom of, of.
Unitarian measuring a state.
Leaves the particle in the measured state.
Right.
Right.
So yeah, mathematically they're duals.
Thank you.
Okay.
So let's, let's now use this theory that we've developed to describe the interaction between Alice and Bob.
And let's think of a situation in which Alice prepares a qubit that Bob then measures and then Bob prepares the very same qubit and that Alice measures it.
So Alice acts with her Hamiltonian operator, which will label H A and Bob acts with his Hamiltonian operator that we label H B.
And let's say that Alice prepares the qubit as in state up.
And Bob can then measure the qubit in state up and say, oh, the qubit is now up.
And if Bob then prepares the qubit in state down, Alice can measure the qubit in state down and say, oh, the qubit switch from the up that I prepared to down.
So Bob must have prepared it as down.
So what's happened here?
Alice and Bob have actually shared a bit flip.
Alice said up and Bob said down.
So, and Alice heard him say down.
So they've, they've shared this idea of change by interacting with each other.
Now this works as long as they mean the same thing by up and down.
So we've implicitly assumed in talking about them communicating that they both have this reference frame that distinguishes up from down.
And this is actually a completely general model of what I'll call a noiseless one qubit channel.
Now what does that mean?
It's noiseless because there's nothing else in the picture.
Right. There's nothing in the picture that can jiggle the qubit when Alice and Bob aren't looking Alice and Bob are the only systems we're talking about.
And they share this qubit.
And there's nothing else in the picture.
So there's no kind of third party or environment or heat bath or anything like that.
That's going to mess with the qubit of and disrupt their interaction.
So that's a noiseless channel.
And it's a one qubit channel because they just have one qubit that they're interacting with.
And they're alternately preparing and measuring at stake.
Now clearly, if they can interact using one qubit, they can interact using any finite number of qubits.
So here's a picture of an in qubit channel that Alice and Bob, which here I've labeled A and B.
Because I took this figure from a paper, are sharing.
And Alice and Bob both have in operators, one for each of the in qubits that they share.
And they just do this preparing measurement cycle on all in qubits.
So you can think of Alice preparing the in qubits, Bob measuring the in qubits, and then Bob preparing Alice measuring.
And that allows them to exchange in-bit messages.
And we can make in as large as we want.
And so they can exchange messages of arbitrary complexity.
And if they share the meaning of up and down, then they can exchange these messages with no noise.
So they can communicate.
And we now have our theory of two communicating agents that are sharing arbitrary finite information.
Now I've labeled Q1 through QN in this picture, a holographic screen.
And in fact, that's exactly what it is.
Now recall from session one, this slide illustrating the holographic principle.
Shannon made this point that a bit of information is an answer to a yes no question.
And so we can write down a number of possible states.
We can write down an entropy.
And the limiting case of that entropy is the entropy of a black hole, the densest possible encoding of information in space or on a boundary.
And this holographic principle allows us to see any boundary as we discussed in session one as an encoding of bits.
So the previous boundary of these in qubits, we can think of as a holographic screen.
Now, why is that important?
It's important because it allows us to use this idea of holography.
And this idea of a fixed encoding of a message or a fixed encoding of an observable entropy at some density that was developed in cosmology to talk about arbitrary quantum communication channels.
So we can import a whole bunch of theory that was done someplace else into quantum information theory and see that it works perfectly because it describes exactly the same situation.
Now, what does this tell us philosophically?
It tells us that Alice and Bob can learn about each other at most in bits per communication cycle.
So the maximal amount of information that they can get from an observation is the in bits that the other one wrote on the screen.
So this tells us something very important that when an agent is looking at their environment, which is this other agent Bob, the amount of information that can be extracted from the environment is actually proportional to the size in bits of the boundary.
And the holographic principle just makes that size finite in space.
And I said early on that there's no embedding space time in this theory that Alice and Bob are not thought of as separated in space.
But as soon as we use the holographic principle, we can think of the boundary between them as having a spatial coordinate, even though they don't have a spatial coordinate.
So we'll get back to this point in September when we talk about theories of emergent space time.
But all of these theories of emergent space time come back to this idea that boundaries can have spatial extent, even though the systems that they separate don't have any natural spatial description or natural spatial degrees of freedom.
Okay, so now let's recall another picture from session one.
We talked a little bit about Feynman's theory of scattering and the origin of Feynman diagrams.
And the idea that if Alice prepares some system in some initial state and then measures the state later, if we want to calculate what the new state is, we have to take into account all of the possible paths that join the initial state that Alice prepared to the final state that Alice measured.
So what does that mean?
I mean, here effectively, if we think of suppose I'm Alice and the boundary is my screen, I'm talking to the screen, and then later on I'm going to measure the screen.
And between my preparation actions and my measurement actions, a bunch of stuff happens on the other side of the screen.
And if I want to predict what's going to happen on the other side of the screen, I've got to take into account every possible thing that could happen.
And I have to give some weight to those possible things that could happen.
And quantum theory, in fact, tells you how to assign those weights to things that could happen in order to make a measurement, given some theory of the mechanism that makes things happen.
But the fact that all of the paths have to be counted is what unitary evolution means.
This evolution that preserves information, that doesn't take any away, it doesn't add any, it just represents it in different ways.
So if you look at this screen and imagine that Alice is interacting with her boundary, and then she's interacting with her boundary again, it looks just like the previous screen.
And the wavy red arrows are what's happening inside Bob.
The wavy red arrows are a representation of what's going on inside Bob as he measures his side of the screen and then prepares his side of the screen.
So what Feynman is representing here is just the action of the environment, or the action of the system, while Alice isn't looking between Alice's preparation stage and her measurement stage, while Bob is doing his measurement in preparation.
So this diagram is actually completely symmetrical.
We could have drawn an arrow where the wavy red things are and drawn wavy red things, where we've talked about Alice, and we'd have the same picture just from Bob's point of view.
We can also think of this, of course, as Alice communicating with her future self by writing a memory record someplace in the world and then coming back and reading it.
And if Alice writes a memory on the world and then comes back later on and reads it, she actually has to take into account some theory of all of the things the world might have done to her memory while she wasn't there.
So this picture of Feynman's actually tells us a lot about memory.
And when we think about organisms running around in the world doing things like we do all the time, we tend to think of memories as things that are persistent and unchanging and all of that.
But we know that that's not true.
We know that memories degrade in various ways.
