physical laws telling you how your system behave or other things move around and so on.
And now, so my system can be alone, like an asteroid in space, let's say, or it can be
connected to each to other things, I recognize as other systems.
Two things can collide to different things. Systems can collide with each other, etc. For
instance. And now if I assume several systems which are connected, meaning that they causally
interact with each other in a certain sparsely way. So basically, in my schematic, you would have
for instance, a system on the right, a system on the left, and a sub system in the middle.
So you have many subsystems causally interacting in a sparsely way. For instance,
mu doesn't interact with eta. If I take a bacteria, for instance, it does move around
and interact with other things outside the bacteria. But at the same time, within the bacteria,
under the outer membrane, there is also stuff which do not interact,
causally interact with the outside, let's say. And so if you have such
sparse coupling architecture, as we say, and in a more technical terms, we would say that the
inside is independent of the outside when conditioned on the intermediate system, let's say.
So if we have such sparsely coupled system, dynamical system, we see mathematically speaking,
we derive the fact that your system has to behave in a certain way. And in fact,
when you do have such sparsely coupled dynamical system, you realize that everything
appears to, I mean, if you look at, for instance, the internal states mu here, the dynamics of this
system can be interpreted in terms of Bayesian inference, meaning that this system can be viewed
as encoding a density over its external states, for instance. And if I had to define in a very
simple way what it means to parameterize or to encode a distribution, I would say that your
the various parameters which define your system, for instance, I said earlier that a system could
be anything, a pen, an asteroid, whatever, there are variables which specify its state,
for instance, temperature, pressure, shape, whatever. I have a set of variables and I can
view these variables, these numbers, literally, as I can take them and manipulate them as
parameters of a mathematical quantity I can deal with. And yeah, so I'm not sure if I failed
in trying to put it in a very, very simple terms, but I hope it makes sense.
It was awesome. Richard, thank you for working to bring us these twin gems
in the distillation work and really helping like consolidate and sediment
on one hand, a long history of dynamical systems and physics. And on the other hand,
papers coming out two weeks ago as well. So hopefully, we'll continue the adventures and
see you around. Yeah, thank you and thank you for the chat, the questions on the chat. Cool.
Peace, everyone. Bye. Bye. Thank you.
you
