really serious problem. If I take two kinds of thing that one might hope to find in the
universe, an electron and a photon. Okay. So the idea is that I've got stuff that orbits around
atomic nuclei and I've got light and it's relatives that carry the electromagnetic force
in the photon. If I don't know how to measure length and angle, I can still talk about the
objects that are photons. We call them spin one particles. But if I don't have length and angle,
I don't have any way of talking about spinners. In other words, if there isn't a ruler and a
protractor, which is effectively what Einstein used to define space time, I don't have an ability to
talk about spinners. And that's a big problem because if you're going to the problem, it's a
huge clue. It says that spinners have to be intimately related to gravity in general relativity
and gravity. So spinners are over on the quantum side of the equation, right? The
children of Bohr, it's really more their object than the children of Einstein's.
The children of Bohr claim we have to quantize gravity and make everything quantum. So it's
sort of an imperial belief that the people who study the standard model should extend their
techniques to cover gravity so that all can be one. Yet, if it turns out that we don't know
how to measure length and angle between measurements, because in quantum theory,
you get something very different when a field is propagating versus when it's measured,
all of the probabilistic stuff we talk about is happening when there's a quantum measurement.
If you don't know where length and angle are while something is propagating,
then you don't even know where the electrons can be a disturbance. If electrons are waves,
they have to be waves in some kind of a sea. You know with photons that you can't tell exactly
where the wave is, but you know where the sea is. In the case of electrons,
if you don't know where the metric is, you can't even say where the sea is that the electron would
be a wave in. It's a very convoluted thing, but it's a big difference. Yeah. I can almost describe
it in extremely simple terms, which is most physicists who think about it think of gravitational
charge as being mass, but gravitational charge is really spin.
We're getting pretty far afield. All right. So to speak. So to speak. So let's imagine that maybe
our listeners haven't understood exactly what we're saying, but that there is some special
problem about spinners and how they're tied to the structure of spacetime that is different
where you can describe things like photons in some sense without knowing how length and angle
are measured, whereas length and angle are essential if you're ever going to talk about spinners.
Now you and I have two very different points of view. The reason that I consider you an
arch nemesis is that I think your theory based on E8, which is depicted in this crystal block for
those who are viewing on YouTube. Thanks for bringing your kryptonite to the show.
Your approach to this is to say, let's start out with some object that is mathematically
distinguished and very peculiar, effectively like a platypus of the mathematical world.
And let's try to distill from this thing that has to exist for reasons of logical necessity.
And it's maybe the most complicated naturally occurring object arguably that you could pick.
And let's find the richness of our natural world as distilled from this bizarre
freakish occurrence in the laws of mathematical necessity. Is that a fair telling?
From a top-down perspective it is. But the way I got there is by describing spinners and seeing
that spinners is part of this one beautiful mathematical object naturally. And it's unique
to the exceptional E groups, to these small class of objects.
And when you say exceptionally groups, what you mean is continuous symmetries
that only occur once, that they don't fall into some regular pattern.
And spinners are naturally a part of their geometry. And they're intricate beautiful objects.
They have spinners naturally as part of their geometry. And that if you dissect them,
you can see all the other parts necessary to particle physics and gravity.
And this was just stunning to me. And at this point, I'm like, all right, I've built up from the
ground up, from particle physics and from gravity and from spinners. I've built the structure up
and seeing how it's all interconnected. And I found that they're all part of this small class
of mathematical objects that are unique in their intricacy and beauty for finite dimensional objects.
And that's why now I appear to have adopted more of a top down view where it seems like, oh,
I started with this pretty object. And I said, oh, look, it explains everything,
but it's nowhere near like that, how I actually got to there.
The truth is, I'm building up. And the truth is, the next object is going to be higher
dimensional objects that include E8 like this one as a subgroup.
So the way I'm hearing you, Garrett, and again, you know, this is like one of the most obscure
comments. It's going to lose so many listeners, but I'm happy to talk about it.
Well, but I'm trying to, we're trying to describe this. I would like to describe
this a little bit as, as if we were taking somebody to an opera in a foreign language
so that they can follow the plot, even though they can't follow line by line.
Okay. The way I see what you're saying is, is that there is a usual kind of symmetry,
which we would associate with bosons, that is the force particles of the universe.
And what makes these very strange objects that you've, you've referred to as in referring to
exceptional league groups is that you appear to take something from the fermionic universe,
that is the spinorial universe, where the spinners come from, and you adjoin it in some sense to the
bosonic to get more symmetries. Yes. Yeah. That's very clear. Okay. There's a huge problem with the
strategy. Well, wait, but this, but you're forgetting the part where this structure exists as part of
these exceptional objects. Well, no, I'm not, you've correctly described how these objects occur in
nature, that there is some regular kind of typical symmetry, a bosonic symmetry, then you, you take
some of these spinners that are related to that symmetry, and you fuse them together to get an
even more beautiful, weird symmetric object. But the problem with that strategy is, is that
we know that nature has these two very different recipes for how she wants to treat these things
quantum mechanically. Right. One of them goes into the name of bosonic quantization, and the other
sort of goes under the name, sometimes of, you know, bearish in theory. Right. And anti-commuting
numbers. Numbers were a times b equals negative b times a. Completely parallel, totally different
treatment. And the way you've done it, you've really taken the fermions, that is the matter part,
the spinners that we've been discussing. You've lumped them together with the bosons,
and now they're fused in a way that it's going to be almost impossible to treat these spinners
in a manner befitting fermionic quantization. Yeah, no, it's very straightforward though. The,
the fermions just end up being along directions orthogonal to spacetime.
I don't see that that actually works. I mean, this is, this is my great, my criticisms of your
theory, which we've known each other now for 11 years, and this is the basis of our antagonism,
is that on the one hand, you ingeniously saw, and I give you your credit, that E8,
the largest of these objects, a 248 dimensional behemoth, carried some numerology surrounding
three copies of the spinners that are present, which looked in some sense, could be confused for,
may be related to three copies of matter. It was about that hand wavy, yeah. Okay. So
all the honor to you, that's not an obvious feature. Most people who barely know what the
exceptional E groups are, most of them don't know that it has to do with this property called
triality. Okay. That was, that was true. But there really wasn't, in my opinion, enough room
to pack the particles that we currently see into this group structure
with three generations. That was one issue. Second of all, because of the, of the particular way in
which bosons and fermions matter and force were fused together, it really pushed everything towards
the bosonic side, that is the force side of the equation. So you're going to now have to be in
some kind of technical debt where you would have to figure out how to get the fermions back into
a matter framework, because you would actually push them too far through unification into a
union with force. That was another basic concern. And my last concern was that because of the
properties of this object, you didn't have any room for what we call chirality in which the
universe that we've seen so far appears to have a left, right asymmetry to it. It's as if it has a
beauty mark. And these, any object that you derive from E8 is going to be very hard to get it
to have a beauty mark because E8 doesn't have a beauty mark itself. So these were
three things that you were going to have to pay back if you were going to connect this to the
world that we see. And my irritation with you was that I brought this up with you in 2000 and
you remind me 2008, not 2009, when we met at the Perimeter Institute. And I tried to warn you
about these things. I felt like you never took me seriously. No, I did take you seriously. I've
taken all these problems seriously. And they're discussed in subsequent work. And the way I've
been resolving them is by tackling a larger unspoken problem, which is how to have a quantum
description of this sort of geometry, right? Because our universe is a quantum universe.
And E8 is a finite dimensional object. And you have to have multiple states, multiple
numbers of particles able to occupy every state. So if you have a full quantum description of a
theory, you need an infinite dimensional geometry to do it. Well, I always thought your goal was to
take a finite object and then take waves on that finite object to create something that was going
to be infinite dimension. I didn't see that as being its problem. But that's not good enough.
Say more? Because just when you talk about waves on a geometric object, those act as
different representations mathematically, because of the Peter Weill theorem. But when you do that,
that's not enough to give you all the structure you need for quantum field theory. You really need
a fundamentally infinite dimensional geometric object to describe quantum field theory.
And by looking at what sort of objects you need that include exceptional Lie groups, but are
infinite dimensional geometries that can correspond to quantum field theory, that's how you tackle
the three problems you discussed. You can have more space to handle the three generations of
particles. You can have the anti commuting fermions in them so that they behave like fermions should,
like matter particles should. And it's also large enough to give you the sort of dynamics you need
for quantum field theory. So that's why I've in the intervening 10 years since we've had a deep
discussion about this, I've now started looking at generalized infinite dimensional geometries,
which are infinite dimensional generalizations of Lie groups, which solve these problems.
And that's why I've been working. You really believe that you've solved these problems?
I think I have a really good description that goes along with these things.
Here's the thing. If I just think about where we are with the standard model,
you've got four dimensions of space and time, then you've got an extra eight dimensions
coming from something called SU three, three dimensions from something called SU two,
and one extra dimension coming from something called U one. That's the basic data
that occurs and gravity. You could put in six dimensions for something called spin three one.
But the point is I can add those all up and I'm going to get some number probably,
20 some odd dimensions, whatever. That finite thing generates the infinite
dimensional world of quantum field theory. Wait a minute, but quantum field theory,
we have a way of mapping between the base geometry and then going to quantum field theory,
then you have Fox base, and you have occupation numbers for all the different possible states.
My point is you're working on a problem that has certain foreseeable problems as part of the
challenge. Unlike your detractors from the more standard community, I'm not telling you that
you're dead on arrival just because certain problems can be seen. That would be unfair.
By the way, that's what, there are lots of problems that can be seen
from the string theory community where let's say the number of dimensions it wants to play in
is doesn't seem to be the right number or they thought there were only a finite number of theories.
It turns out that there's a continuum of theories, etc. Or the vast majority come out with
right and I get very irritated that somehow the string theory community is entitled to make all
these mistakes and anybody outside, if they say one wrong thing or one seemingly wrong thing,
they're excommunicated. It's a ridiculous standard. That's not what I'm trying to do to you. I'm
trying to say something very different, which is you're going to be up against the fact that if
your initial data comes from this most beautiful and most bizarre of all objects, E8, it doesn't
contain- As I said, I'm now working on its generalizations to infinite dimensions.
But there's an issue of intellectual checkkiting. I don't mind the idea that you recognize the
debts that you're in. And then you say, I think I have a way of getting this thing to close off.
But there is a question of, well, now that you've recognized, am I right?
Am I right that the issues that I raised with you initially
turned out to be really serious problem? Of course.
You didn't know that back then. Yeah, I did. They were in the paper.
They were in the original paper saying that the description of three generations was very
hand-wavy and unsatisfactory. That's in the original paper.
Okay. My recollection was that when I tried to explain to you why
people were going to have the objection about the two different quantization schemes,
that that was not handled correctly. Right. Well, I handled that in a paper in 2010 or so.
Okay. So that was cosmology. All right. That was one of the issues.
Then there was going to be an issue that you weren't able to bring the left, right asymmetry
out of the initial data. There wasn't enough. And that was a fair description. Absolutely.
Okay. And then you're saying that the, I ceded to you that you were making a connection between
the mysterious appearance of three copies of matter and something called triality, which was
not manifest, obviously inside of E8. But to the few people who actually care about this structure,
it definitely is there in a very profound way.
It relates to rotations in eight-dimensional spaces.
Yes. But you also haven't taken an interest in what is E8, if not the wellspring for the
source code of the universe. Like, if it isn't the universe...
I think it's a piece of it, but I'm not religious, Eric. I mean, I'm going to explore whatever seems
most promising to explore. Okay. Well, have you changed your sense of the status of E8 as a candidate
for the unified theory in the fashion that you were originally seeing?
Absolutely. You have changed your... Yes. Can you talk about that?
Right. So it was in tackling quantum field theory and how to describe it geometrically,
as far as I know, nobody is done. I mean, whenever you start with, as you say,
you want an SU2, SU3, and you go through this quantization procedure for its field, so you
get a quantum field theory. Or if you're dealing with strings, you have this model of vibrating
strings in higher dimensions, then you go through this quantization procedure to get a quantum
theory of strings. Physicists have this toolkit for quantizing things, but that's utterly the
wrong way to look at reality. If the universe is just one thing, which it is, then it's one
mathematical object. I mean, you're making a point that is very well understood, I believe,
in the standard theoretical physics community, which is that if the world starts off as quantum,
you should talk about classicalizing pieces of it rather than quantitizing the classical
pieces that appear to exist. Yeah, that's exactly right. So what's a quantum
geometric object look like? It's, you know, with all these infinite dimensional Fox space
and the creation and annihilation of elementary particles possible.
People at home won't know what a Fox space is. A Fox space is effectively where the states of the
system can live when you have multiple particles in a situation and you can change the number of
particles that you have just the way a photon can break into an electron and a positron pair,
that would be possible in a Fox space, not possible in a simpler quantum system. That's
right. So effectively a Fox space is just a large place to play where the number of particles in
the system can change. Up to infinity. Keep going. So in order to describe this as one geometric object,
you're stuck with a generalized Lee group, infinite dimensional generalized Lee group.
Yes. And in order to describe spinners, it's going to be an exceptional generalized Lee group.
Yeah, I don't think I don't think you're adding anything. I think that the problem here is,
is that E eight is an exceptionally beautiful, exceptionally interesting object. It did have
the properties that you were talking about in that it unifies standard symmetries with these
spinners to form new symmetries, but it does what it's not only inadequate, it would push them into
