Hello. You're queued up to enter the portal, but I thought I'd say a few words before this episode.
In general, when we present science in front of the public, we do it in one of two ways.
Either we talk in an incredibly hand-wavy way about very speculative ideas like string theory,
or we have a sort of a corpse of previous scientific thought that has been specifically
arranged for public viewing. It's not really science the way we do science. It's kind of a
denatured version to make sure that we don't lose anybody because the public is famously
supposed to be squeamish about anything involving equations, abstractions, or jargon.
In this episode, we try to, well, do something different. I'm actually having a conversation
with Garrett here. He's updating me on where his thinking has gone with respect to unifying physics.
Now, it's very unusual for anyone to try to unify physics, and I have a tremendous amount of respect
for Garrett, even though I don't think his theories are going to work. I make no secret
of this. I'm not saying anything behind his back, but he is, in some sense, Theodore Roosevelt's
man in the arena. He actually is trying to take on the general problem of the cosmos,
and even though I don't think he's succeeding, he has my profound admiration for simply
suiting up and trying. Most people, in fact, almost everyone I know, does not attempt to do
what he is doing. And for that, he has my admiration and respect. Now, with that admiration
and respect comes a desire, not to be mean, but to actually push him on his theory, because I don't
want to see him wasting his time. And I feel that when you're outside of the university system,
there's almost no one who takes your research seriously. So while there's an aspect of tongue
and cheek with respect to us being each other's arch nemeses, there's actually something quite
serious about it. I don't necessarily like the path that he's going down, and I don't know that I
really believe that he's going to get anywhere productive. But I do think that he's an inspiration
to us all simply for trying in an era where everyone else seems to have given up. I hope
you enjoy this episode, and I hope that you understand that it is an experiment. I'm trusting
you guys to listen in on something which is much closer to actual science than what you're usually
presented with. I hope you like it. Stay tuned.
You found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I'm here today with my arch nemesis,
physicist, Garrett Leasy. Garrett, welcome to the portal. Thanks for having me on, Eric. You're a brave
man. Well, I would say you're a brave man coming into the lion's den. So thank you for coming by.
All right. For those who don't know who you are or what this issue of being arch nemesis is about,
what could you do to inform our listeners and viewers about who you are and what our
relationship might be? All right. Well, we have many disturbing similarities in that we
did fairly well in school. We got our PhDs, but then we left academia,
and maintained an interest in fundamental physics and kept pursuing this on our own.
However, there are some distinctions in that you went into the finance world and I went into
being a surf bomb. Yes, that's not that similar. Also, you have a PhD in physics proper, whereas I
have one in mathematics. So I would say advantage, Leasy, but then I have one from a more typically
powerhouse school. You have one from one that's a little bit off of that main corridor that maybe
got up, caught up in string theory and the fads that propel the field. But I think what's been
very interesting to me is that in all of theoretical physics, which everyone is quite interested in,
you still find people publishing books on quantum theory and all of the spookiness, weirdness,
and beauty that constitutes theoretical physics. It feels to me that almost no one is pursuing
actual theories of everything. We talk about theories of everything all the time,
but that the courage to actually put forward anything that even remotely resembles the theory
of everything, almost nobody's willing to do that. Would you say that that's a fair statement?
Yeah, it's a very fair statement. The main reason for that is because it's such a hard problem
that you pretty much have to be a megalomaniac just to tackle it or to think you have a chance
of succeeding at it. I think that's a weird statement. If you're going to throw away your
life on issues of theoretical physics, what is it that you would imagine people would think that
they were doing? If you're not going for the brass ring, why enter that field?
I think that a lot of people in physics are doing the usual thing where they encounter a
problem and try to solve it and try to proceed incrementally. That's how actually I got wrapped
up in this is I identified a problem with electrons and their description in fundamental
physics. It was something about it that really I didn't like. It just didn't feel right to me
and I got wrapped up in solving that one aspect of this big picture. I didn't go off trying to
think, oh, I'm really going to tackle this problem of coming up with a theory of everything
because you have to be somewhat of a lunatic to take that on. It's like trying to prove some
theorem in mathematics that has been stagnant for hundreds of years. You're probably not going to
succeed and you'd probably just be frustrated with the attempt. You have to have a huge ego to
even think about it. Also, there's a lot of discouragement. Students are actively discouraged
from tackling such problems because the professors who came before them
and know a little bit more about the field know just how hard it is to make progress even on small
problems and that making progress on a huge one is just insurmountable. They try to actively
discourage their students from going into fundamental problems in physics because they
haven't had success themselves. They're trying to be protective of their students that way.
Maybe just to set this up, and I should say to regular listeners and viewers of the portal,
this is intended to be something of a transitional episode so that the entire podcast is an
experiment. Other people have shows and there's a concept of professionalism. I don't think that's
what we're striving for here at the portal. This is really untested. We're going to experiment
with our advertising models. We're going to experiment with what the traffic will bear when
it comes to intellectual discussions without spoon feeding everything to the audience, realizing
that some people may get left behind. In fact, the host may get left behind. We don't know.
No, it's quite possible. What we've done is we've done a series of interviews to begin the podcast
to just establish that we can have conversations that people want to tune into
and get great guests in that chair where people may not have even heard of the person before,
but hopefully walk away feeling enriched. However, that's not really the point of the podcast.
The point of the podcast is to explore new territory intellectually at maybe an academic level
outside of traditional channels. It has to do in part with my belief that
we don't really understand how much idea suppression has been going on for a very long
period of time within the standard institutions. In fact, I've created this thing. I've called
the disk, the distributed idea suppression complex. Its purpose is to make sure that ideas
do not suddenly catch fire and upend and disrupt previous structures. For example,
I would claim that string theory, which has absolutely dominated theoretical physics since
what, 1984? Yeah, since about then. It's about 35 years. It artificially consolidated the field
around a complex of ideas that did not have a huge signal coming from experiment
to try to steal home base. To understand that, you have to understand,
as I'm sure you do, the culture of particle physics at the time when string theory started
to grow, which is up through the 70s, there had been steady experimental results coming in
from particle accelerators where it was like a new particle every week that theorists were
having to really cooperate on as a community to jump in on and try to figure it out and exchange
ideas very rapidly. That was more the 50s and 60s. It was, but it continued all the way through the
70s. From that culture of community working together on information that's coming in a
steady stream, you got this culture of like, yeah, no, don't go do the other thing. It's a waste
of time. You really want to be working on what's hot because there's new information coming in
all the time. This is where the culture of string theory started. I was also more involved in the
culture of general relativity and gravity, which is a very different culture. It's much more slow
paced. You don't have new results coming in all the time. Everything's very, is much more casual.
Do you want to set this up a little bit for our audience? Sure. If I do a poor job. In essence,
the two great idea complexes in fundamental physics, not condensed matter physics or
astrophysics, but like whatever ground reality physics is, is the general relativistic complex
around the ideas of Einstein. Then there's the sort of quantum field theoretic complex,
or the quantum complex around the ideas of Bohr. It's sort of fair enough and plonk. I don't mean
to slight Dirac and others, but just to keep it simple, the children of Einstein and the children
of Bohr. The boring people went into particle physics. The boring people? You said they're
the children of Bohr. They're in this culture that's a very rapid fire, moving things along
as part of a community, whereas general relativity, the people from the Einstein community,
were more exploring different possibilities at their own pace. There is more of an exploratory
culture, and that's the culture that turned into loop quantum gravity.
First of all, I'm just going to begin arguing with you there. To me, the issue was that Einstein
put much more of the general relativistic picture in place, so there was less to do
for the descendants of Einstein. Because the quantum was considerably less tied up,
there was much more work. Through a system of selective pressures,
the more successful community in some sense left fewer descendants and they were less capable
because there was less for them to do. Then you had the quantum community start to attract the
real brains because there was lots of work for a period of time to go back and forth between
theory and experiment. What happened was that when you think about it as a whole,
that gravity has to be quantized. There are two ways of getting there. You can either start from
Bohr's children and quantum field theory and try to get from there to a quantum theory that
encompasses gravity, or you can start from the gravitational side and geometry and try to somehow
get quantum mechanics to play nice with this essentially classical geometric theory.
There were two very different approaches and two very different cultures.
I still have some disagreements, but I don't think I necessarily want to derail us.
All right. So anyway, the point I started with was that the string theory came out
of the particle physics community. When we say string theory, we mean the cultural explosion
that happened in 1984 rather than the original string revolution of, let's say, Veneziano,
which was much earlier. In the mid 1980s, there was a discovery called the anomaly cancellation,
where two very improbable things canceled each other. There was a theory that was given a green
light that was highly restrictive as to what could go in that spot. That result, the anomaly
cancellation, gave birth to a cultural phenomena, which was the sort of takeover of theoretical
physics by string theory. Right. I mean, it looks so promising at the time in the 80s.
I mean, they thought that, yes, it naturally encompasses gravity, and all we need to do
is find the right high dimensional manifold for our strings to vibrate in, and we'll immediately
recover all the properties of the particles of the standard model. We just have to find the right
one. We'll probably get this done by lunchtime wrapped up. I don't believe that story.
It didn't happen. That was what it sounded like. No, no, no, but I don't think that's
even what actually happened. I mean, I was in college during this period, and even though
that's the story that I would agree is told inside of the community, I'm not sure that
I fully believe it. If I go back to my own memories, something very different happened.
Well, it took a while to get everybody on the bandwagon.
I think something still different happened. I think that Ed Whitten showed up,
and that there was one human being. He's his own anomaly.
He was absolutely an anomaly. He came to Penn in, I don't know whether it was 83 or 84.
I left in 85. He started talking about what the world was in a way that none of the physicists
could actually follow because he was using ideas from differential geometry and from higher
mathematics in ways that most of the community couldn't track. He was saying things like,
the reason we have three copies of the kind of matter that makes up our world comes from the
characteristic numbers of a six-dimensional complex manifold found at every point in space and time.
These things were so mind-blowing. I mean, if our listeners can't exactly follow it,
they were in the same shoes as many people in the community. There was a voice that was
clearly coming from another planet, undoubtedly the most brilliant person I've ever met in my life,
the one person who continues to make me tremble when I hear his name or his voice,
and this person signed on big time to string theory in a way that was very coercive and seductive,
so even though the community understood why he was signing on, it was in part Whitten's endorsement
that really started to move the needle in my opinion.
Yeah, and it's stunning just to what degree that failed.
Okay, so say more.
Well, the string theory unification program, the idea that this description of all fundamental
particles and gravity and our entire universe would come from a model based on strings vibrating
in other higher dimensions. I mean, this unification program has failed. The vast majority of the
high-energy physics community has been working on it for over 30 years, and they've utterly failed
to deliver on that promise despite the high hopes and promises.
Well, and this has to do, and again, we can sort of do a small synopsis of the field.
The idea was the original hopes had been built around an idealized point particle concept where
hard little balls were kind of the naive model of particles, and then you had to smear them out
and do waves on waves from that point particle concept called second quantization or quantum
field theory. And string theory said, no, the fundamental unit should never have been a hard
little ball to begin with. It should have been modeled by something that was an as-if string,
obviously, and it wasn't string made out of atoms. It was some sort of mathematical version
abstract mathematical description of a surface inside another surface, essentially.
Right. And so this thing had a peculiar appeal to the children of Bohr that was not that appealing
to the children of Einstein. Would that be a fair description of it?
Yeah, for pretty subtle reasons, specifically anomaly cancellation and also the ability to
produce what appeared to be particle excitations from the string model.
Right. Now, that thing, that sudden shift in the community from regular quantum field theory,
from a plurality of different approaches, whether some of them had names like technicolor or
grand unification or supersymmetry, all of this seemed to get subsumed in this, I don't know,
a fad. It's hard to... It's like a giant rolling, what, catamari demarcy ball,
or it's just collecting everything that it touches and making it a part of itself.
That's right. And in fact, the claim was if we find something that isn't string theory,
we'll just find some way of including it and call it string theory.
So this was a bizarre... It was a sociological phenomena. It was a...
We would say the political economy of science was involved where who could get a job for their
students, whether or not the newspapers were going to challenge this or go along with it.
So you had reporters who had no idea what was going on, publishing these glowing
pieces about the string theorists and how they were going to wrap it all up.
And in essence, we have this concept in evolutionary theory called interference competition,
where one animal will attempt to out-compete the other by keeping it away from a watering hole.
So nobody else could afford to get nourished because the string theorists were saying all
the smart people are in string theory. It's the only game in town was the famous phrase.
I certainly encountered a lack of nourishment when I graduated in the 90s and I wasn't
interested in strings, but I was interested in high-energy physics.
Well, I think almost everybody was in that position. That is really the founding crime
for me in the string revolution. It was the desire to say that everyone who is not part of us is an
idiot. Yeah. Yeah. That's above and beyond normal physicist arrogance.
Above and beyond normal physicist arrogance. And I want to say also why I think I'm so
focused on theoretical physics as the most important endeavor that humans are engaged with.
I think there are three components to it and just see whether it resonates with you.
One is that this is the closest we get responsibly to asking why are we here,
what is it that we're made of? It is the thing that would best substitute for a religion
if you were able to understand what it was. The second thing is that it appears to be
