the secret powering our economy that very few people have really fully understood. It gave us
the worldwide web, the semiconductor, the electron shells that generated chemistry.
Nuclear power. Nuclear power, nuclear weapons, communications,
technology, electromagnetic, Wi-Fi, what have you.
If you want it and it invented theoretical physics, more or less created molecular biology.
That's probably a bit of a stretch, but the others certainly aren't.
If you look at the RNA Tie Club, the people in it were Teller, Feynman, Crick, people trained in
physics. In this telling of the tale, its second major feature of importance is that
it sort of created our modern economy. I don't think people have understood the extent to which
all of these things, the web semiconductors and even molecular biology really came out of theoretical
physics because of the third issue, which is I think even though I'm a mathematician or trained
in mathematics, I could make a pretty decent argument that this was the world's most impressive
intellectual community ever. It certainly seems to attract some of the greatest minds.
Well, I would say I would go even farther. I would say that because of the interplay between
the most beautiful mathematics, even according to mathematical standards,
and experimental discipline. You have this thing that's forcing you to go back and forth
between the purest of pure theory and the dirt and intuition and messiness of experiment.
I don't think anything else had that property so that it wasn't necessarily even that it just
attracted the best people, but it actually rewarded human intellectual achievement
like no other subject ever. It's also touching on something
that's a little bit different socially, which is the type of people who are attracted
to really hard problems in fundamental physics and modeling and really trying to get,
as you say, the source code of the universe. These often aren't very skilled people people.
They're not very socially oriented people for the most part.
Some are, some aren't.
But for the real intellectual heavy hitters, you're talking about people who walk among us
as aliens. You're talking about that they're not extremely social. They're not very focused on
issues with other human beings. Physics, this understanding of our universe through mathematics
is really otherworldly pursuit. It's not like law, where laws are made up by humans and discussed
in front of humans and compared in front of humans. That has its own intricacies and difficulties
and puzzles, but theoretical physics, you're working at something that's not related to humans
directly. Any intelligent beings in this universe that advance to a certain state are going to be
involved in studying physics, and it's going to be the same physics with some of the same
mathematics and the same mathematical tools. It's something that exists independent of humanity.
So if you're not a huge fan of human beings, but you really like puzzles and you're good at math,
physics is very attractive because it's the greatest puzzle there is in our universe.
And it exists completely independent of humanity. And yet humans will be able to work on it and
make progress, which is freaking amazing. It's amazing the degree to which humans have
understood our reality. And I think we're getting close to having a complete picture of it.
Three classes of greatest puzzles. I could tell a story that biology is the greatest
puzzle because without something to care about the universe in which it lives,
this is all completely sterile to begin with. And I can also make a different case for mathematics,
which is that physics is but one example of a universe. We don't know if there are other
universes that could be constructed. So biology, I agree, it's intricate and it can be a pure
pursuit, but it's not pure in the sense that so much of the foundations of biology are somewhat
arbitrary. Whether DNA helix is going to spiral to the left or the right and what its chemical
components are precisely, that might vary. Other planets, other civilizations, biology is going
to be different. You could make a decent argument that systems of selective pressures, as described
by Darwin and Wallace, might be conserved even if you didn't have carbon-based life.
There will be convergent evolution, of course, but the details will be slightly different. So
if you're studying biology, by the time you get up to something like cells or animals,
it's going to be wildly different in different places in the galaxy. Whereas physics is the
same everywhere. It's independent of biology and it's independent of humanity. And then when
you go to mathematics, the pursuit of mathematics, like how things get proved
and how structures get built up through axioms that are then proved, it's a larger playing field
than physics. So within that huge arena of possible mathematical structures, we see appear to live in
one mathematical structure. So a physicist only has to focus on the mathematics that
describes reality. By the way, I share your intuition that in a certain sense,
this is the best and most interesting place to play, in part because there's this very weird
feature that we've seemingly unearthed about the physical universe, which is that it unexpectedly
has this bizarrely good taste about what to care about within. It's as if you let it loose in the
mathematical jewelry store and it selects only the finest pieces.
Yeah. And we have to wonder if that's, is that just our human take on it? Because our human
aesthetics have evolved within this beautiful world and universe. So is it that, I mean,
Douglas Adams described the anthropic principle as a puddle of water, right? Thinking it's like,
wow, this hole I'm in is just perfectly formed to my shape, right? Isn't it wonderful how it
just fits me so perfectly and it's so comfortable here, just like it was made for me? Well, it's
like, no, the puddle got there and filled the shape of the hole. I mean, the water got there
and filled that shape. And as humans, we ended up here and we filled this niche and our aesthetic
taste was shaped by what's around us, including the mathematics that underlies the physics of this
universe. And so when we look at the universe, you might say, oh, no, maybe it's just our taste
evolved within this universe. So this is why we find physics aesthetically pleasing.
Do you actually believe what you're saying right now?
No, I think it's wrong.
I mean, I think this is so cowardly.
I know, I agree. And I have to wonder about it. I have to, I mean,
I understand, I have to pay lip service, you know, it's not just lip service. I think about this.
I mean, I think, I mean, is it really my proclivities have been shaped by my environment in order to
think this? Because I have to question everything all the time. Sure. Mostly because I don't talk
to enough other people. But also it's because, you know, when you're questioning things and
you're delving with fundamental building blocks, you want to make sure as you build things up that
you have things right. And in looking at the fundamental pieces of physics, the fundamental
mathematical physics, I really think that the mathematical pieces, as you say, are the ones
that are extraordinarily beautiful. And it's not just my aesthetic taste has been shaped by evolution
that causes me to think that. I really think objectively, these are very pretty mathematical
objects underlying our physical reality. Yeah, I think we just lack the courage to say
what this appears to be, which is there is something that we do not understand about the
universe in which it is selected for the most mysterious, most beautiful stuff
with which to write what we, I mean, the closest thing we have to source code.
We don't, we're not at the source code yet. We're not quite at that layer.
Right. But you can smell it, can't you? Well, I mean, yes and no.
It feels close. I think it's almost provably close. But,
but there's a caveat to that, which is I think we're almost at the end of this chapter.
And it does feel like it could easily be the final chapter. And by the way, we should be,
we should clarify that when we, when we talk about a theory of everything,
we don't mean a theory that once understood could explain everything you see in your daily
universe. Right. Love is still going to be a mystery, of course. Oh God, you really did that?
Of course I did. But yeah, no, but I mean. Ladies file.
Form a single file line. There's, there's, there's evidence. I mean,
there, in our, in our understanding of physics, as we've learned more particles,
yeah, the fundamental particles we've learned about appear to be filling out a complete set.
I mean, we've, you know, when you, when you predict that a tau quark should exist.
Right. Or no, that a tau lepton should exist. Or you, you figure out that, you know,
it completes the set. It's a third generation. It's complete.
Right. So we seem to be completing our set of fundamental particles.
So we have three sets of Lego. Yeah. Right. The first generation,
second generation and third generation of matter. And all the pieces in each generation are mirrored
in the other two generations, just a different mass scales so far. That's what it looks like.
Well, it's not just so far. It's like we have, we have reasons to know that there aren't,
there aren't more. I mean, from, from how the big bang set matter loose in the universe,
we know that there aren't more than three generations up to a certain very high energy.
Well, we've known a lot of things Garrett that have turned out to be wrong.
Well, but this is really filling out a pretty complete pattern.
I don't dispute, but I just, except for this minor point of dark matter still being completely
unknown for the most part. Yeah. I, I mean, I guess my discomfort with this comes from the
fact that knowing the history, I know how we've been wrong. And I also know how we haven't had
the courage of our convictions. And one of the things that really, you know,
occupies my mind is why we're not more definite about things that I think we have very good,
good reason to believe. And we're so definite about things that sort of scare me where we say,
I know that it can't be other than this. And yet it has, we've been, we've been shown up multiple
times that we've got two different directives telling us to be both more confident and more
humble. The thing that has affected both, both you and myself most profoundly is the existence
of something called spinners at the core of our understanding of matter. Do you want to say a
little bit about what that is, why you think it's affected you and me as well and why perhaps it
hasn't had the same emotional and intellectual impact on the community? Right. I mean, when you're
basically, when physicists more or less completed what's called the standard model of particle
physics, right? You have, you have the, the known forces in physics, like the electromagnetic force,
the weak force and the strong force, as well as the force of gravity. And then you have the,
the matter particles, which are electrons and quarks and neutrinos and other generations of
these that, that form, you know, what are called the fermions. Okay. And these are called the
matter particles. And they have mass because of the interaction with the Higgs boson,
right? Which is sort of in between. That's not going to make sense to people. It's not. All right.
But anyway, the, the force particles behave differently as elementary particles under
rotations than the matter particles. All right. So these matter particles, they, you have to
basically rotate them 720 degrees to return them to their original state. All right. Whereas most
objects, you rotate it and you rotate it 360 degrees and you get back to where you started.
All right. But spinners are different. Right. And they, they behave in a very specific way. And
there's a very specific way of describing them mathematically. But it's described in an unusual
way. It's described as a, as a column of complex numbers or a column matrix, if you like, that's
acted on by a rotation matrix that tells you specifically how these particles transform under
rotation. Honestly, that wouldn't make any sense to me. And I don't think I can help all of my
audience to get it. This is the thing. So, so this is the way physicists are introduced to a
description of electrons. Well, look, can I just try to play with something while we're talking
about this in this way? Well, you can. Can I hand it off to you in about 10 seconds? No, you finish
it out. All right. So I found this description to be incredibly unsatisfying. All right. Because
the rest of physics is not described this way. Right. You don't introduce a fundamental field
that transforms a certain way into rotations. That's not how, you know, why would the universe do
that? It's not elegant. It's not, it's not geometric. Right. It seems sort of arbitrary.
Why would the universe have spinners in it? Well, it turns out that because if you, if you
describe general relativity as curving four dimensional space time, describe gravity,
and you describe forces as gauge fields, right? Both of those are very geometric descriptions.
They're very elegant mathematically. And then you describe physics, the fermions as spinners,
it looks like a Cluj. It just, it doesn't fit with the other theories. But that's why I left
physics to solve this problem. I wanted to know why spinners geometrically. And no one else was
interested in the problem. No one else thought it was a problem. They're like, yeah, they, they
transform this way. And, and maybe it comes from strings. And that's all you get. And it's like,
no, that's totally unsatisfying. If, if gravity is described geometrically and are all our other
forces as described geometrically, the universe is just one thing. It's right there in the name.
I mean, you know, is one verse is turning. We have, we have this one turning thing we call the
universe. And it's just one mathematical object. And if this, if we have different particles,
they have to be aspects of this one mathematical object. Why would this mathematical object have
spinners as an aspect of them? It was a huge mystery to me. I wanted to go solve it. No one
else even acknowledged it was a problem. And you, you also tackled this. This also bothered you.
Well, there was a, so this is the very difficult part of what the portal is supposed to be. And I,
I have the feeling that we've probably left a lot of our listeners behind, but I've, I've said that
we're going to have to take some risks. And this is going to be one of them. So the way I see it,
some, some of our listeners are also viewers, right? And we have in studio,
these beautiful Klein bottles from ACME Klein bottle and Cliff Stoll out of Oakland, I guess,
these objects that I'm holding up, or you can look up Klein bottles on the, on the web,
have this very odd property that they are covered, if you will, by the surface of a donut. If the
surface of the donut wraps around this object twice, and we call this a double cover. Now,
the idea that you have some very strange object with no inside and outside called a Klein bottle,
but that it's wrapped twice by some object, which has different properties, namely the surface of
a donut called a torus. The rotations of our three dimensional space bizarrely have some
object that covers them twice, just as a donut covers a Klein bottle twice. So when we talk
this crazy language about, you have to rotate an object more than 360 degrees for it to come back
to itself. This is somewhat of garbage language that we've taught people to understand, where we're
not really showing them what's behind the curtain. We're not showing them that there are the rotations
of a rigid three dimensional space. And then there's this thing that covers those rotations
twice called the spin group. And that spin group is the thing that has the property that it acts
on these things called spinners. So this is a hidden level of structure that you would not
know was there just from three dimensional space. There's some secret trapped in three
dimensional space that is very well hidden. And if we weren't at a very high level of mathematics
or physics, you would never know that spinners even exist to play with. Right. I mean, it comes
out of representation theory, but at that once again, that's a fairly high level of mathematics
you have to get to to even see that these things exist. And for all of the other basic kinds of
symmetries, we don't have these hidden representations. We don't have these hidden spaces
that have these bizarre properties. It's only for these things called orthogonal groups. So it's a
very special property of real Euclidean rigid space that spinners are there to be found.
And not only does nature find them, she bases all of matter around the hidden object that can't
easily be seen or deduced, which is a total mind job. Right. And the math community has in fact
sort of split between people who think, Hey, we can describe these things mathematically. So
our work is done versus other people who believe there's something about spinners that just it
continues to surprise us. We don't understand where they came from. They're a hidden feature of the
universe and they keep giving in this very mysterious fashion. Yeah. And the most of the
general relativists who came at this problem just would not want to touch it because it's too
foreign to them. And the people who came into it from the particle physics side thought it wasn't
a problem. It's this field transforms a certain way. It seems perfectly well described to me.
See, that doesn't, this doesn't make sense to me at all. So it didn't make sense to me either,
Eric. That's why. But let me give you an argument as to why this is a really,
