Was that with the millipedes instead of peeds? Yeah, and shark infested water.
Oh, sure. That's great. Rough corals.
But yeah, basically, I have a scientist visit and take people out to have fun around the island
and really enjoy a good environment where they're free to explore ideas that might be a little bit
on the dangerous side to work on while they're in the confines of academia and among their
normal colleagues. It's a place where you can explore a little bit wilder ideas.
And I'm really excited to grow this community by starting to design things to build on the
15 acres I've got. That's really a nice location. So I've been growing things slowly up here,
and I'm really looking forward to some more progress with it and growing this community.
And it's also been a nice balance against working on physics directly, because it's
guaranteed success. I mean, when you have a place in Maui for scientists to come hang out and have
a good time, that's going to happen. And also, it keeps me entertained to have good people
coming through. That's fantastic. So it works out for yourself. I'm curious from your perspective,
how do you see the two of us as being divided in our approaches to the community? I would
definitely say that I seem to be more connected to the sensibilities of the elite science community.
I know that I can get their noses out of joint, but I track them very carefully.
Yeah, you had a lot of fights with those guys. Okay.
Yeah, whereas I didn't. So our academic lineages are quite different. I went to a smaller school.
I went to UC San Diego. I didn't go to Harvard. But my advisor there in particle physics was
Roger Dashin, but he passed away while I was a graduate student. And I finished up my dissertation
under Henry Barbinal, who also had a background in particle physics, but it changed in nonlinear
dynamics. But in some sense, you were a self-advised PhD. Yeah, so I was very much self-directed.
Henry gave me the freedom to go explore whatever the heck I wanted. I had an extraordinary amount
of freedom as a graduate student. And I hit this problem with spinners. And that's what I wanted
to tackle. I want to figure out what they were geometrically. And no one else was interested
in that problem. But through academia, I was a straight A student. I did really well. I never
had any big conflicts. Was it easy for you? Yeah, it was. I spent a lot of time surfing. I was
living on the beach in La Jolla. It was beautiful. It was the greatest time of my life. Okay.
People talk about being in a small pond, big fish in a small pond, going to a bigger pond,
you feel humbled. I never really had that experience. I was pretty close to the top
of my class and really happy about it, how everything was going. Everything was great.
I got my PhD. But there was no way I was going to get a job trying to understand the geometry
of spinners when everybody else was doing string theory. So you had already accepted
that you were unemployable? Yeah, I was totally unemployable. But I invested in Apple stock in
the 90s. So I had a few money. So I said, see you guys. Let me go surf and Maui and work on
this stuff on my own. Whereas you had a very different experience. So you were in Harvard
in the math department studying mathematical physics. And as far as I know, you were making
some really unusual breakthroughs that were very ahead of their time. But you weren't welcomed by
the head people there. And so you had a conflict from the get-go.
Well, I had a very serious dispute about something in mathematics, which were called the
self-dual equations, self-dual Yang-Mills equations, which were related to the regular
Yang-Mills equations, which are the equations of force in the standard model. But the self-dual
Yang-Mills equations were sort of a square root of those equations. And they were very difficult
to work with and to solve. And I was very confused as to why people were investing in this particular
form of these equations when it felt to me that we hadn't asked what constellation of equations
these new equations belong to. And I'd propose, again, spinners as a means of changing the
equations and was told that, I mean, the exact quote was something like, if spinners had anything
to do with the story Nigel, who was Nigel Hitchin, would have told us. It was just completely,
it was bananas. And then I got into this issue that, well, spinners have to be quantized as
fermions. They have to be treated as if they were matter inside of quantum field theory.
But this was not, we weren't doing quantum field theory. We were just doing classical geometry
of a kind. And so none of the arguments, I put forward the set of equations, which later got
recognized and completely changed the field, which came through Ed Whitton and this guy called Natty
Cyberg, both of them now professors at the Institute. And there was just no room to question
why everybody was struggling with these almost intractable equations and just getting great
results, but with so much effort and work. So that was like a very weird story whereby,
you know, I think that by 1994, the Harvard department had woken up to the fact that it
was not using the right equations. And I'd been actually proposing several sets of different
equations. But that, you know, when this all, you know, came about late 80s, early 90s,
there was just no way to have a productive conversation about it.
Right. So you found yourself at odds with the people you were talking with and you decided
to go into finance instead? Or how'd that happen? No, I mean, I wanted, I was trying to get back
to physics and the, you know, I was proposing, I had proposed three sets of equations,
one of which had turned out to have been done by somebody else in some place that I didn't
know anything about, one of which later gets done by Cyberg and Whitton, and then another set of
equations that I wanted to connect to the actual standard model. And the department was just very
concerned that this didn't really have anything to do with actual physics. It was sort of a
coincidence in their mind that something that was vaguely physics-y was having great topological
results. And so there was this, you know, this fear, and I was sent to a guy named Sydney Coleman,
who was a great quantum theorist, and he was much more encouraging than the Harvard Math Department.
Yeah, Sydney Coleman was a great guy. I mean, an unbelievable human being. I had two memories
of him, one of which was that he had all the time in the world for people who had no idea what they
were doing, and the other was that he didn't suffer fools gladly. And then I realized that
those are two contradictory images. And I unearthed old footage of him. He gave this brilliant
lecture called Quantum Mechanics in Your Face to try to make the quantum... Have you ever seen
this thing? I have not. Oh, it's a work of art. You'd love it. And it turns out both of these
things were really true about him, that he... If you were full of yourself and you were wrong,
he would just cut you up into little pieces. But if you said, I don't quite understand this,
he had all the time in the world to be the greatest of teachers.
No, I mean, one of the marks of a good scientist is humility.
No. One of the marks of a good scientist is a dialectic between arrogance and humility.
If you don't have... I think that's a more subtle and accurate way of putting it.
Yeah. Well, no, I just... I worry about us extolling the virtues of the humble, the meat,
the self-effacing, and it's just like, that's not where the magic happens. The magic happens.
You have to have had the arrogance to tackle hard problems and made some progress,
but then been kicked back by something that didn't work right. And after enough of that,
you develop some humility, but you still have to maintain the arrogance to get anywhere.
So how do you feel currently about the community? Like the professional community,
you have to know that they regard you with very...
Well, I know what's going on. I mean, I got a lot of contempt from
strength theorists for getting attention, for putting forward a mathematical model of
reality that wasn't strengths and it wasn't complete. It was a model that was proposed
that had problems with it and I was forthcoming with the problems in it, but I was still saying,
yeah, this seems like it's making progress towards the description of reality and has
nothing to do with strengths. And that said, alarm bells off all over the place.
It said off alarm bells for either it's a threat or this guy's a complete crackpot,
which is more likely. And I got criticisms for both.
I don't think, if I were to steal me in their perspective, and again, you know that I don't
share it and I'm willing to fight them. And as I did when you first encountered what I called
their immune system in a gentleman known as Jacques Dissler, I'm willing to stand up for
what it is you're trying to do, but I do think that we have to give them their due before we
say what's wrong with their perspective. Their perspective is there are lots of constraints
that one learns are very difficult to evade when you immerse yourself in standard quantum field
theory. Like they know what it is that is demotivating them. It's all the no-go theorems
and the intricacies. And the reason they got crazy about string theory, first of all, I'm
convinced that it was a way of evading the real problems in physics. It gave them something to
do. It's like war games. It's an amazing period of peace. It gives you something to do to keep
your chops up that is different from the thing you're supposed to be doing. And
what they were objecting to is to say, this guy doesn't understand all the things that have to
go right in order to have an improvement on the theory. From our perspective, how dare he
blithely saunter forth if we ignored all the constraints on us, we could have fun proposing
all sorts of things that also won't work. That was really the responsible version of their critique.
Now, the irresponsible version of their critique is, hey, we have something that isn't working very
well. How dare he take something that isn't working very well and get attention and maybe funding
or maybe destroy the sense that there's only one game in town. And I was separately lobbying you
and them for different things. I wanted you to just say the words. I understand these are the
constraints that will have to be satisfied and I don't have answers and I don't know how difficult
they'll be to find, but I don't want to be demotivated from the get-go. So please don't
immediately tell me all the no-go theorems because any successful theory will probably have to have
a period where it's flying in the face of no-go theorem. So that's what I wanted to hear from you.
Right. I believe I said those things scattered over several interviews at the time.
Somewhat, but I think that what they don't intuit is that you understand how significant
the negative results are. The no-go theorems, as they're called, are pretty profound.
Right. I mean, there's a theorem called the Coleman-Mondula theorem that prohibits the
unification of gravity with the other forces. I just blew right through that because it didn't
seem to apply in what I was doing. Well, I mean, really, it prohibits naive unification of
matter and force and there's a way of evading it using this thing called supersymmetry.
Right. And supersymmetry is this very weird thing that doesn't have that much mathematical
beauty behind it so the mathematicians know about it. They study it a little bit,
but they're not bananas over it. Yeah, I'm not either.
The natural world doesn't seem to use it in the expected way, but it does so much for theoretical
physics that despite the fact that math is just kind of ho-hum on it and that the natural world
doesn't seem to be using it, it doesn't stop the theoretical physics community from embracing that
because it evades this dreaded no-go theorem. Right. It stopped me from embracing it.
I never embraced supersymmetry. I never liked it.
But you didn't evade the problem with it either. I mean, in other words-
No, I got around it.
You think you really got around it?
The Coleman-Mondula theorem, yeah. It requires as one of its axioms that you have to have,
it talks about properties of the scattering of particles and you have to have a spacetime
which the scattering occurs. In the theory I put forward, the spacetime comes out after
the symmetry breaking between gravity and forces. So it's only after the symmetry breaking happens
when the unification is no longer there. Yeah, I'm sure that-
That you have spacetime- I don't-
Then in that context, the theorem applies. But before the breaking, it doesn't apply.
But my guess is, and I could be wrong about this because I haven't studied exactly what
you're talking about, that what's going to happen is that even with how you claim this
arises in your theory, they're going to say in whatever approximation is going to be applied
to relatively flat spacetimes close to Minkowski space, that if you've really evaded it in some
super meaningful way, you should be able to tell us some theorem about good old quantum field theory
in relatively flat spacetime. Right. Well, I mean, it evades it by not satisfying the axioms of the
theorem. Do you know what I'm trying to get at? It's not evading it in some fantastic way.
You should be able to tell us something really new if you're underlying theory
truly unifies force and matter. Right. It would be the case that the approximation of it
that is found in ordinary regions that look close to flat, right, where the usual rules of
quantum field theory apply. It should be telling us something wildly new about that. Can you tell
us a new theorem about how it would appear to unify force and matter in a region that looks
close to classical quantum field theory, to standard quantum field theory? Well, I mean,
once the theory is advanced to the stage where you can get to that description,
yeah, then that would happen. But in the initial stages, all you can see for
certain is that it's not violating the theorem. I don't know enough about how we can talk about
it after this. Okay, sure. But anyway, so those were my, I had these wishes for you,
and then I had the wishes for the community, which is that they would stop being pricks
about the whole thing and that they would say, look, we can't keep telling everybody who's not
a string theory, string theorist, that their theory is dead on arrival and keep saying, well,
we know that our theory doesn't appear to be living in four dimensions and appears to have
a bunch of stuff that we don't want and not necessarily all the stuff that we do want. And
maybe there's a huge landscape of different theories that would be at this point. I don't
think string theory is living at all. I think it's an X theory. I think it's pining for the
fjords. I mean, I've seen nothing but decline since I left this train wreck.
Well, this is the thing is it refuses to take stock of itself and it took a lot more minds than one.
I think that's happening. Yeah. Certainly the graduate students who are coming up
are seeing what's going on with string theory and they're taking stock of the field and they're
going in other directions. So where do we go next? I mean, I actually view it as highly
demotivating that in essence, every new theory is dead on arrival because of the number of things.
Can we agree that physics has gotten incredibly difficult? It has. It's difficult by virtue
of being so successful. I mean, the- You can smell that we're almost at the end at least of this
chapter and we've exhausted everything that we know that has worked previously, which is like
to vary the assumptions a little bit on everything. That's been spectacularly successful
and now it doesn't work anymore and it hasn't worked for almost 50 years.
Right. It's incredibly frustrating. I think that's why most people are wise to stay the
hell away from it. I think a lot of the smarter minds are going into machine learning or even
biophysics or just into other fields or even condensed matter.
How do you feel about that? I feel like I'm out in an island in the middle of the Pacific
watching it unfold from afar. Well, I work on the puzzle myself in my own different way.
You're having fun. Yeah. That's my prime directive is have fun.
Is to have fun. And do you think that inducing other people to do this is kind of like maybe
the big programs fall apart and we start just becoming individuals trying crazy strategies
that probably won't work? Yeah. I mean, there are undergraduate textbooks and
undergraduate courses on string theory. Yeah. Okay. And people from undergraduates,
and there's this culture of arrogance saying string theory is the pinnacle of physics.
Right. And people are coming up to that and they're becoming, and if you're really working on
fundamental physics and the whole area of string theory has gotten so large in the
amount of research done that it just takes an enormous amount of intellectual effort to consume
it and to get up to speed to what the current status is of the field. And by the time you're
there, you're so invested that, of course, what you want to do is go and continue a postdoc
in string theory when you graduate. And there are hundreds of students who are coming up this
way. And when they get there, they go to HEP, like I did this morning, and they look at the job.
The high energy physics theory section of this thing called the archive where
all the new papers are found every day. Yeah. And this high energy physics archive also has a
