a universe of pure force rather than a universe divided between force and matter. You're actually,
the problem is, is the kind of unification it would create would be completely forced unification
with an absence of matters. You'd be dragging matter, if you will, spinners.
You're focusing on a problem that was, you know, that was solved in a paper in 2010,
but it's very simply that fermions are orthogonal to space time, whereas,
you know, the force fields, the boson fields are a long space time.
But the same way the, the same way if you have two force fields that are a long space time,
but in different directions, they would anti commute, right?
So what you're doing is you're using space time, if you will, which is again, kind of a classical
Einsteinian concept to break apart a unified system, which was the intention in unification to begin
with. And then you're going to try to treat these two things naturally according to two totally
different prescriptions. That's, you're violating, I mean, in some sense, any kind of naturality
that you just picked up in the unification to begin with. In a sense, yeah, but the symmetry
has to break somehow. Does it do it in a natural, I mean, this doesn't feel, this feels like a push.
Yeah, probably not. It allows it. It doesn't seem completely natural, but it does allow it.
Well, but the whole point of the thing I thought was to take the naturality and what we had understood
about the nature of these exceptional objects and to say, hey, these things actually unify
beautifully inside of these very unusual, elegant mathematical structures.
They do, but it was too small. As you said, it was too small because it didn't correctly
contain three generations of matter. And because it can't correctly portray quantum field theory.
But once you go to the larger generalized league groups, it can't.
Well, you know, if this was a startup, what you're saying is that the business is going great,
but it's just run out of money and I need a fresh infusion of cash. No, I'm not kidding.
This is sounding like an intellectual check. It's round B funding.
Series B. I see. Is it cash flow positive? Not yet. I mean, put the paper out yet.
Okay. So there's, I mean, I look, it's not a question that I need to see the paper or that
you're not allowed to take out more loans, but are you getting more? I mean, I know you to be,
look, I hate to say this, but I have defended you to the regular community with some frequency
because I have viewed you as an honest broker for your own stuff.
I don't think you're trying to get away with something. I think what you're trying to do
is you're trying to say, I need to take some advances, which I think, and I hope I can pay
back, which I think is an admirable and honorable way to do physics. Are you worried about your
own theory? Are you worried that you're going to infinite dimensions in the way that you've
been forced to modify on several previous occasions and that in fact this is not going to close?
I am unusually confident that I'm on the right track with this one.
Really? Yeah.
There are too many things matching up in the right way.
This doesn't sound good, Garrett. I gotta be honest with you.
But you see, I will put a paper out. Yeah. Okay. And you know, people may not find it
interesting or they might find it really interesting. Well, I wish you the best of luck,
but I have to tell you that I do think that the problems in this program
again, I should just be honest about it. I thought that the choice of E8 was so natural
that they're really one of two choices that I can see as being the way to go if you're going to
avoid the usual paths in research into fundamental physics. One is that you start with the most
beautiful intricate object you can find and then you find the intricacies of the natural world
somehow living inside of the intricacies which occurred naturally. That would be the E8.
That's the top-down view and it's quite nice to look at it that way.
The bottom up view is that somehow you start with something that's practically lifeless,
which I've analogized to a fertilized egg and somehow it bootstraps itself into this weird
intricate and baroque world that we find ourselves in and the universe autocatalyses from almost
nothing. These are the two basic approaches that I can imagine that would not strain the concept
of a theory of everything. Right. We both engage in both of these, but once you've used this bottom
up approach starting with your fertilized egg and getting up into more and more complexity,
then you start to see a complete object after you've expanded it out. Sorry, you view yourself
as exploring the concept of going from the bottom up. What is it that you've done that has that
character? Starting from gravity and particle physics and how they can be matched up together
in a way that brings spinners about natural. Okay, that's not very simple at all. Well,
I know gravity is already, you're talking about curvature of a space-time manifold.
It's beautiful stuff though. I love it. It's absolutely gorgeous. I don't think we're
divided by that, but when it comes to breaking up this object called the curvature tensor into
three different pieces, throwing one of them away called the vial curvature and then fine-tuning
the other two to be equal to the matter and energy in the universe, there's a lot of stuff that's
going into that story that isn't, that's an intricate story. Then the other story is even
worse and weirder. You're smuggling in a ton of complexity. When I say fertilized egg,
I'm thinking at the level of cytology, but at the level of the actual DNA, that's incredibly
rich. Maybe it's a bad analogy because it's not bootstrapping itself out of nothing.
You're smuggling in a ton of intricacy. But you have to look in both directions. You have to
look from the bottom up and then once you can see the larger picture, then you have to look again
from the top down. If going that way from the top down doesn't match up very well with what
you did to get there, then you have to go further and see if you can get a different bigger picture.
It's the only way forward.
Yeah, but I'm going to be honest. I feel like something has run into a wall
and there's the sense that how could this beautiful structure not be right? It doesn't
feel to me like-
It's insufficient.
Yeah.
Yeah. But there are larger structures that are not finite dimensional, but there are still
lead groups and exceptional lead groups. They're just generalized infinite dimensional lead
groups that contain E8 as a substructure and they're beautiful. They're just as beautiful,
if not more so.
I think that the problem is is that we have this mutual friend Sabine Haasenfelder. Sabine
has this very strange feature of her personality that she needs to tell the truth at scale.
Well, Sabine is a scientist and a scientist, you know, engaging the truth at all costs.
Yes.
But serve our modus operandi.
Well, I find it very interesting that almost no one has followed Sabine's lead.
I think it's Sabine.
Sabine?
Yeah.
Okay. From her perspective, beauty has led theoretical physics astray.
Right.
Now, I've tangled with her. My claim is that the string theory community, which has generally
hoovered up the most brilliant minds, but turned them into kind of almost cult-like members,
which are exploring some structure, but I just don't, it's similar to E8 in the sense that I'm
not positive that it's the structure of our world. It has some beauty and some consistency,
but I'm not positive that that's its reason for being. And because that argument has been so
abusive and it's just been, it's been abused against other people that our work is beautiful.
And then when those outsiders look at it, doesn't look like what you're doing is that beautiful
at all. She's gone against beauty as a means of trying to figure out what's true and what isn't.
I'm concerned that you're falling prey to the siren of beauty where you're not coupling,
you're not, things that are beautiful that, there are many things that are beautiful that
don't exist to do what you think they're there to do.
Right. Well, that's definitely true. I'm definitely inspired by beautiful mathematical
objects. When I start exploring an area of mathematics and I start to see its intricacies
and its connection to fundamental physics, I am led to think that there might be something
there based on aesthetics. And I've also discussed this with Sabina, who I think is great and her
points are wonderful, but I would be lost if I didn't have this aesthetic sense as a guide.
Well, let's take an example like the hydrogen atom. So you've got one proton at the center of a
hydrogen atom and you have all of the electron shells in quantum theory that are generated by
the Coulomb potential that comes off of that nucleus, right? Right. Okay.
Okay. That story of chemistry is just being these perfectly spherical electron shells
works pretty well. Well, you've got the other orbitals, you know, P orbitals, S orbitals,
D orbitals, all these things. Yeah. Yeah. In terms of the representation theory of something we'd
call spin three that gives the symmetries of the system. That story is not, it is absolutely
gorgeous. It's beautiful and it works pretty darn well, but it starts to fall apart. The larger
the atoms are, the more neutrons and protons are stuck together in the nucleus. It gets much
more subtle. Yeah. Well, it's a perfectly beautiful story that isn't the right story. It's not the
true story. It's very close to a true story. It's suggestive. It's indicative, but it isn't actually
the true story itself. So you have to be very careful in my mind that you don't fall into the trap
of thinking that the hydrogen atom sort of generalizes its perfection is simply the story
of chemistry. Right. Of course. They're much more complex elements and then grouped into molecules
and there's all sorts of things that go into that sort of chemistry. Well, but don't you have the
same situation in theoretical physics where you have certain kinds of beauty that are incredibly
pure, that actually kind of fall apart under scrutiny and you have other kinds of beauty that
seem to fall apart, but actually go the distance. I'm thinking about Dirac's
discovery of antimatter as the corresponding solutions to the matter solution. Right. Didn't
you usually think that was that the anti electrons were actually protons? Because they only knew of
those two particles. And then Heisenberg tried to pop his bubble and said, you know. You actually
have a new particle here. Well, no. He said that the proton was way too heavy to be the
anti particle mirror of the electron. And I think Dirac sort of recanted, but Dirac should have
had the courage of his convictions and said, I predict that there will be two new particles,
an anti proton and an anti electron, which was called the positron. And both of those things
turned out to be true. Yeah. And that's considered a victory for the aesthetic of beauty in mathematical
physics. Yes, but there was an intermediate situation in which the beauty led Dirac astray
because he wanted to shoehorn his theory into the preexisting world that was understood.
That's right. So it's important to be cautious and careful, but not too cautious. So if the
mathematics is actually telling you something, you want to listen to it. What's the mathematics
telling you? It's telling me that I think I've got the first handle on a geometric description
of quantum field theory. I say this out of love and I hope not envy. I'm super concerned that
you can see the problems from here and that rather than just going to infinite dimensions
and saying that quantum field theory requires a jump from finite to infinite dimensions,
you can say, look, I am fighting the fact that the beautiful unification that I found
actually is going to be challenged at the quantum level where that beauty becomes my enemy.
I've never put it that way. I know, because what you did is you took a theory, I mean,
to be honest, there's a different set of objects called the exceptional isomorphisms,
which aren't the exceptional E groups that have the exact same property that you found,
where you take something from the force universe. Let's say there's some object called spin six,
which by an exceptional isomorphism is equivalent to some other object, surprisingly,
called SU four. And you can take the spinners of spin six and find out that they are just the
four dimensional object from SU four and smush them together and you get an analog of E eight.
It is also probably not used by the physical universe in any way that we
think of as being important. I don't think that feature is what you think it is.
Right, but they're a vast world of mathematical possibilities out here and I think we need more
people. I totally agree with you that we need more people fanning out and trying things that
look like they won't work. So we need a more exploratory culture. We need a more exploratory
culture and we need to be forgiving. What we don't need to do is to fool ourselves when we start
getting the sense that maybe this stuff doesn't actually work. I mean, it just feels to me like
I can sort of see what the next set of problems are going to be and I would be remiss if I didn't
say them at the beginning. Sure. But you can't really dig into this stuff until you see the
mathematical details of it. And this gets back to an issue of the question of how science should
be organized. So we've talked about how difficult it is to do science inside of the institutions
because there is such a pressure economically to do whatever is fashionable, to get lots of
results, to publish continuously. Can we talk a little bit about what happens when we try to do
science outside of the institutions? Both of us have, and I think people will be very surprised
to hear it, but rather critical of how hard it is to do science when you're not part of the
standard community. Right. I mean, I think in some sense it is essential to stay connected
with the scientific community even when you're exploring out almost entirely on your own.
One thing that has to happen is you have to have an extreme set of internal checks
on your own progress. And because science is extremely frustrating to work on, most of the
pathways you follow end up being dead ends. And it can be really frustrating. So in doing that,
if you're going to work outside academia, you also need an extremely strong support system and a
healthy life independent of the science you're working on. So you need to have good support from
friends and family, good relationships. You need to have confidence in your ability to support
yourself and that frees up your time if you're really going to work on stuff outside of academia
on your own. I've been fortunate enough to build and to have those things. I feel really lucky to
be able to do that. And I think I've had a really good life that way. But if you're going to do
that, you need to be really careful about it. Because if you if you if you just abandon everything
else, because you have this idea in science that you want to pursue, and you abandon everything
else, you'll be totally out of balance in your life. And if you hit some frustrating item and
what you're researching, it'll be crushing. Because the main thing you're working on focused on
stopped working. When really what you want to be able to do is like, Oh, I've got other stuff going
on that's keeping me happy. This thing didn't work out. I just have to wipe the board clean and
start fresh. And that's not devastating to do because the rest of your life is good. You have to
do that. Otherwise, you just won't be healthy as a human being. Okay. And you have created something
that you think might be an intermediate between being in total isolation and being hooked up to
the community that lives within the standard institutional structures.
That's right. I mean, I came to this idea when I was wandering from friend's house to friend's
house. After getting my PhD, I would basically go hang out with a friend I hadn't seen in a while.
And if they had extra space, I'd spend time in their house while I worked on theoretical physics
and enjoyed the local environment. And I thought it was great to be able to do this because you're
not worried about having a roof over your head. You have company to interact with.
And you have a good environment to play in. And I wanted to have a network of such places.
But I had a hard time getting friends to give me their houses to use for this.
So I ended up getting the resources together to buy a house in Maui and to start bringing friends
and visiting scientists in. And I've called this the Pacific Science Institute. And currently,
it's basically my house with delusions of grandeur. Because what I also have is a beautiful piece of
property that's 15 acres that I bought 10 years ago, because I like doing things slowly.
So I've been growing the community of the Pacific Science Institute by having friends come in and
stay at my house, including you and my archana and my sister. I had a great time despite the
obvious antagonism. And for you specifically, I tried to kill you in several different ways.
