postdoc and job posting board. And just for giggles, I went and say, okay, well, how many
opportunities does a rising string theorist have now? And I went and looked and there are
all these sub fields of physics, the condensed matter is a big party, because it's so incredibly
vibrant and productive right now. And you go into high energy theory and okay, there are 30
positions open in North America. Okay, all right. And some of them are open to string theorists.
But out of those 30 positions, you go, how many of them actually actively want a string
theorist and are looking for a string theorist? There's one, one Eric. So you have these hundreds
of people groomed up saying string theory is the pinnacle of what you can be studying.
And there's nowhere for them to go. Because the field is dying.
Well, because it was a baby boomer phenomenon. We treated it as if it was an intellectual
phenomenon, but it was actually this weird generational phenomenon that this took hold.
You know, there's this very weird feature of 1951 where Frank Wilczek and Ed Whitten,
two great physicists born in the same year, Wilczek is effectively like the last guy to
make the train for real physics. He's an amazing guy. And then Whitten born later that year,
probably more powerful than anyone else alive in terms of his mental abilities,
hasn't had a trip to Stockholm because he hasn't been able to make contact with the physical world.
And almost certainly in any era that wasn't this one, this guy would have been to Stockholm
once or more. Yeah. And it's in my mind, it's a cultural problem. We're starting this culture
of particle physics where we have everybody in the same community studying the same popular
direction in full force as if there was lots of data coming in supporting that and there's not.
So what it is that is they're going full bore, full self supporting force,
a long direction that in my mind just doesn't describe our universe. And what we need is an
exploratory phase with physicists with graduate students coming up and picking up stuff that
they think is interesting and following that direction on their own branching away from the
main herd. And by having more explorers going in different directions, you're more likely to
find something good. And I guess my hope is that, you know, some graduate student will have listened
through this incredibly long and detailed podcast and go look at stuff and say, well, that's kind
of interesting. Maybe I want to learn more about that. Do you have any ideas or the Pacific Science
Institute? Is there any way that our listeners can support it? Yeah. Are you a non-profit?
501c3 non-profit, I'd be very happy to take donations and put those donations to use,
supporting scientists. To diversify, okay. And these aren't just, it's not just supporting physicists.
The idea is that as you said, science has supported our economy to incredible degree and I don't
think scientists have been sufficiently personally rewarded for that. So basically what I want to
do is, you know, give them a nice place to hang out in Maui and enjoy the environment and work
and think on whatever they want undirected while they do it. So it's a place to fight group think
effectively within the field. Well, still having community support. Well, still having community
support. The problem is I've very limited resources right now. I'm basically running this out of my
house. Right. I have a big piece of land. I have dreams for what I want to build on. I've been
there and it's incredibly generous that people can hang out and just actually fulfill the promise
of dreaming about our world and trying things that they wouldn't feel comfortable trying
under the watchful eyes of a departmental chairman who's telling them what they need to do to get
tenure or to win grants. Do you have any sense of what we should be directing people to do if
they're in a position to change the culture of the field? I always want to think like we still
have a few old great people that everybody looks up to and they refuse to say something
really provocative. Like here's the thing that I dream about.
We get all of the negative results. They're incredibly demotivating. Allow your young people
to violate several of them without being string theorists and then insist that they try to pay
that back once they've been exploring a theory that in a previous era would have been dead on
arrival because somewhere we have to go backwards to go forwards. We have to question something
that is rock solid in all of our minds but isn't actually right.
And this sort of cultural inertia that's holding things back is in biology, it's in computer science,
it's in all fields of science. It's almost the best thing to do just to find people who are
really fricking smart and want to work on stuff on their own and give them money and support and
let them do it. Well, I'm on record as saying that we have too much oversight, too much transparency
and too much accountability. It's strangling us. Yeah, it's absolutely true. Well, Garrett,
I really appreciate you sitting down. It's a hell of an experiment to just even try to have
conversations about what might be the path towards final theories of everything. And I'm
actually really worried that we hurt most of your listeners. Well, if we use this at all,
I'll try to say something at the beginning of the program to try to say what it is that people
are listening to. So they'll have an idea. They're not just going to stumble in on a podcast and
hear people talking about bosons, fermions, E8 quantization and have no idea what's going on.
The fact is very few people are invested in this like this, but this is the fabric of reality
ultimately in a question about how we go about trying to probe whatever's next.
I think it's amazing. I think it's the most significant and intricate and difficult puzzle
there is right now for anybody to tackle and to immerse themselves in. And I also think it's
potentially incredibly rewarding, but it's also one of the hardest things you can do.
Probably the hardest thing has never been harder. Yeah, it's almost as hard as learning to surf.
Okay, well, we've been through the portal with Garrett Lisey here from the island of Maui.
My arch nemesis, you're welcome to come back anytime. And if you're interested in the Pacific
Science Institute, it's Garrett's attempt to try to figure out how to move science
outside of direct institutional control. You can find him on Instagram, I think,
is Garrett.Lisey and on Twitter as Garrett Lisey. I'm not hard to find.
All right. Thanks for joining us. Thank you, Eric. Be well.
