So actually consciousness might be inherently extremely interconnected by its very nature. And so within a moment of experience, there may actually not be like an easy or even conceivably possible way of generating mark of blankets.
So that might be kind of something that, you know, runs deep against some of the core assumptions of the free energy principle.
At the same time, I do think that it is quite possible to make approximate mark of blankets within your world simulation. And that alone, you know, allows us to basically use the free energy principle as a lens.
We will recognize that it's an imperfect lens because these are partly kind of imperfect mark of blankets. There's leakage of information between the inside and outside. But it's going to be good.
It's going to be good. It can be still be insightful. Okay. So that's that. That's the free energy principle. So now let's go to apply it to psychedelics. And I mean, the very first thing I'll mention is Rebus, which is reduced to beliefs under psychedelics.
A paper by Robin Carhart-Harris and Carl Freiston. And it's fascinating. Basically, what they argue is that the net effect of psychedelics in your world model is weakening the precision of the high level priors.
Meaning that like these very high level priors, very kind of like central, you know, innermost layers of the mark of blankets, that those in a sense become less strong. They don't impose on all of the other layers as much.
They're kind of like weaker. They're reduced. And as such, it allows bottom up information to propagate across the hierarchy and give rise to bigger belief updates. So that's that's a very, very big, fascinating idea.
And then they justify it based on neurophysiology. In particular, they, they, they, you know, examine the hypothesis that deep pyramidal neurons are encoding these very high level priors, and that the fire state to a receptor basically is a way in which these neurons can be sensitized.
And because they basically can receive a stimulation from like lower layers of the hierarchy, when they are sensitized, that as an implication gives rise to basically more straightforward information propagation between the lower layers and the higher layers.
And well, there's a bunch of speculation also on like, okay, maybe the way the priors are implemented are through basically patterns of synchrony in those like top layer neurons, and that, you know, this kind of sensitization and bottom up information propagation gives rise to basically the desynchronization of them.
So you get kind of like rather than a coherent story, kind of a imparting, you know, a synchronized top level prior is kind of like competing, you know, maybe patterns of synchrony.
They're kind of like all of them trying to kind of like make sense of the world and make sense of each other. And it's kind of like an anarchy.
I mean, the Robin Carthage Harris talks about it as the anarchic brain, that now you have kind of all of these different, yeah, basically clusters and components of the model that are in a sense, yeah, giving rise to bottom up updates on the belief network.
And these, you know, in terms of aesthetics of science, this is pretty cool.
There's this fascinating book by Paul Feyerabend.
I don't know how to pronounce his name, but it's called Against Method and he's talking about, yeah, basically this ideal picture of the scientific method as a recipe that you just follow that, yeah, that doesn't work.
And a really good quip that comes from that book is this idea that facts dictate theory as much as theory dictates facts or maybe put the other way for a stronger effect, you know, theory dictates what facts are as much as the facts dictate what theory is.
So in a sense, like this is why like paradigms take such a long time to advance in science, you know, because like whenever a paradigm explains a lot of information, which usually yeah, I mean, good scientific paradigms will do that.
And you bring up, you know, a new study or something that like provides counter evidence to it, like a strong, strong counter evidence to it.
The typical response is to basically reinterpret those facts in order for them to fit the theory rather than like reexamine the theory, which is a much bigger enterprise to do.
And plus there's vested interest in academia and so on, which I'm not gonna get into that.
But yeah, I mean, basically facts dictate theory as much as the theory dictates facts.
And in a sense, with Rebus, the really cool thing, right, is like, you can imagine that happening in your own brain, that you are interpreting the world through your narrow lenses.
And maybe, you know, by the age of 30, those narrow lenses are pretty crystallized.
And like, if they're bad models of the world, like, it might be good to, in a sense, kind of revise them and allow, you know, low level prediction errors to actually propagate all the way upwards.
So that you update your model. And that's kind of like the ideal use in therapy of psychedelics, given that particular reading on what psychedelics do, which is, in a sense, you allow people to kind of get unstuck,
prevent the default mode network or whatever, you know, story we might want to tell here from just imposing its high level priors with very high precision everywhere.
And instead, be open to actually update its priors based on new information.
Even if it's information you have stored inside. So like in the Rebus paper, they also talk about, like, it's not only kind of prediction errors from the environment.
It's also kind of like sensitizing to like oscillation scene, the limbic system, you know, so like emotions that maybe you didn't want to face, like all of a sudden things that were like off about certain situations and so on.
And you were in denial about because your high level priors made it difficult for you to perceive them all of a sudden like become readable.
They propagate in the network. And like, you know, presumably that could have like a lot of like therapeutic benefits in a lot of circumstances.
Now, Rebus is cool. And I think it explains a lot. But I actually think it's very narrow in a sense.
It's like, it's not going into the actually super crazy insane stuff that does happen on psychedelics.
I mean, like hyperbolic geometry of DMT experiences, that stuff, you know, like, world sheet bending and 3D hyperbolic spaces and hyperbolic resonant modes and, you know, space groups appearing in your visual field.
Like, there's a lot of stuff that like reduce, you know, beliefs under psychedelics, they don't touch, you know, that's not like what they're trying to explain, you know.
But maybe if we pay attention to those, you know, crazy aspects of psychedelics, maybe we can still apply the free energy principle and get some good insights, which is what I'm about to do.
I'll mention, I guess, about Rebus, a couple final things, which is that there's also this kind of fun commentary and great paper by Adam Saffron called Sebus, which is like strength beliefs under psychedelics.
And basically, yeah, he makes the point that like, actually, a lot of things that happen on psychedelics are more kind of towards the strengthening of beliefs as opposed to weakening of beliefs.
And like, a lot of, you know, like side effects of psychedelics is like believing weird stuff. So what's going on there? And like, he kind of like talks about like, you know, maybe, yes, psychedelics do weaken kind of this, or in a sense, sensitize, you know, top level priors to prediction errors.
But also, they may strengthen like medium level priors, and that might give rise to kind of like particular hallucinations and expectations about the input that, okay, like maybe, you know, the deep dream of paradigm that like something that kind of looks like a dog or
looks like a dog all of a sudden congeals into a dog. So that kind of feels like you're imposing your high level model into the world, right? So it's the Rebus story doesn't make sense of everything really.
But it also doesn't seem very parsimonious to say like Rebus and then also Sebus, but like so like the way like there's kind of these competing forces and maybe the story is pretty complicated.
I would also point to people to kind of Anil Seth's lab and the work of Michael Schartner, Scharther, I don't know how to pronounce his surname, apologies.
But yeah, they're doing like fascinating work in basically creating biologically plausible neural network architectures, and then kind of disrupting them and using generative models that come from them.
And they get essentially crazy things like kind of a generalized and more biologically plausible version of deep dream. And I think that's fascinating research and it's great.
And again, you know, the literature is still waiting for kind of a grand unification that makes sense of Rebus and Sebus and, you know, these like predictive coding paradigms and so on.
But, you know, like, for a theory to be adequate, it actually, you know, there's this criteria of evidential adequacy, meaning that not only do you need to explain, you know, the deep dream effects on psychedelics and, you know, the updates of beliefs that you experience,
you also need to explain machine elves, you also need to explain like tracer phenomenology and enhance the valence and the crazy harmony that happens in some of those states and the annealing effects and and the dissolution of the self into the rest of the cosmos and
residence between people. There's a ton to explain. I mean, it's very similar to how like some theories of consciousness, for example, claim to have an answer, you know, to consciousness. And yet, if you read into them, you recognize that they're not even addressing the real problem of consciousness,
which is, you know, any scientific theory of consciousness must be able to explain a the existence of consciousness and be the causal properties of consciousness. Why was it recruited by natural selection, you know, see the binding problem.
How is it possible that we experience unified moments of experience, even though neurons are spatially distributed, you know, and and see it must be able to explain the full range of qualia patterns.
What is the periodic table of possible qualia values and patterns and the way in which they can be interrelated with one another, what patterns can be bound with one another, all of that, all of that, you need to explain all of that.
And as far as I can tell, well, Rebus definitely doesn't go that far.
The free energy principle, if you have a certain mind, and in particular, if you're very dismissive of like qualia or something like that, I think you can kind of squint really hard and kind of, you know, get a glimpse of the free energy principle as a theory of consciousness.
If you squint really hard, the free energy principle looks like a theory of consciousness, I would claim no, it's a theory of dynamic systems is not addressing consciousness directly.
But given that a conscious system is a dynamic system, you will be seeing a lot of free energy principle effects happen in a conscious system.
I hope that that difference makes sense. It's very tricky what I just said.
So I'm not saying you can explain consciousness with a free energy principle, you can't, you know, free energy principle is not a theory of consciousness.
But because consciousness is a complex dynamic system, you will be able to find free energy principle appear in it all over the place.
Okay, so it's kind of like flipping it, you know, 180 degrees in a sense, while still highly valuing the free energy principle.
It's just very important to note it's not a theory of consciousness. Okay, I'm repeating myself.
Let's get into the three super cool new applications of the free energy principle to consciousness. Excuse me one second.
So first of all, the free energy principle is a computational theory.
It's, you know, it's dealing with probabilistic graphical models is something very natural in machine learning.
It's not a theory of physics, although it's trying to connect those principles with physics.
What we're doing at QRI is actually getting an implementation level account of what the brain is doing.
And based on that implementation inferring what kind of algorithms can exist.
And in that sense, you know, the computational level account that I was describing, you know, Bayesian brain and so on.
Those are hard constraints on the computational side, we're exploring the implementation level, and they will meet in the middle,
which is like, given the implementation, what algorithms are possible and likely, and given the computational side, basically what algorithms are necessary.
So with that is kind of, you know, forward chaining and back chaining, and hopefully we get a good insight in the middle.
So I'll explain that in a second.
So we model a moment of experience as a resonance network.
And again, this is not a full theory of consciousness, as I explained, but it does address in particular the binding problem,
at least at a functional level, that when you have a resonance network, where basically each of the nodes is a metronome,
it could be a more than one dimension metronome.
So basically it could be, for example, like a square that has like various vibrational modes.
And in that way, basically resonance can be transitive in the sense of like locking the system into a coherent state.
But the frequencies of resonance don't need to be transitive between the nodes.
So like, if node A is in resonance with B and B is in C, A and C don't need to be in resonance with one another.
They're only, in a sense, implicitly influencing each other by their influence on B.
But on their own, in a sense, they are not intrinsically in resonance with one another.
So there's kind of this fascinating aspect of the non-transitivity of this resonance, of the frequencies of resonance.
And what we're claiming is that what the brain is fundamentally doing is trying to minimize dissonance.
Now, from that, I would claim we can derive the free energy principle as kind of an implication of this implementation.
And again, it's not that the free energy principle is fundamentally explaining how consciousness is working here.
Rather, is that this particular implementation naturally gives rise to a free energy reading.
And this is as follows.
So essentially, in this system, the layers of the system, basically when they are in dissonance with one another,
that will encode a prediction error.
That in a sense, to make an accurate prediction entails that one layer can essentially synchronize with the components of the layer below.
And that when that doesn't happen, and in a sense, a layer is kind of like propagating information that the further a higher layer is not predicting,
that like that will generate an out-of-phase interaction.
And that would be an instance of dissonance.
Okay, so that's one component.
And second, there might be an inherent complexity cost when you have a very complex model.
In that complex models tend to give rise to dissonance, because there's a lot of interrelationships.
So in a sense, in the balance of trying to minimize dissonance, that gives rise to a balance between model complexity and prediction errors.
And of course, the weight on either could be kind of something programmable, like maybe by genetics or the particular details of the resonance network.
But the point is that some of those configurations will be very adaptive, because they will hit precisely that balance, in a sense, minimizing the range of internal possible states and minimizing that entropy.
Well, at the same time, minimizing the entropy that comes from the environment, because it's making correct predictions.
And of course, this would happen also recursively in each of the layers, each of the concentric shells of the Markov blanket, so to speak.
And the fascinating thing here is that we can, in a sense, interpret something like annealing, neural annealing.
The part that we've talked about, Mike Johnson has an article about it, as a way of getting out of a local minima of dissonance.
That you're kind of like stuck in a given configuration.
Well, when you're annealing, essentially, you inject a ton of energy into the system, and the systems in that elevated higher energy state, basically, the barrier for exploring different states goes down.
In a sense, it kind of like weakens the constraints, and it allows us to basically, as it cools down, to settle in a much less dissonant configuration.
And as a consequence, that process might give rise to actually just generally better predictions about the environment.
It doesn't necessarily, you know, not always, because it could anneal something that is just too simple.
You know, like maybe with the wrong dose in the wrong set and setting, it may anneal something that is just way too simple.
And for example, something like 5MEO-DMT may just generate such levels of hypercoherence, global hypercoherence, that all the information gets lost and basically is super symmetrical state.
Basically, you anneal to a model of the world where the expected thing is actually kind of the dark room, is basically this infinite void.
And of course, the infinite void, the first time you experience it, is incredibly surprising.
But the more you experience the infinite void, the more natural it feels, the more kind of frowned basement reality type of experience.
But you can read it as essentially like an annealing process that is updating your model of the world, such that like now minimizing free energy requires you to take into account the existence of the void.
Right? Anyway, that's a cool lens here.
Whereas, you know, in kind of the reverse paradigm, annealing, and they talk about annealing, simulated annealing, has much more to do with things such as like message passing and belief propagation as kind of like algorithms in probabilistic graphical models.
That in a sense, when you weaken the constraints there, you can get an annealing effect and as you strengthen the constraints again, you may end up actually with a more accurate model.
Now, in a recent talk, the Oxford Psychedelic Society basically hypothesized, and this also comes from some conversations with Enrique Bojorkis, a volunteer at URI, that yeah, basically there might be a very deep duality here between actually what is happening in the resonance network and what is happening in the belief network.
And that for example, when you experience information you don't like, it literally feels dissonant.
Like literally cognitive dissonance would be actual physical dissonance going on in the brain.
And we're actually interested at QRI to test this and we think it's feasible to actually, to actually, you know, publish a paper about like cognitive dissonance is physiological dissonance.
Yeah, and also, you know, like resisting information kind of has this embodied, you know, component that you're kind of like, in a sense, like preventing the information from propagating.
And for example, practices of equanimity where you like learn to relax deeply and just embrace whatever happens.
In a sense, what you're doing there, it's you're also because of the duality, you're allowing information to propagate, you're not being in denial, so to speak.
So basically, yeah, patterns of 10, even muscular tension would basically have implications in how you're dealing with information in the belief network.
So anyway, this is a super rich, super rich connection here.
So that's number one of the free energy principle and psychedelics QRI themed connections.
The second one is, well, this comes from, yeah, basically, it's kind of a synthesis of Mike's symmetry theory of homostatic regulation and the hyperbolic geometry of DMT experiences.
So I'll explain first, yeah, basically, my hypothesis is that in a sense, like very symmetrical, you know, harmonics in the nervous system are kind of signals of health, because that in a sense allows you to do very quick diagnosis.
In a sense, whenever there is symmetry breaking that usually will suggest or indicate there is damage.
And you may not be able to kind of like sequentially examine every aspect, you know, every part of your body and compared with an inner template like that might be computationally intractable.
But detecting deviations from symmetry might be very straightforward in sort of kind of like a four year analysis decomposition.
So like you take the, you know, how harmonious the four year analysis is, and that will tell you basically how symmetrical the state is, how much is deviating from its homeostasis.
And so that's a super deep idea.
And in a sense, it's kind of like algorithmic level account that can be hooked up to the free energy principle and makes a lot of sense.
And then there's also in the hyperbolic geometry of DMT experiences, I talked about how DMT energizes, literally energizes your experience and basically the way in which energy and here are talking about physical energy.
Of course, with kind of like panpsychist background assumption that actually, you know, fields of physics or fields of qualia, which you don't need to buy into for this to make sense.
You could also talk about total energy as maybe kind of average neural activity or like intensity of electric potential or something like that.
But yeah, basically what happens is that on DMT you have higher energy experiences and these manifests as very, very bright colors or very curved world sheet.
Basically the depth map of your experience can become very, very, very curved.
It could also be felt in the form of super intense high energy resonance, or for example, even something like a very loud sound.
And basically on DMT what will be happening is that the energy is going to be chaotically transitioning from one modality to another.
And sometimes it may concentrate.
I mean, like there are reports of people saying like, yeah, and then all of a sudden the energy concentrated in my visual field and I experienced the most intense blue I could possibly experience ever.
And like, okay, yeah, that's one solution, one high energy configuration.
For the most part, most of the aspects of a DMT experience is going to be kind of the energy distributed across a bunch of modalities.
And in addition, I talked about a kind of Bayesian energy sinks.
You can look it up, you know, 2016 hyperbolic geometry of DMT experiences article where I said that basically what you recognize lowers the energy.
So basically you have like this chaotic kind of like crazy patterns and, you know, excited world sheet.
And then you kind of like see the corner of a table and that kind of like becomes a nucleation factor, nucleation point that basically propagates the shape of the table and condenses.
In a sense, kind of, yeah, there's kind of condensation of this excited world sheet into a semantically meaningful shape.
And as a result, the things that actually survive in a DMT state are in a sense, the things that are the highest likelihood, the things that I mean, given how crazy that is is like what could possibly make make this sense.
And yes, I mean, that will be importing a lot of stuff like narrative information from previous trips, what you have read online, like, you know, Alan Watts and Terence McKenna, all of that will be kind of these like high level priors that will give rise to condensations of the world sheet.
And of course, that is a large extent why I think there's a lot of a ton of confirmation bias on DMT, because essentially what you have learned and what you can recognize will condensate as a world sheet.
But, you know, it's a fabrication. I would claim it's a fabrication. You're kind of subliminally choosing it because you can also condensate something different.
But it's sometimes difficult to resist because like this, plus there's kind of a momentum, like they have like a momentum of their own, like interpretations on DMT kind of gather energy and they're very difficult to stop once they get started, which is, yeah, why I think it's very important to basically develop a very, very, very good aesthetic, very high level philosophical aesthetic, such that basically the things that you recognize in the world sheet are actually beautiful things.
And, you know, cooperate, cooperate, equilibria between the sub agents of your experience. But to kind of like synthesize, you know, Bayesian energy sinks with a symmetry theory of homostatic regulation, essentially very similar to a soap bubble, the other thing that essentially condenses the energy of the world sheet is symmetrical configurations.
So basically in a soap bubble, basically any configuration besides this perfectly spherical one, in a sense has potential energy. And if it has potential energy that immediately translates into kinetic energy makes the ball essentially kind of like bounce, bounce off.
And because it's bouncing off, it's interfacing with the gases around it and radiating its energy.
So in a sense, a soap bubble radiates its energy until it reaches its local minima of energy, which in this case is actually the global minimum of energy for that particular shape, which is perfect symmetrical spherical configuration.
Likewise, on DMT, the shapes that you experience will be local minima of energy, because they will be radiating energy to the environment.
And yeah, I mean, this has to do with the holistic field behavior and the fact that literally the phenomenal objects in your experience actually kind of a radiate waves of energy and that that's a topic for another topic.
I don't mean waves of energy from, you know, outside kind of reaching at you. It's all in your world model.
Like there's a kind of a internally in your own experience, your world simulation, there's waves of energy that the objects radiate, and there's a lot of super deep stuff about that.
But basically, on DMT, objects will do that they will radiate their energy, and so they will condense into their lowest energy configurations with for the most part will bring up elements of symmetry.
And that said, the typical DMT experience is going to be a hybrid of the two is essentially going to be something that simultaneously has a lot of symmetries.
And it has recognizable semantic content, because like that just happened to be the way in which energy physical energy was being minimized.
But you see, like, this is so deep and so awesome, because with this, we have a direct way of linking the free energy principle, which is a computational level account with physical energy minimization as an algorithm in order to minimize prediction errors while also having good model complexity.
And this is at the implementation level. So we're starting to get at kind of like a big picture that has answers to all of the levels of analysis of Mars levels of analysis.
And I don't know, it makes me very happy. It's basically the aim of QRI is to have a full stack theory of consciousness, basically all of the levels of analysis.
And also, you know, a neuroscience philosophy of mind and neuro technology. And, and I think like, yeah, this kind of deep connections is the way forward.
Okay, so, and I promised you that I would explain Indra's net with a free energy principle and on psychedelics and meditation.
So that's what I will conclude this video with. So bear with me.
So you've got to remember, in previous videos, I've talked about how DMT, one way you can model it is as competing patterns of coherence.
And in a sense, this gives rise to an evolutionary process where like, do you know, like our place like Reddit slash this ready.com slash r slash place was basically these like 1 million by 1 million canvas, where yeah, people were able to put a pixel every, I don't know, 10 minutes or something like that.
So like, obviously, you needed to collaborate with others in order to actually paint the whole thing. And the dynamics that emerged was were really cool. Right. It's like, oh, like some people were like in the low entropy, let's make everything black, or let's make everything white kind of a camp.
And others were like, no, let's make a Pikachu. Let's make the flag of Australia, or, you know, whatever it may be.
The point is that, yeah, there's kind of like this competition of like patterns and like basically the stronger one goes, the more it can signal, the more visible it becomes, the more people it can attract.
So basically, there's kind of these like, the rich gets richer type of dynamics as well. And then therefore kind of like a power law distribution of like, how popular different patterns are.
The same on DMT, essentially one frame with which to analyze DMT is that this competing patterns of coherence is kind of like filling up your experience by basically the contents of your subconscious, what your subconscious can recognize and what it finds like emotionally
And also kind of like mixing in like the affordances of like highly symmetrical configurations being like energy minimizing configurations. So, yeah, in a sense like the crazy stuff you see on DMT are basically the balance between like the forces of the competing clusters of coherence.
And sometimes a cluster of coherence can win. I mean, it can be like really savvy at basically minimizing its free energy.
And when it does that, you know, sometimes you may have kind of like an alien content experience where the whole trip is kind of like, you're standing right next to like a lady or like, you know, a mantis or something and it's scolding you for something you did or it's praising you or telling you you're going to be the king of the universe or whatever it may be.
But basically, it's like telling you a story that is very captivating and being captivating and being consistent with what you know is one of the things that these, you know, quasi entity, you know, emergent, you know, phenomena that happens on DMT.
That's how they get you. You know, that's how they attract your attention to basically build the things that simplify your model of the world or make things make sense.
And that is like very alluring. You know, there's like this feeling of super intelligence. And yes, a DMT state is in some sense, super intelligence in some sense, because it is finding at an extremely fast pace connections that you weren't able to find before.
And that could be computationally very meaningful. At the same time, because of the chaotic nature of the state and the coherence across the layers of the hierarchy, there's a lot of forced belief updates.
So unfortunately, when you do experience kind of these DMT beings, they kind of like force you to update your beliefs towards them being like real outside of your existence.
And you can like once you understand everything I've talked to you about, you will be able to notice this that basically the way in which that manifests is as literal dissonance that like if you rebel against the updates that a DMT machine elf is giving you,
that will feel difficult, it will be like resisting and that resistance will lead to dissonance is going to be unpleasant, which is why I think it's so important to, from the very beginning of the DMT experience, always hold the, you know, upmost, most elevated aesthetic that you have, such that the evolutionary selection pressures for the patterns give rise to kind of
cooperate, cooperate, equilibria. And when that happens, that can give rise to Indra's net. And what is Indra's net here? Okay, so we're coming to a close, everything, everything is kind of like munching together in order to get to this core insight.
I'm about to deliver to you, which is that the competing clusters of coherence.
In order for them to be good at surviving, they must be able to model their environment.
And also, they must be as simple as they can be, so that there's not basically chaotic elements within them that will destabilize them and, you know, shake themselves apart, so to speak.
So, now imagine that like the entire field of experience is kind of like following these principles, following these gradient, and that they are more or less similar and consonant with each other.
So, when you have those conditions, and you can maximize the probability of those conditions by, you know, taking DMT in a really good state of mind and holding a really good aesthetic in place, what will happen is that each of the competing clusters of coherence will generate a model of their environment,
such that when they receive kind of the waves of energy, so to speak, that they can match them with internal waves of energy simultaneously that will reinforce the specific pattern that they are.
