And as a consequence, and because in a sense like fractality and self-similarity is also one way of like minimizing complexity,
what can literally happen is that you will have these groups competing patterns of coherence that each of them literally contains a tiny reflection of every other one scaled downwards so that like basically kind of like corresponds to the appropriate scale.
And within each of them, you will have a smaller one.
Now, it's not going to go infinitely. There's no space plus, you know, the frequencies are not infinite, you know, the frequency has a maximum value, so like the bands of the waves of energy as they radiate and so on, they cannot be like infinitely thin.
So there's not infinite complexity, but there can be several layers of like mutual modeling.
And because the simplest configuration is going to be essentially when all of the competing clusters of coherence are identical,
when you have the conditions set up right, basically the gradient moves towards literally every cluster of coherence being a sort of fractal reflection of every other cluster of coherence.
And that way, they can predict each other perfectly and they don't lose their shape, they minimize energy, they make perfect predictions, they're a completely stable state and it's high valence because it's all consonant.
And that's Indra's net.
So hopefully you got some of that. If not, I'm sure we'll talk about this another time and I'm sure you can re-watch the video later stage, maybe after taking DMT and experiencing these and you'll see what I mean.
Anyway, I was just very excited to share all of these.
So I think like to conclude, you know, this is the sort of conversation that I really think, you know, there really should be a place in the world for it to exist.
And I think QRI has a really good chance of being that place.
We're basically constructing the infrastructure and yeah, basically we're going to make hires later this year.
So we're aiming for, yeah, basically like super smart people, very value aligned.
And, you know, if all of this interests you, if you have the mathematical background and you have like strong technical skills and you love philosophy.
Yes, I mean, please read all of our stuff, you know, maybe in six months, we might hire you.
I've got to be honest, though, there's going to be a very high bar.
But I don't know, in six months, maybe you can get there.
Either way, though, this is a big movement and a larger community.
So whether, you know, you're working directly on these projects or not, you can tag along and write blog posts, make videos and yes, essentially make consciousness research super cool.
That's the goal and reduce suffering massively as a consequence.
So with that, thank you so much, infinite please, and I'll talk to you another time.
Take care, have a wonderful, wonderful time.
