and that we imagine that this will go on forever.
And that they're laying kind of dormant for now. I mean, but this brings me back to the whole
concept of Stov, which dovetails very nicely with the idea of hypernormalization, which
the documentarian Adam Curtis took the title for his famous documentary from this term,
which was coined by this guy, Alexei Yurchuk, who's an anthropology professor who did a lot of
research on Stov with this guy, Dominic Boyer, a fellow anthropologist.
And I guess the basic principle of hypernormalization, as I understand it in my female brain,
is that there was kind of an elite guild of experts, technologists, financiers,
politicians who kind of, if not conspired, then agreed to
invent kind of a fake world at the top of the real world that we inhabit,
because the real world had grown so complicated that they had to model it in simplified terms.
It's almost like fastbender's world on a wire where you're living in like a
successive, a nesting doll of like successive simulation.
And I forgot where we were going with this, but we now live in this kind of like hyper
trophyed, hyperreal reality where you said to me, it's like very few people can see that they're
part of the simulation. I don't know if I actually agree with that, because I'd like to think that
people are a lot smarter than we give them credit for. Well, see, I don't think it comes
down to smart, I think it comes down to our self-blinding. Yeah. And so one of the reasons I
was asking you what you had heard in the Gary Kasparov podcast was I wasn't sure what happened
during it. I think that he, I mean, I don't know if you want me to psychoanalyze, this is like a
very meta podcasting. We've gone pretty meta. Yeah, I think that he was deflecting your earnest
attempts, mutual identification, which is like the basis of all kinds of bonds, right? I'm so excited
right when I meet kind of a fellow traveler in any capacity itself. You find yourself in the
area. Yeah, and I told you this during our lunch, I was like, oh my god, we're like, you know,
relatives, right? There's something very familiar. Like I've known you for forever and I've met you
twice. Yeah, and there's something very familiar in meeting other people from a kind of a similar
cultural background. And I tend to collect them. And you know, if that's racist, let me know.
It's very racist. But so I think the Russian tendency, which I've tried to, for example,
minimize, mitigate in myself to adapt better to American society is to deflect any such
attempts and to kind of not to not give anybody an inch to not let anybody get to know you
and to stay kind of distant. Are you open to being the unreliable narrator?
I'm not sure what that question means. Well, sometimes like, I forget, maybe if Edgar
Enpo's telltale heart where you're telling a story about the self and the story reveals
something to the audience, maybe Captain Quig in the Cain Mutant, you would be a better example.
We're just talking about the strawberries and the men and really he's discussing his own paranoia
in a way that's leaking out into the testimony he's giving. So what I see with you is
that you are Russian post-Soviet enough, but that you're very worried that it's not really
a sustaining quality in this homogenizing sea. Like your mother, you can see there's no way she
can get away from it. I have never met the woman, but I can feel her presence as being intrinsically
Soviet. And your podcast is called Red Scare, but first of all, that's an
invocation of like the 1950s or earlier. Yeah, and menstruation.
And menstruation and the thong and there's a tramp stamp. And you know, there's this whole
aspect of you're worried that you can't actually keep it together. You can't hold the information
back. You can't keep the identification with Eastern Europe because it's starting to fray.
Yeah, on some level, but also on another level, I feel kind of like a complete dinosaur.
I'm relatively young. I'm youngish, but I feel like that sometimes I feel kind of insane, right?
Because I'm the only one who has in my circle, for example, has kind of an attachment to certain
religious or ethnic cult. I took an Ivy League admission at the University of Pennsylvania.
And when everyone else went into investment banking or law or medicine, I went to math
grad school, like your father, because there was something ancient about and respectable about it.
Well, but in the respectable in the sense of like a Jewish concept, it was a very Jewish and
self-destructive thing to do to take this fantastic opportunity and say, okay, I'm going to try to
achieve something for all eternity that seven people are really going to deeply understand
something like that. And there is an aspect to this, which is this is what animates Star Wars.
The idea that Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda mysteriously survive. I mean, I'm not a fan of the Star Wars
pictures that are supposed to come chronologically early, but there is one scene which is precious
to me where the emperor says, execute order 66 and all the Jedi are killed, except two,
one of which lives by accident. That's Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda intuits,
shit, you know, this is the genocide and I'm going to be all that's left. So you are that thing that
carries the seat. Yeah. That's a huge responsibility. That's why you have a podcast, but it's also the
case that you're corroding in this extremely alkaline environment. That's like really beautiful
and poetic and also a horrifying reality to ponder. But yeah, it's... First of all,
it's a gift to a Russian if I gave you a horrifying tragic mission. Yeah, we'll eat it right up. Yeah.
But look, I remember Camille Poglia, I think I'm supposed to say Polly really kind of
changed my thinking on the Star Wars franchise, which I've always thought to be kind of like
the nail in the coffin of the golden age of American cinema. I'll say more, I really want to hear
this. You know, it was kind of like, it really opened the door. It paved the way for these mega
franchises, the marvelization, the dignification of film. And her feeling about it was that it was
a kind of epic, eternal legend, saga story that was fulfilled or produced by means of the most
cutting edge technology and that this is where art resides now in kind of the technological
capacity of the Hollywood industry. Because transcendence is difficult to manufacture. And
when you first see what a technology can do, the matrix would be an excellent
other example to discuss. In that case, and I'm very partial to giving this example,
there were multiple innovations. There was the wire work, there was bullet time with using still
and moving camera images and interplaying between them. And then there was CGI. And so the mind was
never sure what it was seeing. And so you devote extra cognitive resources to the legend and
archetype that's being explored when you're opened by transcendence. And that's why we litter the
set, for example, with Klein bottles often, because you know, to have to have a glassware from the
fourth dimension that defies the laws of inside and out opens people up to, well, what are these
people going to be discussing? Is this a way out? Because I think everybody wants escape.
Yes. And I think that if you go back to our Jewish tradition, the entire concept of like,
what is the epic that we tell every year is our Star Wars. It's the Passover epic of the Jews
escaping. Now is the time when we understand why we tell that story, because we need to get out of
here. Yeah, I think the kind of flattering, uplifting version is escape. I think the cynical,
not so flattering version is offloading your responsibility in the way that somebody like
Eric Frome described, foisting the responsibility for your life onto another.
Can I ask you sort of a final set of questions before I invite you back to the podcast when
you're next in LA? I hope you'll move here. I want to move here. It's so horrible. I'm
meant to be an Armenian juice slut who hangs out at the Glendale Galleria. I'm not a New York
girl. Anyway, go ahead. I'm going to pass on that one. Where are we in gender space? I have the
feeling that men and women of a heterosexual mindset needed to put their own mask on before
helping everybody who was trying something different. I like that. That's like the plane
and out the oxygen mask. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. And then at the moment, we're trying to like solve
12 million things that have all been lumped under trans. And I always give the analogy that
strokes occur from excessive clotting and thinning. So you can't say something about
strokes in general because you don't know which type of stroke. So we don't know which type of
trans. But if you just say, look, okay, we've got all these things about polyamory and bisexuality,
homosexuality, non-binary relations, et cetera. Very complicated. Let's assume we have the best
of intentions to everybody as a soul. We are now neglecting male, female, heterosexual,
procreative relationships. It's like an afterthought. We got to do something where our concerns for
all of these other variations don't obliterate the major workhorse of societal perpetuation.
What are your thoughts? Well, what's the question? The question is,
are we getting dragged into a world in which we can't focus on the fact that the major
workhorse of perpetuation needs its own care? Like, for example, if you and I both opt in
to heterosexual, heteronormative, cisgender, et cetera ideas, we can't really continue to focus
on our subset of people because immediately the point is, well, you just excluded 12,000 other
categories. I see you as trying to- Just excluded .01. Well, but I see what you're trying to do in
some sense. Yeah. As reestablishing feminine mystique. Is that a fair comment? Yeah, absolutely.
What do you see the role of mystique being in heterosexuality?
The role of mystique. That's a good question. You see, I'm so instinctive and non-intellectual
on some level that I don't even think about this. I think the app, I would answer it in the negative
way. I think that the absence of mystique kills libidinal energy. Absolutely. You can't be taken
seriously as a woman if you disclose everything about yourself, if you publish naked photos of
yourself at all times. I mean, that's a statement of fact, not of value. But we used to, for example,
teach women to send mixed messages. Right. And we used to teach men and women to play games.
Mm-hmm. And now, increasingly, there's a sort of doctor-ruthification of male-female relations,
which is like, people should learn how to communicate, be direct, say everything that you
want. Save sex, affirmative consent. All these things that- Has anyone ever achieved enthusiastic
consent? Right. I know who, like, who are these people? Like, you pull out an iPad when you-
can I touch your breast? What's the- It's a really weird- I want you so much we should call our lawyers
immediately. Yeah, yeah. And sign an NDA, an NDA. It's like, every time a Buddha judge has sex with
his husband, he signs an NDA. But it's maddening because the whole allure of sex is precisely
the unsafe, the unconsensual. I'm not talking, obviously, about rape or coercion,
but women like mixed messages. They like giving them, they like receiving them,
because it's correct that they, on some level, don't know what they want. Not because they're
stupid or weak, but because it's an evolving communicative process that unfolds-
Do you know me well enough to order for me? Yeah, right.
Like, maybe I would do a slightly better job of choosing my dish, but if you'd do 90% as good
as I would have done ordering my dish, and you can show me that you actually grasp me.
Yeah, not only do you get to enjoy the benefit of having a dish that you wanted, but you get to
enjoy kind of the meta-benefit of knowing that your partner knows you. I got in trouble for a
tweet where I said that I like when my boyfriends order food for me. That's so hot. I know it's so
hot. Why would any woman not want that? Well, I think because, I can answer that from the guy's
perspective, we've all thought we knew somebody well enough, and we ordered just exactly the
wrong thing, which shows that we have no concept. We think we're on top of it. We're just not.
Yeah, okay, look, there's some baked in disappointment, the potential disappointment.
Well, remember the Aziz Ansari thing where, like, he didn't understand which wine she wanted,
and that was cause for you to give her the word. Yeah, for her to write a, yeah, meat to medium,
which it was a Times expose, right? That was babe.net. But the key point would be that in order
to handle certain edge cases, we deranged the general case. The world's most predatory men
have to be kept away from the world's least agentic females. So in order to handle that case,
we gave nuclear weapons. I think Caitlin Flanagan had a beautiful observation.
I love Caitlin Flanagan, yeah. I can't get over her.
Yeah, she's great.
She's great.
The one that got away anyway.
Anyway, she said something to me to the effect of what's new is that all sexuality
proceeds on exclusively female terms. The idea being that men have to be completely non-agentic
because whatever the woman says happened or should happen is the law of the land.
And this is precisely what women don't want. It's almost like a prisoner's dilemma type situation
where you end up with the most suboptimal outcome.
If you're guard against the thing that you fear the most, you'll never get the thing that you
want the most.
Right, yeah. And it's a really kind of like bleak thing because no heteronormative women
want a man who lacks agency. I mean, you said this to me, women want, they don't want a guy
who's an asshole. They want somebody who's credible and the easiest, shortest way to
display that is by, yeah, being an asshole.
This is a reference to a conversation we were having in which I claimed that
many men learn a terrible lesson, which is women want you to be an asshole.
And the real lesson is women do not want to be told how beautiful and brilliant and this and
that they are without some of that energy being spent on credibility.
Yeah, without some of it accruing into reliable, dependable material action.
Well, but sometimes you have to say, you look very nice. It's not my favorite dress.
But, and that sounds a little non-positive, but it goes a long way to saying, okay, I'm
actually getting real feedback.
Are you describing the art of neg? You have to nag a little.
No, I'm saying that that happens naturally. Negging is where you actually create a kind
of a hole in the person solely. No, it's exactly not negging.
This is the thing. I mean, it's a beautiful example. It's a miscommunication.
But in the process of giving somebody, you can give somebody very positive, constructive feedback.
And the slightest whisper of that wasn't exactly my favorite thing will be heard as a shout
because that's how we human beings process criticism.
And so you have to spend some, people would be much rather that you spend some of your time
building credibility so that whatever you do say that's positive is actually a credible
indicator of something because traditionally the key question is, very often what women
are asking is, is there something you find in me that is so rare that it would outweigh
all other temptations? And can you please tell me a story in which that's true?
The answer is no, ladies. The answer is no. Run for the hills. I'm kidding. I'm just being
a sarcastic little bitch, but... Well, don't do that, man.
Why not?
I don't know. I mean, if it's your shtick, but I do think that there's some aspect to this where
we have to struggle with this for... Like you're an older millennial.
Yeah. I'm an elder millennial.
You're an elder millennial.
Yeah. The guys in the studio are going to get snacks or so tired. They're enough of this.
I'm an elder millennial, Ron.
I do think that in part, you probably knew more life before the apps.
That's going to be a big transitional issue.
Well, it's going to be a huge issue. I don't know what's going to happen to the next generation
after me. I'm afraid for them. I mourn for them because they have no... I mean, all social
relations, it's like going back to those empathy templates that I was talking about.
All social relations and on some level, particularly sexual relations have become
very Aspergian. They've become autistic. People can't read nuance and they are completely incapable
then of the art of seduction. And so everything operates according to templates and consent form.
Phone trees.
Yeah. And it's terrifying because I think it's not just women who desire credibility.
What each sex desires from the other is credibility manifested in different ways.
I made this joke. I started seeing a shrink recently.
You went there?
I went there because I guess my Jewish side finally overwhelmed my Russian side that's
