human chain, a human centipede of drudgery and debauchery. No, but and what's lost now? I mean,
this is like the cardinal sin, right? In kind of neoliberal discourse is subordinating your will
to somebody else. It's bizarre. And to see this kind of ethos then flourish on the so-called left
is profoundly dispiriting. Well, it's such a simplistic version of empowerment.
And it's, you know, it's one of the things that I've advocated repeatedly. So in terms of,
I'm going to take your adage and start repeating myself loudly and often. I keep saying that
magic happens when people pass power back and forth. If you retain all your power,
then you don't get to the magic of giving your power to somebody else and having them give you
an equal amount, you know, of a different kind back. And so we never actually build those super
powerful relationships when we're hoarding our power saying, I'm not going to give anything up.
You're interested in motherhood, like for yourself. For myself, of course, but in general.
Yeah. I mean, I think this is the most kind of noble, honorable institution on the planet.
And it really matters. I mean, this is one of the things that
a family friend is very dear to me, took me aside at some point and said,
you want to know something magical? Look at your children. That's what happens when a
PhD stays home to raise them. Yeah. You know, and it was just like,
are you getting a little reclaimed? That's beautiful. I get, I get way too reclaimed on the
shows. Yeah. But it's, you know, my wife was out of the workforce for like 10 years or something.
And, you know, she came back, you know, with mentally guns blazing. Yeah. But
I think that this hatred of motherhood has to be acknowledged. First of all, it's denied.
Oh, we don't hate motherhood. We just think it's about choice. But you look at it,
the mommies who work and the mommies who don't. One gender is built to reproduce our species.
And I just, I can't stand what we've done to it. Yeah. And there's kind of no
honoring also among men or women of the gender difference, which exists. It's very real and
unpalpable. And I think feminists have this idea that if we acknowledge that we're different,
we're acknowledging that we're unequal. And that's not at all the case. We're differently equal.
We're differently abled. So this is the weird thing. If you try to make this argument at the
level of like racial groups or geographically separated groups, there really isn't a great way
of saying that there should be equality because there's no reason that separated groups should have
variables having common means. Within a group, there actually is this weird principle of Fischer,
the biological theorist, which says that it is as good to be female as male from the perspective
of the fitness of the two genders' strategy. And the problem with it is that you have to,
what fails is what you might call the Ginger Rogers principle. So the old, as the joke goes,
Ginger Rogers could do everything Fred Astaire could do, but backwards and in heels. And the
feminist version of this is women are as good or better at everything men can do except peeing,
standing up. And that can't possibly be the case if Fischer's theory is to hold because then women
would simply be better. Yes. Unless peeing, standing up was like the be all and end all, which
I mean, it's pretty good, but it's not that great. That's part of the problem, which is if you
claim that you're better at something, biology tells you you have to be worse at something else.
Right. So that there's a kind of an implicit trade off, right? Or balance, let's say.
Well, then it gets to this really, like here, let's get into trouble with psychologists and
psychiatrists. The whole co-dependence concept, yes, there is something which is really dysfunctional,
but a lot of interdependence is labeled as co-dependence. And the modern notion that you
should be a completely functional person who can do everything and able to walk out on a moment's
notice that completely destroys the concept of coupling. Yeah. I mean, I think this all goes back
to the atomizing logic of the market and all my big issue, I think, my big critique, kind of the
central organizing theme of my work, right, is this idea that progressive activism is now effectively
marching in lockstep with the very market imperatives that they are opposed to on the face of things.
It's mad. And it's so intellectually incoherent. It's kind of amazing that it's still hanging
together as a pseudo philosophy. Yeah. All right. So now, like, I feel like you're revealed, you're
somehow reveling on your podcast in this like really dangerous kind of memes, which suggests,
you know, royalty plunged into boredom and cocaine and wanton sexuality. But in fact,
underneath it, you're coming from an academic tradition and, you know, embracing very traditional
values. There's no reason to leave left of center thinking because traditionally, what
has the left been? It's been about empowering working families. Right. And that's what I'm
interested in. It's funny that so many of my critics and I, if you really look at us, it's
you know, the narcissism of small differences, like we are completely indistinguishable to
like an Afghani fig farmer, you know, 99% of our politics are equivalent. Are they?
I'm sure. I mean, like, who are you pissing off? I think people that kind of are self-identified as
leftists, but are basically, and I say this with the most empathy possible because I understand
their position. I feel completely insecure and precarious in the market. They feel that they
have no future. I up until a year or two ago felt that I have no future. It was really a toss-up.
Okay. So what happened when you got a future? I mean, I started this podcast.
I know. But I mean, what happened to you? Did you have a physiological change?
Physiological. I mean, when I've been shit out of luck.
Yeah.
And then I get some luck. The chemicals that are running through my body are totally different.
Yeah. I mean, you start to even like look more like resplendent and wonderful and whatever, but
You get plumage.
Yeah. You get plumage. I think like, but this is the first time I'm 34 years old. I'm kind of like
an old geezer by millennial achievement standards. You know, it's like you have to be like 23 when
you peak or something. But again, I'm merely an individual, right? And there's a whole generation
of people who are like now left behind. Do you know my friend Peter Teal at all?
I mean, not personally.
So he's got a great quote. I don't know whether he said it publicly, probably has,
but he says things to me and I just, I kick myself for not having thought of them first.
He says a boomers golden era is in his or her twenties, a gen Xers in his or her fifties.
And then he looks at me and he says, and we're just getting started.
It's been, it's like, I didn't get suddenly interesting like in the last few years because
I ate a mushroom. Yeah.
It was, there's this thing I've called the distributed idea suppression complex or the disc.
Is this your coinage?
Yeah, coin lots of stuff.
Yeah, you coin a lot of, yeah.
Yeah. But then the weird thing is you watch it in the world and it only works if you're
coining something that people actually recognize is real. It's not like you can make up anything
and it just goes. But there is this thing that tried to suppress all ideas. It's still working.
Like they're trying to make Andrew Yang not appear on MSNBC on any of the graphics or Tulsi
gets, you know, dropped at every opportunity. Yeah.
This thing just doesn't want to hear that there's a massive intergenerational transfer where the
two vampiric generations of the silence and the boomers
transfuse the Xers and the millennials in order to allow them to live in the style to which
they become accustomed. And like the most obvious place that you see this is the university system.
Explain that.
Oh, it was a pyramid scheme that was expanding. And when the growth that was natural in the system
ran out, there was no way to give people professorships who had been contributing their youth to the
research of those above them. And so what the universities did, almost every top university
loaded up on administrators and then made tuition insanely expensive and made it impossible to get
rid of the debt in bankruptcy so that you can die, you know, getting a social security check and
still paying your student loans. I'm going to do a show hopefully with Sugar Baby University,
which is a program inside of seeking arrangement sugar dating, where it would appear that the
appeal is that young women who are in some men burdened with student debt can graduate debt free
by dating older successful people and getting an allowance every month,
which I think is just like, it's weird to imagine a generation sort of selling its
daughters into borderline commercial sex work. Yeah, I mean, it's monstrous. And the idea that you
would institutionalize this with like a degree, it's like the University of Phoenix for hookers.
Why don't you get a job busing tables to pay off your student loans when student tuition has gone,
you know, above medical tuition, which is above regular tuition, regular inflation,
I mean, sorry, medical inflation is above regular inflation and tuition inflation is above medical.
The whole thing is mad, but the system couldn't be kept together.
And so that is an intergenerational transfusing. Yeah, I mean, look, one of the most one of the
biggest rackets in this country after management consulting is the idea that all people should
go to college. I think Germany has it right. They send most of them to vocational programs.
The idea that you should even be paying, you know, $40,000 a semester in tuition to get a
communications degree as a super senior for five years is preposterous. Nobody needs to be saddled,
huh? You're going to blow it for these generations. Yeah, why? Because it's a scam, man. They turned
the most amazing part of our country into this wealth transfer scam. It's just, it's funny,
but it's painful. Yeah, I mean, and it's horrible. I was thinking about, you know,
the kind of the idea of, are you familiar with this concept, stob, the Russian parody?
Stob, stob. We can get into this later because it's a whole.
Don't know it. I think that this is like to really understand the Trump era, for example, you have
to view it through this particular lens. Well, give it to me.
It's a, it's a late Soviet parody genre or style that involves an over-identification,
so extreme that it's unclear whether you're endorsing, authentically endorsing a position
or perpetuating an elaborate troll. So it's basically a post-ironic gesture. If you look at
the golden age of liberal entertainment as John Stuart, The Daily Show, which was kind of
characterized by, this is a really long-winded digression. I didn't mean to go here. Drink up,
let's do it. Yeah, I'll keep going. As characterized by this kind of snarky, implicitly morally
superior, ironic posture, right? That was, I think, supplanted eventually by this kind of
stob over-identification, right? Where it's unclear, for example, with people like me and
Dasha, it's unclear what position we're actually endorsing, right? And Trump, for example, is
the master of the strategy. And so he plays. So we do, we both acknowledge that Trump has
some crazy genius to him. I think he's a total genius, but I think that he's an artistic genius,
not a political genius. Yeah, he's an artistic genius. I think that he's an artist. He's a
Gemini just like my mother. My mom hates Trump with like a fire because they're the same person.
Down to the kind of miserable, conty expression, they kind of emote when they're in an irritated
mood. It's really something. How is that conty in? Huh? How is that conty in?
Conty on conty, conty. Am I okay? But I'm very gullible, which is why I'm not a troll. But you
take somebody like Trump, the guy is so over-invested in performing his own incompetence that any
parody of him by an outsider reads as cringy and over-determined, which is why SNL has sucked
for the last time. But in part, you have to get something right before you compare it to it,
right? Yeah. And I don't know if you ever saw this video. I think it's called something like
because of the music in the Hall of the Trumpian King. No. Okay, so it's all of these liberal
comedians from this golden era that you're talking about in the most knowing and oppressive way
possible saying, buddy, you're not going to win. Come on, we all know it. And everyone's saying like,
oh, please run. Oh, it'll be so entertaining. Like, there's no concept that this is real.
Yes, yeah. And every single one of those people who appeared on this, including John Oliver and
Stephen Colbert, became unfunny to me in just about everything that they did after they went
so over the top. Yeah, momentarily, yeah. That they showed that they didn't understand. Like,
you can't mock this stuff. And what a betrayal, like on a Freudian level, what a collective
betrayal of parental authority that was. We really believed in these guys that they could be,
that they could parse like, sorry. They believed in them. They, yeah. But this is this thing I've
called the gated institutional narrative. It was protected against reality. I mean, I don't know
whether because of your. You have to publish like a coffee table book of your like coinages
and neologisms. I'd rather you make fun of the red scare. That could actually be fun. Yeah.
One of the things that I, and again, this is, this shows you how twisted my soul is, but as a
pastime, I sometimes watch the last days of the Cheshaskas in Romania. Because like right up until
the end. Go on a porn hub and Google the execution. Right. Under Slavic milk. It's very much,
like there's a rally and somehow the rally goes out of control. And order has to be restored
and the cameras have to break the filming of what's going on. And so right at the end,
they've got their shrinking group of loyalists who are still terrified that these people are
going to regain power because that's the way it's always been, but everywhere the spell is broken.
And I guess that's sort of what I saw is that this thing was just, it was an American version of
propaganda that had been so believed that when it started not to be true,
the organs just kept pumping out all of this encouragement that, you know, think
Hillary is going to win. There's no question she's inevitable.
I mean, even now they're running, you know, Kamala's out. So they're really going whole hog with
Buddha judge. But it's yeah, there's a certain lag between the progressive and
Trumpian and between kind of like traditional Democrats and conservatives and the Trump
administration. And I think like Trump uniquely among world leaders possibly in the history of
the world has been able to do this thing. I mean, I wrote a whole essay about it. He was able to do
what the Russian avant-garde and the socialist realists had been trying to do, these two kind of
sequential propaganda like arms of the culture industry in the Soviet Union,
which was maintain, which has achieved a total synthesis of the material and the imaginable
or the imaginative. What, you know, sounds really good. Slow it down, give it to me.
I mean, what, you know, it's kind of like the typical like Soviet avant-garde idea that we were
creating a total synthesis of art in life, like a single kind of art political project.
And Trump alone has been able to do this, though crucially under a very capitalist,
not communist regime, he's been able to marry
what we can imagine and what is materially possible.
Yeah, he's been very ineffective in bringing in
an entire, like there is no theory of Trump, because almost no one either on his side or
in the opposition side actually understands how much method he brings and it's cryptic.
So it looks, you know, there's a lot of indirection. He understands indirection.
He does, but he's got these formulas and I can't tell you how bizarre it is. I mean,
you probably know my friend Sam Harris who was sitting here and we were having this argument
friendly, but an argument nonetheless. I'm going to rub the seat for good luck.
A lot of weird stuff has happened in that chair.
Has Joe Rogan ever sat in the seat?
Not yet.
I have a crush on Joe Rogan. I know he's married, but...
I think everyone does.
Yeah, everybody does. I think that he really could be the guy who could run and win against
Trump.
He does not want me to talk about this because he's got a great life and the fact that everybody
loves him causes people to sort of do weird things in his presence. He just wants to be
a regular guy. He's also, you know, and I don't mind saying this behind his...
Average Joe.
Yeah, yeah.
That he is not.
