Yeah, yeah.
I mean, he's running an incredible operation, but whatever it is, there's a lot of method there
because if you think about how difficult it is to turn these shows out and to keep them fresh,
it's almost impossible. So there's a ton of genius going on in Joe's front. He has not come yet,
but we agreed to do each other's podcasts.
What Sam did was to say that he, Sam, thought that Trump was the evil Chauncey Gardener,
that that was his theory of mind, and I thought that is insane. I mean, it's not that...
Sam and I tried to have it out. We can't see each other's point.
I'm not saying that Sam is wrong, but I see so much method to Trump's trolling.
And he doesn't. He thinks that this is all kind of like arbitrary.
Well, I think what he does, another thing I say is that Sam is more focused on honesty,
and I'm more focused on meta-honesty. Trump is not an honest person,
but in a weird way, he is meta-honest.
Right. So he's right when he says he's an honest person because on some level, he is.
Yeah.
Yeah. But what we care about is that, for example, Trump knows the liberal mind is automated.
And as soon as you break through one of its shibboleths, it has an automated,
non-thinking reflexive reaction. And he can map that, and then he can say,
okay, I'll do something that will cause the reflexive reaction, but I will put something in
place, which is totally different so that when you have that reflexive reaction,
you will be shown to be an NPC.
Well, what's that? Am I allowed to look at my phone or is that hilarious tweet?
I will stall for you.
No, that's okay. I don't even have to, but I have to look at my phone every 10 minutes or
else I die. There's that tweet that he had today about Greta Thunberg and how she needs to get
her anger issues under control.
Hilarious. It's so wrong, but it's so...
Okay.
I mean, the man has the mightest touch when it comes to Twitter.
But let's talk about that tweet.
Yeah.
So Greta is this self-described autistic girl who's mad as hell about climate
and who is being, even if she has authenticity to her, there's an entirely inauthentic
complex that has settled her on her, wants to use her the way the World Wildlife Federation used
the panda bear as charismatic megafauna. So in some sense, Greta, the actual human,
is also the charismatic megafauna of a propaganda campaign, which is lying in order
to probably tell the truth. So you've got this real climate emergency.
You should be able to do a truthful campaign, but that can't work. So you have to do a lying
campaign and you use an actual human being as your mascot. So it's like layers and layers of
confusion. And the idea, of course, is that you can't attack an autistic child, particularly a
female one, because she's angry. And so Trump sees opportunity and he's going to go at the layer
where he's going to say she has anger management issues. She should get it under control, go to
an old-fashioned movie with friends. And then he uses chill, Greta, chill, where chill is both
an admonition in terms of chill out, but also a reference to global cooling.
Right. Yeah. And also keep in mind all of this just days after on the heels of the Pamela
Carlin remark about Barron Trump that prompted Melania to tweet in her little baby daddy voice,
do not talk to my minor son that way. I love and I read everything in her sexy baby voice.
Yeah. And so, okay, so.
By the way, I'm so jealous because I can't say anything like that because you have the XX
going. You get away with murder. Yeah. The XX and advanced, what's it called,
like wet brain from my years of being a Russian alcoholic. But it's, you know, okay,
so this woman who's like a state witness for the impeachment proceedings ostensibly insults
Trump's kid and that's not kosher, but he can insult a 16-year-old climate change activist.
This whole thing, so if you look at how complex this troll is,
he is appealing to all of the people who see the manipulation of the real Greta for this
fake campaign, which in my opinion is actually crowding out the real campaign that should be
there because climate is an issue, but it's misportrayed because it has to be done in a
simplistic fashion. You've got like millions of layers there and Trump is finding his support
in the people who see through part of it. Yes. Okay. The other thing is, is that he does have
this thing where he knows that because his own child has been brought in as a combatant,
that he should be allowed to do something like this. You should be able to use somebody else's
child as a human shield. Well, particularly one that is being pushed forward by time as person
of the year. Yes. Oh, God, are we there? Yeah, we're there. Okay. That happened, didn't it?
Oh, I thought Lizzo was the person of the year. I thought it was Greta. Oh, I don't know.
They should just mud wrestle and get it over with. Anyway, go ahead. Okay, so in any event,
that was a perfect version of this isn't Trump the child. This is Trump the master strategist.
It's a trap because the liberal or left-of-center mind just says, whoa,
Trump attacked an autistic girl. And if that was the simplicity of it, they'd be right. And it's
in no way shape or form the simplicity of it. Right. But he's really kind of a genius at doing
that. And it's so sad that there is no avant-garde art. I mean, I said this on my podcast.
Avant-garde art today is the sum of the Trump PR team's social media output
and coupled with the kind of unintentional comic fallout of woke ad campaigns.
Well, for example, you use the word retarded. Yes.
If I were to say, I'm really offended. I have a developmentally challenged relative.
You might respond, oh, I don't think retarded people are retarded.
Right. And they wouldn't understand that it's a comment on an overloaded term.
Right. Well, it's a commentary. It's a critique. It's a mockery of people who
disingenuously oppose the use of the word. It's not actually a commentary or a mockery
of actually stapled people. But you could see that there was a reason. I mean,
as somebody who developmentally struggled in school,
I have a certain... Oh, we're talking. I was like, are you talking about you or me?
Me. It's like, you don't know me. You can't judge me. Anyway, go on.
As somebody who struggled in school, I have some sensitivity around.
Right. Okay.
Having somebody say, if they see my handwriting, people say, are you an axe murderer?
Yeah. What's your handwriting?
Doesn't look like anything. It looks like Jackson Pollock.
It looks like prisoner scrawls. Yeah. I love that Trump's handwriting,
by the way, is very bubbly and girlish. You can almost see him drawing a harp
above the eye that they did in high school. Oh, definitely. Yeah.
And it's very, very like angular and swoopy. Yeah.
But I can see how it started, but then it became like the language police
and it's completely out of control. Yeah. I mean, look, and I object to being... I resent
being policed by people who were guilty of the same crimes just like 18 months ago or whatever.
Yeah. I resent in general, not people, but how the culture, the system, or whatever you want to
call it, has become so callous, so transactional, so interested in meeting out punitive justice,
and so incapable of giving people the benefit of the doubt. There's no large
of spirit. Nobody believes that anybody does anything out of like humor or juisance anymore.
Well, because in many ways, it's become like a scavenger hunt where you have to collect,
do you have the head of a racist? Do you have the head of a misogynist? Do you have the head of
an anti-Semite? And then you get bingo if you call out all of these people. So partially,
it's a reward structure. I think one of the ways which was called out, and I hate that term,
but there you are, really well by Joe, is that he had a... He was... I watched him work up a routine
over several nights on wrestling is gay, and he starts off with wrestling is really gay.
And because gay is an epithet in some cases, people made the association, okay, wrestling is
stupid. That's not what he said. He said wrestling is gay. So they take the bait. This is very
Trumpian, but this is Joe doing it as a comment. And he says, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You
just completed that in your mind. I didn't say what you think I said. And then now you're in
the pitcher plant or the Venus flytrap is closed. And he says, let's think about this. You got two
guys in gold shorts with lace-up booties, rolling around, sweating bodies together. Yeah. If this
isn't gay, what is? Well, when he starts doing it that way, you realize that you took the bait.
You had an automated reaction as opposed to a thoughtful one. And that shows off the comic skill
by laying the trap. I mean, you saw another one of these with Dave Chappelle, where he says,
I'm going to do an impression of the audience, and the audience is insufferable. He says,
I'm going to do an impression. I'm going to ruin your life. And I'm going to make it impossible for
you to earn a living. And like people thought it was Trump. And he says, no, it's you. So the fourth
wall is broken. The finger is pointed. Yeah. I mean, look, and that's on some level. I feel like I
shouldn't be fully confessional because that'll take away some of the allure and the mystique.
But this is what I do with my Twitter. I set things up in such a way that people always
inevitably take the bait. Those people don't watch this program. Don't worry.
Yeah, they don't. Yeah. And this is true. And the thing that that's so kind of,
it's eternally amusing and yet disheartening. My only goal now that I'm like a glass of red
deep is to get people to think and to draw their own conclusions. But when they do think,
this is why, you know, democracy on some level isn't possible. When they do,
now we're getting into the ASMR portion. Now this sounds like my podcast, we're like pouring,
popping bottles, pouring wine. I'm going to light up in this studio, just kidding.
But when people do kind of get their little engines a-turning, they always somehow, or the
people that I'm used to dealing with at any rate, always somehow draw the worst possible least
mutually flattering conclusion that speaks volumes about where the culture at large is at.
But when you look at yourself metacognitively, like I have this thing that I call the robot,
which is the thing that I observe making these automated decisions. And then I have another
thing I call the metacognitive perch, where I watch my robotic self, and I'm just horrified
by what it makes, how it conducts itself. I see you as having this distance as an intrinsic
part of your personality and the person I'm talking to is really sitting on the metacognitive
perch. Yeah, I mean, but this is the kind of blessing and burden of being a dysfunctional,
traumatized Russian person. It sucks being Russian. What are you talking about?
No, you see the chessboard, which is a, it's more of a burden than it is a blessing, because
it makes life very difficult to live. Say more. I sympathize with people like Brett Easton Ellis
and Michelle Welbeck, who are my two favorite novelists. People laugh because I'm not reading
like Flo Bear or Balzac, but because they have this metacognitive perch. Their books are about
meta-commentary. It's social commentary disguised as fiction, which to me is kind of the most
elite form of writing. Well, Brett, you know, so Brett sat in your chair and we talked about this
issue that I had accused him of privatizing our mutual childhood since we came from the same milieu.
And he talked about the importance of the narrator, I guess, Clay in less than zero,
who's detached from the horrors of what he's seeing. He's weirdly drawn just the way we are to
look at an auto accident, but he's also just clinically kind of detailing, well, this is
what happened. And somehow I brought up Joan Didion in that session and he confessed that this
was his favorite author. And I think about her detachment where she was watching the sort of
60s debauchery and he was watching the 70s debauchery. And just the sense of having a traditional
sensibility, viewing the destruction of traditional, you can see that this is a very long unraveling
of the fabric of society. Yeah. And that's, I mean, that's my beef with all these critiques of
Wellbeck, right? The primary one being that he's kind of a nihilist and a misogynist.
And in my mind, especially with this new book, Serotonin, which I don't know if you've read,
but if you haven't, you should read it. It's a giant eulogy for the decline
of Western civilization and the moral failure of liberal consensus. But the main question,
the kind of principle organizing theme of his work in my mind has always been,
is love possible under advanced capitalism? What kind of nihilist is it that concerns
himself with the question as meaningful and significant as the possibility of the question
of love? Why do you think that comes up? In order for that to book to be interesting,
that question has to be interesting. What makes that question interesting?
Whether love is possible under advanced capitalism? Well, if I said, is transportation
by automobile possible under advanced capitalism, it wouldn't be an interesting question.
So why is it even a question, is love possible? Because I think a vast kind of significant
majority of people, at least people who are kind of inoculated into some sort of intellectual
society or professional society, professional class, believe that it's not or suspect that it's
not. But what is it? For example, if I were to ask you, let's go ahead.
I suspect that they actually want it to be true that love is not possible under advanced capitalism,
because then that offloads their own say in the matter, their own responsibility
to the system or whatever. If I asked our novels possible to read,
like our great novels possible to read in the age of Twitter?
Sure. Yeah, they're possible to read. I don't know that they're possible to write.
Or to feel. I'm not positive that they are. Many of us have noticed a bizarre inability
to plunge into a book. We think of ourselves as book people,
but we feel that our brains have been rewired much the way porn has changed the way in which
we find our lovers. I think that Twitter has changed the way we find our novels.
Right. On some level, yeah. I mean, there's no longer a need or I don't know about a desire,
but there's no longer kind of a necessity for a long, for a work of art that has a long form
expository narrative structure. I totally disagree.
You think that, I mean, I think most people don't sense that.
Television got so weirdly good at it, nobody was expecting that.
Right. But TV came out of nowhere. Modern TV has longer narrative arcs than any movie.
Yes, because the movie industry was completely eroded, right?
Because the Sopranos and Mad Men and all that figured out something we didn't understand.
Yeah, but I think TV is also like watching is meaningfully different from reading.
Well, I guess what I'm trying to say is that
if you think about this from an evolutionary perspective, there's kind of an adaptive landscape
for various forms of memetic dissemination of story narrative information.
And some of them have gotten terrible, but like if you looked at 1970s television,
I went back to look at the love boat from my youth. It's unwatchable.
Right. I can imagine.
But Game of Thrones is weirdly strangely compelling.
Yes, it is, yeah.
And the way in which movies, like there was just this transfer of wealth from cinema into the
idiot box. And that's fascinating because everything else tells us, or long form podcasting,
is a very strange parallel structure. Where are attention spans getting really long?
They're getting long somewhere.
Somewhere, yeah. It's being transferred. I mean, you know, I had this thought earlier today in my
hungover state where it dawned on me. I had a little bit of a kind of like a feminine imposter
syndrome moment. And I was like, this is ridiculous. So I'm like going on this guy's podcast. I'm
some hostess from Bushwick, you know, and then I thought, yeah. And I was like, you know,
