Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I'm lucky to be here
tonight with Anna, and here it comes, Hachin.
Thanks for having me.
Oh, did I screw that up?
No, no, no, no, no, that's right.
And Anna is half of the up-and-coming podcast Red Scare, which has everyone talking.
Everyone.
Not everyone. I'm exaggerating slightly.
Yeah.
But I just got introduced to you by a colleague of mine, Blake Masters, Peter Teal's co-author.
And I've been addicted to your podcast, not quite understanding why. It's one of the strangest
things I've ever found. Can you say more about what induced you to do it and why you think it
might be working?
I have no clue why it's working. I know that it's probably due to some sort of
alchemical, inarticulable thing that's totally out of my control and that has something to do
with my chemistry with my co-host who's an actress called Dasha Nakrasova.
But I think maybe it struck a chord. I know that it consistently infuriates all the wrong people,
which was never my intention.
It's so innocent, and it's so beautiful, but it's also not entirely believable.
Because it does seem like what you're doing is you're crowding out a certain kind of piousness,
and we had an epic lunch the other day.
Yeah, we did. We had what they call a power launch.
Is that a power launch?
Yeah. Okay.
I just learned at the last minute that this podcast is being filmed because I was telling
Eric here that the way that we run ours is like a bunch of wires and crap strewn on the floor,
chain-smoking. Dasha literally sits on the ground objectifying herself at every turn,
and I sit on my disgusting, stained, and cigarette-burned couch.
But this is my bad side, and I wish I was more of a diva like Mariah Carey and could demand
that we switched seats.
Really?
Yeah. No, I'm kidding. I'm being hyperbolic.
Well, and we always pick up the syringes before the guests.
Yeah. Anyway, what was the question?
Well, the question surrounds what I was going to get at is that we had this
bit of a riff where I've said that I'm trying to be long good and short nice,
that nice doesn't really have a future because nice is really this kind of performative version
that crowds out good, and you seem to have mastered this formula where I detect
a deeply buried good, and there's an attack on nice at all times.
Yeah. I mean, I think that nice on some level is a futile position. I mean,
even you look at like female social politics, right? And there's always kind of
irrepentant bitches masquerading as nice girls, and then there's nice girls masquerading as
irrepentant bitches. And I think I would like to think that I'm the latter.
Remains to be seen.
Yeah. I don't know that I have any sort of earnest or let's say, let's put it this way.
I don't know that I have kind of a sustained political vision that I would like to enact.
It's kind of out of my control as, you know, my father who used to say you're but a crumb
floating on the face of the earth, but-
Was that to build your confidence?
Yeah. That's the Russian way of parenting. It's like Russian self-esteem.
But at the end of the day, I have kind of a very earnest ethical agenda that I'm hoping
to populate the minds of my young girl and gay listeners with.
I would have said infect, but okay, populate.
Yeah. Yeah.
Infect is another good one.
Wonderful. So let's just dig into a little bit of your background as you're mining it
for the kind of motif that even though it's an intrinsically American show,
it's informed by this sort of broad Slavic soul and you were born in.
In Moscow.
In Moscow.
Yeah. In 1985, the internet and my Spanish Wikipedia says that it's 1986.
Every year I'm aging backwards on the internet.
Nice.
Next year I'll be 32.
Yeah. It's great.
Great. Yeah. I'm like the Benjamin buttons of neoliberal critique,
but I was born in 1985 at the tail end, right before the collapse of the Soviet Union.
There's no way that that experience along with the kind of
inevitable trauma of immigration doesn't inform your worldview.
So if I understand correctly, not only are you coming with this sort of tail end
Soviet influence, but it is also the case that you've got access to the twin genocides of Jews
and Armenians.
That's true. Yeah. I always say on Twitter, it's very depressing that my ancestors survived
the Armenian genocide and then the Holocaust. So their descendant could become a podcaster in
Brooklyn now Manhattan.
And no doubt because you're white of hue, you are going to be labeled as privileged because
you come from these two ethnic groups, which for some reason we can't actually locate in
human history or what these groups have been through, which I find also weirdly amusing.
This is a very, I mean, this is a very interesting point. I don't know if we want to,
I'm not drunk yet, so maybe we should get into the intellectual.
Can we toast to sobriety? Yeah, let's toast to sobriety.
To sobriety.
Yeah.
And this is Darovia.
I don't, so I'll get into all the kind of like heavy handed intellectual stuff in the
first half, let's say, but this is one of I think my central projects or critiques that I'm
interested in. I don't obviously, I don't dispute the completely gross horrific legacy of
American slavery, right? It existed, it plunged an entire population into poverty, into social
fragmentation. The legacy is still alive and well today. What I object to, I think is the
wholesale export of the American view of race relations to elsewhere in the world,
to people who don't have the similar experience.
Well, I guess from my perspective, what I find very odd about all of this is that
having been close to people in the Armenian and Jewish communities,
there's a tremendous amount of intergenerational trauma because there has to be.
My sister and I call it hand-me-down trauma.
Yeah.
It's something you inherit, like a brooch or a necklace.
Well, I would say it's also a set of behavior patterns for detecting when things are starting to
get really dicey. You have to know that it's not that the generation that goes through these
things is the only one that has a claim. The longevity of these populations is about saying,
we don't know whether there's going to be another one of these episodes in your time,
so everyone always has to be ready. There's no state of not being ready. We've made it.
We finally, we're orthodontists, we're going to be fine.
Yeah. I mean, you can't rest on your laurels effectively.
And I think.
You have to sleep with one eye open in some sense.
Yeah. Well, yeah, with a knife under your pillow.
You're going to give away all of our secrets?
Yeah. I have so many dark family secrets, but I think the basic
correct principle, the basic critique of certain, I guess, leftist intellectuals
in the United States is this idea that, okay, well, somebody like me is not only white,
not only would be associated as white or would consider herself white, but is essentially
white passing. So therefore, even if I was not hypothetically white, I could rake in the certain
white privilege that, for example, or a black or Latino person couldn't.
Well, this is what I've called the intersectional shakedown.
Yeah.
And the populations that are maximally irritating to the intersectional shakedown artists
are the populations with recent claims to oppression that are nevertheless making it
economically because really what it is is an attempt to take a real history of oppression
and to turn it into cash.
Yes. Well, I tweeted literally today moments before I came here that the idea of cultural
appropriation, that debate makes perfect sense in a culture where identity is viewed as a form
of capital because it becomes then a zero sum game if somebody like Rachel Dolezal, right,
perpetuates this myth that she's a black woman, she is basically taking food out of the mouth,
power out of the hands of an actually black woman.
Right. So there's that absurdity, but then we actually have to contend with the weird
aspect. For example, if you look at the exploitation of black musicians who very often,
at some point, you had a lot of illiterate genius musicians in the Delta who were brilliant enough
to produce great music, but weren't capable of defending themselves in a legal structure.
Right. Exactly.
And so you actually had cultural exploitation of one group by another through appropriation,
so you'd get, I think at some point, I saw Otis Blackwell performing in New York City,
and he had to say, look, I'm the guy behind Elvis Presley.
Right.
And the idea is that when Elvis sang it, it was acceptable to a market that he couldn't sell
into. So there is a real aspect to cultural appropriation, and there's a totally fake
aspect, which is this sort of, and they're coexisting. And so it's very tempting for
people like us just to point at the bullshit, but there actually is this unfortunate reality
that's braided with it.
Yeah, absolutely. No pun intended. Sorry.
Oh, braids?
Braids, yeah, the box braids. No, but it's absolutely true. I mean, you can give the
example of like Hesh and the Sopranos, right? We talked about the Sopranos at our power lunch,
who's the guy who's kind of this like kindly sensible Jewish grandfather.
Within a mafia context.
Within a mafia context. It's so warm and loving and steadily, and this is a guy who has historically
stiffed black musicians for royalties, right? And there's that famous reparations episode
with, I think it was Bokeem Woodbine playing the rapper, Minigark guy.
There's a question about whether he's going to visit violence upon him, but it turns out
he's going to visit a lawsuit or something.
Yes, yeah, exactly. But then you have like these cultural examples of like, you know,
like Katy Perry or Miley Cyrus wearing cornrows, like Kim Kardashian wearing cornrows in a
Kardashian like beauty photo shoot, which I find completely preposterous. No one owns cornrows.
I don't know enough about female hairstyle.
There's no direct line of monetization, right? Okay.
I don't see it that way. And so that, that's a discourse that I think, yeah,
your right exists as like a proxy discourse because people are afraid to confront the deeper,
more complex issues. Well, I think that, and you have one set of legitimate issues acting as the
stalking horse for this infernal shakedown. And my hatred of this comes from the fact that
if American Jews who have made it financially in one generation are somehow safe and secure,
and therefore privileged, something is entirely broken with your cosmology.
Well, how do you mean?
Well, it's just like, I assume that the German Jews in the, you know, before Kristallnacht,
the two nights before Kristallnacht were privileged and should be worried about their
privilege. It's just, this is stupid. Yeah, it's a silly argument. And I think,
you know, I get into spats about, listen, I'm, I'm frequently accused of like being
racially insensitive. And I, you know, as Quentin, the late great Quentin Tarantino said,
I reject that hypothesis. It's patently false. What I've always said is not,
I'm not in the business, I'm not interested in having an oppression Olympics and saying like,
well, okay, look, I come from a historically oppressed background on two sides. But yeah,
I, you know, grew up in a totally middle class milieu. And, you know, but I'm going to use this
kind of identitarian card, I'm going to play the card to be oppressed. That's not at all what I'm
interested in. What I'm saying is that as a person who comes from a different culture,
I can view the legacy of American slavery at a critical distance in a way that American people
may not be able to, right? Because in Russia, you have a parallel system called serfdom.
Right. These, the slaves in the serfs were emancipated within I think a year of each other.
Right. But I mean, I just had J.D. Vance in your chair.
I've heard only horrible things about him. Oh, yeah.
I'll introduce you. I like him quite a bit. He, you know, his family, of course,
is coming from Appalachia and hillbillies were de facto enslaved, maybe a form of light slavery,
if you will, just we serfdom is a different form of enslavement with company towns, company script,
company stores, company housing, private armies of detective agencies. So, you know, the idea that
that is seen through the lens of white privilege shows you the mental impoverishment of the current
woke ideology. And my claim is that we cannot afford to dispute it. We must ignore it just because
it, it sort of shouldn't qualify intellectually. It didn't make. I mean, as George Bush II said,
you don't negotiate with terrorists. And this is, I think my big opposition to it
is that woke ideology by and large is an emotional hostage situation. It really is.
It's a hostage crisis. Yeah. Well, you seem to be ignoring the credible
threat to your reputation. In fact, it's making your reputation. So, you're metabolizing this kind
of weird resentment and hatred that people are experiencing through fear because these are
reputational attacks. In general, they're attacks that say, I'm going to make it impossible for
you to earn a normal living by making an attack on your reputation, which you need to negotiate
the institutional world. Yeah. And it's like, you know, Jordan Peterson famously said, like,
I figured out a way to monetize the SJWs. And, you know, you could possibly say that about
Red Scare, but it's not kind of. No, I think you guys are doing something much more
bizarre and interesting. Yeah, yeah, I agree, but it's not intended in that way. But
that was never the premise or the interest. It was kind of this earnest, it was truly kind of an
earnest frustration with liberal mainstream feminism and liberalism. I don't even know
whether it's liberalism. I mean, like everything is so watered down and metastatic and bizarre.
That it's the vague whiff of the left gone mad. Yeah. Right? Like, it's not liberal. It's not
