like profoundly hostile and suspicious of therapy. I did it primarily to appease my
boyfriend, but that's another story. And it occurred to me. It dawned on me during the
process of seeing the shrink. It's like the old psychoanalytic concept of transference.
I mean, everybody does, right? And I think transference for men is saying...
Oh, I saw this. This was wicked.
What?
The tweet you're about to quote.
You know, transference for men is telling the shrink, I want to fuck you. Transference for
women is asking the shrink, do you want to fuck me? And semantically, it's a slightly different
configuration, but it comes down to the same thing. And it's like that John Berger quote that I
quote all the time, ad nauseam to the point that it's become annoying and my friends won't speak
to me because it's all I do is quote this quote all day. Men watch, women watch themselves
being watched. That's the nature, right? The kind of old traditional basis of female or male versus
female sexual arousal, right? You said this to me, which I thought was very astute. I've never
heard anybody else put it this way. Yeah, we've both come to some version of this independently.
Of the same thing. Yeah. It's men are aroused by the woman, the presence of the woman.
Women are aroused by the kind of picture of themselves arousing the man.
Or that the man in some ways metaphorically acts as a mirror and the better the man,
the better the quality and the more flattering the quality of the reflection.
And that's not to say that women are completely indifferent to male looks and the like, but that
to an enormous extent, we've demonized narcissism when in fact we find narcissism
to be an extremely beautiful trait in a future spouse as men.
And this is a very important point too, because I'm very much a critic of like kind of narcissism
as a generational pathology, but that I'm critical specifically of kind of the
maladjusted pathological manifestations. Well, the maladaptive version.
That doesn't attach properly to the partner. Yeah, not the positive kind of credible.
And this was really wonderfully, you know, sometimes I feel so awful about myself because
I misjudged the situation. I'm so used to like people and ideas being kind of low density and
low nutrition and I'm kind of starved for stimulation in that way. And sometimes I'll read
or see something that I find really remarkable. And I always have to ask myself the question,
like, Hey, like, have my standards plummeted so much? Or have I grown more tolerant? Which
at the end of the day is the same question. But there was a very viral short story on the New York
or by this woman, Kristen Rupenian, also an Armenian, by the way, who it was called cat person.
And in it, she describes kind of a classic me too type situation where a young college co-ed
gets into a relationship with like a kind of older washed up 38 year old guy. And there's
a say older and 38. Well, for her, because she's like 21. It's okay. I think I think I think a
man. Okay, look, don't backpedal. I'm not backpedaling. I think kind of peak manhood is 35 to,
let's say 55, right? That's a good window. That's when the male race. I'll give you a shovel and
you can try to dig yourself out of the hole. Yeah, I'll dig my own grave. That's what I really want.
I'm like, you know, that guy fundamentally identify with the Russian guy and the sopranos and the
Pine Barons episode. Oh my gosh, you don't even get it. It's fantastic. But basically,
Rupenian, she has, she crafts this whole sex scene where this girl is like having sex with
this guy that she finds profoundly unattractive and undesirable. But what gets her off at the end
of the day is her imagining his arousal or her like new bile young body writhing around for him.
And I thought that that was like a really brilliant glitch that was a shock that like,
you know, a liberal paper of record would publish. It's very odd what gets through these
things. I watched your description of the wasted opportunity of sexualizing stewardesses
where everyone has the sense of, oh my God, you know, Pan Am stewardesses in the 60s.
It's a universal kind of weird beauty norm, but there's now this very strong sense of like,
and wasn't that horrible. And so the sort of the two dimensional fantasy of coffee tea or me
versus the abject horror of, okay, well, you weren't allowed to compete on price because
of the regulation of the airways. And so people competed on the sexualization of the flight
crews. And then some of the flight crews were like actually being oppressed and some of them
were self sexualizing like people do on Instagram because they wanted the attention.
And there's no language to pull these things apart.
Well, as usual, people missed the point of that tweet, which was not about stewardesses. They
made it into a labor issue because increasingly the culture has kind of dried up so much that
people increasingly see things through the lens of politics. That tweet wasn't about labor at all.
It was actually kind of a very rather subjective indictment of the way that American women behave
relative to women elsewhere. Women in Italy, in Thailand, in Spain, in Brazil, in the Middle East
understand that their unofficial power is garnered through indirection, as you say. American women
understand no such thing. I mean, Camille Poglio again has been beating this drum for decades now.
So this had nothing to do with it. It wasn't like a labor...
But it isn't, it isn't. I mean, this is the very difficult thing coming from an American context,
which is that very often the cultivation of exclusively womanly power
took place because women did not have alternate options. And sometimes we've gone too far in
American culture by giving away power that is entirely functional. So you and I both discussed
having economics and mathematics in our background. The brilliance of Sylvia Nasser's book, A Beautiful
Mind, I did not see the film. And... You haven't seen the film? No, I refuse. We'll get back to that
in a minute, but... Okay. Yeah. And then we talked about Rebecca Goldstein's The Mind-Body Problem.
In both of these books, you see this very strong hand of the community of wives of the mostly
male mathematicians and economists directing the field, who should collaborate with who,
who should make up with who, who's having a spat, who should be hired, who should be invited to the
conference. And that kind of... There's a question about when women stopped wanting that role in
the United States context. No one took the role over. And so it was like a load-bearing role that
was now vacant. There are ways in which I think it's terrible that nobody's fulfilling that role.
And there's a ways in which I think it's terrible that women were expected to fulfill that role,
having now seen fantastic contributions in mathematics, you know, of people
like Karen Ulunbeck or Lisa Jeffery, that any one of a number of female mathematicians who've
put structural things in our world that I can't live without. And so I think that there's a really
interesting and rich conversation about how much power from the old ways should be retained
and how much of it should be seated so that more standard professional accomplishment
can occur. And because we're having this very simplistic conversation, we're not getting to
the really rich conversation, which is what should be the renegotiation of male and female roles
around. It shouldn't be that women are trying to be a substitute copy of men.
On the other hand, it can't really go back to women hold power.
Barefoot and pregnant.
Well, I wouldn't say that. No, it's also the terrifying matriarch that the hell that
daughters-in-law are put through in many culture. You know, it's a very, the key issue,
and I think this comes through with everything you talk about. The war that we have to wage
is the war on simplistic easy answers as opposed to nuanced richness.
Yeah. And well, and this goes back to this question of hypernormalization where we are
grafting, we are affected. I mean, Angela Nagel talks about this, who I think
Angela is a friend of mine, but I think she's also like the most brilliant,
young intellectual around now, and she gets kind of pilloried all the time for also being
like a reactionary, conservative, whatever. Nagel talks about this idea that we, in her critique
of the Handmaiden's Tale or the Handmaid's Tale, sorry, that we are kind of left fighting the
simpler battles of the past that we've grafted this kind of Cold War, binaristic analogy,
you know, the East versus the West, conservative versus progressive or liberal, that no longer
computes because we live in a bizarre, nonlinear world with a kind of profusion, a superfluity
of information that makes anybody's brain short-circuit.
Well, you know, this is like what our friend Amanda Fielding, the psychedelic countess
who extols the virtues of psychedelic chemicals. Her point is that the default mode network is
this thing that suppresses our brain from experiencing too much and that sanity and
a well-functioning mind, for the most part, is attached to not perceiving everything that's
going on around you. Yeah. And it's selectively kind of maybe subconsciously cherry picking
things that are flattering to your narrative. The quantum soup that you and I are currently
swimming in can't be perceived. We need to perceive a simplified classical world in which
you are a unified person rather than all sorts of subroutines running,
you know, simultaneously, some of them conscious, some of them not.
And this is, I think this is the difference between, on some level, again, this is all
very like improv-y and stuff, but it all kind of goes back, folds back on itself. The difference
between Russians and Americans is that Russians think that they're an intellectual and moral
advantage because they perceive all the metaprocesses, they see the chessboard,
but they're actually at a disadvantage fundamentally because they're kind of overly
hyper. They see too much, they feel too much. They see too much, they feel too much and they're
overly not only critical of the outside world, but they're hypercritical and they're fundamentally
a self-defeating law on that level. You know, I have to say I have a sadness about some of your
views on Russia. Oddly, and I didn't think about this, you are the third out of, I don't know
what is this, my 16th interview at this point. I don't know when you'll debut, but
of a Russian background. I had Vitalik of Ethereum fame, Gary and you.
This I knew. I made a quip to my boyfriend. I was like, oh, I'm going to do the Eric
Weinstein podcast. It's funny that he chose Kasparev and Buterin. You have also some sort
of like a psychic Freudian compulsion to draw to. I care about meaning. Yeah.
To be honest, Russia and the Soviet, I mean, there are places that just are pregnant
with meaning. With meaning, yeah. And there's a ton that I hate about that world. And I think
I talked to you about the barbell society with the lowest of the low and the highest of the high.
But I chose to retain this culture. I mean, you know, it was my grandparents on one side
and my great grandparents on another who came over. So I'm a little bit deeper in this thing
than you are because you were born there. I don't want to give it up. And I work my
ass off to retain it, even to the point of learning a tiny bit of Russian, just to deal
with Russian relatives that who were rediscovered when the Soviet Union came apart. We thought
it all been wiped out in the Holocaust. You're going to have to work your ass off to keep that
connection. I know. And I intend to have many more Russians, many South Asians, many people from
very particular places. I have the utmost reverence, for example, for the UK and the
genius of Spain and Italy. Yeah. There are these particular places
that are just incredibly pregnant. Well, Spain and Italy, I mean, are wonderful because
they're, you know, every once in a while, I'll go to Italy or Spain and you'll be like,
at a little cafe, like an outdoor cafe, and they'll serve you, they'll give you some free
shit with your coffee. They'll give you like a little biscuit or croissant. It's a really weird
model because the thing that makes them economically unviable, that makes some kind of
fundamentally obsolete to the neoliberal system is also the thing that makes them morally redeemable.
But it's also an unabashed, look, Russia's a genius-based culture.
In what way?
That you revere the Love Landows. You revere, you know, the Rachmaninoffs.
Yeah, but this is, I think that this is a thing that is dying now because
the last 30 or 40, how long has it been? It's been 40 years now since the Soviet Union
collapsed, the last 30-something years. The last several decades of privatization,
I think, have been much harder on the Russian psyche than the 70-odd years or so.
But we're all getting worse at this.
Yeah, but I think that this is solely waning. You know, Russia was known basically for its
educational system, for its athletic programs, and no more, right?
Yeah, but some of these things were bizarre. Everybody's getting less genius.
That's true and also not true.
Who's getting more in a really profound way?
In a profound way. I mean, that's a good question. I have to, I'll get back to you on that.
I'm just saying, everybody's taking a huge hit at the moment. It's like we started belching out
lead exhaust from leaded gasoline that the IQ of the world functionally is getting
dumber and dumber and dumber.
Like since the medieval era, I mean, people frown upon the Middle Ages as like,
they're not called the Dark Ages for nothing, but people reached a really high pinnacle of
achievement. I mean, I listened to music from back.
Yeah, I do too, and I don't even like music. I mean, I do, but I have like a very kind of
one dimensional hobbyists sensibility. I'm not like a musician or composer, but
yeah, I think the whole, but I think this is due kind of to the proliferation of information
technologies, the triumph of the internet. And you look at Me Too, Me Too is the nexus of
kind of the imperatives, the market imperatives of the internet and the triumph of feminism.
It wouldn't have had, feminists are very fond of saying that we live in a patriarchy.
If we lived in a patriarchy, there would be no viral online movement called Me Too.
The fact is, you know, now in this day and age, women are the cultural brokers and gatekeepers.
And they're not doing that great of a job. I mean, I want Hedy Lamar back.
Yeah, and I was going to write this book about Marie Curie called Radium Slut.
And it was about the, it was going to be about the prohibition of her to come to Stockholm
for her second Nobel because she was getting stooped by a married guy.
I'm, you know, my favorite story in physics is Madame Woo who figured out the asymmetry
of the weak force and the cobalt 60 beta decay in an electromagnetic field.
I want those amazing, hot, sexy, brilliant chicks back.
Yeah, that they don't exist. That's why, that's why, you know,
there's a cultural fixation on Russian women because only in Russia,
or like in the Russian amniotic fluid, can you find a woman who has like a PhD in philology
or linguistics, but looks like a supermodel and is great in the sack and knows the powers of
seduction. Well, this is like the super dangerous thing. There's a way of saying it's a little bit
less fun than what you say. I love listening to you, but I also like not being nailed to a cross
one when, when, when, when this debuts to the audience, which is to say that the cultures that
where women enjoy self feminizing, but don't see this as competitive with intellectual achievement.
Yes, Russia and to some extent Eastern Europe is one, but East Asia is also in this.
I think those are the two big ones. Yeah.
And I would love to talk to you about all manners of dangerous, disgusting,
horrible, vile and illegal things. Yeah.
But I hope you'll accept an invitation to come back through the portal when you're
next out in LA. And thank you for showing up and just bringing aside that maybe not
everybody's seen before. That's horrifying. I'm very happy to do it. I'm happy to chat.
Anyway, thank you for having me. Well, I'm sorry to horrify you.
No, wait, do you get a buzzer that tells you when the time?
No. Okay. I'm just sort of thinking that you've got this happening party to go to.
Oh, okay. That's right. And I want to be respectful of your time because
otherwise I'd completely monopolize you till the cows come home.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's fine.
Okay. Yeah.
You've been through the portal. Anna, Hachin, Hachin, please check out the Red Scare podcast.
