progressive. We don't even know what it is. It just sort of technically resides to the left.
It's not conservative either, right? No. You can't rightfully call it that.
Self-hatred is obviously a very large part of it. I think, yeah, self-hatred. I mean,
this is another kind of, you know, I repeat myself loudly and often.
Well done. According to the advice of my hero, Quentin Crisp, who said that that was kind of
the way to make yourself memorable. And the problem with the left, and I'm talking about kind
of primarily the online left, is that these are people who are thoroughly infected with the virus
of the neoliberal ethos. They're completely, they play completely within the terms of the system.
And, you know, this brings to bear a very important point that I also like to repeat loudly and often
by the new left critic Christopher Lash. And I'm going to paraphrase it because I don't know
verbatim because my synapses have been zapped by being too extremely online, you know? But he said,
like, hey, you know, all the kind of traditional bedrocks, all of the traditional values and
institutions of liberal society, we're talking about monogamy, marriage, the gender binary,
any number of other kind of traditional values have already been dealt a serious blow
by advanced capitalism itself, long before the social justice activists got their hands on them,
before they mounted a fight against them. And that's a very important point to remember.
So the way I see it, and you'll let me know if this dovetails or in fact conflicts or maybe it's
just total myths, is that the family and the religion or culture provide many of the same
things that the market provides, like let's say an insurance policy. All right. So for example,
if you're trying to smooth your income stream over a lifetime and you have recessions,
a family might take in some members who are out of work and put them to work in portions of the
family business that are still functioning or work inside the home in a way that sort of socializes
some of the risk. And at the same time, you might buy some kind of a policy to try to smooth things
out or you'll try to save in an institutional context. As these things conflict, the market
has denatured some of these older structures. When people talk about American families are weak,
what they usually mean is that American markets have been regular and strong enough
that people have leaned less on the pathologies of their mishpochah in order to try to get cleaner
expressions within the market for their various needs. Like instead of having a mother come and
be with a child when a new baby is born. To your laundry. What? Yeah. To your laundry.
That you hire somebody to do it. And the idea is if the market is working in some sense,
the family starts to fall apart because you don't need it.
Right, exactly. And people are smart. They know that seven, eight years of psychoanalysis is a
very tall price to pay for having your mother come every week into your laundry. And they'd
rather be, yeah. And there's this whole rhetoric now about a work-life balance, whatever. And I
think that part of the kind of psycho, let's say, the psychological anima of the market is that
it provides people with a scaffolding and infrastructure through which to relieve themselves
of their family. Right. So one of the things that's interesting to me is that you're coming from
a background which is very familiar to me where you have a Jewish Armenian parentage
and your father was a famous mathematician working in linear programming, sort of optimization
science, and came up with this amazing algorithm that changed our picture for how things could
be optimized using smaller and smaller ellipsoids. Right. And your mom, how did she figure into the
story? My dad, his whole kind of level of achievement is way over my head, obviously.
But my mom and my dad, I mean, they met when they were very young and they got married quite a bit
later. My mom, I think, would probably be very irate and disappointed if I described her like
this because you know she's going to listen to this. She is an artist who became a housewife,
and I think that she is the great genius of the family. She's the great kind of organizing
and destructive force in my family. That's interesting very often. So I have to say that
when we had this lunch, which you're describing as a power lunch, yeah, I drunk no alcohol during
it. I'm not positive that it qualified. I mean, are you supposed to drink? I don't really know.
It would be my first power lunch. Oh, right. It's just a stupid girl bossy hyperbolic term.
I have to drink. Okay. Well, very good. And smoke at all lunches. I didn't smoke.
You didn't smoke. But I'm such a neurotic. I'm so shy. I was telling you that I can't,
you know, I have to constantly occupy. Is that because you're reveling in your neuroticism?
No, no, no. I'm not like a Woody Allen person. I don't get off on it.
Sure. It's something that I hoped to shed with the kind of accumulation of experience,
like habituation. Okay. Yeah, that's not something I think you should look up to in yourself.
I don't know. But yeah, I think that my mom is kind of like a bizarre,
freewheeling, artistic genius, a true eccentric. And I think that I derive a lot of my personality
and my tendency toward critique from her. I mean, she's always spinning paranoid polemics
about the world. It's really quite impressive. And she's right most of the time.
I think it's very strange that, I mean, this really actually echoes your earlier point that
we tend to see accomplishment only if it shows up in the workplace. And for a lot of us coming from
kind of ethnic families, for lack of a better word, very often people who were inside the home
were well known to be the local genius, the eccentric or the life or the whatever. It was
not clear in any way that if you were the Schmatte salesman, that that was really the
higher expression of the two people in a marriage. And it happens that your father did something
very creative in a very analytic context. It's hardly surprising. There's nothing at all surprising
to me that your mom might mostly be at home with the family and be the major force of the family.
Yeah. And I think like, you know, my dad probably gets all the credit for
being kind of the genius. My haters like to point out that I'm coasting off of my father's
accomplishments, which is not true because I'm actually way more famous than him on Reddit.
So there, yeah, there you go. He would be so, I'm here to disgrace my family name.
But basically, I think that it's a very interesting, this kind of old breakdown of my
parents' marriage is a very instructive example of the way that women wield unofficial power
through the domestic sphere. Again, it's like unofficial. The language is even wrong to me.
It's like, in what world do we not... I guess the idea is that it's official if it shows up
in Wikipedia and it's unofficial if it only shows up in family lore. I think it's official
if you're getting officially compensated for it, right? Well, this is the issue of kin work that
I would bring up, which is that I think that a lot of the wage gap work is extremely weak
and manipulative, but I think it's also the case that the real wage gap is that you have to figure
out how to compensate for kin work, you know, taking care of elder relatives or young children,
and that you can arguably say that women should be paid more on average because that is uncompensated
work and it has to show up somewhere. And sometimes it would show up in like prestige,
the matriarch of a large family is kind of an impressive position to hold. And that with smaller
families, it's no longer so cool to be grandma. Yeah, sure. And I think that there's a general
disrespect for the institution of motherhood. Let's talk about that. What the hell is that?
In the culture at large, particularly on the left. So that this is something which I totally
resonate with like, when did the left go and they're going to claim, oh, we're not anti-family,
but there is some weird anti-family thing. I think that that's absolutely a kind of collective
defense mechanism because we're talking about people much like myself who are millennials in
their late 20s, early 30s. You know, my father always used to say like, well, Anna, you can't
really ascend in class, you know, contrary to the myth of the American dream, but you can't
really fall in class either. And now we're faced to the generation that's quite a bit like the
lost generation in Russia, my father's generation, all of whom who drank themselves to death by the
age of, you know, 52, which is this millennial generation of people like myself.
Your dad was two years younger than I am now when he died of a heart attack.
Yes, yeah. And, you know, he died in the United States, but I think that he is part of the same
generational trend. What year was that? In 2005. But there are a lot of people, my age, who are
male and female, who are confronting for the first time the reality that they will
actually fall in class, especially relative to their parents. They will never own property,
they will never pay off their student debt, they will never have a safe, independent health
care situation, they will never be able to afford children. And I think the kind of
broadly anti natalist trend on the left is a psychological defense mechanism because you
have to reframe, I think in the neoliberal framework, you have to reframe all adversity as
opportunity and what they're saying to themselves. I don't have to be burdened by babies, my breasts
will be undeformed by breastfeeding. Yes, I'm a girl boss, I don't need a man, I'm an independent,
strong independent woman. So they've had to kind of re-calibrate. By the way, this will work out for
a minority of the people who claim this to be true. It's not BS. What's BS is how broadly
this plan is likely to work. Yeah, how applicable it is across. I mean, I started noticing,
I actually got a lot of flak for this and I still don't know why, I started noticing
in the pop lyrics of the last two decades or so kind of minute shift. You can go back as far as
actually the 1960s, I remember this interview with Amy Winehouse where she's like, I much more
prefer, I gravitate toward the music of the 60s, the 50s, 60s, whatever, as opposed to the music
of the 2000s because in the kind of female vocalists of the 60s, they expressed kind of
a longing, a yearning for companionship and love, a desire to subordinate themselves
to the will of others or something greater than themselves. Let's put it that way, that feminists
have interpreted as a fundamentally misogynistic or sexist outlook. Whereas now, with the coming
of somebody like Beyonce, you have these lyrics that literally are like, I don't need you,
I don't need a man, all men are trash, I'm going to keep stacking my bills.
And it's this form of feminism that I find to be very callous and creatinous and ultimately
counterproductive. Let's take what you just said. It was actually weirdly on both sides of the
gender. For example, let's say John Denver, when he sings about, you know, that's like,
kiss me and smile for me, tell me that you're waiting for me. He talks about when I come back,
I'll bring your wedding ring. Like he's excited about the fact that he's screwed up in this
relationship. He says, I've played around and then he says, but I realize how important this is
and I'm going to make it right. And I'm excited about becoming betrothed to you.
Right. I'm going to make amends.
Well, not only make amends, you know, like when Beyonce, I mean, just to connect these two data
points, she's saying, if you like it, you should put a ring on it. That's really what she wanted.
But like, you didn't exercise your options, very transactional. So now I'm up in the club
getting jiggy with this other guy, you shouldn't be upset.
Yeah, yeah, sure. It's, it's, it is a very kind of transactional ethos that permeates
all, like there was this like, kind of stupid trend on Twitter where people,
that people were mocking because other people were tweeting out kind of empathy templates.
So, you know, somebody texts you and they're like, Hey, I'm like really going through a hard time,
you know, I'm having to get getting a divorce. My mom's dying of cancer or whatever.
You fire back with like, Hey, I'm currently at capacity. Do you know somebody else who slash
I'm going through some personal problems to slash? And it's like a kind of prefabricated
template for how you should respond to a person in need.
Wow. Yeah.
That's the thing.
I didn't even know this.
Yeah, you're so lucky. You're, you're so lucky that all this stuff is way over your head.
I have to live with this every day and it shrinks my will and libido to live.
But it's like this kind of thing that, um, is hyper transactional.
All relations have become so transactional.
All relationships. I mean, look, my take on this is that all relationships have
an aspect of exchange, but that what distinguishes the transactional from the rich relationship
is how many layers of indirection separate, uh, the people involved from the exchange.
Yes.
So dinner in a movie is a lot more abstract than turning a trick on a street corner.
Yeah.
And then you, you go further, you know, with courtship, it becomes incredibly
distant in terms of the number of layers.
And what we don't recognize is that those layers of indirection are essential to a rich life.
Yeah. And a rich emotional life.
And what we're dealing with now are people who, if they are not economically, uh, impoverished,
or spiritually impoverished, because they have no institutions or values on which to depend.
Okay. So this gets me back to like your crazy podcast and your persona.
So first of all, I mean, you're playing with all sorts of associations and breaking them
in ways that the indisha and the underlying, like the proximate and ultimate are separated.
So I normally associate vocal fry and up talking with stupidity.
Right.
I don't associate it with your level of insight and commentary.
Right.
You guys sound stoned out of your mind and there's a tremendous meta vocal fry.
But what it speaks to is this like crazy metacognitive distance that you and your co-host have
from the topics that you're discussing.
And you're sort of, you're constantly bemused by this sort of very weird period of the human condition.
Is that wrong?
I think bemused is a nice way of putting it. I think that we're very frustrated.
What do you want?
I, I don't know. We're wet like all women. We don't know what we want.
No, I mean, I think I want.
I think you do know what you want.
I think I want, I mean, on a, on a kind of broad social level,
I think that we have to take kind of the old Nietzschean adage, God is dead.
Right. People always interpret that as, you know, I think people have a tendency to interpret it as
God is dead and therefore we can get like weird septum piercings and tattooed sleeves and go
fucking and sucking in polyamorous arrangements.
And that's not at all what he meant.
He meant God is dead and now it is up to secular humanity to replace
the value system that was evacuated with the death of God with an equally viable one.
Do you think that's possible?
No, I don't know, but I, you know, what else can we do?
You know, Dosh always says to me like, you have to stay cheerful in the face of adversity,
like the Greeks.
Yeah.
Well, all right. So I mean, in part, and I don't know how long the show is going to get
away with it, but ultimately it's about for me recognizing what the religious impulse was.
It was a load bearing structure of our civilization because it caused you to think
in intergenerational terms, like in our, the shared part of our tradition, the Jewish tradition,
the concept of generation to generation goes under the name Lador Vador from generation to
generation. And that thing about you have to be seeing yourself, you have to subordinate and
submit. And like this is against the ethos of our time, but it occurs everywhere because
our soma, the parts of us that are non reproductive are finite. They always die.
And if you do not link yourself in a chain with others, then Rome has to be built in
the day because there's nothing more over for you. As we say, well, that was far more eloquent
than I had said. Yeah, but I mean, it's true. And look, I mean, investing or kind of honoring
posterity is a means of investing in the future. It's a means of envisioning yourself in a greater
