that's a retarded, it's gay, whatever. It's all this kind of bevy of ridiculous words.
It's like completely.
By the way, to all the advertisers who just left the program, it's been a great run.
Yeah. But then I think about it and I
see that with podcasting, there is the possibility of a revival of the era of the public intellectual.
Which is something that people crave also. Like the new, as undignified as it sounds,
the new class of like podcasting personas are possibly, will possibly be able to
revive something like that image or social role, which is important, I think.
Well, I think you could also look at this a little bit like William Tell
or, you know, Philip Petit walking the tightrope between the Twin Towers.
Part of what makes long-form podcasting exciting is the idea that we could screw up at any moment
and destroy our names and reputations. And I think that that-
Should I do it for you now? I can.
We started.
Yeah, I'm a little wind up now.
Is that right?
Yeah, yeah.
That, well, but you see, you're a vice-signal.
Uh-huh. You said this to me during our power lunch. You have to re-
I say this to the audience with no hint of sarcasm. I really like when
men mansplain things to me. I think that it's fun and cool.
So vice-signaling, I think more people are talking about it now, but I originally
started talking about it because it came out of the theory for me of contract bridge,
where you have to say what it is you're going to do, and then you're judged by whether or
not you accomplished that, which you said you were going to do. So what I view modern society
as being is a game in which you're fitted with a white suit that you did not ask for.
And then the key question is, do you keep it clean or does it become soiled?
Okay. Well, my first belief is you're crazy to accept a white suit because that's not going
to work out. Right. So I picked Dan Bilzerian as my example and your fellow Armenian.
Another fellow Armenian, yeah. So his thing is guns, drugs, and automatic weapon.
And that's in money. Don't forget the hose. Sorry, guns. It's the wine. Girls, guns,
and drugs, and money. Those are his four big things. You can't embarrass him by saying,
hey, you just took a bunch of chicks out into the desert and gave them automatic weapons after you
coped them up or gave them weed because like, yes, that's my business model. And as a result,
there's no industry trying to take down Dan Bilzerian. Right. I mean, I think I said this
to you. I don't remember because I was wind up then too. I said, you know, it's the same thing
with somebody like Howard Stern or Donald Trump. They never promise to respect women,
so they can't get taken down for not respecting women. Meanwhile, all these guys who are playing
like the virtue game get at least, they at least get their reputation.
The two cases that you talked about, Howard Stern's original gambit was that he wanted to
be lashed to the mast and be surrounded by TNA and just as much cleavage as was possible,
and then he would do nothing. And so that was his game, was that he was Ulysses.
And so it was a promise, and he was married throughout, and then his wife would call up
while he was surrounded by temptation. In the case of Bilzerian, he's got a different promise.
The promise is, I will not lie to you and you will not lie to me. I'm not telling you that you
have to be a monogamous with me. I'm not telling you any one of a number of things.
I will be straight with you. You will be straight with me, and if we can't have honesty,
then you have to leave. So those are incredibly weird gambits. You have to give both of these men
their due. They're very unusual. Right. Or socially engineering something.
Well, my favorite Dan Bilzerian post on Instagram is he's there, I think, with no shirt because
he's also kind of a confection. He serves himself up as a snack. And he's reaching out to this woman
who's more clothed than he is to come up a step somewhere in Greece. And the caption is,
come with me, I'll ruin your life, but you'll have fun. And I really think that's his proposition.
Yeah, I really have to hand it to Armenian men because they alone among men are just as vain as
women. Are they? Yeah, they really like to objectify themselves. Well, but you see, in my opinion,
women are really the males of the human species because as the adorn, as the adorn gender,
I don't know, take it seriously. You are now echoing a thesis proposed by this woman,
Andrea Long-Tru, who's like a transgender writer, who was also echoing Valerie Solanis,
who has the same hypothesis. It's interesting to hear Eric, you say Weinstein.
Weinstein. I think the power move, the power move, Eric, I may say so is to have Harvey
in this chair. No. No, you can't.
No. Well, no, I mean, there are people who have been canceled who I'm interested in.
And there are people who have been canceled that I'm perfectly happy that they are canceled.
And this is part of my problem, which is that, well, I mean, this is a difference between us,
which is the way I view it is that you have accepted the game, but you're going to behave
really badly within it. I haven't accepted the game. I've rejected the game. And
I understand the motivations for how this woke stuff got started. And I'm sympathetic with them
to a point. And I'm completely unsympathetic with how non-self-reflective and shallow and mean-spirited
it is while pretending that it cares. And I'm going to carry that tension. So you and I are
on slightly different missions. Yeah, yeah. You're going to carry the tension of...
I'm okay being earnest. My answer to your Nietzsche point is around you. So for example,
this is a three-dimensional projection of a four-dimensional convex polytope.
Okay. And I find it transcendent. So I'm holding up, what is it? It's a 120 cell.
It's just the name of the convex polytope, which is a generalization of the dodecahedron
to four-dimensional space. And you have one over there that's the 24 cell, which is the unique
one that doesn't correspond to one of the platonic solids. I look at that one by you,
and I just marvel at it. And I think about it the way people think about
like seraphim. It's like, I don't have religion in my life at the same level that my ancestors
did. But I have the wonder of mathematics and physics and biology that plugs the same religion
shaped hole in my soul. And so that's how I've solved the Nietzsche problem. That's why I remain
earnest, much to the chagrin of some of my listeners. I know, but I actually think that
we're fundamentally at the end of the day on the same page about this. I think we're very close
to being. And I think this is one of the reasons why I covertly brought up your father,
because this, I think that the Jewish and the Soviet and the Armenian,
you know, all of these things, these are very old tradition that feel very deeply,
and they were naked about caring. Right. And I guess we're actually, we're back to where we
started improv baby. But the, there's this idea, I think the kind of in America, there's this very
reductive idea of like white people, right? White people, there's, there are all these different
non-white ethnicities and cultures, but white people are a singular block.
Through the magic of this country only. Right. But I've, but you know, I mean,
I don't know if you have the similar kind of experience. I've always felt, for example,
very alienated from Nordic non-Jewish whites, right? Or just to give you an example. Right.
I don't, you know, have any beef with them, but those people are not my people on some level.
You think that, and then one of my largest constituencies abroad are Sweden and Norway.
Your demos. Yeah.
That makes sense, because they're also actually very earnest people.
And they're also weirdly having their idealism that has worked very well on this. In fact,
trotted out by the left abused against them so that they are now starting to feel like WTF.
Why can't we talk about some of the tensions that we're experiencing? Like there is something
that it means to be Swedish or Norwegian or Icelandic. Right.
And to be told, well, this, your identity is just that you're European. And even that is only
like this whole question about software nationalism versus hardware nationalism.
You have lots of people in the UK, for example, from South Asia who by going through the Oxbridge
system sound entirely like the British upper crust. Exactly. Yeah.
And further, sometimes they come from the high castes that the British favored working with
in India, Pakistan. Now the idea that enlightenment ideas or Anglo-Saxon ideas can run on any
hardware. It's like bootcamp where you've got an Apple machine that's running windows.
I don't really care too much about the hardware. I care a great deal about the software.
And the idea that everybody of European descent or who are interested in European cultures
should apologize. I'm having none of this. I mean, there's so much music and science and
architecture and all the terrible things that happen too. I will not have that watered down.
That's an authentic experience. So the thing that bothers me about it is, and this is another one
of my riffs, you have this problem with vanilla, where vanilla has two meanings. One is boring,
flavorless, bland. And the other is like the most flavorful of spices and flavorings and
tastes. And somehow they're both vanilla. Well, white is the same thing. White is the most bland,
boring. It's like a canvas that has been gessoed, but not painted upon. On the other hand, if you
look at European culture, is there anything richer and spicier and more intricate and interesting?
And somehow our minds are just bananas over these two.
Yeah, I mean, it's, but it's, it's always, it's very offensively reductive on a way that personally
strikes me because it's kind of the only thing keeping me from being, becoming like a typical
Wellbeckian protagonist or one of these like horrible millennial girl bosses who's fundamentally
empty inside is a great deal of kind of like honor and respect that I feel for my ancestors
and the cultural kind of the amniotic fluid that we all came out of.
Well, but it's worse. I mean, you're in a very funny position. You are culturally,
like your podcast is called Red Scare. And you are culturally very
Russian, Soviet, Jewish, Armenian. But if you really look at it, you can see that it's fading.
And you're not going to have grandchildren that relate to you.
Yeah. And that's, that's really a terrifying thing. And it's actually a terrifying thing on
two levels because right, A, you're not going to have grandchildren who relate to you on like a
practicable level, but B, to even acknowledge that you want grandchildren to relate to you
kind of flies in the face of this very leftist doxy that a culture is relevant. And it makes
me think of like, you know, the idea of narcissism that somebody like lash was so
kind of brilliant at identifying, diagnosing. And at the time he was writing in the 60s and 70s,
he billed it as kind of the generational pathology of our time, the kind of liberated persona.
But even at that time, narcissism was still at the very least a system of positive affinities.
So you identified through affinity, right? Originally, maybe you identified with your
ethnicity or your religion. And then later you came to identify with your lifestyle markers,
you know, you did yoga or composting or recycling or whatever. And gradually over time, that's yielded
to kind of a negative narcissism where people at large identify with their oppression and their
adversity. But Russians identify with their oppression and their adversity in a very strong
way that doesn't look anything like what we're doing in the US. Okay, see, I've never heard
this one before. Oh, really? Yeah. I just thought we were kind of miserable melancholic people.
I think there's a general kind of, you know, on the parable of the great Russian ballerina
said that the Russian soul is marked by melancholy. Yeah. Yeah. I think that it's
it's, well, you know, the it's very interesting. When I had Gary Kasparov on the program,
he, there were some very odd moments. So I tried to do a, an intro in Russian where I said that
he was unclear that he was, if he was Gary Kasparov or Gary Weinstein, because that was his
first name, and he immediately just didn't bite on it. Yeah. I'm jealous that you didn't do the
Russian language intro for me. Really? You know, my chop liver, just kidding. No, go on. Okay. Well,
I felt that in order, well, I mean, actually, I didn't even talk about it. Almost no one reacted
to it. Yeah, yeah. One of my hopes was for the program was to start personalizing it to all
of the cultures that I care the most about. And so I did this thing about
Astroshnidveriakrivaetsya, because in the Moscow subways and the subways of other cities,
there's this thing which says, you know, warning doors are closing. The next stop Sladiusha
Stanza, Yidropark, you know, that thing. I always thought it'd be cool that the portal was like
the Moscow doors opening and closing. And he just didn't react at all to it. The one weird thing
where there was like a shiver of recognition was I talked about the Russian satirical magazine
Crocodile and how dissent and irreverence existed within the Soviet Union, but in this very
specified way so that there was a valve to let things to let off steam. And it wasn't the American
picture where nobody could say anything at any time because that would never work. The Russian
system was much more sophisticated. And that was the one moment at which he sort of gave me a little
bit of a nod like, wow, you really know your stuff. And the thing is, it's very hard for an American
to connect to the broad Slavic soul. Yeah. And for us to connect to the broad American soul,
I think I said this to you, you know, the kind of idea that Russians are basically
optimists masquerading as cynics and Americans are cynics masquerading as optimists. I mean,
that's like broadly on some level like stereotypically true. And I also remember saying that
Russians unlike Americans, you know, if you have a classroom of American kids and you ask them like
who's done X or who is why the hands shoot up because in America, it's much less dangerous
historically to identify yourself and Russians are in the business of indirection, misdirection,
non identification, because it was at some point a political problem that had a kind of material
real world consequences, but has been handed down to successive generations as a behavioral
quirk that's actually really problematic if you're trying to have like a, you know, a romantic
relationship with like an American man, for example. But yeah, work is very weird, damaged
people. I mean, I said this, I tweeted about this, that conversation with Kasparov was really weird,
because it was like an insight into all of my communication impasses with American people.
Say more about that. Well, and to the degree that I don't like to disclose or identify myself.
Right. I like to misdirect by saying a great deal of stuff that seems kind of superficially very
confessional and personal, but actually nobody knows anything about me. People know a lot more
about you than you think they know about me. Yeah, but only through kind of a nonverbal or
subconscious means. I think that's right. Yeah, not through anything that exists on the verbal
register. Well, but I think that, you know, I don't know how many podcasts you've done like this.
Probably none. Probably none. And I do think that you're going to find that your mystique
coexists with your revelation. They're not as rivalrous as you might imagine.
Yeah, that's possibly a good point, but I think like...
But what did you hear in the cast, like, so you listened to that podcast?
Yeah. Well, because we famously tried to talk over each other. He's very forceful.
I would like to think that I've been far less forceful with you than I was with him.
Yeah, but I'm also easier to get along with. Well, I view you as potentially more dangerous.
Yeah, but that's only because I'm a woman. Because Sparov and I have the same
ethnic breakdown, basically, which in Russia is called Grimuche Smith.
Grimuche Smith. Like explosive mixture. So it's like...
A binary weapon that when combined... It's a dynamite.
When Armenians and Jews join forces in a single person, it's basically
an incredibly difficult, combative, categorical personality. And I think that's probably what
he is. I mean, I don't know a ton about him, but I'm kind of obviously interested because...
He's cheated of his meaning because there's something about the fact that Putin, to him,
is this unrecognized master menace that we're running a clown show while the fate of the world
spins out of control. He has very much of a cold... I mean, I have much more of a cold war
overlay in my mind than most of my contemporaries and certainly than my millennial audience.
I can't believe that we have nuclear weapons that they haven't been used in a long time
