They use it to construct a direct route to the food,
saving time and energy.
It's a superhighway taking rush hour traffic
through the most difficult and complex terrain.
Pheromone trails regulate the traffic
as smoothly as road signs and traffic lights.
The tunnels are even designed with one lane in each direction.
Soldiers line the entire route, facing outwards, sniffing for danger.
These are a big-bodied cast.
Their heads converted into chemical guns.
Their antennas scan the air.
The forest is full of risk.
Closer to home, the engineered roads and tunnels become still broader.
Nothing impedes their forward march.
Workers cutting up dried leaves to take to the nest.
The detritus they leave behind rots away
and helps new plant growth on the forest floor.
Cutting up dried leaves is hard work.
It takes two hours to make a leaf disappear.
And this termite species eats only leaves.
We're only just starting to understand
the termite's role in the planet's ecosystems.
But it looks as though they have a positive effect
on the lives of almost all plants and animals.
So instead of focusing on extermination,
some researchers are beginning to think
we should be protecting termites all over the world.
Through 150 million years of evolution,
termite species have learned to process any kind of vegetation,
dead or alive, into food.
That adaptability has been their great strength.
And with their purpose,
they have been able to make a living
from the fact that they have a positive effect
and with their perfect social systems,
termites should effortlessly dominate their environment.
But here, in the jungles of Borneo, there is a predator.
Tucked up in the dry leaves, it looks like a snake.
As it stretches out, you might mistake it for an armadillo.
But the only thing it has in common with armadillos
is that like an armadillo, it's not a reptile.
It's a mammal.
This is a pangolin.
The pangolin has long claws to break into termites' nests,
where it uses its sticky tongue to lap up the insect's wholesale.
Today, the termites are lucky.
An ant colony is paying the bill for the pangolin's dinner.
But termites don't just face a threat from pangolins.
These soldiers are scanning for a very long time
that they can't see, but may soon sense.
A platoon of weaver ants has targeted the termite column.
Their scouts have chosen the perfect ambush site.
An ant patrol inches toward the termite highway.
The worker termites seem too busy to notice the danger.
Some of the termite soldiers have picked up the hostile scent,
but they may not leave their sentry posts.
The ants spend time scouting out a gap in the termite's defense line.
Finally, they opt for a head-on assault.
The termites are not defenseless.
The tiny termite gunner has aimed well.
It tries to wipe off the acid spray in vain.
The termites are trying to escape.
Termite soldiers launch a counter-assault
and engage the enemy in a skirmish.
A few ants manage to retreat with pieces of termite booty in their jaws,
but the tiny defenders have stood their ground thanks to their chemical weapons.
Across the globe in the savannah, another ant army is on the move.
This time, it'll be more than a skirmish.
The advance is fast and focused, led by a single scout.
They fan out from their nest in three places.
These ants are like bloodhounds, hot on the scent.
They exist to hunt termites.
There's no escape.
These savannah termites have no secret weapons.
Outnumbered like this, their size and fearsome jaws are no advantage.
The ants drag termite bodies back to their nest,
retracing the lines of their advance.
Biologist Jo Dylington has watched plenty of these campaigns from above.
She never ceases to wonder at two insect types
that can be so similar and yet so different.
Well, ants and termites between them
are the most successful of all the land insects.
We think they're the first social insects,
but the fossil record is very incomplete.
But although there are a lot of parallelisms,
they're actually not related at all.
They're an example of convergent evolution,
where different stocks have solved the same problem in parallel ways.
Jo continues her work
to calculate the biomass of the termites in the savannah.
She maps out all the mounds in a defined area.
Two termite species live side by side here.
One builds mounds.
The other lives completely in the savannah.
Two termite species live side by side here.
One builds mounds.
The other lives completely underground.
But this species comes out at night.
They spread out over the savannah,
gathering vegetation,
dragging far more than their own weight.
The ground is dotted with tiny excess holes,
sealed by day,
leading to the tunnels the termites have dug around their nest.
The ground is dotted with tiny excess holes,
sealed by day,
leading to the tunnels the termites have dug around their nest.
They radiate up to 35 meters from the nest in a dense network.
A single nest can have 6 kilometers of tunnels.
Termites remove dead grass and woody litter,
reducing the risk of catastrophic fires in the dry season.
Back in the nest, the termites will eat this plant detritus.
These termites are able to break down cellulose like their American cousins.
Other species eject the chewed and moistened cellulose as raw feces,
which will later be used to farm a fungus.
That's what the termites in this mound do.
These Maasai women have never looked inside a termite's mound before.
But Reinhard has installed a window to observe a fungus garden.
These termites are working on the fungus garden, or comb.
Worker termites build up the structure over several weeks,
with layer on layer of feces.
The fungus comb produces white spores called Canidia.
The workers swallow these spores
and excrete them with more feces, further enriching the fungus.
This is the main source of food for all the termites in the mound.
Thus the fungus guarantees the existence of an entire termite species.
And it all depends on the temperature and the humidity being exactly right.
For these Maasai women a fascinating first glimpse of the insects
that keep their lands fertile.
For people in California and the southern USA,
the only good termite is a dead termite.
As desperate homeowners call in the termite terminators.
Houses are fumigated from top to bottom with poison gas.
Climate control in single buildings and whole cities
has helped termites stray way beyond their original habitats
right across America, Australia and parts of Europe and Asia.
Getting rid of them is big business.
But not even this is enough to guarantee success.
In Kenya, Joe and Reinhardt are nearing their goal
of reaching the queen's chamber, the inner sanctum.
At last they've found a suitable mound to work with.
It's easy enough to remove the queen's chamber.
But opening it up without destroying the colony is a very delicate task.
It must be turned upside down.
Joe and Reinhardt have been waiting a long time for this moment.
But they must be very careful.
If the soldiers get nervous,
they'll have to wait for the queen's chamber.
Joe and Reinhardt have been waiting a long time for this moment.
But they must be very careful.
If the soldiers get nervous, they might attack the queen.
Well, she should be lying in the hollow of the roof.
I once looked down, there are big soldiers coming...
They probably will be all right.
It's just sometimes they can't really damage the queen.
This is the moment of truth.
Not one queen, but three.
The king, just one centimeter long, fertilizes the queen all her life,
up to 30 years.
Reinhardt has brought a laboratory out to the savannah.
He hopes that a queen, her king, their workers and their brood
will behave naturally in an artificial chamber.
The tubes linking the chambers to the nest are coated with pheromone trails
to encourage the workers to keep looking after their queen.
So, at least there is no big soldier inside.
That's most important.
The two remaining queens and their king are returned to the nest.
Make it as level as you can.
Don't press it too hard, because it's got life termiting.
There, at least a chance of finding their way back.
For many years, researchers have tried similar sites,
but there are still a lot of them.
There are still a lot of them.
There are a lot of them.
For many years, researchers have tried similar setups,
gradually refining the technique,
but it's notoriously difficult to film natural termite behavior in a queen's chamber.
There goes the king.
The cell must be protected from the heat and light of the sun as quickly as possible.
Now these we have to select first.
Now the connecting tubes are linked to the natural chamber back in the mound.
It's a tense moment.
If the queen is stressed, the soldiers and workers will immediately kill her.
Put the stones again, please.
Now there will be a long wait.
Will the queen and her workers return to the routine?
Feeding, egg laying, and tending the brood?
Even with all Joe's and Reinhard's experience, they still need luck on their side.
The queen and the workers don't seem to be disturbed.
The workers are still tending to her.
And the queen keeps producing eggs, hundreds every hour.
All eggs are born in a row.
The workers are still tending to her.
And the queen keeps producing eggs, hundreds every hour.
All eggs are born equal.
Whether they turn into workers or soldiers depends on the food they're given.
Sensitive to disturbance in the savannah,
resistant to shifting in the suburbs,
it pays to pay attention to termites.
So wherever you live, take a good look at your home every now and then.
