I was going to say something like that, that now we're going to get the point where we can
ask our friends at our meetups and be like, are you just pushing a button for this right now? Or
is this your actual belief? How does this tie into your network of other beliefs?
Yeah, yeah. Do you actually think that transporters are murder or are you just pushing a button?
And now people, you know, now the nerds will be armed to the new, you know,
rhetorical device where the normal people aren't going to read this post because they
don't read posts like this. Yeah. So, you can isolate ourselves even further.
Exactly. Well, I think our job here is complete.
I think so. Stephen, thank you for joining me.
Well, thank you for joining me. Thanks for letting us do this together. This is a lot of fun.
Cool. And thank you to our listeners for joining us.
Hell yeah. I think this was kind of energetic and fun.
Neat. You finally thanked the people for listening.
I always appreciate them listening.
Okay. Because I always say thanks. Bye. And you're like, I ain't saying bye to people who
aren't in the room. It feels weird to like sign off that way. But I hope it's never been
clear or hope it's never been misunderstood that like I don't appreciate the people like the show.
Oh, yeah, I'm sure they know you appreciate them.
Oh, I thought Stephen hated us.
What the fuck's he going there every other week to do this for?
Yeah. He's just trying to have a private conversation with Enne Osh.
He records everything.
Oh, as a quick note, we do oftentimes reach out to people to get them on the podcast for
interviews or whatever. But a few times we've had people reach out to us instead.
Like I did not know about Metaculous, but the Metaculous people contacted us and said,
hey, this is some cool stuff you might be interested in. And we said, sure, come on the
podcast. So if you also have anything cool like that that you want to talk about,
we may be willing to talk with you. Just drop us a line.
Yeah, by all means. That sounds great.
Cool. And or if you like the podcast, review us on iTunes.
Yeah, it's really easy. It helps us get more higher in the search results. And
there's that. There's the email address, the Bayesian Conspiracy Podcast at gmail.com,
the subreddit, r slash the Bayesian Conspiracy.
You can chat with other people and accuse them of pushing buttons.
Yes. And I want that to be a thing. And then the website, BayesianConspiracyPodcast.com,
right? And of course, we're on Patreon.
That too. Yeah.
