the legal things that it brings and or the... If you're just into that sort of ritual, I guess,
also would be another reason. But if you love someone, that should not compel you to marry them
because love and marriage have nothing to do with each other.
I see. Yeah, I miss... I read too much of what you're saying. I got that like...
It's also the opposite of what you normally hear from everywhere.
Normally people say, oh, yeah, that's the only reason you should marry someone is if you marry
them. I'm like, no, the only reason you should marry them is if you want these particular legal
things to suddenly be enforced in your life. I think you're right because I immediately drew
the other connection and I think I need some more deep programming to totally get where you're...
No, no, I think that that's important. Yeah, I was thinking more like if it's the kind of thing
that you want and will make you and your partner happy, then it's like, yeah, go for it. But
know what you're getting into. Yeah, I can dig it. Okay, cool.
Did we have any other feedback or is that it for today?
We only did two, didn't we? We can probably find one more.
I think we did three.
Yeah, you're right. One was just feedback. It wasn't really... We didn't talk about it much.
Let me see here.
One was someone agreeing with Audrey, who I was arguing against. I see how it is.
My listeners turning on me.
I liked her a lot too. I thought that... I mean, if her schooling... The way that she
schools is half as legit as what she's putting off, then that sounds awesome.
I think everybody goes there is super lucky and benefits a lot.
I do think that either the institution has changed a lot in the last decade, which I don't
think it has because I know people who are still in school and they're super bored, like my cousin.
But it could just be that Cheyenne isn't caught up with this fun school that she teaches at.
But I think that she was being too... I think she's generalizing too much from...
I think her school and the way that her education system does it is...
Unusual to say the least.
It's not liar. She's generalizing from that.
When that stops being an outlier, that sounds really cool.
When I asked, are there any teachers I know who would like to come on and talk about this
subject, and she replied, I told her, I think you're probably the worst teacher that I know
for this because you have the most unusual school, but she was also the one who was most
willing to defend schooling probably because of the fact that her school is pretty awesome.
The other couple teachers I knew were like, no, I don't want to go on that podcast.
Yeah. I think the obvious bar there is that for somebody coming on who doesn't like the school
that they work at, but they wanted to teach because of the ambition of... It is a really
cool thing. I was attracted to the idea too. But I talked to teachers in college who were like,
I can't teach whatever I want because they just hand me a syllabus and it's fucking stupid.
I'm going to do my best to actually teach you guys something, but we've got to pass these tests
that I don't get to write. That doesn't sound fun. I could totally dig more of a tutoring thing
or a private school thing if I was ever to do that, but currently that's on the track I'm on.
Going way back to not without incident's comment, he also mentioned that they had to create a
high school slash military academy to put Greek teenage boys in because they were causing so
much trouble, which first of all, I don't think says good things about school if you're basically
using it to as a holding place for your troublemakers. But I recall... Was it Marcus Aurelius? Yes,
I believe it was Marcus Aurelius, one of the Roman emperors said that one of the best things that
happened in his life was he was not sent to the normal schooling that everyone else in Rome gets,
and that preserved his actual joy of learning and didn't destroy his childhood. So schooling
has been kind of shitty for a long time, I get the feeling. Yeah, I mean, I imagine back then
too there was probably similar problems, but there's probably more focus on... Do you want to hear
about some of the shit they did in Rome? So much. They would make people memorize the alphabet, like
the forms, the letters, what they look like before they knew what they were or what they were good
for. Like, you just have to remember that this is an A, this is the shapes an A consists of,
and you don't know that it's a letter in a word or anything. It's only after you have everything
memorized that they start telling you, okay, this makes the sound and this is combined with other
words. And it's like, why am I just randomly memorizing stupid shapes without any way to
connect them or use them in the real world? And I sort of doubt that they did any like
and like empiricistic or empiricist observations of like, this was the optimal way to teach reading.
Oh, God, no. This is probably just like... And the kids were beat if they didn't get it fast enough.
And it was just, it was a one of those grueling, memorized things that do not matter to you at
all sort of things. That's something we didn't even touch on. And I'm sure Audrey would probably
agree, I'm guessing, but like, corporal punishment was super popular just a few decades ago. And
it's mostly gone now, but not entirely. I'm not sure if it's gone out of every public school or
not, it might be. But it used to be, you know, you just, you get hit sometimes super fucking hard.
And my dad told me one, you know, like where they would bring the kid up to the front of the
class and paddle them. And, you know, this, he's not that old, he's in his fifties. So,
you know, 30 years ago, they were 40 years ago, they were pulling kids up to, you know,
hit them really hard in front of their, in front of their classmates, which like,
as far as the domestication thing that, that certainly adds a lot of credence to that hypothesis
for why schooling is the way it is. I am very much against violence, physical violence. So,
I would not come out in favor of that in any way. But there is a problem that a lot of ways,
right now schools don't have credible ways to, I believe I was put, maybe it was even on
Scott Alexander's blog, someone said though that schools don't have a credible way to
disincentivize bad behavior.
Yeah. Just because suspension is like, cool, I could play viticom for three days, fuck you.
Right. And lots of times the teacher can't suspend someone because then all the stats
look worse. Can't even send them to the principal's office because then everyone would be in the
principal's office and the principal doesn't give that many fucks and they just, what can they do?
Yell at the kid and tell them to shut up. If the kid doesn't shut up, then what?
Yeah, I don't remember suspension ever being that big of a deal. I was in the principal
as in the principal's office a lot in elementary and junior high school.
And I remember I was only suspended once in elementary school or out of school suspended.
And that was a time where I was like bullies and she was like, you know,
just hit him back or whatever. And it was like finally one of the things,
like no one was really seriously hurt. This was like one of the least violent altercations.
But somehow we both got suspended for it. And I was like, cool, you play video games all day,
this is totally fine. I totally support this. But, you know, and she was a stay at home mom
at the time. She didn't start working till I was most the way through junior high or something.
So like if all my parents worked, then like outer school suspension is just a huge bonus.
And like, oh, I've cut up my classwork. Oh no. And then in school suspension, you just hang
out and read. I bet they take your phones now. I didn't have a smartphone back then. But I remember
one day in ISS in school suspension, I was somewhat intimately familiar with it. So I needed a
shorter moniker for it. But I read the entirety of the Order of Phoenix in one day,
because I had nothing else to do. And I think it was one of my like rereads that kind of,
you know, was able to skim through parts of it. But I like, all right, cool,
I reread this whole fucking book and I go now. Yeah, that's that's not a very strong
distance advisor. But I guess I don't know what else would be because what do kids care about
they can take from them? Like the teacher. Oh, my dad was pretty good at taking away
things I cared about. Your dad was, but your teachers couldn't know teachers can't. So
yeah, I mean, your parents have control over everything that you have. So,
you know, I don't know what kids like video games, phones and computers and stuff.
So like, in TVs, I mean, your parents could take all that, but your teacher, I think,
I'm not sure if there's probably laws about it now, but smartphones were just coming out when
I was getting through high school. So there wasn't anything at the time, like they would try and
take phones and it was like questionable whether or not they could. If you're like cheating on a
test, they'll take it. But like, if you're just on it, there was I'm not sure if there's much they
could do. There probably is now, but I mean, they probably have to give it back at the end of class,
maybe the end of the day. I'm not sure how it works. Do kids bust out smartphones while
they're taking a test? I'm sure they do. It's okay. That seems a bit shady. I'm just looking
up the answers. Kids don't care about passing the test because they know it, right? They want to
not fail because they're told that like if you fail, your world will end and you'll, you know,
you'll just starve your death in the streets. I'd be surprised that a teacher wouldn't be,
you know, sitting around watching. Oh, they do. They probably do. Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah. I guess,
yeah, because I've been cheating since the beginning of time and teachers have been
trying to stop it since the beginning of time. I saw a great picture on Reddit where like,
so the Nintendo Switch has a little stand on the back of it, like on the little portable screen.
And you can detach the remotes and play with them independently. They don't have to be touching
each other or the console. And there was a kid in a hoodie leaning back and his backpack was a jar
and he had the switch standing up in it and his hands in his hoodie pockets playing like Mario.
And the guy behind him took a picture of like, look at this kid. He's sitting in class,
but he's playing Super Mario Odyssey. It was awesome. See, kids get creative.
Yeah, I don't know if you can. Again, I don't think hitting kids is the solution either,
but what else could you do? Probably not much. I don't know. We haven't thought about it for
five minutes. Yeah. I mean, if school wasn't mandatory, you could say get the fuck out of here.
And eventually they do. Some kids get expelled. Yeah. I'm not sure what the recourse is for
the parents at that point. There's probably some loophole where if your kid was too much
of a nonconformist. I think then you have to educate them at home.
Yeah. Yeah, it's a whole thing. Well, that's super happy, exciting stuff. Oh, we have time,
if you want, to do a reactionally speaking pick. I know you have a ledger to get through.
Yes, I do have one. In fact, that was one of the big things I want to do here.
You said that you didn't want to call them a rationally speaking picks because that's too
much stealing off Julie Galef. It's explicitly stealing off Julie Galef.
Did you want to call him like rat chat? I think that's fun. Okay, like
rationalist chat about random shit. While you're digging it up, there was something I saw on Reddit
and I can try and dig it up if we want the link, but it was just a,
it was some guy who taught his daughters. He was trying to test hypothesis that if he ingrained
this into a kid enough, they could be a master of anything. Oh, the chest dude?
The chest thing. I think the two of the three daughters came out to be world champions or at
least world champion competitors. I thought that was kind of interesting because my sister's
pregnant. She should be giving birth any minute now and any minute as in any day.
It was fun to think about because I guess it depends on the subject and so I read through all
the comments. I really do like, I'll skim them, but I read through a lot of them because it was
really interesting. And I mean, all he showed really in this small sample is that you can teach
something like chess that's, you know, learnable by a child and have to compete with each other
for 15 years and get awesome, right? But whether or not that would work for something like,
I don't know, economics or something is probably debatable, but it is kind of fun to think that
I think. And both that guy and his wife were geniuses already. So their kids were probably
going to be geniuses too. Right. I think John Stuart Mill had a very atypical education to the
point where like he had like a mental breakdown or something in his late teens, early 20s.
But he was one of those, you know, like, I think the, I've heard at least once or twice and this
is obviously hyperbole, but like he was the last person in the world to know everything there was
to know. Because back then there was less to know. And it was, I mean, he didn't know obviously
everything, he didn't know all the languages, but he knew a lot. And he, I think it was fair
to say that he was an auto, an auto, excuse me, not an auto-didact, an eclectic expert in a lot
of subjects. But when the human domain of knowledge is smaller, that's easier. But part of what I
think was due to his insane education as a kid. So yeah. All right, what do you got?
I have, this is by bound up over at, I believe this was at lesser wrong back in the day, which
will make it at less wrong now. Since lesser wrong got incorporated into less wrong.
Or was the other way around?
Lesser wrong, got put back into less wrong.
Because people hated the name?
Yeah, I think it was always originally meant as like a startup to see if it'll work. And if it
does work, we'll use it to revitalize less wrong.
Cool. Yeah, I didn't like lesser wrong anyway. Excuse me, I liked the, I liked what it did.
I liked what it was doing, but I hated the name. Lesser wrong makes sense. What does
lesser wrong even mean?
It's, you know, the next iteration of less wrong, and the next one will be less as strong.
I think there's already a blog, there's definitely probably a blog with this name,
but like the obvious one out of trust is like more right.
There is.
Come on.
The more right one is about, is mainly new reactionaries and other right leading people.
Oh, shoot.
So it's a double pun.
Yeah.
All right.
And I guess lesser wrong also kind of a pun about you must choose the lesser wrong.
Oh, okay.
It's kind of fun to do with two evils.
That makes, okay, I can dig that.
Yeah.
But this is the title of this post is maps versus buttons,
STEMI colon, nerds versus normies.
And is a way of thinking about the other half of the population,
which I found interesting.
And I think I suspect is not charitable enough.
It feels mean is basically what I'm trying to say.
Who are the two halves of the population?
Nerds and normies.
I mean, can you expand on that?
Like rationalists and everyone else?
Well, people, in fact, let me just cover the actual thing where this is discovered or discussed.
They said that they were having a conversation with a friend
and they noticed some inconsistencies with the friend's beliefs of what they were saying.
And they were like, dude, your two things you say totally contradict each other.
And the friend was like, oh, okay, I see.
All right, thanks.
And they're like, okay, cool.
I helped clear up something in their beliefs and their map of the world.
