Yeah. Well, I mean, I loved the learning part of high school. I also had really good teachers
in most subjects and in others, I didn't, but the ones that where I had good teachers were
amazing. It was all the stuff outside of class that was awful.
Maybe I'm having two biases to think about there. One was that my high school experience was so
much better than my junior high school experience. So like looking back, it was a lot better than
junior high, but it was not, I wasn't happy, but I think I just like I'm comparing those two
schooling periods. But also I remember like being constantly full of anxiety and like, you know,
like to the point, like my stomach is upset all the time. I'm sort of just remembering that right
now. You're right. Apparently a lot of high school sucks. Bad good teachers. I had several
good teachers anyway. Some of them sucks too, but that's just how it goes.
Apparently, yes, your parents can go to jail.
Whoa. Yeah. They, wow. In California, parents are found guilty of a misdemeanor and can be
fined up to $2,000 sent to jail for a year or both. How was, I mean, okay. So California is
also the state, I think, where if your kid walks to the park unattended, you can be fined for
negligence and like, you know, as a bad parent. But it looks like in just about every state,
you can, you know, get a fine if you don't go to school. And if you, you know, if you get
enough fines that you don't pay, they generally come and take you to jail. Well, that surprises me
sort of. I wouldn't, I guess I, like I said, I sort of guessed that it could be that crazy,
but I'm bummed to hear that it is. I mean, who put this through thinking, you know,
it'll show them, you know, it'll show those kids who aren't going to school not having parents,
that'll teach them their lesson. Then who's like, what, then there's the ward of the state and
someone that works for those, works for the city is going to drive them to school. That's
fucking ridiculous. Dude, that'd be, that'd be a real dick way to get back at your parents if
you're upset. Just don't go to school a lot until they get fined.
Do you ever see that episode of South Park where they threaten or they call what child protective
services and all their parents and say that they were like being molested. And then it's like
children of the corn where like the kids just run the town. And it was, have you seen that one?
No, no. It's ridiculous. I can't remember what the name of the episode is. It's one of the older ones.
But it's, yeah, there's like, they, they break it like factioning tribes and like the kid,
the whole town is just children and like this couple, their car breaks down and they're like
trying to get it fixed. And it's just like butters there and like this little overalls trying to
work on it. It was a, yeah, why doesn't that happen? That's, all right, I'm clearly tired.
That's hilarious though. Hilarious and super disheartening. Yeah. Yeah. Probably doesn't
happen that often. Probably not. I don't know. I mean, the other thing too is like someone's
going to have to be willing to, you know, take your pants to jail and go all the way through
at this. And at some point they're like, fuck it, the parents don't care. The kid doesn't want to go,
you know, if he goes or he or she goes, they're going to just make a mess anyway and, you know,
ruin that for everybody. So, yeah, it's hard to see who's interest that serves. They'll get up
there and say the kids, but it doesn't serve their, it doesn't serve that child's interest that they
don't want to go there. It doesn't serve the other children that that child doesn't want to go there.
And they're going to scream the whole time. Yeah.
So I'll go to school and spend the entire time and in school suspension. Fuck you guys.
Yeah. I don't know. That's weird.
And then, and obviously people can't hire anyone who's supposed to be at school, because then
they're contributing it. Was it contributing to truancy? And they're, they're, what,
complicit in truancy, I guess. If they, if they hire someone.
Oh, like a teacher who works at the school to come to do their kid?
No, no, no. If like the kid wants to, I don't know, go out, make a buck or two during the day.
Oh, sure.
If someone hires a kid that they know is supposed to be in school, then they would be
contributing that truancy. I don't want to hit this point like too long,
but I was curious. So like when you said they shouldn't, it shouldn't be mandatory.
You shouldn't, or they should have a choice. The parents have a choice whether their kids
go to school or the kids should have a choice whether it goes to school or both.
By the time you get into your late teens, it sort of becomes both anyway. At that point,
there's lots of times kids have power struggles with their parents, right?
Yeah, sure. Especially like, you know, when you're 16, 17 and you're like in your last
year of high school and you've got a car, you're driving yourself to school, like
your parents won't know if you're going to school or not. You could leave the city all day.
Once you're large enough that people have a hard time physically forcing you to go someplace,
that's when you have some negotiating power.
So like, I feel bad if there wasn't some mandatory education. You're saying mandatory
schooling, not education. I'm conflating the two of my bad. But yeah, I mean,
it should be a crime to like, you know, not hit your kids how to read one way or another,
right? If they're capable of learning how to read. But yeah, I guess I could see it being a mess.
I don't know. I don't know. Should that be a crime?
I would, yeah, I'm kind of prepared to stick that out.
Like I'm willing to say that should be a crime not to get vaccinated because that,
you know, is direct impact on the health of everyone around you. But
reading, I mean, a society is much better off when everyone's literate.
Well, even just like, I mean, basic education stuff, you know, basic arithmetic,
lowering the alphabet, that sort of shit. Like, I mean, it doesn't harm society if
you don't get your child medical treatment when it has a cold or appendicitis and it dies. That's
like your fault you should be charged for that. If your kid comes out into the world and is,
you know, completely useless to, you know, themselves and everybody else.
Right. That's a huge burden on society.
Yeah. And I can rephrase that and not make it so bad on the kid, but like it's not a kid's fault.
Yeah, they just, they can't contribute. They can't actualize anywhere because there's not
much to do. I mean, even if you can't like read an instruction manual to like work on something,
what are you going to do? Yeah. I'm prepared to say that if the parents don't make that happen,
that it's their fault and that should be a problem. I'm good with that. Yeah.
Should be some minimum level of education required, some basic literacy and numeracy.
But I think, and there should be free schools available to help facilitate that.
Yeah. I should read Kaplan's case against education. I think he draws like, he's very
important about drawing the distinction between education and schooling. And when he says like,
there's too much education, I think there's, I think there are points at least where
this V, that article that he wrote was saying that there was one sentence by Kaplan where he said
that people are too overeducated, but he meant like over schooled. Not like they learn too much.
That's not a problem. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. The system as it is now isn't great,
but it also serves the purpose like the Hansonian lens of like,
how are you going to study your desk and shut up and do your job if you haven't had that drilled
into you for 15 years. Yeah. And it provides some unifying culture that helps keep the country
somewhat together. Yeah. I mean, yeah, the rosy picture of history you get in the 10 years that
you're taking US history through school. Yeah. You know, I think that the, I think they're probably
downplaying like the level of like blatant propaganda stuff that they're giving kids,
certainly than they were like in my parents' age. My parents both went to school here in the US
when they were school aged. And I mean, there was a lot of like, you know, red scare and you know,
this like a lot of like, you know, big patriotism stuff way more than just like getting up and
doing the Pledge of Allegiance every day. Should they make you do that, by the way?
They did, but I had a religious exemption since I was raised as a Jehovah's Witness.
Oh, and you can't pledge allegiance to anything but God or something, right? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. It was at the beginning of every school year, my parents had to go in,
meet with the teachers, explain, you know, these are our religious beliefs and
then I sat while everyone else stood up and pledged allegiance.
Nice. Yeah. I was taught very early to be rebellious and not give fucks.
It's funny how you can do that in a religious context.
Yeah, every now and then I was just talking with one of my writer friends
and she was like, I wrote this one story which was really violent and had a pro-choice message
near the end and I have it out under a pseudonym because I live down in Texas and
all my neighbors would judge me and I'm like, so fucking let them judge you, bring it on,
motherfuckers. And I have come to realize that people are much less likely to invite that sort
of controversy than I usually am and the religious upbringing was probably at least a part of it.
They managed to get their culture into me regardless.
I mean, they're good things to took from it. Yeah.
Like the ability to say no to authority, that's I think super valuable.
Yeah. I still have the evangelistic instinct, even though that is in my opinion, probably a bad thing.
Because no one likes being evangelized too.
And yet here we are.
Hey man, we're just having a chat between friends. It's not our fault if someone else is listening
in on it. Some poor sap downloads and is converted. Did you read this long email or not long but
a couple paragraphs about your updated beliefs on marriage?
I did, but this was like two and a half months ago, so refresh me on it.
David wrote in to say, hello fellow basians. I want to comment on Inyash's updated beliefs
about marriage in the interest of full disclosure. Oh, he's talking about who doesn't go to Reddit.
That's fine. My problem with marriage as a homemaker protection contract is that I worry
that this view neglects the fun, theoretic benefits of marriage. I grant that in the modern world,
there are a few, sorry, I'm reading over the microphone. It's hard.
I grant that in the modern world, there are a few and shrinking practical benefits to marriage.
And I also grant that a lot of the legal and monetary benefits to marriage are bullshit.
But I'd argue that in a world where I raise three kids is a valid resume fodder and there were no
legal social pressures to marry or stay married, people would still like to get married and some
would still, excuse me, some would likely stay married for life because of a big ceremony where
all your friends gather and watch two souls become one, etc., etc. And then following through on those
vows is an enjoyable experience. Did I read that in a way that you could understand?
Yeah.
Saying that there are, saying, quote, there are few to no practical benefits to this that aren't
bullshit stuff society forces on us. Therefore, it shouldn't exist, end quote. It's too similar to
Warhammer 40K's Imperial Truth. Basically, the sequence is about the fun theory. And also why
the 40K universe sucks. There's a lot of reasons why the 40K universe sucks.
I completely respect your personal choice to reject marriage because of your past experiences,
but painting with a broad brush to include the whole institution and all those who partake
seems to be a bit too spock or emperor of mankind and not enough Jeffrey Psy or rationalist Harry.
I could see a reasonable alternative such as the hand-binding five-year marriage is
working out a lot better than the current system and fulfilling the same fun,
theoretic role as marriage, but conceptualizing marriage as a purely practical contract with
no value as a ritual seems ill-advised. Yeah, I guess that's fair. Some people do enjoy
ritual a lot and would like to go through that ritual. And there's a saying,
your kink is not my kink, but that's okay. And if that is someone's kink, then they are entirely
free to indulge in it. But think about some of the legal things that you are signing up for
when you indulge this kink. There's impregnation kinks too, but if you do that,
now you're stuck with a kid. So there are some things to think through.
There's some really good rituals out there. And sure, it can definitely lead to a quality of life
increase if that is something that you want in your life. Just think it through. And I honestly,
like a five-year kind of repeating contract, that's so much a better idea, in my opinion.
I like how you brought it to like a kink. And it's like, if that's the weird thing that gets
you off, go for it. I mean, that's not the nicest way to put it. Kinks are very important,
to make life better. And is ritual like a kink? I would kind of think ritual is.
I think we spent two hours and I still don't really know what a ritual is. I sucked at it.
And someone wrote in that you should have tabooed ritual and they're absolutely right.
And I'm trying to be better about that going forward.
About taboo and confusing words, which is to say, can we have this conversation without using
that word and just talk about the actual thing? So what actual thing is it?
I wanted something that encompasses brushing your teeth and getting married. I don't think
that's a useful word, right? Something that is above and beyond for the purpose of
ceremony, but that sounds like another tabooable word.
I guess in this case, the closest thing would be a
large group event with emotional meaning to commemorate milestones as they happen.
Yeah. No one watches life changes as they happen. Yeah, that could be a good version.
I think Cannonball Jenkins brought up a bunch of examples about like concerts and stuff,
maybe being similar. And no one's watching your personal growth or something,
but you're all sharing in that moment. Maybe it's what something that he would say.
Yeah. Yeah, I think there's several different means.
So that's nice. Yeah, I can dig it. I think I had another thing to say about how you were...
How I was wording my particular answer.
No, I thought it was funny, but I was going to say something else.
That's what you're saying. And I like the idea. I have a friend who did the five-year
hand wrap thing. I think that's kind of fun. Cool.
You know, I think you could kind of distill your argument down into like a hard version
and a soft version. And I think the soft version is very easily palatable,
which is like, be aware that this is not just like a fun thing you're doing with somebody
that you love and that your family is invited to this big party. It's a binding contract that has a,
you know, a huge ledger shit that you didn't know was in it, probably.
Yeah. And more than anything else, I want to divorce the idea. Haha, divorce.
I want to divorce the idea that love and marriage are co-mingled in any way that
you can love someone and not get married and you can marry someone and not love them.
And those things shouldn't be conflated. I'm really, really annoyed by the fact that society
has, as a default, if you love someone, you marry them. And if you didn't marry them,
then you don't really love them. Yeah, same here.
That would be my number one thing that I would like to burn down out of or
remove from the whole marriage for shenanigans.
Yeah, it does seem weird that...
Because then people wouldn't feel nearly as much pressure. They would get married if they wanted
the legal things or the ritual enjoyment of that particular thing.
Yeah, that is interesting.
I mean, when I got married, it was because, well, I love this person, right?
Well, that should be why people do it. I totally agree. Not because, well,
my friends and family won't think I really love this person if I don't do this.
Well, no, but it was, that was a stupid reason for me to get married.
No, that's what I'm saying. Well, no, you did it because you love the person you said.
Yeah. I don't think that's a stupid reason to get married. You should get married if you want
