This is awesome.
But then sometime later, they were talking with them and they still had those two contradictory beliefs.
And they put it out again and it was like, oh, okay, thanks.
Awesome.
And then sometime later, they talked to them again, they still had those beliefs.
And he was like, what the hell is going on?
And he talked with his friend for a bit and he says that from his friend's point of view,
what happened was that they were having a discussion
and his friend showed respect to him by asking about his opinion.
And at some point, he pointed out kind of like a pedantic schoolboy
that there was some sort of inconsistency, which is whatever, some sort of weird logical rule.
And so he's like, oh, okay, thanks.
And then I showed respect for him by saying, thank you for pointing that out to me.
And everything seemed to be well resolved.
So they just went along with their relationship.
And the main purpose of the conversation seemed to be about the relationship between the two of them
as opposed to their relationship with knowledge about the world.
And so that was what he updated as opposed to any belief about the world.
And he says he makes the analogy between maps and buttons.
Because when someone asks him, and I'm assuming you or most rationalists,
what their beliefs on a subject are, we consult our mental map of the world, right?
And of ourselves.
And we produce on the fly a description of what that map says.
This produces, he says, conceptually consistent answers,
as consistent as the map is, which in most people's cases is,
or most of our cases is very consistent because we like to keep our maps consistent.
And also the answers are often a bit clunky and unwieldy since they are being constructed on the fly.
Now the other people, the normies, as he calls them,
are not making maps of the world in their head.
They aren't constructing these beliefs.
They're more like a big wall of buttons.
You push a button and a slip of paper comes out.
And the button you push is the question you ask them.
And the slip of paper that comes out is the opinion that they have on that,
which has been oftentimes granted to them by their tribe or people that they respect.
And he said their effort goes into not making their maps as consistent
and as accurate with the world as they observe it as possible,
but on refining what's on the slips of paper
and refining that based on the status of the person that they're talking to and their reaction.
And there's no relationship between any one button and that corresponding paper
and another button and its corresponding paper.
Exactly. Yeah.
And so he claims that in a very real sense, normal people don't have beliefs.
If we're talking about things where they don't need to be factually right to prosper,
they don't have real beliefs at all.
But they sustain a convincing illusion of having beliefs.
Because when they say what's your belief on gender equality,
they produce a nice, shiny answer that sounds like it's saying something.
And the main thing is that these response beliefs on papers are there in an attempt
to signal which groups you owe fealty to.
Who's your in-group? Who's the out-group?
And it's a social reality as opposed to corresponding in any way to physical reality.
So nerds are constantly embarrassing themselves according to social rules
because they're betraying their allies or not properly signaling the correct adherence
to the correct ideas in order to have some sort of status.
And nerds think that normal people are embarrassing themselves
because they don't have any sort of consistent beliefs or ideas worth listening to.
And that is the problem, that nerds think of normal people as failed nerds,
whereas normal people think of nerds as failed normal people.
Well, that's sort of disheartening.
That normal people think nerds are trying to signal and impress
and are just being really shitty at it.
That's sort of disheartening.
That's interesting. I think you're right.
It might be too disingenuous to say that or like too, what was the word that you...
Uncharitable.
Uncharitable.
You see, this is just a problem with normal people because I'm sure I have those too.
But the difference is that like if someone pointed out to me,
hey, Steven, you said something different that doesn't match up with what you said just now
a week ago, I'd be like, oh, shit, hold on, you're right.
One of these doesn't make sense.
I can't keep both of these and I won't repeat both of them again.
Whereas apparently assuming this person's rendition is true,
some people would be like, cool, yeah.
And just power through and to come back up again later.
I think we just talked about this a few days ago, the transracial stuff.
There's also no reason people couldn't be transracial.
And yeah, I'm okay with that.
And I drew it to the extreme that if you think people can be other animals,
it would be insane to say, oh, this person's a bird,
but this person can't be black if their skin's white.
Yeah.
Whereas most people would be like, yeah, I'm down with transgender people,
but anyone who thinks that they're transracial can go eat a giant load of bull.
Now I can't say giant loaded eggs because that seems kind of shitty to say
a giant bowl of turds.
How about that?
There you go.
Okay.
Yeah, I think, I mean, the kickback to that would I think would be,
something along the lines of cultural appropriation or like,
it's okay for you to say you're black,
but you're not actually suffering with what they're suffering with.
And that's definitely true.
That's, there's certainly a problem that I wouldn't know how to tackle there.
And I, I, I, I realized I come from this lofty position where I can just say,
oh yeah, everyone should just be, you know,
take it easy and be nice to each other.
And then all our problems will go away.
It sounds like super hippie.
But that's because, you know, I'm not getting a lot of shit every day.
You know, I, I was going to see the Avengers a couple of weekends ago and-
The newest one in Infinity War?
Yeah.
And I hear it's worth seeing and I really got to go see it.
Yeah, but first you and I need to watch Ragnarok.
Yes, I have heard that as well.
And if you want to watch it together, I was going to pitch that later,
but we should watch it together.
We never actually watched a TV show or a movie together.
No.
And I think it'd have fun with this.
It's not your, it's not an everyday superhero movie.
But I went with-
Maybe Sunday.
I'm down.
Well, I'll figure something out.
Okay.
But I went with five other people and one of them was black and the girl taking,
or the older woman taking our tickets asked to like,
if you could step aside, she could, you know, he could open his backpack.
And when he was the first person to enter in that group with a backpack.
Okay.
And I was like, okay, that's fine.
And then the person behind him goes in and she has a backpack.
The next guy has a backpack.
Someone else comes in with a purse and so I asked her after this guy,
you know, he just held open and it's like a laptop and I'm like, all right, cool, go ahead.
And I asked her, I was like, you know, he's, this was like after everyone was,
I don't want to make it like a scene with him right there,
but I kind of was just hanging out waiting for the last person in our party to show up.
And I was like, how did you ask him and not no one else?
She's like, oh, I had, you know, people took the backpacks,
the bigger the backpack, the more I check.
And I was like, both of their backpacks are twice the size of his like laptop bag.
And she's like, oh, well, there's no real recipe.
You know, there's not like a rule.
There's, you know, it's just kind of like, you know,
if someone's coming in wearing shades or if they, you know, whatever.
And you know, the stuff that something comes in with darker skin.
That's, I mean, that's, that's what, that's what fucking happened.
You know, I was like, you know, and this is like the mildest
case of racial profiling out there, you know, he wasn't held up.
He wasn't frisked, but it was just like, you know,
this was the dumbest fucking thing I'd ever seen.
And, you know, if you're, if you're profiling for like risky looking people,
I mean, one of the guys that came in wrote into the building on a skateboard and he was high as
shit and like, you know, I mean, anyway, so I bring up that long digression to point out that
it's easy for me to say like, oh yeah, you know, if, if my boyfriend wants to go out there and
say he's black, when it's comfortable for him and when he gets whatever benefit he wants from
saying that, or if that's how he actually feels or something, he's expressing a feeling that's
different from like people across the street passing judgment on you.
No, I think I can totally see the, the, the reaction to that particular thing,
even if I think that in an ideal world, nobody should give a shit.
And maybe our, maybe our friends who would say that is a problem,
transracialism shouldn't be a thing right now. Maybe they would concede that,
yes, in an ideal world, that's great. I assume maybe many of them wouldn't.
They'd say in an ideal world, everyone lives in racially segregated boxes and
white people are on the bottom. I don't know.
I could certainly see conceptually, theoretically, transracialism could totally be a thing.
But, you know, on the other hand, I guess there is also the thing, well, like,
I can just say that I'm a woman to get the discount or, you know,
Can I tell you about a time I did that too?
What did you do?
So first of all, I'm sure someone's going to notice that like, oh,
Steven just brought up like the mildest thing of like racial profiling and saying that he
discovered race, you know, race problems. And that's not what I'm saying.
I'm bringing up the most recent incident that happened just to me a couple of weeks ago,
or happens near me rather. So I was with a friend like a year ago,
they wanted to stop by a pot shop, I was getting a ride home.
And they were like, oh yeah, it's women's Wednesdays, you know, women get 20% off.
And I was like, I wasn't going to buy anything. But I was like, oh,
and I just see the guy behind the guy was like, if I say I'm a woman, can I get 20% off?
And he's like, oh, I don't really, you know, he kind of just like, oh,
I don't know how to answer this question. He's like, I don't, I don't think we can do that.
And he just seemed really uncomfortable. And I thought about pushing it and just being like,
no, no, no, I, you know, but I don't want to be disingenuous and be a dick about it.
But it was funny because, like you said, you know, if there was, if there was a time where
you could do it once a month, you know, ladies night at the bar or something and get a dollar
drink or something as opposed to a $9 drink, then, you know, people would be taking advantage of
it and it would be taking it away from the people who like actually feel this way and want this
accepted about them. Right. So it's a whole weird thing. It is. I don't have a good answer
for this other than a couple of stupid stories. So yeah.
Okay, that got digressed quite a bit. But yeah, he also said at the very bottom,
basically the same thing you said, that I've spoken people, I've spoken as if people are in
one camp or the other, but it's more of a spectrum. It might be more correct to say that people are
on a spectrum of nerdy normal for each specific topic. For example, humans managed to be nerdy
about politics and religion. And definitely a lot of people do. We tend to call them walks,
you know, the people that are really nerdy about politics. But people who are nerdy in some ways
can turn into political animals and social thinkers when you bring up anything controversial,
like what the best Star Wars movie is. And a normal person might well become nerdy and actually
try to learn how some things really work if they happen to be interested in a topic for some reason.
And yeah, I think the nice thing about dichotomy type posts is that they can open your eyes to
new ways of thinking about things. And you always have to put at the very bottom, by the way,
this is not how the real world works. There's always spectrums and, you know,
nebulous cases. But this is just a way to think about things and start noticing stuff like,
like, does this person actually have a real belief or do they just, are they pushing a button?
Yeah, that's an interesting way to think about it.
And am I just pushing a button and regurgitating something that I heard?
