and give you odds and all those things. So there's just, there's no point in competing with that.
There's probably not much of a point in competing on the front of who's going to win
the presidency in 2020 because there's a whole system of Nate Silvers and many others
doing polls and aggregating them well and all that stuff. And if you put a question up on
Metaculous about that, the smart people will just cut the pace from 538.com into Metaculous.
And that's like the right thing to do. So, so where I see, so I see the relative advantage
being more technical, more obscure things where there's just a higher level of kind of depth
of understanding that's necessary to really make good predictions about it. So that tends to be
where we, where we focus and just also on the stuff that we think is cool and fun and timely,
you know, there, we had a, we had a series of questions on cryptocurrencies, right on the,
so that's another one, technical side. I'm looking at one on whether nuclear fusion will
first be developed in China. So I would love to get an arms race started in nuclear fusion between
the, between the Chinese and the Americans. So there's some things where, where I would,
I really don't want to see arms races or just races. But if we could get China and the US
competing to develop nuclear fusion first, I'd be a happy camper. I was, I don't unfortunately
think Metaculous quite has their reach to, to, to encourage that at the moment.
Yeah. What would you think of an academic department using this sort of tool or let's say
Metaculous specifically waited for just the, the best predictors using that to make their
decisions on which, which people to hire based on the estimate of their future publications records?
Yeah. So I think at some level, this is what, you know, hiring committees are doing anyway,
again, individually and imperfectly in their mind. There might be some better way to do it.
I think a first step could possibly be just causing people to more consciously and sort of
quantitatively think about some of these questions. So, so for example, one of the things
that I'm involved with is giving grants to people through a couple of different organizations
I'm involved with where we have money from somewhere and want to give it out as research
grants to some group of people. So, so we'll generally have a panel that comes in and
reads all the proposals and then makes decisions based on their relative merits of how we're going
to allocate this pot of money. So the Future of Life Institute, for example, is doing this right now
with proposals on artificial intelligence safety. And in one of these panels, the last time that I
did one, this was not for Future of Life, but another organization, I asked the reviewers to
explicitly write, okay, what are three things that this proposal is trying to accomplish?
What is the probability of them succeeding? You know, for each one of these things, what is the
probability of them succeeding? And what would the impact in the field be if they were to succeed
on kind of a logarithmic scale from negligible to earth shattering, right, one to 10 maybe.
And we then kind of ran the numbers. And we didn't actually use those numbers to make decisions,
but we kind of displayed them next to the sort of decisions that they had come to separately.
And it was interesting to see that sometimes those were very much in accord and sometimes
they were quite different. So people were clearly making decisions on grants that were rather at
odds with their assessment of probabilities times impacts, right? Even though, you know, our stated
criterion was we want to maximize the expectation value of impact per dollar, right? That's kind
of what we said we want to do in the effective altruism or just effective anything spirit.
And nonetheless, you know, decisions were sometimes quite at odds with that. And I'm not
sure that I would want a system that just put all the numbers in and then gave out the money
according to an algorithm. But I think it's very instructive to have people explicitly think
about those things and to then look back at what they explicitly said and what other people explicitly
said about that in comparison to the decisions that they're actually making. So I'm not sure that I'd
be in favor of just pumping every faculty members numbers into a into an algorithm and it says you
hire this person. Maybe that would be an okay system. But I think it would be too big of a jump
from what we have now, even if it were a good idea. But I do think a little bit more explicit
thinking what is it that we're actually trying to hire? Is there a way to quantify that in some way?
And if there is, or to the extent that there is, let's make predictions about what those
quantities are going to be, would be an interesting exercise. And I think what it would probably
actually lead to is the realization that you don't quite know how to quantify
what you're trying to hire. We don't just really want to want to hire the person who
publishes the most papers. That can be lots of crappy papers. We don't necessarily want to just
hire the person who has the most citations, because then that might just be in a field
where every paper happens to have much more citations than in some other field,
which is also a super interesting and important field. But there are just fewer people working in
it and fewer citations per paper on average. So you have to think carefully about what you're
trying to incentivize and do you care about teaching? Do you care about bringing in money to the
university? So there are all different things that that faculty are responsible for and get hired to
do. If you were to come up with a sort of quantitative way of assessing all those things,
which doesn't exist, I can tell you from being hiring and promoting and being promoted in lots
of ways in different academic settings. If you were to come up with that, then you could start
making predictions about it. But I think what you would find is that, as is generally the case,
you'd have a hard time writing down what you were trying to predict. And once you set that metric,
of course, people would start gaining to satisfy that metric rather than some
other thing that you really have in mind, which is just generally being an awesome
researcher and teacher and everything else. So what is the future for Metaculous?
Well, it's an interesting question. There's apparently a 5% chance that we'll do an
initial coin offering. We put a question up about that. So it's 5%. There is a
high chance that Metaculous will still exist in 2030 or something. We recently had a question
about that. So its future is bright in terms of length. I think more seriously, I think we,
as I said, we need to actually bring in some real resources to it. So either raise some venture
funding or do a coin offering or something, or some means get enough resources in to really
expand effort into something that will have tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of users
rather than thousands. But I think we're sort of ready to do that. The platform is mature.
The technology is there. There's a couple more major pieces that I think we need to put in.
But I think at some level, we just now want to grow in terms of how many people are
making questions, how many people are answering questions, the range and specificity of questions
and so on. I think it's pretty much ready to scale. And I think that it will,
you know, I'm pretty optimistic because I think society is really thirsting at some level for
any source of, you know, authority that it can actually rely on. At least some segments,
there's certainly some segments of society that just want to undermine everything.
But I think there's a real need for actual quality information that you feel like you have
a reason to trust. And I think that need will only grow. And I think as more people see that need
and as more technologies, machine learning and things get built into this, there are lots of
ways that I can see this idea expanding into some actually quite important and major force for
making better decisions in society as a whole. A general purpose thing, you know,
if I'm super ambitious like, you know, Wikipedia or something like that, where it's genuinely
of huge utility to lots of people, takes a lot of effort to keep it going.
Some money, but not a huge amount of money, but it's just vastly useful to a large number of
people in doing things well. And if we can make something that serves any fraction of that
amounts of utility and good, I'll be, I'll be super excited. Nice.
Well, is there, I think we're getting close to the end. Is there anything else that you
wanted to mention that maybe I haven't asked about? No, I think we've covered a lot of ground.
I do have a question from Robin, because I have his email and I just asked him, is there, you know,
anything you'd like to ask? And two of my questions came from that, but one that doesn't,
I don't think really directly impacts Metacalculus, sorry, doesn't directly impact Metaculus at all,
but it feels like I should ask in thanks to him. Do you support legalizing real money markets?
Do I support legalizing real money prediction markets? Yeah. Yeah, I think if
I would support,
let me, that's an interesting question, because I've never actually thought about being in the
deciding role in that. Yeah, I think I would support it. I would like to see prediction markets
that were actual markets in the same sense as current commodities futures markets,
where there are actually regulations that protect people in various ways
and make it kind of a clean financial system. So one thing that worries me a bit is,
you know, when I see cryptocurrency trading markets or think about upcoming futures markets
or prediction markets, you know, there's a lot of shenanigans that happen in financial markets,
because when people are incentivized to just make money and there's a set of rules,
they will push those rules in every way that they can. So all of the things that have happened
in equities trading over decades, you know, all kinds of shenanigans in, from
all kinds of games that are played, insider information games, high frequency trading,
pump and dump games, there's all kinds of stuff that people have come up with. And we've slowly
but truly built up systems so that we feel like there's a fairly well-tended, like,
just system for trading in the world equity markets and futures markets. And I think that's a great
thing and has done a lot of good economically. And I'm a little bit worried that building sort of
shadow markets that don't have any of those features and are basically built to kind of avoid
those sorts of institutions is going to have all those things happen again. So I really,
I like prediction markets for certain things. I'm a little bit worried about prediction markets
that are being generated, you know, on the blockchain and so on specifically to avoid
people kind of looking too careful or regulating what's actually happening in the trading
platforms. So yes and no. So I would like to have them. I think it would be great if there
were more prediction markets. I do think though that we have to be careful about how it's done
otherwise they're just going to turn into kind of gambling systems where lots of people are
going to lose lots of money. Okay. All right. Well, thank you for joining us and keep us updated if
you do go the whole venture capital fund or this launches in some other major new direction.
We'll do. Yeah. And I'll look forward to hearing some more interesting podcasts from you guys
as well in the future. Oh, great. And oh, before we go, is it metaculous.com?
Yes. Okay. For the listeners, that's M E T A C U L U S dot com and we'll have links, of course,
in the post. Thank you for joining us. Thanks for having me.
Yes. Here's Stevens excuse for why he wasn't here exclusive only for Patreon supporters.
I think it's good excuse. Yeah. Should we jump in? All right. Let's do it. Okay. Oh, and before we
forget, also got to thank Kyle, sound engineer. I did the finger guns. You couldn't see him.
He's he's puts up with a lot of tight deadlines from us sometimes, especially the last couple
months have been pretty hectic. So Kyle's been kicking tons of ass for us and it makes a huge
difference. Yeah. This one's about to go to him with a four day turnaround. So not a lot of time.
Thank you, Kyle. Sorry. We'll we'll get back on track. I'll be moved in next week and then
things will settle down. So yeah, should we go on to the listener feedback? I'm down. Let's do it.
On the getting schooled episode, not without incident says,
I think education is a really important topic, but I worry that some of the criticisms of education
were based on an overgeneralization of personal experience.
The idea that high school is a miserable time for everyone and would be so much happier in
apprenticeships is wrong on two fronts. First, lots of people love high school.
The nicest way to put this is that most people in the rations community aren't the type of
person who has the best time in high school. Second, adolescents can be pretty miserable
in a lot of ways, and that's not high school's fault. Romeo and Juliet weren't in high school,
but it didn't go great for them. They were idiots, but I love it.
But the rest of that point stands.
Yeah, it's it's it's ridiculous the way humanity has made it into like the greatest
romantic love story, you know, but it was really a story about two teenagers being idiots.
Like, don't don't be like these guys.
Yeah, they didn't have it figured out. I think a lot of that's true, but I'm wondering if like
it's school's fault that a lesson sucks because a large part of Viola, like the not being at school
part was pretty good for large parts of it for many people, right? It was being there,
surrounded by bullies and dicks and stupid like requirements and homework and teachers
that like made everything suck.
And just being trapped and bored for hours on end sometimes.
Yeah, that's pretty damn horrible too.
And like, I'm at this place now with like my professional life where I'm surrounding
people who are way smarter than I am. I've never been like a genius, but I was really bored in
school. Like my cousin's going through the same thing. She's 17 and she's like she especially
earlier she had like disciplinary problems because she'd get bored and goof off and that
distracts the kids who are learning at like their full learning speed, but she's finished and bored,
you know, a third of the way through the class. So, I mean, there's not an obvious way to fix
that. That's not crazy expensive and, you know, really hard to implement. So, I think like it
can be school's fault, but not like to the site where we blame the schools. It's just like, yes,
you guys are, it's happening because of this, but it's not your, it's not like you're to blame,
right? I just think more than anything else. School shouldn't be mandatory. It shouldn't be
basically the prison that that is being made. If you didn't have to go to school, it'd probably be
a lot better. I wonder about that. Like I might have quit because I got bored. Like I guess it
depends on how much cultural pressure there still was. Like I knew kids who dropped out,
it's not mandatory. Like no one goes to prison. You can not graduate.
What happens when you don't go to school? Because don't you actually get in trouble
some way? I mean, I guess you wouldn't go to prison, obviously, but
I'm trying to think of the people that I knew. One left for like a year and then did like some
bullshit homeschooling program that was all like legit. How old is the earth? 7,000 years old stuff.
It was insane. He showed me his school work, like, but apparently it was the cheapest online one
that they could do. And it was just to get him some, you know, certification high school diploma.
But obviously not in education. And then the other guy, we had a bit of a falling out,
actually had the same name. I think he eventually got some sort of a certification like a GED or
something. But I just remember I stopped going after junior year of high school. And I mean,
his parents didn't care. So they didn't like, you know, watch the non legal equivalent of
press charges like make him go. But I can tell you that it didn't work out great for that guy,
but he was also the kind of guy who didn't want to go to school. So it was hard to say.
And that's a really small sample size. I was pretty sure that if your kids don't go to school,
the parents are punished in some way, fines or something.
We'll have to look into that. I don't know if that's true, because I mean,
you've got homeless kids. So I can't imagine. The system is pretty stupid.
It sounds perfectly plausible that the system is that stupid, but I don't know if that's true.
If anyone knows the laws in the US about that and wants to educate us because we're too lazy to
Google it, that'd be interesting. We can always Google it afterwards.
While you're not just Googling, actually, I'm going to read a comment that
Eddie wrote into Bayesian Conspiracy Podcast at gmail.com and said,
wonderful episode. Audrey is great and passionate and reminiscent of my favorite teachers and friends
who went into education. I found myself agreeing with basically everything that she said.
So you can pass it on to Audrey. Cool.
And then they pointed out that the mistake between CDC and FDA and stuff,
but I just liked the positive feedback. Apparently other people had had good experiences.
I mentioned in high school, I had great teachers.
