So, so I, I'm a little bit worried about looking for a big bang, you know, here's our bold prediction
about things. And this is why you should listen to us, because I don't think that's really the
right metric. I think the right metric is that you actually, over time, get it right lots of times,
right? And you get it right in the right amount of times, you, you get 90% of the things right that
you say 90% to, and you get 50% right are the things that you say 50% to. And as you get better,
you might have more and more things that you say 10% or 90% to that, that level of precision
is very useful. But I'm, I'm a little bit leery of kind of making big bold predictions
that are contrary to what everybody thinks and getting them right, because you won't do that
very often. And you'll just be cherry picking. But even if you were going with the more aggregate
over time method, you still need some way to publicize, look, these are our predictions,
and this is our track record, and it's really good, and it's continuing to be good.
It seems like, yeah, you need to get people to know.
That's absolutely true. And that's something we need to figure out how to do well that the hard
part at some level is that the right way to assess track records using briar scores or
calibration plots or whatever, most people's eyes glaze over, you know, there's a particular small
set of people, perhaps some of the audience of this podcast, who really like those things,
right, they're going to, and they're going to be like, what's your briar score? That's exciting.
But the, you know, the general public is not going to know what a briar score is or care when
you explain it. So you have to, you know, we will need to come up with metrics that convey
that information in a way that's more understandable and impressive, and or immediately I'm sort of
imbibable in some way that doesn't require the level of care and finesse that the real
track record does. So so anybody can look at the actual track record of Metaculous.
It's all public, which is something you also won't find almost anywhere else, right, just
all the public predictions that something makes people don't do that exactly for the reason,
because it's embarrassing when you get it wrong. But I know a few people that do it, but yeah,
in general, you don't. Yeah. Yeah. So and those people are certainly to be commended and
it's a great example. And we, you know, very much want to follow that and encourage it because
you know, there's it's interesting when you first start to make predictions, it's very
uncomfortable in a way, right? You're really putting yourself on the line.
You dial out dial the 90% and and you're, you're feeling like really, I don't really know this.
You know, I don't have expertise in this. What do I know? How can I put 90% and then
if you get it wrong, it's kind of embarrassing. But but once you get over that and you feel like,
okay, you know, I'm just going to make predictions and see how they come out. And
and if I get them wrong, I get them wrong, but I'm learning. So once you sort of do it enough
to attain a good attitude about it, then you can really make progress and just feel self-honest.
You know, you can just own up to where you screwed up and and feel good about the ones
that you got right. And and it's been really nice to see the the caliber of the of the users of
Pentaculous really getting to that point where people will just say like, boy, I really screwed
that one up. You know, I give that 1% and it totally happened and so on. There's just a
feeling of honesty about it that is a little bit all too rare, you know, in in current online
settings or or, you know, in culture in general. Yeah. So what do the users get out of?
Metaculous? I mean, obviously the training with calibration and it sounds like it's fun,
but without the money incentive, is there are you worried about missing a certain amount of
people or is there something else that draws them in? I am. I am. So we actually did a survey
recently to ask, you know, what it is that people use the platform for, like what's important to
them. And it was those things. People liked just seeing interesting fun questions and thinking about
them. That was probably the top thing, actually. People liked getting to be a better predictor.
They liked finding out what other people and the platform as a whole predicted about things. So
having a kind of inside knowledge of what's going to happen better than other people have.
And they, you know, we asked about money, and most people rated that relatively low. Now,
that may be because we haven't given anybody any money so far, other than one, you know,
we ran one contest where the prize was one ether. So so we so we basically haven't
given any money. So the people who are still around are kind of not the ones who are super
money motivated. But there are a fair number of people who will do it with that, that motivation.
I think it would be really interesting to see what would change and how many people would,
what would happen if we did start supplying money. So that's certainly something that we're
thinking about, whether it be prizes or ultimately we would like, as I sort of alluded to earlier,
to create a system where if you're someone, say you're a company, and you really want to know
how is this Supreme Court decision going to come out or or how on time is is the next Tesla model
going to be or how successful is this medical trial going to be. You know, if that's really
important information to you and you would like to have a quantitative assessment of it,
that this is a place where you could go and you could plunk down some money and say,
I really want to know the answer to this and I'm willing to pay X dollars to get a really
good answer to this. And then that money can be offered to high quality predictors who have
accrued good track record on questions like that to incentivize them to spend time and effort
thinking about that particular question and making a good prediction about it. So that's
really the platform that I would like to see eventually happen where where people who need
predictions can if they have the means pay for really good predictions and people who are really
good at making predictions and have accrued that track record can be paid for doing that.
And I think that's a system that could could work in principle. How would a calibration
estimate work with that? Because if someone gives like a say 70% chance that something will happen,
I mean, either it does or it doesn't. So what is their incentive to say 70% as opposed to 90%
if there's like it's a one off question? Yeah, so they would not be paid depending on how the
question turns out in this model because that would be gambling. So that's like a prediction
market. What they would be paid for is the fact that they've accrued lots of expertise and that
they're making a prediction on this question. So it would be kind of like a micro consultancy
where you say, I want to hire a consultant to make a prediction about this question for me.
I would like a consultant, please, who has done really well at predicting things like this in
the past. Here's the money and they will give me their prediction. But the money does depend on
whether they get it right or not. Okay, next, what what the but they care about getting it right
because they want to keep their good reputation, they want to keep their points, they want to keep
getting consultant contracts in the future effectively. So they need to keep their track
record accurate. Okay, so that's what you were you briefly mentioned at the beginning that if you
had more money coming in that this is the sort of thing that you would do with it.
Yeah, that's that's how I see it ultimately being a sort of self sustaining effort that could grow
big. If it could be supported in that way, you know, I don't have a big interest in having lots
of people in the running ads and things like that to keep this going. So I think it it would have to
be at some level that that people feel like it's valuable to have predictions in general or particular
predictions and that that subsidizes the effort as a whole. How is it supported right now? Is it
just work on your part? Well, it's it's a lot of just time donated essentially. There we have had
we have raised some money. And we have we sort of have some small contracts that are essentially
with with nonprofits to do, you know, they're it's on level philanthropic, right, places that
would like to know answers to things, but also would just like to support the general effort.
But it's a little bit on a shoestring. And, and we've been thinking about, do we want to make
a serious effort to raise, you know, venture funds for it or something like that, which we
probably should do. But it's a lot more fun to just come up with cool technologies.
You said this was originally for the Future of Life Institute to help you make decisions.
Have you used it yet for anything? Any decision making?
A little bit here and there. So it definitely is informing, I think, my views in terms of
artificial intelligence, in terms of biotechnology. We, we ran a little question thinking about
we were thinking about where our next conference would be. And we were debating Puerto Rico,
we did a conference in Puerto Rico, the second time Puerto Rico was in this major Zika issue.
And, and so we made some, we ran some questions about how widespread Zika would be in Puerto Rico
and things like that, but sort of helped inform those decisions. So I think a little bit, but I
think it still has a ways to go. There are capabilities, I think that we need to build,
and we just need to have lots more people do it.
So that the whole effort is bigger, more questions, more, more connections between questions. So,
so one of the things that I think is going to be most interesting, and is sort of on the docket
very soon, is to create connections between questions. So to say, given that the BFR gets
tested, this is the next big rocket that Elon Musk wants to make in space, given that the BFR
gets tested by 2020, will SpaceX land people on Mars prior to 2030? Right. So, so clearly,
the probability will be higher if the BFR gets tested early than it will be if it doesn't get
tested early. So you can, you can make answers to something's contingent on answers to other things.
And once you create enough connections like that between questions, then you can create a whole
network, a Bayes network, or a fault tree, or an event tree, and these these probability structures
that tie together the different questions in various interesting ways. And I think once we have
that sort of technology, and the ability to kind of dissect big questions into lots of little ones,
then things are going to get even more interesting. Right. So you can ask things like,
so when you ask something like, will there be a nuclear event, you know, that is not a test
that happens by 2020? Right. That's a question I would like to know the answer to. I'd like to
know whether that's 1% or 10% or 0.1%. But it's a lot of effort to figure out the answer to that
question, because you've got to think through what are all the different ways that that could
happen. You know, right now you immediately start thinking of North Korea, but of course,
there could be Iran, there could be accidents, there's all kinds of other things that could
happen. You've got to think through each one and kind of dissect that question into the different
ways that a nuclear explosion could happen for each one, what would have to happen for each one
of those things that has to happen, what would have to happen. And so you can build a whole tree,
and this is something that's done, you know, in risk analysis. But having a system that can
crowdsource building that tree and crowdsource putting the probabilities into all the nodes in
that tree and the connections between them will make something I think that's really,
really powerful and that just doesn't exist right now. Other than maybe if you've got,
you know, RAND or something planning nuclear wars, you've got something like this going on,
but maybe the many don't. I think that will be a new thing that will really start to inform
decisions. Because then you can also think, okay, well, if I tweak this thing at the bottom of the
tree, how does that affect the things up the tree? Right, so you can look for leverage points in
there. If you want to decrease the chance of a nuclear missile, where are the things that you,
that if you dial them down or dial them up, would have the biggest effect on that.
When you understand that whole network, then you can start to look for those things. And
those are your leverage points. I do always get a bit worried whenever I hear the term crowdsource,
because crowdsourcing seems to always depend a lot on the enthusiasm of people for a project,
and that tends to wane over years. Do you think this is going to be hard to scale up for,
to a large amount of people and for a long period of time? May, I guess we'll see. I mean,
I think, I don't like the term crowdsource either, because I prefer aggregation of expert or something
like that. Because I think it's, at some level, part of the whole point is to identify the people
who are really good and kind of neglect the rest of the crowd, even if they don't know they're
being neglected, to chasm from everybody, but to hone in on who are the people who actually
know what they're doing and to combine them in some careful algorithmic way. I've struggled a bit
with what is the right name for what this thing is doing, because it's not a prediction market.
I don't like crowdsource predictions, because it just sounds like a bunch of people milling around
a bowl of jelly beans and guessing different numbers and averaging them together, which
works, by the way, but that's not exactly what we want to do. Prediction engine, maybe, or
prediction aggregation platform. So the function of the masses, then, would be mainly to
keep making predictions. So you could find the ones that are the people that are really good at
this and mainly focus on them. And I guess that would be the purpose of anyone who joins in this
is to try to become one of those people that's really good at predicting, so you could
make the consultation fees. Yes, and I think, obviously, if you have a crowd of experts,
that's actually quite powerful. Just a random crowd and not so great, but if you have a crowd
of experts that are organized in some way, you can get a whole lot done. So if you get a big
enough crowd, then even 1% of the sort of most effective 1% of that crowd can still be a crowd,
and then you've really got something. And it's also true that the more people are doing it,
the more people just benefit from both the fun and the training. I think if more people in
society could literally just sort of understand what probability was, let alone be able to
assign accurate, well-calibrated probabilities to things. Boy, that would change things.
So I mean, if I could force just everybody in government to spend, you know, 50 hours on
mataculous, I think, boy, would the world be different. Oh, man, I was just a month, two
months ago, I was speaking with an English professor, and this particular English professor
is very big into astrology, I guess. And we were talking about, well, the statistics,
prison statistics came up, and she was like, yeah, they absolutely guarantee you 99% sure
that this percentage of the prisoners are going to be like this sign, right? I said, okay,
how much are you willing to bet on that? And she was like, 20 bucks? I was like, are you kidding
me? 99% sure you're willing to bet 20 freaking bucks? That's not 99%. Yeah, yeah, so it,
I think it, this is a thing that would be good for the rest of the population to
actually think about. And we make decisions all the time, right, that simply don't make sense
if you just have even the barest grasp of the probabilities and the numbers and how to multiply
one by the other. And sometimes there are reasons we make decisions as a society that,
you know, we knowingly disregard the numbers at some level, you know, we spend vast amounts
of money preventing a relatively small number of terrorist attacks versus, you know, car accidents.
And this is something we choose to do. I think, you know, at some level, people understand that
they're much more likely to die in a car accident than a terrorist attack. But one of them is so
much worse in their mind than the other that they just attribute a lot more importance to it.
Or they, you know, some people just don't know that. So that happens also. Or we decide, or,
you know, we have human feelings that say when someone is deliberately attacking us,
that's something that is just more important to meet and prevent than something that is accidental.
Yeah, you know, you're dead in any case. So we have lots of things that come into making decisions.
But even when you sort of agree on this, this is, you know, cause A of accidental death and this is
cause B of accidental death, they're both equally horrifying. And it's obvious that this amount
of dollars would be vastly more effective in this side than this side. We still don't do it,
right? Because people, it's just not the way that we tend to make decisions
because people aren't thinking that way as much as they should.
So you said that so far, I've heard questions mentioned technical advancements and political
events and entertainment, popular entertainment. Are there any subjects that are not on the table?
Or is this like free for anything that anyone wants to ask?
In principle, it's free for anything. We focus mostly on sort of science and technology things
because, and a little bit on geopolitics and politics, but partly because that's our relative
advantage, you know, the founders are pretty much all like physicists and scientists.
And the connection with Future of Life Institute and the sort of effective altruism community
is thinking primarily about technologies and a little bit geopolitics and things like that.
It's, you know, there are also things like sports where both, you know,
it's not our relative advantage and there are plenty of solutions out there. If you,
you know, if you want to bet on sports, there are lots of people who will take your money
