Okay. So one of the things that... Also, I want to say that I quote this man all the time. I've learned
a great deal from him and his wife and that he's one of the most profound economic thinkers that
I've encountered. And I've met a lot of fucking people. You're very kind, sir. And one of the
things that I would say is that even when I disagree with you, even on your signature stuff,
that the way I really view you is that you're the candidate who is most open to new ideas
and you're always up for a good discussion, a good argument, and you'll go with whatever is
best. And I find that you are as close to non-egoic as anyone I've met running. I mean,
you really seem to be running out of compulsion. Yeah. I don't have any native desire to be
president. I didn't feel that you ever did. And it's one of the reasons I love the fact that
you're running. Yeah. I think one of my main qualifications to be president is that I just
don't socialize that much in the sense of if you have me around a bunch of fancy stuff,
like it really doesn't do anything for me. As president, I would love to do away with a lot of
the... You do like geeking. Like the ceremony. It seems like it's counterproductive. And
no, I happen to think that might help me do a better job. So let's try to geek out on a couple
of ideas that Pia and I have been playing with. See what you think. Yeah, I love it. Okay. So one
of the things that we've been thinking about is some people are talking about the difference
between the shareholder economy of the past and the stakeholder economy of the future. Yep.
There are other issues about the dignity of work and what happens when machines replace you. You
can't necessarily defend yourself economically, but you still have a reason to get up in the morning
and do something. Well, we hope you have a reason to get up and do something. Amen. Now, the thing is
we've been thinking about this paradigm from object-oriented programming,
which is the difference between is a versus has a. So if a Lamborghini can play an FM broadcast
through its speaker, you could technically find out that by some definition, the Lamborghini is a
radio, but that seems absurd. It's much more sane to say that it has a radio just the way it has a
transmission. We make this error, I think, when we talk about workers, we say that person is a
worker. They are a bricklayer or, or a teamster, you know, completely. And that what we need to do
is to readjust our model of an economic agent to a has a model. And so the idea is that you may
have a breadwinner and you also have a contributor and you also have a consumer. And therefore,
what it is that we do all day long in the face of the, of the automation that may or may not get
here and dribs and drabs or come as a wave. We don't know that we need to have a model of humans
that recognizes a need to be active in the economy, whether or not the marginal product of our labor
is sufficient to take care of our family. Yeah, I, I love it so much and I couldn't agree more.
Okay, so that's, that would be the kind of a research program that we would love to try to see
undergirding a new economy that recognizes a much richer concept of an agent. But without it,
I'm worried that, you know, the sort of the power of that Chicago style thinking pushes us back into
humans as widgets. Well, humans as widgets is predominant. And you can see it at every turn,
or even if you ask a kid, what do you want to be when you grow up? It's, you know, they'll say,
I want to be a fireman, astronaut, baker, scientist, whatever it happens to be.
And by the numbers, we are more work obsessed now than we perhaps have ever been.
And trying to break up our identities into several aspects where you take a trucker who's
on the road away from his family four days a week and say, you know, you're a dad, you're like a
consumer of hunting gear, or, you know, like you, there's more to you than being a trucker.
When they have shaped their life around being a trucker, because, you know, it's literally,
you're behind the wheel for 14 hours a day, you get out, you sleep at a rest stop. I mean,
these are all consuming types of existences that are filled by hundreds of thousands of
American men. And, you know, 94% of them are men. So, you know, it's not like, oh, just things are
all men. It's like, come on, 94%. And so if you were to go to that person and try and have them
adopt a more holistic identity, when they have essentially shaped their entire existence around
their role in this real life, like almost circulatory system, where it's like they're
piloting this blood vessel that has a bunch of home depot crap in the back, or whatever the heck
they're transporting, like a daily basis. Having them have other aspects of their identity that
they value to a point where you could remove the work component and they would, you know,
be cool with going home and spending time with their families is pretty much the opposite of
the way our civilization functions right now. Well, we saw these deaths of despair discussed
by economists in the, you know, the heartland of America. We saw this demographic crisis that
happened when the Soviet Union fell apart with, you know, the mortality crisis,
all sorts of people were dying of alcoholism, heart attacks and stress. So this is a really
serious thing. We have to figure out about the restoration of human meaning and dignity
as different from employment. You had something like a dozen disenfranchised
taxi cab drivers and limo drivers kill themselves, you know, last year, like one of whom killed
himself in front of city hall. I mean, like did his self-destruction cause meaningful ripples in
our society? No, most people watching this or listening to this right now, it's like, oh,
that shit happened. Like, you know, like, but this sort of self-destruction is happening
all the time. And most of them are just men quietly drinking themselves to death in their
homes. And then, you know, they're dead. But
Well, I love the idea that you're talking about compassion for men, because one of the things
that I'm finding is that it's very tough to talk in a, you know, in a world that is currently
exploring this idea of toxic masculinity from some place that it might have been reasonably
defined in blowing it up past that point. It's a very dangerous thing to see a world that sort of
thinks that, you know, like all straight white guys are okay. And in fact, many of them are very
vulnerable and by the numbers, by the numbers, right? You know, yeah, it's so and this is one of
the themes that when you talk about trying to define people by different aspects of their life
that might have work as one of them, but have like others. The fact is, I think men struggle more
with breaking up our identities than women do, because if you were to say to a woman,
hey, you're a parent, you're, you know, a sister or you're a nurse, you're like all of these things,
I think they would be more ready to embrace some of the non-work aspects of their identity,
in part because of the cultural load that is placed on different types of people in our society.
They're facing a big one coming up, which is that you're going to have a huge cohort of millennial
females who pretty much would love to be in a situation with meaningful work, but also with
a family raising children of their own. And there's, first of all, isn't necessarily a supply of guys
who can rise to the, I mean, you know, it doesn't have to be traditional households,
but a lot of it is going to be male, female, breadwinner, somebody stays at home. It might
be the woman who's in the workforce, might be the guy staying home, whatever. The fact
is a lot of these families aren't going to form because we're not in a position to say,
I can afford a 30-year mortgage, I can see enough stability in my future.
And that's part of the thing is that these challenges face us all in different ways,
and it's really, to me, counterproductive to disastrous, to single out a particular subset
of us and be like, hey, you've got it rough, you're okay, you know, that's a legitimate,
you know, like thing to be upset about, that is not, I mean, like if someone
is struggling, like it ends up reaching different groups in different ways, and you can't say it's
like, oh, your struggles are somehow more valid than others. So just to wrap around this thought,
so I think that the division of our identities into like work and non-work,
it's one of the greatest things we have to overcome. And by the numbers, if you lose your job
and you're a man, you tend to have relatively self-destructive patterns of behavior manifest
relatively consistently and quickly, where unemployed men volunteer less than employed men,
despite having much more free time, as an example. Substance abuse tends to go up
in very self-destructive behaviors. A lot of time spent on the computer goes up, which so that's a
combination of gaming and some other things. And porn, I'm sure is, you know, I didn't,
I mean, I kind of implied it, but I was thinking it. This is a free radio station effectively,
and we're going to be able to say that that's one of the things that may be deranging us. We
don't know what its effects are. Yeah, no. So, and that women have struggles, obviously,
but the struggles take a different form in terms of, and the numbers show that women are more
adaptable to non-work idleness, in that they will not show the same patterns of self-destructive
behavior that men do. Now, of course, women obviously hate to be unemployed, but the thing
that I joke about that's sort of true is that women, however, are never truly idle,
in the sense that they always find ways to be productive contributors in a way that men struggle
with in many respects. For example, where you're working for your family, taking care of elderly
parents, your kids, somebody else's kids, these things are part of the fabric of civil society.
One of the questions I have is, should we talk about coming up with some new financial products
that get women the money they need during the period of their life when they might need extra
help in the house, when the binds that come from caring for elderly parents or children
are starting to knock them out of the workforce and trying to figure out how to make some kind of
creative structure to help shift the burdens to times of their life when they can better afford
it. What do you think about that? Yeah, just to sort of show the other side of the coin,
so men volunteer less if they're unemployed than employed, even though that doesn't make
any sense in terms of their free time. Women show higher rates of volunteers than going back to
school when they have more time. So it's just that the numbers show clear patterns of different
responses to non-work related time or idleness. But I'm with you on the fact that right now,
trying to map everyone's economic prospects to the market's valuation of our wages
has all sorts of distorting effects. And Tim, what you're suggesting that we should just start
putting money into people's hands at various points in their lives, I mean, that's really one of the
underpinnings of the freedom dividend, you know, my universal skincare part of it. Yeah, it's like
you put a thousand bucks a month into people's hands and then that would allow us all to make
different types of decisions really from almost day one of our adulthood. Yeah.
All right, let's try a few other things that I think might be interesting. One thing that
wins presidential campaigns that we don't talk much about is demographers. Demographers are sometimes
asked, tell me some group of people that we don't know about as a voting bloc that nobody's figured
out how to speak to. And I think I have a couple of these that are candidates I'd like to... Oh,
please, yeah, I'd like this. Maybe I'll find a new audience to... Well, okay. So the first one that
I have, you know, so these are things like soccer moms was one from years past or exerbs
between rural and suburbs where people didn't realize that there were intermediate places.
So here's one that I think is huge that hasn't been identified. Parents of super smart kids that
have some kind of a learning difference that causes them to wildly underperform in school.
This is something that makes me crazy because I think it's all over. Once you start seeing it,
you see it everywhere. Parents are tearing their hair out. Teachers can't handle the kids. Nope.
And there's just this maddening loss of human brilliance that has flushed down the toilet.
Have you come up with a name for this group? Well, I often refer to these as kids with
learning superpowers. And I talk about teaching disabilities, which is the more
dangerous version of this, that because people don't fit into the notion of what can be educated
by one teacher teaching a room of 30 people to make the economics work, my belief is that...
And I'll come up with a name for it for you. But I want to talk to all of the parents who are
leading lives of despair saying, why is my kid wildly underperforming? And I know how smart this
kid is. Why are we doing this to ourselves? And why will no one speak to it? By the way,
this is me and it's been in my family for four or five generations. Really?
Well, yeah, I'm very public about the fact that my older son is autistic. I know that.
And that when we put him in various environments, I mean, there were very, very sharp struggles.
And to me, atypical is the new normal, like neurologically atypical. And you're right that
as soon as you start seeing it, you see it everywhere. And that the facts show that it's
incredibly commonplace. And at this point, I think most American families have someone
other in the family or someone in their social circles that resembles the description
that you just put out there of this group. To me, a lot of it is that our institutions just aren't
well designed for people with different learning profiles or different...
And yet these are very often the people who are going to found new fields or going to find
new drugs for us who are going to think in such different uncorrelated fashions that these are
very often the people that I value the most. And you never know whether things are going to work
out because the kid every year is sustaining more and more trauma. Whereas these other kids,
it's like, I remember looking at the neurotypicals as if I was like Cinderella watching all the other
sisters go to the ball and I was sitting there scrubbing dishes. Every conference was Eric is
underperforming. Eric can't meet his potential. Eric was there. At some point, it's just like
you don't realize how much damage you're doing to maybe as much as a fifth of the country.
Well, someone described it as like you're getting regular low-grade psychic beating.
It's pretty good. And that's something that you obviously wouldn't wish upon anyone,
much less little kids. Yeah. And by the way, the autism thing, I don't know whether
your child is high-functioning or not, but it's certainly the case that a lot of us have the
idea that we almost don't want to deal with people who aren't in some sense on the spectrum or having
some kind of ability to focus and to work with abstractions. Very often, I think of... I'm on
top of this. I'm colorblind and I always make the point that I see camouflage. Did you know that
you're wearing bright purple right now? Stop it. That used to happen. I used to dress myself
before I let my girlfriend, now wife, make these decisions. I would make terrible decisions.
That's good. You look great. Yeah, you look great. I'm gonna show you something to do with it.
So that would be one group. Here's another one that I think is really important. Now, I know
that you are the child of immigrants and that I'm, of course, married to an immigrant.
The temptation is for us to be very defensive of our immigrants because we have some forces
at the moment that have become very jingoistic. And I think that that's right. But I also think
that we have to recognize that there's a story about immigration that's very unpleasant and ugly,
which is how Americans have used immigration to redistribute wealth amongst ourselves.
And effectively, the immigrant is used as a tool of redistribution. Then people get angry or
protective of the tool. And one of the things that I think that's very important is this huge
chunk of America is highly xenophilic. They like foreigners. They like traveling abroad. They like
food music. You probably read Righteous Mind by Jonathan Haidt. You're probably friends with
John, right? Yeah, I figured. Continue because this is what it reminds me of. Okay. The thing is,
is that xenophilic restrictionists are a good chunk of this country. If you do a poll and you
allow for all four boxes, xenophilic, xenophobic restrictionist expansionist, xenophilic
restrictionism is a giant cohort. Nobody speaks to it because if you say anything about restrictionism,
the media will instantaneously label you as xenophobic. Can we at least distinguish the idea
of the immigrants as souls like ourselves who have been an important part of our national tapestry
together with the fact that very often they are used as instruments of transfers of wealth?
I agree. And that we should be angry at our fellow Americans who cynically use immigration and hide
behind the immigrant to take money from one sector and put it into their own pockets.
Or you should not be angry at someone who's angry about the immigrants. Because there's
something, like you said, it's like in some ways someone can have a very legitimate grievance
about the fact that there have been these instruments of wealth transfer that have been
imported into our midst. So I call these the Americans who redistribute our wealth
immigrant entrepreneurs. And the idea is that if they could use puppy dogs to redistribute our
wealth, they'd use puppy dogs because nobody can be against puppies. And so it's a very cynical
use of the Statue of Liberty. It's something that's very difficult to talk about, but it's
something that I've been talking about for a while because I think that I'm so far in the
xenophilic category, it would be comical if somebody decided I actually had a problem. So
I've been bold and I haven't really had the problem. But most Americans feel very uncomfortable
talking about immigration because they have two different feelings. They one have a really good
