Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and we're here this evening
a little bit later than usual with my friend and presidential candidate, Andrew Yang. Andrew,
welcome. Thank you for keeping the portal open late for me, Eric. Oh my god. Thanks for bringing
the energy. You just come fresh off this rally, MacArthur Park. You're indefatigable, the energizer
bunny. Yes, we just had a 6,000 person rally, 7,000, 8,000. I lost track. I was counting manually.
No, it wasn't. And I should say that your hat is make America think harder. Yep. But it's
the portal's all about it. It's math. Well, we're trying. We're trying. So we don't want to keep
you up late because we want you supercharged for charge for tomorrow. So let's just dig right into
it. Andrew, I'm remembering that we were having this dinner at Zazi in San Francisco, and you were
impressing the hell out of my wife and myself. And I said, that guy's going places. She says,
how can you? I said, these are different times. Oh, thank you. So am I right that this is happening?
Oh, it's happening. Big time. I mean, our campaign is growing my leaps and bounds by all of the
measurements you would ordinarily measure a presidential campaign, crowd size, fundraising,
fanaticism. Well, that's, yeah, I guess. The yang gang is absolutely fanatical. Trust me,
I encounter them all the time on social media. Well, I love the yang gang. Thank you, yang gang.
Yeah, the excitement is palpable. And I love it. I mean, everywhere I go, now people will just say,
like, I support you and give me a fist bump. And certainly when we campaign, I mean, now
we draw crowds of either hundreds or thousands, depending upon where we are.
It's amazing. Now, let's just dig into it. We're in this totally bizarre situation. I don't think
the institutions have faced up to just how dire our situation is. No, they have not. When I go
outside, for the most part, the physical world is still humming along. But everywhere else,
you can see the signs that somehow the superstructure that undergirds the simple physical
reality has really been fraying. Am I wrong about that? No, I agree with you. And in many ways,
if you're just living life not plugged into all of the institutional decay, then you just go out
in the sun shining, the birds are chirping. And like you said, the physical world is still more
less sound, barring the occasional heat wave and unseasonal weather pattern.
So the way I see it, effectively, what you have is a world of institutions. And you have the wrong
people in the institutions. In fact, what's happened is somehow that the institutions were
built in an era where things were growing rapidly. The growth pattern changed a heck of a long time
ago, almost 50 years ago. And so what they've done is these institutions have selected for
people who can continue to tell stories about growth and to kind of play games to keep the
illusion that everything is still humming along as if it was the 50s and 60s. But that hasn't been
true for a long time. How far off am I? Well, that's what the numbers say. And I'm a numbers guy
where if you look at the economy of the 70s, you had a certain level of buying power among the
middle class and certain split in terms of the gains from the economy among different parts of
society. And then the lines started to diverge starting in the 70s. And now they're incredibly
divergent where you have middle class incomes, essentially unchanged during that time. And
then people at the very top level absorbing more of more and more of the gains in the winter,
take all economy. But we all pretend like it's still the 70s. And you can see the disconnect in
the lived experience of most Americans and most of the country where they're starting to catch on
that things have changed. And I mean, it's dark. It's dark. Well, it's incredibly dark. And it's
worth laughing about. I think for that reason, because if we don't have a sense of humor about it,
we're not going to be able to easily do the work. So I think whistling past the graveyard
and Gala's humor, definitely there's a place for that.
Well, you know, I naturally, I suppose people have said to me that I have a very dystopian
point of view, but I tend to present it in a positive upbeat manner.
I think you're trying to get us through a bottleneck that you and I both know is coming.
Yeah. And that in essence, I mean, one of the things I'm very concerned about with you is that
I don't want you to promise the world that you know how to do this. I want you just to say that
I'm the best person to handle whatever's coming next because nobody knows what to do.
Well, certainly I would never claim omniscience so that I'm going to get everything right. I mean,
I make mistakes all the time to ask my wife. She'd be like, hey, you screwed up just the other day.
But you and I were talking before the camera started rolling that I think it's going to be
a very dark time. And the goal has to be to try and survive the darkness and not
have it produce existential level harm. And I believe that I can assist in that regard,
but I certainly would never say that I have all the answers or that if I'm president,
everything's going to work right. Because the fact is there are two things I've thought about.
It's like there's the way the president makes you feel. Right. And then there's actually
solving problems on the ground. And right now, our experience of the presidency tends to be
around the feeling. If Donald Trump does something irrational, it really does not affect my day to
day existence except for the fact that I see all the news reports and I'm like, oh, that guy,
what's he doing? And the same is true in reverse. Like if Barack Obama did something decent and
human, it made me feel good, didn't necessarily change my commute or anything. And so there's
the way it makes us feel, which I believe I can assist with just about immediately for anyone who
wants someone who seems solutions oriented. Right. Positive. And positive. Data friendly.
Yeah, data friendly and genuinely wants to just try and make people's lives better. I think that
would make people feel better. But then there's the reality of trying to solve the problems
from the perch at the top of the government. And that's a very different process. I mean, I'm
locked in on this idea of a freedom dividend in part because I think it's the most dramatically
positive thing we could do that we could actually effectuate in real life that would improve people's
lives that we can actually get done. Now, I am both positive and negative about it as you
probably remember. What my belief is is that we have two claims as Americans. We have a claim
as a contributor to the economy and we have a claim as a soul because we happen to live here and
as a soul, we have certain rights as a human being just as a member of society. The weaker
of the two is as a soul, but that claim still exists. And in some sense, what you're calling the
freedom dividend or universal basic income speaks to the idea that there are these two competing
claims. And you don't want to get rid of the incentive structure that allows people to
take a dream and turn it into something. I love the dream. I love work. I love entrepreneurship.
People doing great stuff. So I think that there's a theory, that there's sort of a series of economic
theories that haven't actually been developed. And I think one of the things that's really
important to me is that we retake the institutions because what we've done is we've selected for
people who've used very simplistic models that have had a huge effect on transferring wealth,
but have not actually mirrored our problems. We've selected for the people who really don't
tell the truth. And I'm very worried how, let's talk about your first term in office, which is
going to happen. 2021, inauguration day, it's going to be a blast. You're going to be there.
He is going to be there. Yang Yang is going to be there. We're going to have a giant party.
Wait, wait, wait a second. Getting ahead of us. Who are you going to staff your government with
if you're going to have the same problem that everybody has, which once the dog catches the
car, then what? You've got all of these institutions which have selected for economists who don't
tell the truth, who have selected for sociologists who are friendly to the institutions and hostile
to our people. What do we do? My team is going to be a blend of different people with different
experience sets from different industries, even different ideologies. And I think you need some
people who are DC insiders who have relationships on Capitol Hill if you really want to get things
done because you're talking about possibly the most institutionalized town in our society.
And so if you get there and just like, I'm going to staff it with outsiders, then no one's going
to get anything done. This was Trump's problem. Yeah, you're not going to get anything done.
You're just going to be fighting with the system all the time that they're going to be
like these antibodies that treat you like this hostile agent and then they're going to just
make your life miserable at every turn. I mean, that's just the way organizations work,
it's the way cultures work. And so you need to have a blend of people that are like, look,
hey, I get it. I'm a new figure and you're concerned. And one of my principles is that I
don't fault people for the incentives that have formed them. And by this, what I mean is like,
if you show up in DC and there's someone who's been part of the fabric of DC for 20 plus years,
and they are someone who've been through administrations right and left to sort of
survive the whole thing and their goal is to just keep that function going and make sure they get
to retirement and whatnot. You can't blame that person for being part of that system because
that's what their incentives have been for years and years. And so what you don't want to do is
you don't want to get there and be like, I'm going to like turn everything upside down. I'm
going to like attack everyone. Well, the immune system will just actually, you know, the macrophages
will descend on you. And then you'll never get anything done. You'll never get anything done.
So that was one of the answers that I was dying to hear, which is, I'm going to have to work
with the infrastructure that's already there. But then there's the second part of it,
which is that I actually need to see some people permanently ejected, called out chastise,
who have been this class of people, misadvising our government throughout the 80s, 90s, early
part of the century. Well, and that's the dark part for all of us, that we sense that there's
really limited accountability in DC. Like you can give bad advice and screw something up,
and you keep your job. You know, you think tank's still there. Like no one goes back and says,
Hey, your white paper turns out it was completely mistaken. That's not the way that town works,
or that, you know, many government institutions work. So that's the challenge is that you have
to try and make changes within this incredibly institutionalized environment. And so you need
a combination of people that are well intended. You bring them in and say, Look,
this is going to feel like brain damage. You're going to come in and you're going to be like,
especially if you can't come in with the background like you and I might have from
technology or entrepreneurship, where you look up and you'll be like, wait, you have
how many people doing what and you're not allowed to do what? You know, it's like the
the story of like healthcare.gov where like the website didn't work in part because they
hired a giant consulting firm and they had all these bureaucratic processes.
And then when the website didn't work, you know what they did? They hired a bunch of Maverick
on valley types and threw the red tape out the window and then did a repair job.
So the goal has to be to bring in patriots who understand that they're not going to have like
an enjoyable time trying to turn the battleship, but that if they turn the battleship
three degrees to the right, they can do more good sort of they were in another environment
where they turned it, you know, like, Andrew, I think we're in a much more revolutionary situation
and in part to energize people. I mean, what we're talking about is a revenge of competency,
a revenge of genius, a revenge of people who actually know how to do things and care enough
who are ready and want to be mobilized and want to be called up, who've been sitting,
you know, with major league skills and in the minors or worse. And the fact is, is that what
the institutions have done have inverted the competency hierarchy. I mean, you know, there's
a guy that I don't understand named Brad DeLong, who was part of the group that brought in NAFTA
and they helped to sell this idea that free trade was good for everybody. And then years later,
I hear, oh, you know what free trade actually is? There was an esoteric version and exoteric version,
the exoteric version we put on display for everybody. We always knew that in the esoteric
version that was shared in the seminar rooms that it was a social Darwinist welfare function that
rewarded you by the cube of your wealth. And I just sit there with my jaw on the floor thinking,
what did you just say? And then he says, like, I don't understand. Maybe we hurt people in Ohio,
but we helped a lot of Mexican peasants. And I'm thinking, so you think that the American voters
who you've called jingoistic and, you know, ultra nationalists are going to be very happy that you've
denigrated their patriotism. And now what they have to show for it is, is that there are Mexican
peasants who are significantly better off, which I mean, who doesn't want Mexican peasants to be
better off? But for sake, I mean, this is, this is a class of people that needs to lose.
Yeah. And a lot of them are going to lose in my administration. Like I'm not a generally vindictive
person. No, it's not. I, you know, so I hope he has a happy, wonderful life. Yeah, exactly. It's
a kind of thing where it's like, Hey, guess what? You had a lot of influence and authority
in one era. It's over now. Like, no, you know, not going to unduly try and make your life miserable
or anything, but you know, like where we're, there's nothing vindictive. It's just, I don't want to
watch the Alan Greenspan show or the Larry Summers show or the Paul Krugman show. I don't
really need, there's no reason that these people get to be in every scene in every decade at
infinitum. Yeah, again, like I said, there's really no accountability for being wrong. And so if
someone presided over an era where, you know, there was epic mismanagement, you know, we still
are asking them what the heck they think. Can I, can I, can I hit you with another one that's
really comical for me? Sure. I watch the graphics that have your name in, in relationship to the
other competitors. And I know who the networks are afraid of and they're afraid of you. They'll,
they'll do a linear perspective graphic and you'll be the guy on the very far end and then the
presenter will stand in front. I've noticed that. That does seem to be something about. Well,
I don't think you should be bringing it up. I think the job is for people like me to be
bringing this up because they've been playing this game with like Ron Paul, with Bernie Sanders.
And I don't know if you're familiar in magic with the concept of a magician's choice.
No, I'm not. So a magician engages in a trick with magician's choice. Let's say that I want you to
choose, um, C out of A, B and C. So I, I give you the option, pick two and you pick A and B.
And I say, okay, I'll take those away. So now we'll look at C. Or if you pick A and C, I'll say,
okay, we'll take one of those two and we'll throw B away. Now, which one do you, so eventually you
think you've made a decision, but in fact the whole game was, is that the magician was pushing you
without your knowledge. This is what I,
media company's choice. This is what I think it's media company's choice. And we've got a situation
where my feeling is that the more the yang gang can find, and this, this goes for Tulsi Gabbard
or whoever else might be sidelined by this game. My feeling is, is that what you're on right now is
the equivalent of pirate radio. This is some is that for the American people. And we should be,
it's one reason I'm here, man. Well, and it's one of the reasons that we need to make sure
that these channels are opened to the very people that the DNC doesn't want running or the networks
don't want running. And the thing that I hate is, is that we're in this William Tell situation
where we've got to run against our own party. Yeah. Well, you know, again,
you may not want to say that. And I understand why, but I'll be damned if I'm going to listen
to a situation in which you were, you're shut out of airtime and you're pushed off to the
side of the graphic. Thank you, Eric. And I can say that this man is the head of pirate radio
for the 21st century. Certainly one of the high chiefs of it. And to me, again, you know, you
have these institutions with certain incentives and certain relationships, and they're going to
be naturally protective of the folks that they think are on the inside and be naturally very
leery of the people that they think are on the outside. But one of the themes of this era is
that there are more of us on the outside that are catching on and that the stranglehold that
media companies had on our attention has weakened significantly. It's one reason why
someone like me can do so well in this environment, or that someone like you can become this independent
intellectual voice that doesn't need to, you know, like get a CNN contributor contract or whatever
the hell. Well, it's very funny. One of the members of the Washington Post, which, you know,
says that democracy dies in darkness, that they're tagline. But one of them said that
everything you, Eric, you have to say that's new isn't true and everything you say that's true isn't
new. So it's like remarkably, there's nothing I can possibly contribute to the conversation.
It's just... It seems so unlikely. I mean, statistically, it's pretty hard to imagine that
everything's been said, Eric. And the only stuff that hasn't is wrong. So what I'd love to do is to
talk about some sort of new ideas to undergird some of the economic things that you and I have
traditionally talked about more before your meteoric rise. So let's dig into it. Yeah, please.
