short-term profitability tied to it or there's no drug company funding it or something like those
slides and this is something that the government historically has been the leader in where it
said, you know what, we can lay the foundation and create paths for people to be able to do basic
research, the benefits of which will be unclear, they may not exist, they may not materialize for
decades but it's similar to what we're talking about with the neurologically atypical kids is
that like a few of them pay off and then the pay off can be unfathomably significant.
Well we call this long vol investing in hedge fund land where most things don't work out but
a few that do pay for all of the losers. Yep and right now to me this is a role where
historically the government has led and you need a government willing to make long-term
sustained investments that may only pay off way down the road and may not pay off but you still
need to be able to make them. Well also the other weird part of this is that by using our own people
and letting in particular China know that it can't operate a relatively totalitarian government
over there and have the benefit of freedom over here with a pipeline for all of our innovations
to immediately go back over there, China needs to be induced in some sense to understand that
they can't get by without giving their people freedom and what they're right now doing is
that they're using our freedom and a periscope by which they can see everything that we're doing
and if we actually cut that off I know that the universities are going to scream bloody murder
but what's going to happen is China's going to have to start investing in the right of its own
people to give the middle finger because irreverence is the secret of American ingenuity. Yeah
yeah and you know that this reminds me of a joke that they told in artificial intelligence
which is how far behind is China than the US and AI and the answer is 12 hours
because they you know obviously they wake up and then they see what we did. I can't tell you how
fantastic it is to have you come into the studio you're coming off of this big rally in MacArthur
Park you're welcome any time to come back I'd love to continue the conversation. I would love this
too man this this feels to me like half a conversation we're gonna have to have the second half
at some other time so if you enjoyed this convo let Eric know and then hopefully he'll have me
back and if you'd like to join the yang gang you should know we are a very very cheap gang to join
is that right. Well our average donation is only $25 so our fans are even cheaper than Bernese which
no one even knew could be a thing in politics but here it is but you get $25 times enough people
and you wind up putting up very very big numbers and you'll see like we're already into the eight
digits as a campaign and we can take this whole thing we can contend because a lot of people
watching this right now you're ignoring politics as usual we can actually have a different sort of
politics that takes real thinking real ideas real solutions and brings into the highest levels of
our government it just needs enough Eric's and Pia's and you all watching at home to say
I prefer this to the stuff I'm getting through the the cable tv network. Well Andrew one of the
things I think that's been great about watching your meteoric rise is that you are outside of
control without being out of control and that having a kind of a mature person who's not easily
bought or swayed who's speaking in a way that nobody knows what he's going to say next has been
hugely positive for the entire process. Well thank you you know the only the only current
answer to is ideas in humanity like you you know you put a good idea in front of me or
a good person I listen. Well you've been that way since before all the success so we wish you
continued success and we'll have you back here the next time you're in LA with a little bit of
time. I would love that brother. Thanks you've been through the portal with Andrew Yang presidential
candidate for 2020 and telling us to make America think harder. Yes this man's going to make you
think harder all the time. All right be well everybody.
