feeling about the person that they know who happened to come from Uganda or India. And
they have the sense that something is wrong with the story. We're going to have to disentangle it
and restore something that makes us feel good about it rather than uncomfortable.
I agree. Great. And you know, I think I may be able to help in this regard.
I think you're perfectly positioned for this. You know, part, I'm the son of immigrants who
loves this country, loves that immigrants have been an incredible source of dynamism. But
you know, you can't have open borders and unrestricted immigration. I understand the
sentiment where people are struggling with the fact that our country has brought many people
in either intentionally or unintentionally in ways that are changing our economy and society
in ways that in like some people have legitimate problems with.
I think we need to be able to have an open conversation about difficult topics around
this and pull them apart. And the fact is we need we need people to feel comfortable that
it's okay to feel uncomfortable as long as you're trying to explore it. But the current
president from my money gets way too close to jingoistic sentiments.
And that's one of the natural reactions is that if the current president says one thing,
the right thing to do is say the exact opposite. But then the nuance gets lost. And then unfortunately,
we end up falling into these polarized camps. It's so important not only to defeat the current
president, but also to defeat the kleptocratic center of our own party, as well as the regressive
left that poses as the progressive left. And then to take care of the constituents that are
currently all over the spectrum in a new world. And one of the things I love about your slogan,
which is not left or right, but forward, right? Yes, that's the slogan.
Yeah. And that that thing is that it's moot. It's a question.
It also happens to be the truth. It's not just I know that that's the thing. It's moving out of
flatland. Like we've been we've been given this smorgasbord of bad options and just say, Hey,
I don't think I want to dine from there. I think these things that are available off menu. Do you
mind if I, if I, you know, like for example, Starbucks, I think we'll sell you a short cup
of coffee, but they won't put it on the menu. You have to know that to ask for it. So I like
to think of you as the guy who somehow knows that there are things that aren't on the menu.
I am animal style at in and out. I am Andrew gang is animal style.
Let me give you, I agree that I can change the political conversation in a way that
many Americans find very exciting and productive because 25% of Americans
are politically disengaged, including I'm sure some people watching this.
And I believe it's up to 48% self identify as independent, which is almost twice what
identify as other democratic I'm so close to identifying as independent. I can't stand my
own party, but my feeling is I have to stay there and say, Hey, we're out of control in order
to save the structure because I, you know, the two party system. I mean, I agree. That's why
I'm running as a Democrat in part. It's like, well, you have these two parties. Maybe you can
turn one of them into like a highly functioning party with great ideas and the rest of it. I
mean, that's like an easier solution than what I really want to do is I want to read.
I want the insurgency that you and I have been sort of a part of this loose collection of people
who are thinking completely off the menu to start retaking our institutions. We always had
heterodox people of high caliber who are, you know, effectively heretics housed inside the
harvards and MITs and Caltechs. And I think we've gotten rid of that kind of, or if they are there,
then they're scared shitless to like say the wrong thing or else they'll get, well, do you
remember the time? Do you remember the situation where MIT turned over Aaron Schwartz? I shouldn't
laugh because I mean, it's dark. But we should laugh. No, no, I mean, I'm for laughing at the
dark. Yeah, I laugh at the dark. It's like everybody knows that, but you're not allowed to do it in
public. So screw that. You know, we had the situation with this guy, Aaron Schwartz.
Did you know Aaron? No, did you? I've, you know, just a friend of friends.
Yeah, you know, and this guy almost certainly was a pretty pure hearted human being who
was fighting a good fight. MIT is supposed to shelter those people. And instead they cooperate,
you know, in turning them over. As soon as you get the institutional incentives in a particular
direction, then like, I mean, this is not near, and like, this is just like recent,
because in recent memory, but you know, I stuck up for Shane Gillis, this comedian that
had said, I saw that and the idea that, you know, you were in a position to say, look,
I'm the candidate. Personally, actually, yeah. And so if anyone should be offended, it's me.
And so I think he shouldn't lose his job over it. Well, this is the thing that the quality of
mercy or forgiveness or just recognition that there should be space for remorse and redemption.
This is what makes so much of the intolerant left feel cult like. And I thought what you
were doing was you were showing the best aspects of a truly compassionate left.
I was trying to be a human being, you know, like you looked at him being like, well,
is that a job losing offense? But then the fact that NBC ended up firing him was entirely
consistent with our corporate incentives. Because if you look at it, say like, well,
is this person that we've invested a lot in that's a revenue generator for us? No,
because he hadn't even worked for one day. It's like, are our corporate incentives
to can him and thus like, you know, put an end to any controversy or advertisers or whatnot
that would be troubled by it? Yeah. So it's like, so if you'd asked me, it's like, hey,
do you think he's going to be fired? I mean, like, he's almost certainly going to be fired
because that's what the corporate incentives. Well, I understand. So one of the things that
I'm really interested in doing. But it still made me sad. Like I was like, hey, this would be
unusually human and forgiving if they decided to. Well, they lost a teachable moment because
one of the things that's going on is that so much of the information economy is very, very marginal
in the sense that you're almost producing a public good. So for example, I slap ads on my podcasts
and when I start from a sponsor, isn't that what I'm trying? Well, what I'm trying to do is I've
tried two new models, one of which I'm calling reverse sponsorship, where I shout out some great
company, which doesn't know that I'm going to say something positive. And maybe they become
sponsors, maybe they don't. But the other one is risk advertisers, where people get to know me
over long periods of time. And the hope is that you're going to say, look, you're not going to
catch me being horrible and bigoted and all of these things. But I might say something dangerous
like something that I just said about immigration. And will you make sure that you will not run away
from me during the period where the mob descends and the frenzy is that it's worse, right? Because
if we don't fix the economic models, we can't have deeper discussions because everybody's
going to run away at the first sight of trouble. And so part of what we're trying to do ultimately
with the advertising of this pirate radio pre advertising, what do you think? I mean,
I love it. It's like, leave it to you to try and solve that kind of problem.
All right, I got some other things that I want to talk about as demographics.
Oh, yeah, please. Okay. So let me first say, I am a parent of a neurologically atypical
young person. I agree with you that I think that many of people have a different perspective are
going to end up being contributors in highly distinctive ways. I will say that even kids who
are not going to be contributors in highly distinctive ways still deserve schools that
can support and accommodate them. And that to me, these kids are like the shorthand I use is that
they're spiky. It's like you have very high capacities in some respects or a different
point of view and then real challenges and other respect. And so if I send you into
social environment where there are 30 kids for one teacher, you're going to have a terrible,
terrible time, you know, and that's 100% predictable. And so if then you have like a critical mass of
people that resemble this, then you should try and design an institution that takes that into
account. And I feel so deeply for families that struggle with this, like you struggle with it
sounds like you've experienced it. And you and Pia, you know, me and Evelyn like we have an
unusual level of ability to try and, you know, manage situation. And I meet single moms around
the country who have, you know, autistic or neurologically atypical kids that don't have
the means and they live in a part of the country that does not have like a lot of resources in
place for kids that are different. And it breaks my heart. Like the fact that there are all of
these kids that are heading into these schools that are getting, you know, more than low-grade
psychic beatings. Oh my God. This is why I leave my DMs open on Twitter. And this is one of the
number one things I do it for is people write to me and they say, I know you're really busy,
but I just want to tell you nobody had ever spoken to my situation. You're proud of something I'm
always ashamed of. And I guarantee you, I'm not the first presidential candidate with autism in
the family. And the fact that I'm the first talking about it is to me long overdue and ridiculous.
And, and, you know, and I get, I get some of the same messages that you get, but,
you know, like I want to actually try and solve the problem for those families. I mean, it makes me
feel glad that they feel spoken to and that they realize not the only ones going through. I want
to see more money going to figure out how do we diversify the classroom of the future so that
the load isn't borne by people who don't fit the economics of the teaching model.
Yes. And part of it is that we regard the education of our kids as a cost. And so then the city then
is like, well, I can't afford to have like a teacher for your neurology typical kid. And so
what we have to do is talk about inverting the model is you have to look at the education of
our children as an investment. And then you say, what's that like these kids require, you know,
like X and Y, then we should make that investment with the certainty. And I share your confidence
in this that you have a couple of those kids do something highly atypical and remarkable,
then that pays for whatever support or structure. I mean, I just had a very well known professor
reveal to me that he couldn't read papers in his field. He just can't read, you know, and he has
to figure out what the paper is likely to be saying. There is such a weird world of unexpected
achievement. And this is the demon. This is the demon that we have to slay in many ways is that
the negative externalities are not being encompassed within the budgets of various
institutions. Very well said. But but then also we're forgoing all the potential
positive value creation or generation from proper investment in our human capital.
And another dimension too, and this is like another hearing right there, but I was just with
Dean Cayman in New Hampshire, and he was talking about how the FDA like all their incentives are
just to like regulate the shit out of anything. And then I said to him, I was like, you know,
what they should start measuring is the foregone utility of keeping something away from
from people. Like if you had something and what is the cost of the regulation? Yeah, he had like
so he had like this prosthetic limb that he was trying to give to vets. And the FDA was making
it really hard for him to do so. And he was like, are you kidding me? I'm trying to give
limbs to vets who had amputated. And so by you're making it hard for me to do so, like you multiply
like all of the limbless vets who aren't getting a limb, like, you know, it's like so if you had
that as like an actual measurement for the FDA, it's like, you need to have these companies
internalize the negative externalities of things like pollution and the rest of it. But you almost
need like our institutions like our schools and our regulatory agencies to start trying to somehow
capture the potential gains from investing in our kids or allowing a certain innovation into the
market. Like the big problems are that our measurements are really primitive. And it ends up
and you end up with binary incentives where you lose a lot of the value. And so you end up being
like, hey, don't have a teacher for your kid. So your kid's going to, you know, just end up
sidelined. And sidelined is like a euphemistic way for saying destroyed.
I know. One of the things I wanted to do at some point, actually ended up talking to the Heritage
Foundation of all people about this, was the idea of national interest waivers so that we
could have a skunk works with very light regulation hanging off the side of every large
company. And the idea is that you would put some portion of a company, you could put some portion
of a company outside where the rules were effectively different because you needed people
to take massive risks to be able to move super fast to be dealing with highly non-neurotypical
people. And this is one of the things that drives me nuts about the political conversation is like
you get like, they get like yelled at for a particular, it's like, oh, you made a mistake,
it's like, you kind of need to have an environment where you're going to accept a
certain level of mistakes, particularly when you're talking about large-scale society-wide
investments where like, of course, you can't get that stuff right. And you know, it's like,
and the problem is that the political incentives are for everyone to try and avoid like a negative
headline or something that that's. Look, a lot of us are very disagreeable, very difficult to deal
with. And you know, I saw you pick up endorsements from people like Elon Musk, you know, which is
that I hear his his personal life being criticized. I was like, I don't really care.
This guy is responsible for how much in the species, how much, right, how much innovation.
If he's got a few foibles, let's give him some privacy, let him be in peace and just recognize
that we're getting an unbelievable deal. And yet this desire to somehow stamp out outliers,
I mean, outliers are essential to the American project. Yes, I could not agree more. And you
know, I'd consider myself, it's pretty funny, Eric, because I, you know, I think I had in many ways,
like a highly conventional upbringing that helped like, I feel like I'm sort of a hybrid
where to the extent that I was highly contrarian or dissimilar, you know, it's like I, you know,
I came up through a series of institutions in an era where, you know, I think I learned to adapt,
but then I look at my boys and I think to myself that, you know, that, that their
way of life is going to be very, very different than mine. I'm sure yours too,
because we came of age in a different era. Well, this is true. I mean, I was just talking about
this actually with Brett Easton Ellis sitting in that chair that, you know, I grew up as part of
this free range world, largely before Aton Pats got kidnapped and the milk carton kids changed
everything. I worry about the sort of, we were too free range and these kids are too sheltered,
that we have to find some new, new mix, but I want to get to another give me one more demographic
and then yes, let's do it and then we'll close it out. I want to talk about something which
really makes me angry and excited. I think that America has, without question, some of the finest
sources, um, educationally for brilliance in STEM subjects. We've pretended for a very long time
that Americans are not good at STEM, that we are disinterested in STEM, that STEM careers are fantastic
when many of them are pretty shitty and that we don't recognize that the entire STEM complex
is suffused with bullshit because the model, the economic model for investing in basic research
went belly up because the, the universities were built on a growth model that was unsustainable
and I want to stop lying. So one, I want to start recognizing that we have high schools that have
more Nobel Prizes than all of China, that we are using Chinese labor and other Asian countries,
not just because we are exporting education is a good, but because we have a cryptic labor market
in basic research where we pretend people are students when they're actually workers.
We pretend that we're importing them to educate them, but actually what we're trying to do is
use a poverty differential. We have our own people who are really fantastic because they're not very
obedient and instead people prefer obedient people coming in who aren't here on temporary visas,
therefore they have to follow orders. The entire National Science Foundation,
National Academy of Science Complex is bizarrely suffused with nonsense and because of this,
we can't actually have the National Academies adjudicate what's true because they are the
prime offender of this. How do we get back to a situation which we can recognize that we have
a Stuyvesant or a Bronx Science or a Far Rock away or any of these unbelievable high schools
that are turning out people who desperately want to do STEM subjects, they're not being paid when
they finally get their degrees at appropriate levels. They've been secretly studied by our
Science Complex because these career paths are known to be crappy and we have completely
suffused this with a misdescription so that nobody can actually fix any problems.
That's an incredible description and to me, the lack of proper resources for basic research
for things that ended up being foundational for many of our current industries.
It's the biggest bargain in the world, it's just the future you're investing in.
It's just right now we're so brainwashed by market-driven thinking that if there's not some
