I do think it is breaking through slowly but surely.
And I think that's because the facts are unavoidable.
It's partly journalism and it's partly wildfires and floods and hurricanes.
I mean, at a certain point when the hillside behind your house is caught on fire three or four times, who are you going to believe, you know, Fox News or your own lion eyes.
And so mother nature is a good educator.
The answer for 50% of the population is Fox News.
Well, it is, it is dispiriting to live in a moment when there is a full on effort at disinformation all the time.
And I think about this a lot because, you know, we can talk about this later, but I spend my time now organizing older people like me.
This group called third act for people over the age of 60.
And it is daunting to be reminded that that Fox News that we have a huge communications machine whose entire business model is scare old people, you know, and effectively.
You can tell who it's aimed at because made every ad is for like step in bathtubs, you know.
But it's that's their whole business model be terrified that someone is going to take something away from you, you know, so it is hard.
I will say, even in this country, we're now at the point where the polling data shows better than two thirds of Americans understanding that climate change is a serious problem and wanting the government to do something about it.
In the Democratic Party in the 2020 elections, climate change was the number one issue that voters cited, which is why Joe Biden, who didn't have an enormous level of concern about any of this over his career, spent the first two years of his first term,
you know, getting the IRA through Congress and I still don't know quite how he managed to do it.
It's a deeply imperfect piece of legislation, mainly thanks to Joe Manchin.
But it is a start and he can make a Biden can make a legitimate claim to having done more on the clean energy side of this equation than any president perform.
To me, the, as I said before, the scary part is not where we're going in.
It's not where we're going.
It's how fast we're going there.
And I think the thing that journalism has done the worst at and politics and everything else is communicating the degree to which this is a time limited problem that we're faced with.
Our political system is not used to time limited problems.
So for instance, as long as you and I have been alive, America has been fighting about national health care.
And, you know, I think it's a sin that we don't have people die and go bankrupt every year.
I assume that someday, like every other industrialized country in the world, we'll decide that it is much more efficient and sensible to have a national health care system.
Once we make that decision, it won't be harder to do it because we delayed.
People will have died in the interim, but it won't make it, you know, much harder to do the right thing eventually.
But as you know, obviously, climate change isn't like that.
Once you go past certain things, some of which we've gone by, there's the ratchet only works one way.
I mean, nobody has a coherent plan for how you re-freeze the Arctic, you know, and it turns out that a frozen Arctic is a fairly substantial feature of the world that you and I were born into.
So that's the part that scares me. And it's the part that kills me about the fossil fuel industry in particular.
I think they've long since decided that come to understand that their time atop the heap is limited.
And I think their goal has been reduced to extending it another couple of decades, keeping their business model going a while longer,
even at the cost of breaking the planet, which clearly is the cost.
So to me, there are a million different subplots here.
But the biggest plot is subplot is whether movements can catalyze our political system to make this happen fast.
And I don't know the answer.
So I agree with what you just said.
If you substitute a global 19 terawatt human economy for when you said fossil fuel companies.
And I think the ask of humans is much larger than just switch to renewable energy.
And let me tell you a brief story and I want to ask you about your work at Third Act.
Last year, it might be two years ago now, I had dinner with a 70 year old and a 72 year old local friends that meet and talk about climate and economic growth and things like that.
And they had been watching my Earth Day talks and we'd had private conversations.
And they scheduled this meeting with me and they're like, Nate, we feel like we've wasted our lives just paying attention to the fluff of our culture and consumption and doing vacations and doing the American thing.
And now in our remaining years, we really want to do something that will impact the future in a positive way.
Given the years we have remaining, please help us.
Tell us what we can do.
And I was like, taken aback.
But here you've gone and formalized something like that with your new entity called Third Act.
Could you talk a little bit more about that?
Tell me what you told them.
What did you recommend that they do?
Well, it was an ongoing conversation.
But I said the first thing we have to do is build community here locally and we have to talk to people that disagree with us and we have to start conversations about difficult things that the county where we live is not going to look the same as it did the last 50 years.
Things are going to be harder.
We're going to need social capital and we need teachers and elders to organize things.
That was one of the key things I told them.
And I actually said that climate change is not the problem.
Climate is a symptom of a much larger dysfunction.
And we're ultimately probably not going to choose to do this, but we're going to have to change how we organize our society.
And we can just be passive and wait for that moment to come or we can be active now and prepare for a simpler, less global, less consumptive lifestyle.
And then there's some plans that are underneath that umbrella.
Yeah, I'm not sure I disagree with much of that at all.
And I completely agree.
Something I've written a great deal about is the deep need for what would you call it, neighborliness, working communities.
For 75 years in this country, neighbors have been optional.
If you had a credit card, you could get everything you needed for your life delivered to your door.
I say that all the time, yes.
But that's not going to be true for the next 75 years.
Those of us who live in rural America have a sense of that already.
I mean, Vermont here, we went through hideous flooding this year, and it's only because there's a lot of people to help out.
We got through it as well as we did.
But I think everything you told those older people was exactly right.
But I also think that there's a real task for older people in their remaining years to try and speed this structural change so that, A, the temperature doesn't get any higher than it needs to.
And every increment helps here.
And B, so that we have more energy close to home, wherever home is, to allow us to deal with what's coming.
I think a world with widely distributed sources of energy, which means sun, wind, batteries, is a much more likely to navigate the difficulty that's coming at us than a world that's dependent on energy coming from a few places around the world controlled by a few people.
The world will be better off, or those communities that have distributed decentralized energy will be better off?
Well, both of them.
I mean, the world will be better off because it won't be getting quite as hot.
And those communities, which I think can be every community if we do this as well as we can, will be better off.
I think small D democracy is helped by decentralization because I've watched the opposite.
I mean, look, as long as you depend on a commodity that's controlled by, it's only available in a few places, the people who control those few places end up with way more power than we should be giving them.
So in our country, our biggest oil and gas barons were the Koch brothers.
They used their winnings to degrade and deform our democracy in grotesque ways.
In Europe, the biggest hydrocarbon Baron was Vladimir Putin.
He decided to use his winnings to launch a ground war in Europe in the 21st century.
So not destroying the climate would be the single best reason to try and get off fossil fuel, but not being endlessly subject to the whims of fossil fuel oligarchs would be another.
The third I would add, and I don't think it's one that people pay enough attention to, is that the act of combustion at this point in our planet also is emerged as one of the greatest public health threats in the world.
The new data indicates that nine million people a year, which is about one death in five is directly attributable to breathing the particulates from come from burning fossil fuel.
So the people who run the numbers say that even if there was no climate change and no other reason to that that the economic impact of not having that level of sickness and ill health from burning fossil fuel would be more than enough to
more than enough economic reason not to mention moral and humanitarian reason to get off it very fast.
So I, you know, I mean, you can tell at some level, I'm a, you know, I mean, what can I tell you, I'm a Methodist Sunday School teacher some of the time.
And that's just who I, you know, it's what I've done with part of some of my life.
And so I, to me, there's a deep moral part to these questions.
And it wouldn't bother me to be moving in the direction of a world that ran on energy from heaven, not energy from hell.
It's possible that this earth, even its ecologically diminished form is heaven, and that we're trying to avert hell with what we're doing with the sixth mass extinction.
It's not hell in some place with a very similar temperature.
Yes.
Yeah.
So on that topic, though, do you think good and evil is more valid considered religiously or perhaps defined ecologically by some of the things we've talked about?
Could ecological interventionists reclaim the terms good and evil from a deep time perspective based on the effects of some policy or some thing on Earth's life systems?
Yeah, well, I don't have it in front of me, but what was Aldo Leopold's great quote that a thing is good when it tends towards the preserving the ecological integrity of the planet?
It's from San County Almanac, one of the great books anyone ever wrote.
Yeah, I'm not sure there's that much difference between those worldviews.
If you go look at the, if you go look at the first page of the good book, you know, it's the entire thing is a story about the physical universe and human beings, their first commandment is to look over this physical universe that they've been born into and take good care of it.
And boy, I mean, we've managed to screw up most of the commandments, but that one we're doing in real style.
I mean, we're running Genesis in reverse right now, decreating the planet quickly.
So I'm not sure there's a huge, I think you're asking the same thing on those two questions.
It's funny, not funny, but bizarre or profound that you and I have known each other for 20 years.
I think the last time I saw you in person, Bill, was at the Energy and Environmental Conference that I organized in Washington DC in 2006.
William Catton was there.
You gave the closing speech and it was just so profoundly inspiring.
And I remember, I think when we met, you were, you were walking the talk and in Vermont, you, I guess, one winter, you tell me, you only ate things that were within 30 miles of you.
And I asked you, what was the hardest part about it?
And you said the pepper, that you missed pepper, if I recall, or some spices.
The hardest part was definitely, you know, early April, like by then you're down to root vegetables up here and you're getting a little tired of them.
My daughter was, you know, beginning to be a root of Vega rebellious at that point, but it was a good fun experiment.
And truthfully, it'd be far easier now than it was in 2006.
We've taken local food a fair way, especially in Vermont.
You know, I think now you could do it without too much difficulty.
And it's why, you know, it's sort of why I hope that local electrons like a local calories, you know, become a sort of thing going forward.
So is that one of the things that you're highlighting in Third Act or is it mostly about renewable energy?
Third Act, the two things that we work on are protecting the climate and protecting democracy.
And we think they're deeply interlinked and we think democracy is under severe stress.
You know, if you're old like I am, two things, I think two things above all didn't turn out the way that we thought they would.
One has to do with the environment.
You know, if you're in Third Act, then you were alive for the first Earth Day in 1970 and you probably participated in it because 10% of America participated in it.
It was the biggest demonstration in history.
And it won passage of the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act and the air in the water got cleaner, fast.
And I think we thought that in 1973 or something that we were on a, going in the right direction.
And we did not suspect then because no one really knew that we would eventually be at a place where we were likely to melt the polar ice caps,
which is where we are now.
Similarly, if you're old enough to be in Third Act, you lived through and were conscious about Watergate when it was going on.
So we weren't naive about political corruption and so on, but the system kind of worked.
And I think that we were, I don't think that we despaired for the fate of our democracy.
The equivalent of watching the polar ice caps melt is watching thousands of our countrymen invade the capital,
killing police officers in order to stop the counting of votes.
So both these things seem to some of us as alien.
And we're eager to try and slow them down.
We actually spend some time on renewable energy.
We have a lot of people working at, say, public utility commissions around the country going to all those boring meetings
and figuring out how to change the outcomes.
But we're much more interested in, or we're as interested in slowing down dirty energy.
We coordinated a whole series of 100 actions in 100 cities last year aimed at the four big banks,
Chase City, Wells Fargo, B of A, that are the four biggest funders of the fossil fuel industry.
These guys are cynical as hell.
And we're trying to figure out how to overcome that cynicism.
And we're pretty good at it.
You know, I was in the one in Washington, D.C.
We shut down the banks for the day with thousands of old people sitting in.
We're too old to sprawl on the sidewalk.
So we'd gone to the Goodwill and found every old rocking chair in the greatest, greater D.C. area.
And that's how we shut down those banks.
I mean, the Times the next day called it the Rocking Chair Rebellion.
I think that we're opening up important ground.
And again, I don't know whether we're opening it up fast enough.
I'm not convinced that our systems are capable of responding at the speed we need them to.
But we're going to find out.
If you're alive right now, you're almost certainly going to be alive long enough to see, I think,
how the crucial parts of this fight come out.
APCC has told us that we need to cut emissions in half by 2030 to stay on a path anywhere near the Paris path.
If that's even still possible with this year's temperatures.
2030 by my watch is six years and a month away.
I don't know.
We'll find out.
The reason I hate the fossil fuel industry is that it would have been a lot easier to do in 36 years.
And we actually had fair warning 36 years ago about this.
We just at their behest ignored it.
To be clear, the fossil fuel industry is only 13% of global fossil fuels.
The rest are owned by national oil companies like the government of China or Saudi Arabia.
And I think the United States is reducing our coal use, but China and India are exploding there.
So again, from a climate standpoint, it's almost like we need a global effort.
We sure do.
That's why when we started 350.org, which became the first big global grassroots climate campaign, we work everywhere.
We've organized 20,000 demonstrations in every country on earth except North Korea.
It is getting harder and harder to operate in China and India and Turkey and places as these places and Russia as these places become far more authoritarian.
So it's very hard personable society to do that work.
What do you think about artificial intelligence and its role in polarizing and making disinformation worse?
You're going to know more about that than me.
I'm appropriately wary, I think, of what's coming at us in those ways.
But I'm afraid it's going to take someone other than me to figure out how to organize to see what we can do about it.
I think that all these things, but above all climate change, are tests of whether or not the big brain was a good adaptation or not.
And it can obviously get us in a lot of trouble and the question is whether or not it can get us out of it.
My guess is that the answer to that question is related more to the size of the heart that that brain is attached to and the size of the brain itself.
And that's sort of what I've staked my life's work on.
But you're quite right to say that that work is coming up short, the temperature past the two degree mark.
So we may not carry this day.
I mean, look, I'm here playing the role of optimist, I guess.
But the title of the book that I wrote at the beginning of all of this, the cheerful title was The End of Nature.
So I'm not at all committed to the idea that it's all going to work out.
I'm just committed to trying.
Well, the tragedy is that that was 35 years ago and on every possible metric, things have gotten worse.
And obviously, I know you're aware that, but I don't think you write about it much, but it's not just climate.
It's species loss.
It's endocrine disrupting chemicals.
It's drops and insects.
It's all of it.
So the whole ecological overshoot is driving this.
I've gotten to write a fair amount about all of this.
