We broke through both the 1.5 and 2°C barriers in the same year.
That's not good.
So we can talk about that length, and it's desperate and whatever.
Also, in June and July of this year,
we hit the point where, apparently, we were installing solar energy
at roughly a rate of about a gigawatt a day, so a nuclear power plant a day.
Half of that in China, but that's still a lot elsewhere.
So if that doesn't within a year or two start to tell in a downward...
If we haven't peaked on fossil fuel and begun to go down within the next couple of years,
then we've, I think, lost this bet, and we're in very, very deep trouble.
It's why one of the things that I've worked on my whole life
is trying to get people to also use less energy and live slightly different lives and things.
But let me tell you, that is a very difficult task.
So I'm hopeful that as we build this stuff out, we'll see that shift start to happen.
And in fact, I was just seeing the data today, Oil Change International, a group I really like,
put out a report today, and it was interesting.
It said that U.S. demand for fossil fuel in the last 18 months has begun to fall appreciably,
which is sort of what you'd expect.
We're now a fair number of EVs on the road and a fair number of heat pumps in people's houses and on and on and on.
But they said the total production of fossil fuel in this country is up about 13%,
which means that what's happening is we're vastly increasing this export system.
And I think what's happening is that the fossil fuel industry is doing what the tobacco industry did.
When American law finally began to get in their way, their response was,
let's export a lot of cigarettes to China.
And that's why I'm working so hard on this plan, this fight,
which is really heating up fast to try and stop the expansion of U.S. liquefied natural gas exports.
That turns out to be the biggest single plan anywhere in the world for increasing fossil fuel,
expanding fossil fuel infrastructure.
At the current, Jeremy Simons just had good data on it.
If the industry is able to win the permits, and so far they've never been turned down on anything,
able to win the permits they want over the next six or seven years for building out more of this LNG export stuff,
then eventually, within 10 years or so, American LNG exports will produce more greenhouse gases
than everything that happens in Europe.
Every factory, farm, house from the southernmost Greek island to the northernmost Finnish sauna
will be producing less, fewer greenhouse gas emissions than US LNG exports.
So here at least is a place where we can try and rein it in sharply.
I have so many questions and follow-ups to what you just stated.
First of all, let me start here.
There's two stories, right?
There's what's happening in the global north,
and we are reducing the pace of fossil fuel consumption.
Part of that is in Europe ending in more energy poverty,
especially the countries that have a lot of renewables like Portugal has like 20% energy poverty,
even though they have a lot of renewable input.
But the global north is separate than the global south,
and the global south is scaling fossil consumption rapidly.
We're hitting all-time highs in coal globally since 2015, which is the Paris Accord.
We have 200 gigawatts net, not gross, but net increase in coal.
So there's a global north and a global south dynamic of emissions,
and the climate doesn't care about different countries.
That's for sure.
The climate cares about the whole world.
Well, the climate doesn't care at all.
It just responds.
Yes, probably best not to anthropomorphize any of these things.
Exactly.
So that's exactly right, which is just what you would expect in a sense.
I mean, there's an extraordinary amount of economic latent energy in the global south
that has to get in order to raise people's lives to anything like what they would hope for.
It's going to take more energy, and the question is where that's going to come from.
And I think that the reason that too much of it's coming from fossil fuel right now
has to do with that being the path of least resistance,
especially in a system that's just kind of geared to doing fossil fuel
and heavily promoted by a lot of people within that industry and in the west.
But I think two things about these countries that may be helpful.
One, in all of them now, the cheapest energy comes from the sun.
And maybe the wind in some of them.
But certainly from this, I mean, we're now basically on a planet where the most inexpensive way to produce power
is to point a sheet of glass at the sun, and that gets better every quarter.
I mean, that decline just continues despite everything everyone always says about how it's going to end soon.
It hasn't ended.
It keeps going down that slope.
The other thing is those countries are at 80% of the world lives in countries that are net importers of fossil fuel,
which means that their endless balance of payments problems and anything else
are deeply tied to their consumption of fossil fuel,
and they have the ability to begin to change that quite dramatically.
Whether or not we can figure out how to make that happen in time, I don't know.
It strikes me that the biggest north-south imbalance is that most of the money in the world is in the north.
In fact, a great bulk of the world's money is in pension funds in the United States.
And somehow figuring out how to de-risk the investment possibilities,
so that retired bus drivers in Seattle can be safely investing their life savings in solar farms in Senegal,
strikes me as one of the truly interesting financial challenges there ever was.
I have no idea why people on Wall Street find it intriguing to figure out derivatives.
I know they do.
I just don't understand it.
But it strikes me that it's got to be an interesting enough question,
this one I've posed for some of these financial wizards to put their talent to work here.
And my guess is that it has something to do with using intermediaries like the World Bank and the IMF
to figure out how to take enough of the risk out of those investments that it becomes possible
to move that capital that sits in the north to the place where it badly needs to be put to use.
I think the answer is that the people on Wall Street are pursuing power,
and power is money that is supported by the energy-dense carbon of coal, oil, and natural gas,
and technology, and other materials and resources, and at the margin solar and wind.
And then they figure out ways to leverage it where they don't take a lot of risks themselves,
and they leverage it and get outsized returns.
That's why we need government to step in and do some of this work.
And that's why we build movements, because what's government put all of us working together on things?
Well, here's a foundational question.
So, right now you said you're working on a campaign to stop or reduce LNG exports in the US.
Yes.
And I've seen other projects where they wanted to outlaw propane stoves in the northeast and things like that.
All these things at the margin would reduce emissions, but our cultural objective is GDP and growth.
So, can we make these policies politically acceptable and have momentum if the vast majority of people are voting for growth
and everything else that accompanies it, but people within the climate movement, their focus is reducing emissions.
And this gets back to the journalism question.
Yeah.
And you say that we've won the argument.
When you say we, do you mean globally?
Because I don't think the argument has been won in the United States yet.
I mean, scientifically, there's no longer a serious argument about climate change.
Okay.
I agree with that.
Carbon and methane.
Although some people would disagree, but I don't.
Not people who have been acting in good faith, I think.
But I think your question is completely fascinating.
My sense of the world is that most people are not deeply invested in the idea of increasing GDP.
I completely agree with you that that's what our power system is largely invested in.
I don't think, I mean, I think actually most people at the moment seem far more interested in questions around distribution and fairness
than they are in, you know, total size of, you know, and, I mean, Biden's been increasing economic growth quite merrily the last couple of years,
and it doesn't seem to have cheered anybody up.
Their, you know, distributional questions seem far more, far more interest to people.
But the point I was trying to make, and I think there's other ways in which the coming energy transition is super interesting.
I was making the case a minute ago that for a lot of developing countries, you know, it's questions around things like balance of payments are really, really interesting
because their indebtedness is their fate, you know.
I think for a lot of, say, in America, there's a lot of people for whom the prospect of controlling their own energy supply off the roof,
off the battery in the basement, off the community solar farm, off whatever is also a tremendous interest, and it often cuts across political identities.
So I think there's a lot of interesting things in play here right now.
We're at a moment when it's possible to imagine in relatively short order humans ending combustion, large scale combustion on planet Earth.
Combustion's been what we've done for 700,000 years.
And since the Industrial Revolution, it's defined our economy, but it's no longer strictly necessary.
We now know how to take advantage of the fact that the good Lord hung a large ball of burning gas 93 million miles away in the sky.
So if we wanted to end combustion in that sense, we could.
And the scientists definitely tell us it would be a very good idea.
But there's no question that a change on that scale is so upsetting to so many status quo that it's going to be a wrenching fight to see it through.
Here's my guess.
I mean, if you wanted me to make a guess, I think 40 years from now, we probably run the world mostly on sun and wind.
Because I think all these trend lines are going to continue and I think we can figure out how to do it.
At what scale versus today?
Well, I don't know because the second half of my prediction is, and here I don't want to be true and I'm fighting as hard as I can to make sure it's not true.
But it doesn't feel like we're going to do it in time.
So my guess is that we're going to run a largely broken planet on sun and wind.
As I say, I've spent my life trying to make sure that's not what happens and trying to catalyze that reaction to come quickly enough that we can.
But this week we've watched human beings break through that two degree Celsius barrier, at least temporarily.
That's a really daunting fact.
We've gotten more data in the last few months about rapid melt on Greenland and in the West Antarctic.
That's super daunting.
This year has seen a lot more evidence of fundamental disruptions to the jet stream and the Gulf Stream to big deep ocean currents.
So we're playing with things at very dangerous and deep levels that unnerve me and unnerve every scientist I know.
And we've begun to see feedback loops on a scale that terrify me.
The Canadian wildfires this year are set to put carbon into the atmosphere two or three times the level of carbon that Canada produces with all the driving, cooling, cooking, heating, flying that Canadians manage in the course of a year.
So that combination of things makes me very uneasy that we have fallen so far behind the pace of the physics that catching up, even as we are able to deploy renewable energy now.
I don't think it's technically impossible, but I'm not convinced we can make it line up fast enough.
I'm obviously going to keep trying and I think we have an outside chance at doing it and that's well worth pursuing.
I don't think there's anything actually called renewable energy.
The sun, the ball of gas you said is renewable, but the machines that we build to harness them, solar panels are no more renewable than a pickup truck or a cell phone.
We have to rebuild them in 20 or 25 years and the materials, the copper, the lithium, the cobalt and all that is in the global south.
It's in places that are already experiencing higher wet bulb temperatures, social strife, etc.
So I think as we attempt to decarbonize, we're going to rematerialize and that's not going to be scalable.
Well, that's possible.
That's possible.
My sense is it's going to take material to do it.
There's no question, but that it's going to take quite a bit less than what we're using at present.
And if I think if you think about it for a minute, it's easy for people to grasp that.
I mean, yes, you have to go mine lithium to make a battery and, you know, whatever.
But once you've done it, the lithium sits in your battery for a quarter century or however long it lasts doing what it's supposed to do.
And that's very different from coal, which you mine.
And then the point of mining it is you set it on fire so that you have to go mine some more of it tomorrow.
The thing that sticks in my mind, the statistic that really sticks in my mind is that 40% of all the ship traffic on planet Earth at the moment
is just carrying coal and oil and gas back and forth around the planet to be burned.
And that to me gives you some glimpse into actually the kind of dematerialization that may be possible as we move in this direction.
But yeah, it's definitely not easy.
There's no free lunch.
We've got to figure out how to do it with some kind of environmental standards and probably more importantly,
some kind of humanity, you know, as we do it, that should be within our power to do.
But, you know, corporate greed and things are always problems to be dealt with and we shall try.
I have so many thoughts, Bill.
That's good because you've got a radio show so you can expound on them over and over again.
A prominent one is this.
The reason that you and I are friends and that your writing has influenced me is because we at our core deeply share a value system about the living world.
And so I found in my podcast and in my travels around the world and talking to people about this that people like you that I really resonate with on my values don't see the systems ecology of renewables, money, the super organism the same way.
But the people that see the energy in the systems the same way don't have the value system that you and I do.
And it's incredibly frustrating.
And so one thing that I'll say is when you're talking about that we just hit two degrees, albeit maybe temporarily this past weekend and the slowdown of the Atlantic current and what's happening with Antarctica and the other things you mentioned.
I immediately interpolate the implications and inferences of that and they are not good.
And yet others are completely focused on other things poverty or social justice or getting a raise or paying the bills this weekend and they have no idea of what's happening to the thermal condition of this blue green planet.
And so how do we get and this gets back to your your biggest skill which is you're a beautiful writer and and journalist.
And I'll ask you again is the is journalism has it successfully passed the baton to humanity.
And if not, what is the role of journalism in this time.
And is the United States a particularly hard nut to crack with all the other chaos and drama and things competing for our attention.
I mean, I assume you watch the movie don't look up and it was kind of a comedy and kind of like a documentary of sorts.
Yeah.
Yeah, what are your thoughts on all that.
All good questions.
So part of the for me part of the answer about journalism.
I do think that journalism about this question around climate is a lot better than it used to be.
You know, there was a 10 or 15 year period when if there was any article written for a major article written about climate change in the American or English language publication, there was about a 70% chance that I'd written it, which was a very bad way to be conducting all this.
And I'm no one in the world is happier than I am that there are now thousands of good climate journalists on this beat all over the place doing remarkable work.
And if you want to find out about this stuff, you definitely can.
And there's some really powerful work that doesn't necessarily mean that it breaks through into public consciousness in the way that it needs to.
