I do think that the climate system is the single most important component of this, that the climate system,
aside from tectonic and volcanic forces, and increasingly we're beginning to suspect, even to some degree, those
everything that happens on the surface of the earth is related to this flow of energy from the sun and how much of it we're trapping.
And so I think that's the single key question of all.
But you're right.
One of the dangers of the world in which we live is that that overwhelming reality means that we end up triaging a ton of other things that we need to.
And so one life is insufficient to take on everything, but I get to try and help a little.
I'm on the board of Beyond Plastics, which I think is doing important work and trying to figure that out.
And I've gotten to serve on the boards of conservation and wildlife organizations.
I got to write a book about and then preserve a farm for the single best non-chemical beekeeper in the country, maybe, who's the kind of
Johnny Appleseed of pollinators.
So I get to play in all these things and help where I can.
But I do think that what we're doing to the temperature of the earth is the single biggest driving force of our fate.
And I also think that the effort, for the reasons that I've described, that the effort to change it, to try and figure out how we
rely on how we ratchet down the amount of energy that we use and then how we make that energy come from local, decentralized,
democratically controlled sources is the best chance we have of beginning to get out of the fix that we're in right now.
I don't think that it's plausible to imagine a rapid enough cultural shift in what we want out of the world.
I wish that that weren't the case.
I built 20 some years ago the first effort at a real campaign around SUVs.
We did our best and we organized big demonstrations and we got them in unusual places.
We came up with the slogan, what would Jesus drive?
And had a pretty big impact in evangelical circles and so on and so forth.
But in the end, people kept driving bigger and bigger cars.
I think 50 or 100 years from now, we will have changed those things because I think humans are more interesting than that.
I don't think that just constantly increasing consumption is making us happy in the ways that it says it should be.
So I imagine that eventually we'll figure out some, but I don't think in six years that's going to happen at that scale.
So I think we're also going to need some EVs in there.
Or bicycles.
I think the e-bike may turn out to be the single most interesting technological development in the last four or five years.
It strikes me as potentially game changing in lots and lots of ways.
It's relatively low impact.
You could certainly imagine a world where there was enough lithium to have an e-bike for everybody.
And it really is.
I mean, they work great.
They flatten hills.
They let people my age easily get the places we need to go.
So I agree with you.
I think that's a powerful, interesting, subversive possibility.
My point was that we are adding 100 million vehicles to the global population every year that are 3,000 pounds each.
It kind of doesn't really matter whether they're internal combustion or EV.
It's still a consumptive drag on the ecology of earth and bikes would be a lighter footprint.
Check out the specialized catalog and the track.
I have a specialized bike.
And I love it.
Except I live in Wisconsin and you can't ride those when it's zero out because the battery doesn't function so well.
But in the summer, I ride them almost every day.
It's only zero out a few days a year even in Wisconsin.
I mean, it's amazing how often you can ride them.
I live at 1,500 feet in Vermont, so it gets cold.
So how do you, other than being a Methodist Sunday school teacher, how have you maintained your sanity to the level that you're still uber productive after 40 years?
I mean, I'm deep in this work, too, Bill.
And my constitution feels drained quite often.
You're doing fantastic stuff.
You've got the top rated earth science podcast.
Well, I know I'm doing important work, but I feel the psychological drain of it is my point.
Me, too.
And how have you managed that?
For me, it's possible that the best therapy has been this work of building movements.
Just because it constantly introduces me to millions and millions and millions of good-hearted human beings trying to do the right thing.
And I think that there are more good-hearted human beings than not.
I just think they tend not to be in the critical positions of power where we need them.
So that's one of the things that organizing tries to do is redress that.
So that heartens me.
And truthfully, I'm glad I live in a place where it's easy every day to get out and be reminded what a beautiful world it still is, even in its decline.
I mean, it's impossible to overstate the glory of this thing that we've been given, you know?
And it's one of the reasons why it's so sad to contemplate what we're doing to it.
And why it feels, yes, sometimes like a burden to have the kind of knowledge that you have about what's going on.
But why it also feels like something of a privilege to get to stand up and do what one can on the single most critical issue that human beings have ever encountered.
That's well said. It's a burden and a privilege.
And also, going outside and being in the woods and going for a hike, it's also beautiful and tragic at the same time.
Like it's so stunningly gorgeous in the woods right now.
But then I think about this stuff and my brain shifts to like an unfolding tragedy and I flip between the two.
Is that the same for you?
That's of course. I mean, for me, it's most acute at this season because of all the things that I like.
Winter is number one on the list.
To me, it's the natural world at its absolute most whimsical for a few months at a certain latitude.
Friction disappears and we get to literally glide across the surface of the planet.
It's the most fun in the world and it's kind of magical and what and it's disappearing as if we're in a fairy tale where it's just quickly turning all to mud.
And so, yes, to live where I live and to love winter is to be reminded constantly every time there's a January rainstorm that we live in a world of wounds and or witness to them.
But it also means that I'm now smart enough to never take a snowstorm for granted.
And when one still comes, whatever else I'm doing, I make sure that I'm out playing in it.
It is really that way on my brain because I feel the same way that when it gets really cold or really snowy, I suddenly appreciate that more than I did before I knew all this stuff.
Yep.
So, thank you very much for your time, Bill.
I have some concluding questions that I ask all my guests if you have a few more minutes.
I do have a couple more minutes.
Sure.
What do you suggest to the viewers and listeners of this program at this time of global upheaval and anxiety and recognition of climate and a different economy and geopolitics and everything?
And some would call the poly crisis.
What sort of advice do you have for people that are hearing your message?
Well, the thing I always, I think, try to get across Americans in particular, maybe have a default towards the individual at all times.
So, if you explain the climate crisis, people immediately start thinking about what's in their garage or, you know, what they should have on their roof or whatever.
And I'm pleased that my roof is covered with solar panels and that they connect to an EV and so on.
But I don't try to fool myself that that's how we're past the point where we're going to make the climate math square just like one Tesla at a time.
So I think the most realistic and in some ways comforting advice for people is the most important thing an individual can do is be less of an individual.
Join together with other people and movements large enough to have some hope of changing the basic economic and political ground rules here.
And that's, I think, good sound advice for making effective change.
But I also think it's pretty good sound advice for keeping your heart and soul together in difficult times.
You need a crew, you know, trying to go it alone is as psychologically difficult as it is physically, I think.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
And I do feel supported because of the people that follow this podcast.
It makes me feel that I'm not a lone voice shouting in the wilderness on these issues.
So stop being a total individual and be part of something larger.
I think that's great advice.
How do you change your recommendations there for young people?
You're working on third act and we have an intergenerational difference of outlook on the future.
What do you tell teenagers and 20-something?
Well, I think young people are basically understand what we need to do and are doing the work.
I've spent most of my life organizing with young people.
I started 350.org when I was in my 40s, but with seven college students.
One of the big things we did was this fossil fuel divestment campaign, which is now at $40 trillion in portfolios and endowments that have broken with fossil fuel.
Much of that work was done by young people on college campuses, the most visible work, and they were incredibly successful.
Harvard, Oxford, Princeton, Cambridge, University of California, and on and on.
Those guys, when they got out, went on to found the Sunrise Movement, which brought us the Green New Deal, which brought us the IRA once it had gone through the congressional sausage making process.
And of course, it's not just the U.S.
I mean, Greta Thunberg is one of my favorite people to work with in the world.
I adore her and admire her immensely.
What a pleasure it was to get to write her a note in June, congratulating her on her graduation from high school.
I think about that for a minute.
I just got tired of hearing people say, oh, it's up to the next generation to solve these problems, which struck me as A, ignoble and B, impractical for all their energy and intelligence and idealism.
Young people lack the structural power to by themselves make change that we need on the proper scale and the amount of time that we have.
And older people, as it turns out, have a lot of structural power.
In the U.S., there's 70 million of us over the age of 60.
We punch above our weight politically because we all vote.
There's no known way to stop old people from voting.
And we ended up with most of the economic assets, too.
So if you want to push around Wall Street or Washington or your state capital, and I do, it helps to have some people with hairlines like mine engaged in this fight.
The best part, though, is that we really have taken a third act.
One of our central mandates is working with and backing up young people in this fight.
And it's been tons of fun to do it.
I mean, we started in on the banks, for instance, because people from the sunrise movement in the U.S. said we want to work on banks, but most of us don't have credit cards.
We don't have checking accounts, whatever.
We're in high school.
You help.
Yes, we can help.
I remember the first big demonstration we did was in Boston, and there were 200 or 300 high school kids there outside these banks because they're always high school kids there.
They understand what they're staring down the barrel of.
And they were somewhat spryer.
So they were at the head of the march.
But behind them, there was, you know, big crowd of us from third act with a banner that said fossils against fossil fuels, you know.
And it was fun for all the kids that were there to, you know, everybody was like laughing and high fiving and things because they feel most of the time abandoned, I think, to their fate.
As if people got all the good stuff and just rode off into the sunset with, you know, leaving them to figure things out.
It's tons of fun to do that kind of work.
And actually not that hard.
The working relationship between people the age of grandparents and grandchildren is pretty easy.
All grandparents love their grandchildren unconditionally, no matter what nonsense they're up to.
And all grandchildren are smart enough to cut their grandparents some slack that they wouldn't consider cutting their parents, you know.
And so it actually is a very potent, powerful combination.
Also, young people and old people have time.
So, you know, if there's going to be change made, my sense is that these may be the two groups that together can make it.
That's the decision I made 10 years ago.
And that's when I started teaching college students and talking to retired politicians.
You know, I'm sure you know this as well, that the belief in climate change is pretty split along political lines in the US, except for under 25.
Under 25, it's pretty much doesn't matter your political affiliation, you understand climate change.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, if you had a magic wand bill and there was no personal recourse to your decision, what is one thing you would do to improve human and planetary futures?
I think that if I don't I'm not quite sure what it would take and if you could do it without causing all kinds of other damage.
But if it was a good deal harder to set things on fire on this planet right now, I think we'd be moving much more quickly to embrace the
how large fire hanging in the sky.
And I do think that that is the central interesting physical transition that this, that our civilizations will either go through or not.
Thank you.
Do you have any closing words for people watching this?
No, just for you.
Just to say thank you for keeping on keeping on and figuring out new ways in and around all this stuff.
It is daunting and crazy, but it's also, if nothing else, deeply, deeply interesting.
And we'll see whether or not we can come out the other side of it or not in what sort of shape.
I don't know about it in any way, but I haven't given up.
I don't operate out of despair.
And there may come a time when I do despair at which point I'm go put my feet up on the rail of my porch and drink whiskey.
And that'll be that.
But for the moment, I operate out of engagement and I hope others do the same.
Thanks for your lifetime of efforts on these issues, Bill.
Back at you.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification, please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit TheGreatSimplification.com for more information on future releases.
