40% of all the ship traffic on planet Earth at the moment
is just carrying coal and oil and gas back and forth around the planet to be burned.
And that to me gives you some glimpse into actually the kind of dematerialization
that may be possible as we move in this direction.
But yeah, it's definitely not easy. There's no free lunch.
We've got to figure out how to do it with some kind of environmental standards
and probably more importantly, some kind of humanity.
Today's guest is my old friend Bill McKibbin.
Bill was one of the co-founders of the Climate Organization 350.org,
which was the first global grassroots climate campaign that organized
protests and demonstrations all around the world including Antarctica on climate action.
Bill also recently founded Third Act,
which organizes people over the age of 60 for action on climate and other social issues.
His 1989 book, The End of Nature,
is regarded as the first book for a general audience about climate change.
I read it and it was one of the few books that caused me to leave Wall Street
and go study ecological economics.
Bill and I don't always agree on prescriptions and energy in the economy,
but we share a deep aligned value system on nature,
on the importance of climate change and the biosphere.
And I'd like you to please welcome Bill McKibbin.
Bill McKibbin, great to see you.
It's good to see you, old friend. Very good.
You know, we are older.
It was 20 years ago that I emailed you and 19 years ago when we met in person
when I was getting my PhD in Burlington, time flies.
I'm much older than you, but I spend all my time now with other old people like me.
So I'm completely adjusted to it.
You know, I don't have the data in front of me right now,
but from the time we met, or maybe a little bit before then,
talking about climate and CO2,
the CO2 that humans have emitted per year is doubled.
It's gone completely asymptomatic.
It's gone completely asymptotic since you and I met,
as I'm sure you're aware.
Yes, I mean, you know,
I wrote the first book about all this stuff back in 1989,
and since then, humans have emitted far more carbon
than in all the years before 1989.
I'm afraid I've written more words about climate change
than anyone else in the English language,
and probably by a fairly large margin.
So I think you'd have to say I'm among the least effective writers
that there's ever been on the course of all this stuff.
Well, you're fighting the superorganism dynamic.
So is it an epic David and Goliath situation?
So let's talk about that.
David won, though. That's the thing.
Well, let's talk about that.
So your book, The End of Nature,
which actually was one of the books
that caused me to change my Wall Street trajectory
along with Herman Daley's and others.
So what have you learned since you wrote that 35 years ago
about our world, about your worldview?
What's changed?
I mean, the tragedy of it is the book holds up just fine.
We knew everything we needed to know about climate change in 1989.
There hasn't been a few things that we've learned since,
say ocean acidification as a truly serious problem
and things like that.
But the basic understanding of this
and the understanding of how it was going to play out
when it was going to play out was pretty clear in the late 1980s
when this first broke into public view.
So that's a tragedy, a tragedy defined,
i.e. we've had full foreknowledge of what we're doing
and we've done it anyway.
So I guess that one of the things I've learned
is that it takes a lot more than winning the argument
in order to make change.
I'm a writer by trade and sometimes a bit of an academic
and I think these are both places where we prioritize winning the argument
and that's what I did for probably 10 years after that book came out.
I just kept writing more books and giving talks and having symposiums
and publishing articles and on and on and on.
And that's all useful.
You have to win the argument but at some point I looked around
and understood that though we'd clearly won the argument,
there was no longer any scientific dispute about what was happening.
We were losing the fight because the fight was not actually about
data and reason and evidence.
The fight was about what fights are always about, money and power.
And the other side in this fight, the fossil fuel industry,
had so much money and hence so much political power
that they could convincingly lose the argument
without damaging their business model a bit.
So that's the point where my life's work began to shift
and though I still spend an awful lot of time writing
and thinking of myself as a writer and a journalist and things,
most of my hours have been taken up since with the volunteer task
of organizing big movements to try and build some power
and stand up to the fossil fuel industry.
And that's been fascinating work that I've learned a lot about.
But if you ask how my worldview changed,
it's that the only hope of beating powerful institutions
is to build powerful institutions yourself.
If you don't have a lot of money,
that means building big social movements which history indicates
on occasion can rise to these kind of challenges.
I agree with that part.
I think you have known me long enough that you know that I disagree
with your other contention.
I don't think this is the fault of fossil fuel companies
other than they are the providers of the drug
that humanity, 8 billion of us are addicted to.
I do think fossil fuel companies are to blame with the shade
and disinformation on what's happening.
But I think if we had altruists in charge of the fossil fuel companies,
I don't think much would change given my metabolism.
In that place, I think you're wrong.
Just that I think you underestimate the power of that disinformation.
So think about it.
Here's a thought experiment.
The night in June of 1988 that Jim Hansen testifies before Congress.
If that same night, the CBS Evening News,
which in those days people all still watched,
Dan Rather, someone comes on TV and he interviews the CEO of Exxon.
And the CEO of Exxon says quite accurately,
since we now know from great investigative reporting that this is the truth,
he says, you know what?
All our scientists are telling us exactly the same thing,
maybe even a little worse.
We've stumbled into the worst problem that humans have ever stumbled into
and we've got to go to work on it.
I think that would have produced a profoundly different political climate
and economic climate from which we instead,
we now know that Exxon and everybody else did just the opposite.
Well, understanding all these things internally,
Exxon begins building all their drilling rigs higher to compensate
for the rise in sea level they know is coming.
They instead hire the guys who used to work for the tobacco industry,
pretending that cigarettes didn't do any harm and get them on board
and proceed to go after every single effort to do anything about this
for the intervening 30 years.
And what they cost us, I think, was time,
which was the most important single variable here.
So I think their role has been enormous and continues to be in all of this.
It's possible I may overestimate that because they've come after me so hard
and done, you know, tried to do so much.
You know, I had two or three year period of my life where every time I stepped out doors,
somebody hired by the fossil fuel industry was there with a video camera
to record every single thing I did in public and, you know, put it up on the web.
And they just sentenced a guy yesterday for hacking,
trying to hack my computer and a bunch of other people's on behalf of the fossil fuel industry
and on and on and on.
But I think those things are the minor examples of the huge political game
that they've played here and around the world for 30 years.
How have you managed that?
I mean, I've been at this not as long as you have.
And I worry about things like that all the time.
You have been doing this for almost 40 years or over 40 years.
How do you keep your aplomb and grace and rationality when stuff like that is going on seriously?
Well, I think you have to figure that that comes with the territory
because you're standing up to what was at least at the beginning of this fight,
the richest industry on earth and hence the most powerful people on earth.
And I understand what the stakes are for them and why there's no chance that they weren't going to do this.
I mean, what we're trying to do is keep in the ground,
depending on what the present value of what today's price of oil is,
we're trying to keep in the ground 40, 50, 60 trillion dollars worth of fossil fuel.
So, I mean, you don't have to be a genius to figure out that's going to provoke a reaction.
And indeed, it has.
And I have obviously had it far easier than most people.
I got to do the memorial service two years ago at COP for the 241 environmentalists
that had been killed around the world the year before, mostly in the developing world,
people who got in the way of somebody's oil well usually.
So, I mean, I haven't enjoyed all that, but I'm still here doing fine.
Do you think that dynamic is going to get worse as we head towards
worries about energy security and what's happening with Ukraine and Russia and Europe and the Middle East
and trying to keep the lights on and stability that the environmental ethic,
which you have spent your entire career trying to pass the baton to other humans,
is going to become more fringe and more threatening to the status quo.
And therefore, what you just described is going to become more prevalent.
It could. I mean, there's two competing dynamics here.
One is the one you describe, and the other is the other thing that, you know,
that one couldn't perhaps have predicted or whatever, but that's breaking in our favor,
which is the very, very, very rapid decline in the price of renewable energy,
of energy from or whatever you want to call it, energy from the sun and the wind.
And which should take an awful lot of the sting out of a lot of these discussions.
It doesn't take any of the sting out of it for Exxon or for Vladimir Putin.
I mean, it's obvious why they hate this stuff, but it should make it easier for most societies to proceed.
Well, we disagreed on that 10 years ago, Bill.
I think the last time we spoke and we still disagree about that,
even if it were true that all in those energy tech were cheaper,
it is true that we're scaling them, but energy demand is increasing faster.
So we're also scaling fossil carbon and hydrocarbon consumption.
That's a really interesting question right now.
If it turns out that everything we're doing with sun and wind is just additional energy,
then it's all pointless.
I don't think, though, that it's quite as...
I think we don't know, and I think some of the signs from the last year or two are more interesting than that.
2023 is such a fascinating year, Nick, because both things are happening at once.
We get the highest temperatures in at least 125,000 years on this planet.
This past weekend, right?
Well, I mean, the highest temperatures came, of course, in June and July,
because that's most of the land mass in the Northern Hemisphere.
That's when the temperature gets highest globally averaged on planet Earth.
But the anomaly was the highest over this past weekend, the highest so far.
Humans stepped across this 2°C barrier for the first time,
which is, if you think about it, pretty astonishing.
