Yeah.
I believe they call it forced copulation.
Right?
Sure.
Like you're not supposed to use the term rape when it comes to animals because it's
a value laden term.
It is a value laden term so it makes sense not to use it when it comes to animals.
Absolutely.
We use a lot of value laden terms when it comes to animals though in biology.
For example, in when you're talking about entomology and so insects, sleep insects and
other little arthropods, a lot of times people will talk about natural enemies and that's
the word for carnivores, right?
I think that enemy is a value laden term when you're talking about a predator type or a
group of animals that are either predators or parasitoids.
So what do you use?
Yeah.
Actually, I use natural enemy because that's what people use now in entomological literature.
There's already such a better word for it, predator, right?
You know, because there's a couple different classes of natural enemies or carnivores.
Parasitoid is one and predator is another and those describe two different groups.
You couldn't just say which one you're talking about.
I guess you're speaking broadly.
I guess there has to be a word for that.
Yeah.
You wouldn't do that if you are writing a paper.
Yes.
So a predator is a very specific thing, right?
So it hunts and it eats an animal instead of living inside of it and a parasitoid is
a parasitic insect that always kills its host, whereas parasite doesn't always kill its host,
but all of those things are carnivorous.
Maybe they use natural enemies as opposed to just enemy because that makes it different
and that makes it its own special thing.
But my point is that there's some potentially value-laden terms.
I don't think that people usually write about rape.
It's usually forced copulation in academic literature.
I just ran across that when I was reading up on the dolphins.
I'm surprised actually that this didn't come up.
I wish we'd gotten to this before because we were talking about examples of signaling
to convey a message or faking signaling to convey that message insincerely.
There's a great example of that with the trend in, say, poisonous snakes to be brightly
colored.
You have...
What is it?
The...
I forget which one's which or what the names are.
But there's...
There's Malarian mimicry.
I'm trying to think of the two kinds of snakes, but they're...
Oh!
You're thinking of coral snakes and king snakes.
Yes.
And I forget which one's not poisonous, but my point...
King snakes are not poisonous.
I do remember the rhyme that tells me which one's not poisonous.
What's the rhyme?
The rhyme is...
It's not terribly helpful.
Okay, never mind.
I'm not going to spread this information.
Then is that red touches yellow?
You're a dead fellow.
Right?
Yellow touches red.
Or I thought it was...
Red...
Black touches red.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't recall.
It was red touches yellow.
You're a dead fellow.
Red touches black.
You're okay, Jack.
It was the first time I heard this.
Those are the worst rhymes.
They're like, something, something, and you'll see, you'll avoid calamity.
Well, so...
Why didn't you make the important part the rhyming one?
What I liked about it, though, is that the...
And I might be wrong, but I'm assuming that there's an evolutionary incentive to signal
your poisonousness because...
Fossily.
Well, falsely, for sure, but also, legitimately, because you don't want to get fucked with.
You don't want to have to try and rely on your venom or your poison to...
Yeah, so there's...
So you'll signal to people...
I'm sorry, I just, the rest of the thought was, you'll signal to protective predators,
hey, the fact that I'm brightly colored means that I'm going to be able to poison if you
try and eat me.
I don't want to have to, so that's why I'm telling you before you get here.
And then that gives other organisms the opportunity to fake that.
I saw a fly that was paint that had the same similar color, past or be, until I got a closer
look at it.
And if I hadn't had a chance to get a closer look at it, I'm like, oh, that's definitely
a bee.
I don't want to get stung.
I'm leaving it alone, right?
Yeah.
So, to be more specific about that, there is Batesian mimicry and Malarian mimicry.
Batesian mimicry is when an otherwise potentially edible or grabbable animal looks like a poisonous
animal and benefits from looking like a poisonous animal.
So an example would be the coral snake and king snake, right?
Or the king snake looks like a coral snake enough that anything with experience with
coral snakes backs off.
And then there is Malarian mimicry and that's when a bunch of poisonous animals or venomous
animals look alike because now they have strengthened the signal of looking like that, right?
So now things are more likely to know what it means is something looks like a bee or
looks like a monarch butterfly or something like that because when they run into this
other species as well or other things that look similar, other species that look similar,
it's also poisonous or venomous.
As a thought figured out how to punish free riders yet, like do a bunch of coral snakes
ever team up and kill all the king snakes because they're trying to, you know.
Because they're deluding their message?
Uh-huh.
I don't know, I don't think that usually happens.
As a thought rewards the creative free rider for now, give it another million years.
But yeah, it does potentially delude the message, right?
If they're also edible animals, for example, there are a lot of flies that are stingless
that look like bees, right?
Once every single insect looks like a bee, then looking like the bee isn't advantageous
anymore.
Right.
So, I don't know, I don't know what the limits are, but a lot of people are studying it,
so maybe I can find some paper for you.
Cool.
I would love that.
It is fun, I love that.
That's why evolutionary biology, that's not why, that's what, that, the fact that that's
so interesting that such a small part of evolutionary biology is why it's such a fun
subject.
Mm-hmm.
Well, anyway, signaling, so much fun, tell us what you think about it.
If you think this episode deserves a redux where we actually talk more about signaling
theory in a more focused context, and there's, I guess what I'm saying is, if there's interest
in this topic, I would like to revisit it and do it in a more styled way, but in any
case, you've got the very gist and some fun examples, so are you guys ready to move on
to...
Listener feedback.
Yes, that.
Do that.
So, on our, excuse me, on our moral philosophy episode, we got a couple very nice comments
from somebody called PhopeMobile2.
And you can see those on the subreddit for the moral philosophy, moral philosophy entry.
Now, PhopeMobile said a couple of things.
One was about moral relativism, and the other was about Kant.
And so it says, Kant is not a consequentialist.
His universibility criterion is about ensuring a lack of logical contradiction, not about
doing unto others as you would have done unto you.
In the episode, you fell prey to a common misconception about the categorical imperative.
When Kant says to act only according to that maxim whereby you can, at the same time, will
that it should not become a universal law, he's not saying to do unto others as you would
have done unto you.
The argument is not where everyone to do this, the world would be a worse place, therefore
this cannot be a categorical imperative.
What he means is that you should be able to will that it become a universal law without
logical contradiction.
For example, this is a quote, theft assumes the existence of property.
In order for me to steal something from you, you must first own it.
To own something is to place a restriction on who is allowed to take it.
Consider the maxim, is permissible for me to steal.
If this maxim were universalized, then everyone would be permitted to take anything, and there
could be no property.
We have reached a logical contradiction, so the maxim cannot be true.
Anyway, if you want to read more of that, hop on over to the subreddit.
So that is exactly the kind of feedback I was hoping for, because we weren't able to
give everything the attention deserved in an hour-long podcast covering eight different
philosophies.
So, all I was able to say was thanks for giving Kant the defense I couldn't muster here into
place and the big names of moral philosophy, and I wasn't equipped to give him his due.
OpenMobile gives the steelman, which turns out to be Kant's own words, of Kantian deontology.
And I don't know, I must have, but I didn't mean to say that it was basically like the
golden rule from Christianity that do unto others, just that I was due to have enjoyed
it.
For many religious traditions.
Yeah.
But that's, oh, I didn't mean to make that equivalency.
There's a, that's sort of like the shorthand for a non-moral philosopher, and if I mentioned
it, that might have been what I was going for, but yeah, I didn't mean to equate the two.
But anyway, yeah, this was an awesome comeback, or not comeback, I guess, like I said, giving
Kant his due.
Yeah.
And there was another comment on their, in defense of moral relativism, which I will
only fault you for saying that it was much harder to follow than your deontological defense.
But yes, there is a, I tried to give the best version of moral relativism I could give.
If there's a better one out there, you can learn a little bit more about it on OpenMobile's
comment.
If we're talking about the ethical theories, this podcast still, the great Nick wrote and
said, you had a quick aside to think of some tenants to live your life by, and it reminded
me of the eight tenants of Satanism.
Personally, I think they're very well thought out and applicable.
And he links to the Satanic Temple, and I would just like to say I am a big fan of the
Satanic Temple.
I am a donor to them.
I helped create the bronze boffamet that they put next to the Ten Commandments.
Oh, they're lovely.
They're great people.
They are doing God's work.
Satan's work.
Let's be clear.
Well, you know, they're a very secular organization that uses Satanism, this particular Satanic
