Might be.
Okay.
Because regular signaling is just so basic right now.
So what do you think?
I'm like, I've got a podcast.
Yeah.
Well, no.
You don't ever say you have a podcast.
You let other people find out.
Oh, I wouldn't have been doing your right then.
You've been doing it wrong, Katrina.
I told a couple of my friends that I grew up with and one classmate from the boot camp
I was at.
And it was only because it did come up.
It wasn't like, hi, I'm Steven.
I have a podcast.
We were talking about podcasts we like and there was, it was a long story, but it happened
to come up really organically.
One of the guys there, this wasn't the person that I told, but he was like, I don't know
why he thought this because like, I wouldn't be surprised to learn that you have some podcast
where you just like some conspiracy podcast story out there and I'm like, that's dangerously
close to the truth.
See, that is good.
You never bring that up.
You never bring that sort of thing up on your own.
Well, if it comes up in conversation, it comes up, but that's because you think of the status
signal.
Well, I think it's a lower.
Oh, no.
I just, if you were to advise, advertise, then something so it's like, have you seen
Bojack Horseman at all?
Yes.
The song back in the nineties, I was in a very famous TV show.
Yeah.
No, that exactly.
That's like coming up to someone and seeing like, Hey, in the nineties, I was in a very
famous TV show.
No, then then it looks retarded or sorry, then that looks stupid.
What do you tell people when they ask you what you do with your time?
Uh, yeah, I write a podcast, I do those sorts of things that they just asked though.
It's not like I bring it up.
It's if they specifically ask what I do in my free time.
Yeah, I shared the first episode or two of this on my Facebook and then, oh, yes, yes,
definitely.
So that's the time you do something, put it up on Facebook because that's what people
are on Facebook.
I haven't shared a single episode on my Facebook.
You have a good reason though.
Like when I started up Metropolitan Man again, I was like, Hey guys, this is my new thing
that I'm starting and then stop.
You don't put it out there every single week.
Whatever you should.
You should toot your horn.
By the way, listeners, I am doing my fiction podcast, the Metropolitan Man right now.
We already mentioned on this podcast.
Oh, that's right.
We did.
Yeah, never mind.
If you haven't checked it out though, do I'm loving it.
I'm not even I'm not even on making it, but it's awesome.
So you guys were in just came out.
Yeah.
You should honestly more voices.
I can't have you do more voices.
The only one voice per person thing.
Yeah.
But hold on.
I'm so sorry.
I didn't.
I wasn't making a weird face.
You were making a sad face.
No.
I misinterpreted your face.
You misinterpreted it.
I was making it.
Just hit myself in the face with my water bottle face.
It was different.
It was different for methods of rationality because they were, they were literally hundreds
of characters, many of them, which had one line.
And for that, I was like, okay, these two characters are separated by 20 chapters.
I can have you do these two lines from two different characters, but this is short enough
that I want to keep it down to one person per line.
Right on.
I think it's embarrassing.
It's kind of like admitting that you do role playing games or something.
That's, oh, see, I'm really frustrated by people who think that sort of thing is embarrassing
because if it is something you enjoy, fucking own it, you want to meet other people who
also think that's cool.
Maybe if they're going to judge you and think that you're lame for doing role playing games,
then fuck them.
I don't want to be around them that much anyway, right?
Maybe it's part of my counter signaling where I tell people things that I think are somewhat
embarrassing about me.
Oh, okay.
So you're like, this is really embarrassing, but I'm like, well, well, I guess that sometimes
I record really casual and not very good conversations that I have with people and with them online
so that others can judge us.
Yeah.
So you guys can just do it.
I did get around to a lot of this awkwardness and just not talk to strangers, you know?
I make like one friend a year.
That's how I avoid a lot of this nonsense.
Here's an interesting thought experiment that I thought of when, or not thought experiment,
kind of like a, anyway.
Intapithetical?
Yes, based on a real example when I was thinking about this earlier today.
So what, a couple of years ago you were moving and you solicited to friends to help you move.
And as is in accordance with the most ancient tradition, you paid with beer and pizza, exactly.
Why didn't you pay them an hourly wage?
That is, again, considered gauche.
It means that we're not actually friends.
This is not a emotion-based relationship.
It is a transaction-based relationship.
And you don't want to have transaction-based relationships with your friends.
You use the word relationship like I hoped you would.
That's the whole point, right?
So like, if you'd hired movers and they were like, all right, we're ready for you to sign
the check.
Well, here's all the pizza and beer you can handle.
Like, that would not be okay, right?
No.
So it's based on the kind of relationship you can have with people, the ways that you
can interact, right?
And that was alluded to when you're talking about counter-signaling as well.
God, I was, when 10, 12 years ago, my dad does a lot of interior work, painting, tiling,
drywall, that sort of stuff.
I got a new place and I asked him to help me put down some linoleum in the bathroom
because it really needed a change.
And he did.
And then afterwards, I was like, okay, so how much do I owe you for this?
And he like busted out in a bearish laughter because I had just recently been reading,
you know, all sorts of things about like, everyone should be compensated for their time
and it doesn't matter.
And I was like, yeah, I'm totally grabbing this bull by the horn.
You just finished your Rand's Divergence.
Right.
Right.
And my dad was like, OMG, noob, GTFO, he finally accepted payment for the cost of the materials,
but nothing else.
He was like, you are my son, don't bring money into this.
And I was like, I have learned something.
I mean, I have not forgotten that to this day because I was so embarrassed.
So you said that you had an animal signaling example.
Yeah, sure.
So we were talking about sexual signaling before, right, with peacock feathers and also
countersignaling.
And I think it's interesting that in a world of sexual signaling, like big strong animal,
I have great fitness.
In a world that exists, there also exists the, I guess, desire or not, not the desire,
the space to subvert that and find other successful ways.
You know, for example, everybody uses the cuttlefish.
Everybody uses the cuttlefish example.
I use the cuttlefish example all the time.
Yeah.
I totally know what that is.
You do, of course.
Right?
Yes.
Absolutely.
You know about the cuttlefish example, right?
Of course.
For people who may be dumb, you maybe couldn't hurt to spell it out.
For all the dummies out there.
There are a bunch of examples in nature where there's two types of males or two types of
females, right?
And I think we've talked about this a little bit in another episode.
This does sound familiar, yeah.
So for example, in certain species of cuttlefish, there is the male that looks male.
He's large.
He uses very specific color patterns to signal that he is a male and that he's interested
in mating.
And then there is a second type of male that is a male that looks a little bit more like
a female, right?
So the male that looks a little bit more like a female is taking advantage of the big male's
show and it looking like a female to sneak in and mate with a female without the large
male noticing, right?
So it's subverting the dominant sexual selection strategy in order to spread its genes.
So that's just really common that you have the big strong male and that's how it's signaling
its fitness and the sneaky male.
Is that kind of signaling?
It's not, I guess it's not signaling, but it's, there's the fact of sexual signaling
and then there are ways to subvert it simply because that exists.
And I think that when we talk about signaling, maybe counter signaling is showing that you
don't care about the dominant.
You're so good that you don't have to worry about that.
You don't even have to be so good.
It's just that you, you don't even need to, you don't want to play that game, right?
I am so rich.
I do not need to buy the fancy Tesla.
You don't have to be so rich.
You can just scoot in and say being rich isn't all that great.
That's, yeah.
I am so desirable in other ways that I don't need to have any money.
I can so trick you into having sex with me that I don't need to have any, I don't need
to actually have money or be a big scary male.
Exactly.
So there can be a distract the male and rape.
Okay then.
In cuddle fish or other animals, yeah.
And animals worthy of moral judgment.
