Temple.
I mean, obviously not all Satanists are the same way, but this Satanic Temple that uses
Satanism as a cover to challenge religious abuses by government exploitations.
Exactly.
And most recently, they had the After School Satan Program, which is for schools that allow
Bible study clubs, they come through and they're like, allow us to establish our After School
Satan Club, because you cannot discriminate against this by on religious grounds.
And then the schools either have to allow the After School Satan Club, or they have
to say there cannot be any religious clubs in the school.
I see that as a not completely bad endeavor.
I love the endeavor.
I consider it trolling for great justice.
I have a request, and that is, I want some pretty cool demonic statues that are cheap
and I can put in my backyard.
So somebody get on that.
Maybe we should get on that.
Maybe.
Do you mean like buy them for you or send you links to where you can buy them?
Link me.
Okay, yeah.
You bet.
You can do.
I'm reading through the tenets of Satanism right now.
One should strive to act with compassion and empathy towards all creatures in accordance
with reason.
That is, that's a nugget of wisdom you did not come across in the Bible.
I'm on board.
I think it probably is, but...
Not that clearly.
If you've read your Bible cover to cover, for every time it says something like that,
it says, you know, slay open your enemies and smash their fetuses upon the rocks and
stuff.
Wow.
It is pretty...
It's the big book of multiple choice.
Yeah.
You can have the angry whip-wielding Jesus, or you can have the happy turn of the other
cheek Jesus.
I'm talking my man, the Old Testament God.
I know.
Yeah.
Jesus, though, too.
I mean, in half his moods, he's like basically a hippie, and in the other half he lit the
fires in the Inquisition.
So, Jesus isn't like the, isn't as, he's not as clear as you'd hope God would have been
when writing his book, right?
Yes.
It's almost like he was a conflicted person.
What?
Uh, there was also one minor note from Robus777 saying that I was conflating negative reinforcement
with punishment, which is true.
It's one of those things that I theoretically know because I read about it, but I always
forget.
Punishment, he said, tries to make the behavior being punished stop, whereas negative reinforcement
tries to make the behavior being negatively enforced occur more often.
Yes.
And negative reinforcement can be taking things away, instead of taking things away, or taking
positive things away.
Oh, wait.
Hold on.
There's negative reinforcement.
Then there's positive reinforcement.
And, damn it, there's like four of these.
I've got nine.
Now I've tied myself in the loop.
Anyway, yes.
Good stuff.
Google the terms.
Backcheck us.
It's just much more fun to say negative reinforcement than punishment.
It's very Orwellian that way.
Also, I think it's how it's used in common parlance.
Yeah.
Yes, I'm a consequentialist, but I think one of the things to take away from having
well-reasoned positions for, from multiple perspectives, and we kind of alluded to this
with like the mental counsel and stuff, but it's not necessary to pick a moral philosophy
and stick with it, especially in contexts where like it might not make sense to you
or where you're not comfortable doing it.
So I'll give you the example of the burning building and you can save the painting.
I don't know if this is an episode or another one, but you can save the painting or your
baby.
Now the good consequentialist says that you save the van Gogh and sell it and save more
babies than just your one, but no human could do that.
And so if you know that it'll ruin your life, even at the cost of killing other kids, it's
still, you don't, I don't think you're a bad person if you're not a consequentialist
in that particular scenario, right?
The goal is, for me-
It's a tough ask to ask someone to ruin their own life.
Yeah.
Or even to think of like a society where everyone was that callous about their kids or their
loved ones or something, right?
So like part of it is the grander scale.
You kind of want to, to have that, that feeling that you are more important to the people
who love you than a Rembrandt is.
Yeah, it would be weird if my parents-
Or Ptosso or whatever.
Yeah, it'd be weird if my parents treated me as just as valuable as people they'd never
met or people that have done exist yet or something, right?
So yeah.
Speaking of people.
Westward101 said,
Katrina seemed to strongly value having people in a child's life for at least the duration
of childhood.
Okay, so we're going back to the kids episode.
There are quite a few people who have been influential in my children's lives but are
no longer close friends that have moved or drifted off family members who we see for
a couple weeks, once a year, etc.
It may be nice to have a village, but no village stays the same.
And really, there's only so much you can control for.
You can control dye, break up, move, etc.
I thought that was, that was kind of a decent point as well.
It's a decent point.
I think I was talking a little, I think I may have come across a little bit too strong
about the importance of just having continuity in the same people who are trustworthy.
I think that there need to be at least some, I think there need to be some of those people.
I think that you need to have someone who in the end is completely responsible and having
that person disappear and be replaced by someone else who's usually destructive in some kids'
lives.
That sounds like criticism that could be made of typical parent-child households too, right?
Like a parent could die, they could break up, etc.
But those are traumatic events.
Yes.
And saying that they also happen here is, you know, true, but not necessarily criticism.
So to have some people moving in and out is fine, right?
And normal, and kids deal with it just fine.
To have all of the people moving in and out and know one person that they can look to
to be steady and be always there, I think is probably pretty traumatic.
Speaking of the kids' episode, Not Without Incidence said, it can't be unethical to
create people that want to live for the most part regardless of any suffering they experience.
I have a problem with that because of the will to live instinct.
I think there's a lot of people who want to live because of that instinct, even if suffering
would be really great.
Wait, what?
Even if suffering was very high?
Yeah, in their life.
Just having the not wanting to die instinct might reduce quality of life below what is
tolerable, but yet they still want to live.
Well, the good news is if somebody doesn't exist yet, then they don't have the desire
to live or suffering.
Right.
He also said that the argument about the potential of your children to cause harm to others
seems more powerful, but avoiding action based on potential future harms could get dicey.
Going off my comment, someone has to figure out how to take all this carbon out of the
atmosphere.
They claim that it could be immoral to not have children because one of these children
has got to figure this thing out, right?
Otherwise, we're all doomed.
No, no, no.
So, I mean, that's a cost-benefit analysis right there, that's all that is.
Is it more likely that having a bunch of kids is going to lead to them figuring out how
to take carbon out of the atmosphere, or is it more likely that having more kids is going
to lead to a bunch more kids putting a lot more carbon in the atmosphere and it being
a problem?
And you're assuming it's a ladder, but has there actually been any sort of research done
into this to work on anything other than our?
There's a lot of arguments about that.
For example, as the global population increases, technological innovation increases, right?
But, you know, there are these trade-offs and it's really, really hard to tell where
the truth lies.
I'm a big fan of reductoid absurdum for intuition pumps.
That's the concept of reducing an argument to its most absurd implication to try and
draw some useful intuitions out of it.
So it's definitely true that if none of us have kids and no one alive right now could
get all this carbon out of the atmosphere, then it would never get done, right?
So somebody's got to have kids because somebody's going to do it, right?
If it's not going to be done by anyone currently alive.
I'm not sure what we can do with that, but it does seem to imply that there's at least
not literally nothing to that point.
Aside from that there's probably an ideal number of kids.
Yeah, no, that's in there.
I'm just saying that the point of the absurdum was to say that was to check, I guess, the
one scenario under which, all right, no kids, what happens?
Okay, well, that's bad.
So now we can cross that off our list of things to consider.
Now we're looking on the spectrum from, you know, greater than zero, right?
Anyway, that was also brought out as a cheeky example to try and throw out that useful tool
that I like.
All possible kids, probably also not a good idea.
Right.
Right.
So I mean, all possible kids, if everyone has as many as possible, well, then we're
not a food, right?
So yeah, all you have to do is just turn it up to, turn it up to 11 or down to negative
one and just see how stupid it gets and then you can just prove those extremes.
Well, that's some really useful stuff.
So we need to determine the ideal number of kids.
Yes.
Okay.
To someone who would, that wasn't like I said, that wasn't the best example.
I'm sorry I'm making fun of you.
No, you're fine.
When you mentioned, when we were talking about earlier about, you know, making the podcast
and you know, I don't really talk about it, that I do with people, but one of the reasons
I wanted to do it was because I do have a lot of fun, or not a lot, but some, what I consider
fun and useful techniques for thinking through problems and the reductive I'm just starting
as one of them.
So I, and I remembered that when we were talking about putting this podcast together, I wanted
to try and plug those once in a while.
So that, that just happened to be on my mind and I found a really, really lame spot to
stick it in there.
