I was actually frightened of bugs when I was a kid.
Oh.
What?
I know.
I know bugs.
Yeah, me too.
Oh, I did until their legs fell off for the first time.
And then it was no more bugs.
I was terrified of their legs falling off.
Because you thought they were in pain or just because it was icky?
It was icky.
It was icky.
The body parts are just, like, on you now.
It was icky death of icky, you know.
Oh, did you have a concept of death at you?
Yeah.
Okay.
The funny thing is, I...
Gosh, I'm just rambling on.
I came to the concept of really understanding internalizing death because I had just watched
a documentary about pearl oysters.
And in the documentary, they got the oysters, they opened them up, and then they were actually
dissecting the oyster.
And they're like, here's its heart, here's this, here's that.
And then I kind of connected that, you know, the oyster to humans and what would happen
if somebody cut open a human and took out their heart.
And yeah.
So then I was like, oh no, what happens when you die?
It's all oyster's fault.
I had the horrible realization when my family member died when I was really little.
My great-grandfather on my mom's side.
And I was just like, oh shit, we're never going to talk to them again.
This is what death is.
Oh my god.
There was some panic involved at age seven.
Did you get to, and I'm going to die?
Oh yeah, that's where the panic came from.
Yeah, I already had family members who had died at that point.
But just something, this is all about seeing it.
You didn't realize that you would die too until the oyster.
I realized it, but I didn't...
There's knowing something, and then there's internalizing it.
Anyway, there's one way to tie this into signaling, which is did, I guess maybe you,
you weren't raised with the Santa myth.
And I can't remember what I did, but it strikes me as plausible that I might have continued to play along
after having solved it for the sake of everyone else playing the game.
Sure, my little brother did, but it was because he thought he wouldn't get gifts.
Right.
Okay, so not a great example then.
I was hoping that we could say, well, we've signaled this belief, you know, to carry on this social trend,
which would have been a very loose segue into signaling.
Is it still signaling if you pretend?
No, it doesn't. It has nothing to do with signaling.
So your brother was pretending to believe in Santa, and your parents were pretending to believe in Santa?
Like they were trying to do each other.
How long did this go on?
Oh, like a really long time.
He still believes.
At some point, at some point I went to my parents and I said, this is getting ridiculous.
He is getting really old for this.
He's nice shaving.
I mean, I was 14 years old. He's three years younger than me.
Did you know that he was faking at that point?
No, I didn't. I said, well, I don't know if he is or isn't, and I'm going to go talk to him.
And they said, okay, because he was just way too old.
So I did, and he said I knew it all along.
Okay.
It's kind of hard to tell somebody's faking without, like, spoiling it for them.
Did he at some point realize that he would still get gifts?
Yeah, we talked about it.
No, but before that, before when he was 11 and you were 14, okay.
No.
Because I almost figured like maybe at nine he figured out he'd still get gifts,
but at this point it was just too embarrassing to suddenly be like, hey guys!
No, he told me, well, he was also, there were some leading questions involved, like my parents saying,
oh, you already knew?
Why did you keep pretending?
Is it because this?
And he said yes.
Let's do move on from death and Santa and religion and family members to the topic of signaling.
Now, from my perspective, it's an economic topic, a topic in economics related to conveying accurate information,
mostly accurate, believable information between businesses or between a potential employee and employer
about what would otherwise be kind of private or complex information, right?
When you say believable or accurate, what did you mean?
Because those can be two very different things.
I mean accurate.
So conveying some information that would be private or otherwise difficult to come by.
I think maybe that's what the intention is, but I think a lot of signaling is not necessarily trying to convey accurate information anymore.
I want you to think this thing about me even if it's not necessarily true.
Yeah, so there's honest signaling and then there's, I suppose dishonest signals.
Okay, so for people who are economists or have some background on this,
of course you can always chime in by writing in our subreddit or on our website.
I think that at least in the less wrong community we've taken signaling pretty far from maybe that original economic definition.
I guess I've heard that it is not a useful signal if it is easy to fake.
For example, the one that's often talked about is a college education, a degree, various degrees are signaling something.
They might not be signaling mastery of a topic, but they might be signaling,
and what it signals changes over time, depending, but it might be signaling sticktuitiveness, right?
Conscientiousness.
You can put up with this bullshit for four years.
You can put up with it and make it through.
Four, six, or eight, whatever it takes.
The classic example I've always heard is the peacock's tail.
The plumage on the male peacocks is, well, I guess they're peacocks or they're male.
Otherwise they would be pee hens.
But anyways, everyone's familiar.
P-fowl.
P-fowl, yes, the male p-fowl.
The plumage is famous for being extremely big and bright and really a huge liability evolutionarily,
because it makes it harder to fly, makes it harder to escape predators,
and it takes a huge amount of biological resources to grow that tail.
But the point of the peacock's tail is kind of a brag.
It says,
I have resources to spare.
Yes, I am so good at being a peacock that I can just waste all this energy making this giant tail
and it doesn't even hurt my fitness.
I'm still able to do what I need to do and get away from the predators.
And then all the ladies are like, oh my.
Let's get with that guy.
And the fact that it is very costly, it does make flying harder,
and it is impossible to fake the tail.
You actually have to have the resources to grow it out.
It makes it a good signal.
Yeah, there are of course many, many animals that have all sorts of different kinds of signals.
That's just the most famous one.
For health, for fitness, and a lot of times they are pretty reliable signals.
It's the reason we like big butts and we cannot lie.
So speaking of which, I was going to just throw out the idea that I don't think peacock tails would have gotten as big as they are
if they were delicious to predators.
So the fact that the predator basically has to work around this giant tail to eat the small bird
compared to the size of the tail.
If it was also edible and delicious, I think that there's no way that it would have gotten that big in that cumbersome.
Okay, there's also aphids with a lot of big wax tail that comes out of their rear ends.
And it has several different functions.
One is if the predator bites it, they can get away.
And the predator only has a mouth full of sugary wax.
And the other is it diverts their honeydew away from them.
Their honeydew?
Their waste.
Their what?
When they go to the bathroom.
Oh!
Why'd you call it honeydew?
Because that's what it is.
That's big poop honey?
So aphids are flowam feeders, right?
I don't know what flowam is.
Flowam is the conductive tissue, conductive plant tissue that moves sugars through the plant.
Photosynthesis, right?
Make glucose.
And then that goes through the flowam to the rest of the plant and for storage in the roots, right?
So aphids hook themselves up to that and they suck it.
What is the poop honey?
Yeah, and ants eat it, for example.
So that's why they farm aphids to eat their excrement, which is a highly nutritious sugary drink.
But it's also a liability for aphids and plant hoppers and other flowam feeders because it is sweet and sugary and it's right there next to them, right?
So it kind of marks them as a target, like here's a high-protein snack.
So a lot of them have these waxy, what looks like tails that make that kind of go further away from their bodies, stream further away from their bodies.
Anyway, I was just saying that what Steven's saying about the peacock tail, your theory about it not necessarily being easy to come through or being distracting to predators that are trying to get a bite.
She's saying you're full of crap.
No, I said it's not far-fetched and it's an absolutely reasonable hypothesis.
Yay!
I think...
I forgot where we were at, but that was interesting.
I was going to say that when you brought up the signaling in the Les Ron context, I think one of the reasons it's popular in the community is because before Les Ron was Les Ron, it was a co-blog on overcoming bias with Robin Hansen.
And Robin Hansen is rather famous for saying that a lot of behaviors, which we think are very noble and great human things, are actually just signaling.
It's a way of saying, look, I'm great, you should come meet with me or be my ally, and we don't actually mean it at all.
I would challenge that that's not an accurate representation of Hansen's position.
Not that we don't mean it.
So you can mean it and have it be a signal, right?
Yes, it's true.
I had a friend on Facebook this week say, yes, my employer matches my charity donations of $3,000 a year.
There's no point in him sharing that news unless he wants everyone to know that he's planning to donate to charity.
Yes, so that friend has announced on several occasions that he's giving to charity.
But that's good, you should.
Yes, I worked for a company and the whole point was to get people to say that they're giving to charity because doing that pressures other people to also give to charity.
Right, so I think that it's not necessarily just for the esteem or the prestige or the knowledge to convey that signal, right?
Robin Hansen would say it is entirely to convey that signal.
Entirely?
Almost entirely, yes.
He would say that charity is not about helping people, it is about showing off how much wealth you have to burn.
That the whole X is not about X, it's actually about why it comes from him saying that.
That's why he was the model for Voldemort.
Yeah, but I mean, probably there's a 90 minute podcast with him today and I don't think that's what he came across saying, but everything else you're saying about that does sound like what he said.
Well, that's what I get from his blog anyway.
When you meet him in real life, he's the nicest person, so maybe he doesn't actually believe that in real life.
So here's the thing, even if it's signaling, it doesn't mean that it's not accurate, right?
So if you're signaling that you are altruistic, right?
You want to have others, you want to better your community.
You're saying what does it matter if it's, but like as long as the community is being bettered.
Yeah, if the community is being bettered and you're getting some benefit from that in terms of how others see you and maybe your higher ability or your suitability for a friend.
That's okay.
And you also get to make your community or the world a better place.
So you get all sorts of different rewards from that.
It's kind of like how greed or self-interest helps to make the world run by making markets very efficient resource allocation methods.
So people generally think greed is a bad thing, but it has all these wonderful benefits.
To an extent for sure.
Just like with everything, you can kind of screw it up.
But this ties really neatly into a puzzle I was going to throw out later, but since we're already kind of right on it.
So say our friend really had no intentions of ever giving the charity, but he just wants the social esteem of being a charity giver, so he talks about it on Facebook.
It's an easy to fake signal.
