Oh, no, go ahead.
Oh, I was going to ask, is there, like, a social utility in, like, kids fitting in with the Santa belief?
I mean, I was yelled at for telling another kid that there was no Santa.
Okay.
By her mother.
Oh.
Well, Santa visits our house.
Guess he doesn't come to yours.
What a bitch!
Damn!
She was pretty mean.
She was a mean Manny.
Santa doesn't come to Jew houses, I guess.
Nice.
Yeah, that's what she's done.
I would even know if she knew I was Jewish, but, um...
She had a great crime did.
It's more, I was...
The implication was that I was a naughty child, where I wasn't going to get gifts from Santa,
because I...
What did she think was going to happen?
Her kids eventually find out.
Yeah.
All kids eventually find out.
That's true.
I don't...
I don't know.
That was going to be the other argument in favor of telling kids about Santa, which,
I think the standard recipe, or, like, the standard consideration with rationalist parents
who are like, well, do I engage in this or not?
And one of the standard kind of comebacks is, like, well, you don't want...
If you're going to do it at all, you don't want your kid to A, be the first person to
know that Santa isn't real, or B, be the last person to know that Santa isn't real.
Why wouldn't you want him to be the first?
Because then they get shit like Katrina got.
So, like, then you run around, you know, ruining your friend's holidays that year.
And, you know, you get stuff...
You get flak from their parents, and, you know, your parents get flak from their parents,
et cetera.
So there's some social utility to not ruining everyone's...
Rating on everyone's parade there, right?
I do know why that mean mama didn't want her daughter to know that there was no Santa.
What is that?
It's because she used it as a threat, like a lot of parents, you know.
If you don't behave, Santa's all seeing, all knowing, and he will know that you don't
get presents, because you're going to go on the naughty list.
I imagine that that had something to do with developing the Santa myth.
I mean, and then the even more intense Krampus myth.
Right.
And then the even more intense Jesus myth.
It's not just Christmas, it's not just torture.
It's torture forever, and no Christmas is again.
I believe her in Tennessee recently.
A couple little girls ran up to us and just said, hey, hi, there are elves in our house
now.
Today elves showed up in our house, and I said, oh, where are they?
And then she said, well, when's the bathroom?
And I was thinking, so do you have you heard of the elf on the shelf?
Yeah, yeah.
What is it?
Like he watches you or something?
Yeah, they watch you for Santa to make the whole threat a little bit more present.
It's a way of introducing the Panopticon to children early.
You will live in a surveillance society.
Some big brother will always be watching you.
Here is how we start you on it with the elf on the shelf.
And I was just thinking, they put it in the bathroom for them, those poor little girls.
Santa's watching you while you poop and shower.
Yeah, he's probably taking pictures.
Santa has to make sure it's a good poop, not a naughty poop.
So I had never actually heard of the elf on the shelf, and I didn't know it was a thing
that actually existed in real life.
I heard about it on a television show called The League, and the daughter names it Kegel.
And it was this Christmas episode, but it was not a family friendly show.
And I didn't know that this was something that people actually did.
That's really funny.
Oh yeah, my sister-in-law got one, and she was just saying, that thing was so creepy.
We couldn't even, the adults in the house couldn't handle it.
And they ended up getting rid of it, finding into that anthology wholeheartedly there.
Creepy elf.
But I think that if it's done right, if you're not threatening your kids, and you're not doing it,
you mentioned a lot of the nefarious ways to employ the Santa stuff.
And I think that those should be definitely disincentivized.
I think there's the kind of harmless way.
My parents don't think, like I said, I don't remember much how to do that well,
but I don't think that they were ever threatening Christmas,
or doing any things that would be super uncomfortable with this whole thing.
I think it was just one of those things that...
I think it would depend a lot on how you were raised.
If you were raised with an awesome, fun, Santa, and happy family,
you'd probably want to pass it on to your kids.
I don't think it really affects their kids that much.
Yeah.
You know, that elf on a shelf thing reminds me,
I read a blog post about someone pre-9-11, comparing pre-9-11 to post-9-11,
and she was talking about what a pain in the ass it was to get her,
I think, one year older, so in a stroller.
Bastard was screaming, would not want to go.
It was like a half hour or deal to get this kid in the stroller buckled up,
and they go, and they're going to the big arch in St. Louis, is it?
Okay.
And they get there, and there's now a new security thing that there had never been before,
and she was like, oh, crap.
Now I've got to take the kid out, go through security,
and go through this whole thing all over again.
It had been like five minutes since they got in the stroller.
But the kid is now used to security theater.
He gets out, they go through the thing, he gets back in, like it didn't even happen.
And she was like, this is fucking scary, and I don't like this.
That my kid just accepts this as part of his world.
And yet, he just got easily back into the stroller, so that's nice.
I'm sure my parents, my parents probably used Santa Claus to threaten me at some point as a child.
And I don't think it's unusual for parents to want to find, to want to do an appeal to authority.
My friend, even when I'm just over visiting, she'll try to tell her kid.
She'll ask me, is it okay to hit dogs, Katrina?
And you will answer?
I'll answer, no, it's not okay to hit dogs.
And she'll say, see, sweetie, it's not okay to hit dogs.
Katrina said so.
Are you an authority on dogs, or is it just more peer pressure?
Well, as an adult, that he doesn't know well, I guess she's trying to.
I mean, I think I am an authority.
And the appeal to authority is just so easy, too.
Yeah, so people appeal to authority Santa, or made up authority, I don't know, God, or...
I thought it was gonna, I took a different interpretation of your friend doing that.
You know the context better than I do, but I was thinking, oh,
she's referring to Katrina as this paragon of virtue, and Katrina wouldn't do it.
Now, would you not do something that Katrina would do?
Come on.
I think it wouldn't even matter who I was if I just showed up, and I wasn't her, or the kid's father.
Then you can be like, look, all the adults are against this.
You do this, the adults are gonna team up on you.
Don't even try it.
It's not just mommy being mean, it's really the norm out there.
You see, other people think that hitting dogs is not good, also.
Yeah, it's for kids, because they're the worst.
Right.
I think it probably also depends a lot just on the actual adult.
Like I said, I'm not sure it affects kids all that much, but if I were to ever be a parent,
I would not feel okay sharing the Santa thing,
because I would know I was lying to my kid's face, like just through my teeth,
and I would feel like a terrible person doing that.
I'd like to think that I won't, if I ever had a kid, that I won't lie to them.
I'm sure I'd lie to my kids sometimes, but it wouldn't be such a pre-planned, you know, conspiracy of a thing.
See, I thought of doing this kind of the way that I would teach them about like religions and stuff, too.
And say, look, this is something that people believe, this is a belief that's out there.
You don't tell them it's true.
You see, your friends at school are going to be talking about Santa.
I'm going to tell you what that's all about.
Now, some parents pretend, or they like to pretend that he's real, don't spoil the fun for them.
But you get them fully in a loop, and then, yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
It also is an example to children.
So, based on the Santa Claus Tooth Fairy Easter Bunny type myth,
I took that and thought it was okay to lie to my little brother.
About other things?
About fairies and another stuff that wasn't real.
And so, we did diaper fairy.
What was the diaper fairy?
The diaper fairy was to help him get potty trained.
So, for days that he didn't have an accident, he could put a diaper,
a clean diaper that he, of course, he didn't have to use,
because he was wearing his big boy underpants underneath his pillow.
And he would get, the diaper fairy would come and get him a treat, a little gift or something.
That's kind of awesome.
It is.
No.
Like, no?
It has the lying component, which isn't good.
But for me, I would just be like, hey, I'll give you whatever a childhood equivalent of a dollar is,
maybe as much as I like a dollar, I'll give you that.
You know, you want like a Hershey's kiss.
Yeah, but that's not as practical as a fairy coming in like being like, oh, what a good boy.
Yeah.
But the thing is, it was me doing it.
So, I would like find feathers that I liked, and stick them under his pillow, or a rock, or...
Or spiders.
My parents just let me do that.
So...
Did it help him?
I think so.
But the question is, at what cost?
At what cost?
At what cost?
So, my parents were modeling for me that it was okay to tell younger kids fantastical lies,
fantastical imaginary creatures come and reward you for not having to use a diaper.
From a consequentialist point of view, though, did he get a diaper trained faster?
Well, I can't possibly compare.
Okay.
To how fast he would have been potty trained without the diaper fairy.
Was he psychologically scarred by the diaper fairy?
I don't think so.
We'll have to ask him.
Okay.
I think, I think...
To me, that sounds just like a lot of fun.
He figured out it was me because I was a clumsy kid.
And I was just sticking random stuff that I found and thought was kind of cool under there.
Did you ever stick any bugs under there?
No, I never stuck any bugs under there.
