And I know you're listening, so I don't believe that you're doing this, but this would be an easy signal to fake.
No one's going to ask him for his receipts.
It's like the people who check in at Standing Rock to confuse the police, but don't actually give five dollars to help.
I don't know, but I'll take your word for it.
Oh, Standing Rock is where there's the big protest for the oil pipeline right now?
Nice.
Oh, so they'll check in over there, but they don't donate?
Yeah, there was this whole thing for about 24 hours.
There was this thing where someone said, hey, if we all check in at the location on Facebook, it confuses the police who are using Facebook to track which people are actually there protesting.
Which wasn't actually holding any water.
Right.
It was entirely crap.
Which is why I petered out after 24 hours.
Because the pipeline hasn't finished yet.
But during that, that's an oil pipeline.
It was just during a few hours of time.
I saw a few people checking in and I'm like, you could do so much more just by giving five dollars.
Money is the unit of caring.
If you actually care about something, donate five freaking bucks to the cause.
Or if you really care about it, go in person.
Ain't nothing like being there physically.
Some signaling is good, but yeah, it's a lot less than putting your money there for it.
Last digression, I promise.
Maybe we don't have to dive into this, but this is a fun signaling problem.
Cards Against Humanity does Black Friday sales.
Oh, God.
Where they up their price or they'll do something weird like that and then they'll donate the extra to charity or something.
And then typically they'll put a leaflet out to their workers or inboxes that they sell these products.
And say, hey, so our cards are made in China.
We gave this giant chunk of whatever was made for this month.
And gave everyone a two week vacation.
Cool.
Who makes our cards.
So anyway, so they'll do that.
Anyway, so this year for Black Friday, you could donate money and they would dig a hole.
Yes, the holiday hole they called it.
Yes.
For every five dollars that was donated, there's this big, what do you call the big earth movers with the shovel on the end?
Big digging machines.
Things.
Yeah.
We know what you're talking about.
All right.
For every five dollars donated, it would run for two seconds.
Backhoes?
Yeah, maybe.
Yeah.
I think backhoes the right term.
And they, I believe stopped after about 95,000 because I tried to go and donate a few bucks just to make it run a few more sets.
Everybody did.
Right.
95,000 dollars literally thrown into a money pit.
Right.
So that's a PR stunt on their part.
Right.
It's not signaling.
I know, but it was just, so one of the...
Why is it not signaling?
What is it signaling?
It's signaling that you're so cool that you're going to participate in this PR stunt.
So I mentioned how they are generally awesome with charities at the beginning because they're not totally dicks about this all the time.
But on their Frequently Asked Questions page about this, they're like, is there a deeper meaning to this?
No.
Why are you digging a hole?
Why aren't you giving this to charity?
Why aren't you giving it to charity?
It's your money.
So on the fact that the question, where is the hole?
The answer was in America and our hearts.
What if you dig so deep that you hit magma?
Well, then at least we feel something.
Yeah, the holiday hole was a lot of fun actually.
I was thinking a little bit about status signaling.
So if I'm talking to somebody online and they, for example, don't use complete substances for punctuation
or they use LOL a lot or just the wrong word for the situation,
it kind of doesn't matter who they are.
That tends to lower my opinion of them and their abilities to actually do things in the world.
Which is not fair because some of the most intelligent and capable people write in a messy shorthand.
BC, are you our words not letters?
Weird outline.
No, I totally agree with you.
But I find that affecting my own behavior because I like smiles.
I use them a lot because you don't get tone in text.
And I tend to joke around a lot and be happy in things.
At least when I'm talking with people because I like interacting with humans.
Because I don't know, I'm a weirdo.
Anyways, lots of times before I send a text, I will go through and I'll be like,
I'm going to delete that smiley and I'm going to delete that smiley because I don't want to look stupid.
Right, exactly. I mean, I'll use smileys when I'm talking with my friends.
But in work emails, I am so tempted.
Oh, I will use them in work emails.
You will use them in work emails.
I'd like to signal that I am a more relaxed sort of guy.
You can be cash around me.
You can do that.
So I totally use smileys in my work emails.
Maybe you can do that because you're a man.
Huh.
And I want to look capable.
I want to look capable and professional.
And so I do not use smileys in my work emails as much as I would like to.
And you could totally get that.
Oh, that did see girl using the smileys.
Oh man, that sucks.
I just want to chime in and I'm just giving back through my texts for the day
and over half of them contain emojis or text smileys.
Whatever guys, emojis are so in.
Yes.
In casual conversation.
LOLs are out.
I've never used LOL because I've never laughed out.
Like that would be lying, right?
Yeah, I've never.
You've never laughed out loud.
At a text, I'll chuckle or something, but I've never, I don't think, laughed out loud.
Well, you could pretend it means lots of love or a little lady.
Yeah, but then like if that's what it stands for, then I don't know.
I heard someone who thought, their mom actually thought it meant lots of love
and someone posted on Facebook that their aunt died.
She replied LOL for lots of love.
LOL, LOL, lots of love, little old lady.
Yeah.
Perfect.
I mean, before LOL as laugh out loud or lots of love existed,
that's what it meant in our family was little old lady.
That's normal.
I'll, you know, if something makes me smile like a bunch,
like I'll sometimes toss an LOL down, but if I actually laugh out loud,
which does happen sometimes, I will say I literally lulled.
I'll just put in that laughing smiley face,
because I feel like that actually gets it through better than I do.
Anyway, language.
Yeah.
The whole thing is symbolic.
Right.
Therefore.
Language is signaling.
We only say things to make other people believe stuff about us.
So I don't think we've done it.
Most of which is lies.
We've given a good example or a good definition of like outside of business context signaling.
And I liked the one that Scar Alexander gave on Less Wrong of Years ago,
which was a method of conveying information among not necessarily trustworthy parties
by performing an action which is more likely or less costly
if the information is true than if it is not true.
Which is to say, doing things, if it doesn't cost too much to do,
and it makes it seem like what you're saying is or doing is true.
Right.
So by that measure, I do like the college education example.
And it depends on your major a lot too.
If you're getting like a technical major,
it's likely that you'll probably learn something that you'll actually use.
If you're, well then again too, even so like,
I talked to people who went through programming boot camps
and through computer science degrees.
And people who went through computer science degrees,
they're like, yeah, we didn't start writing code till like, you know, year three.
And I'm like, that seems like a long time before you hit the keyboard.
Yeah.
Like, how are you knowing what you're doing if you're taking that long to actually get to it?
So I think I'm assuming having that major in computer science
that there's probably just as much like bullshit memorization in that major
as there is in a lot of other majors.
The point is, the point of college isn't to say,
look, I've got this degree.
I therefore know what I'm doing.
It's to say, I got this degree.
Therefore, I show that I can commit and, you know, pass tests and memorize trivia.
So, well, maybe, maybe not the last ones are more subtly implied.
But what you are saying is that I am serious about this.
Right.
So it's not the express that the university isn't selling you $100,000 education
by saying, this will tell your employer that you're serious about this job.
They're saying this will teach you a lot about it, which isn't really the case.
It's Robin Hansen, the person who pointed out that, or maybe you, Kowski,
that pointed out that you can just ask to sit in on courses
and get a Harvard education without paying for it.
You can also do it online for free for a lot of their stuff too.
But no one would take that seriously.
Right.
So like, if on your resume you said, sat in on 60 credit hours worth of lectures,
they're gonna be like, you didn't get a degree,
you didn't get a piece of paper saying you did that, then we don't care.
I assume.
The point is, or maybe the example falls apart in those cases,
because this is kind of new stuff too, right?
At least with the online, with the free online versions.
It doesn't fall apart.
That illustrates it.
Because people, yeah, if you don't have a certification from it,
certification from a trustworthy source that you did those things, then...
Yeah.
And it also depends on the employer too.
Like apparently, I've heard allegedly that Google apparently hires based on your credentials
and your skill rather than like your education.
They may well try to.
Yeah.
Oh, exactly, but that's hard to praise.
You have to like actually ask them rather than help us to boring interview questions.
Like, what's your greatest weakness?
