But we'll see.
We'll find a better spot.
Another time.
I bet you can pull that one out again.
Probably.
I've probably done it before too.
For episode 20, what's important, the one where, what are politicians not talking about?
I kind of, I kind of shat on farm subsidies because I didn't like the idea that like,
oh, we're going to pay you and pretend you had a good year.
Just like, that doesn't make sense in any other business model.
If I, if I'm running, whatever, you know, any example, you know, the government just
give you money to keep you in business.
And I kind of stopped there.
Azrael made the good point that look, they say quote, on farm subsidies, not saying they're
necessarily done perfectly, but ensuring that farmers don't go broke because of one year
of terrible weather is pretty important for securing our food supply.
Unquote.
That's a solid point.
And I should have been more well-reasoned.
So I needed to get that out there.
It's a lot like a subsidized farm insurance crop, subsidized crop insurance.
I mean, it's more than just that.
There are other issues.
One of my major issues is that they, they destroy any product that, that they're compensated
for that they didn't sell, which to me is insane.
They don't give it a, yeah, but that's not good for anybody.
You know, they could give it to farm animals.
They could give it to people.
They could, they could do it.
They could do something with it, but to have it literally just destroyed and made useless
is a complete joke.
Economists, tell us why farm subsidies are not a good idea.
Also if you don't destroy it, it drives down the price, which is the exact opposite of
what they're trying to accomplish with the farm bill.
They want to keep the price up at a level where they can stay in business.
Yeah, but still.
They could give it away.
If they give it away, it drives down the price.
Oh, who wouldn't otherwise buy food?
Third world.
Then you destroy the, the local farming community in that third world.
The U.S. gives a lot of food aid.
And I've heard that it has some negative consequences.
Going way back, this is also not without incident saying if we consider the moral weight
of bacteria based on our inability to model them, do we have to give the same to quadruple
pendulums?
And to clarify the AlphaGo point, we can't predict the output of a DNN, which is a deep
neural network, I believe, without to, we can't predict the output of a DNN without
running it.
So I would agree with Enne Ash, which is why I'm reading this, I like being agreed
with, that AlphaGo is in the same category as the bacterium in that we can observe its
behavior but not predict it analytically.
I don't see why the fact that the neural network is running on a computer is super relevant.
That was what I meant when I was saying that AlphaGo is complicated.
It's, yes, we did create it, but we don't know exactly how it's going to, what it's
going to output.
For sure.
Now I can see where that, that point was made.
I, I still stand by, I think that complexity isn't, shouldn't be your go-to metric for
something's moral value, right?
Right.
You can make a really complicated deep-mind computer, but if all it can do is play go,
then it's probably less valuable than, you know, any animal.
Yeah.
So.
You can make a really complicated pendulum system.
Yes.
I need to look up.
What is the four pendulum?
Quadruple pendulum?
Yeah.
It's just four pendulums hooked up together and you cannot predict in advance how it's
going to go through its motions because it's so complicated.
It seems strange.
It seems like something you should be able to predict, but obviously it's not.
That, that wraps up our listener feedback.
Thank you so much for listening.
Come to our website, TheBazingConspiracy.com, or to their subreddit, TheBazingConspiracy,
I think.
But yeah, they'll find it.
Anyway, bye.
Bye.
I waved.
Bye.
TheBazingConspiracy, I think, but yeah, they'll find it.
Anyway, bye.
Bye.
I waved.
Bye.
