I doubt anybody could disagree with that.
It sounds, I mean, I know you're taking a position which is different from a narrow reductionist
position, but it is really, I think demonstrably true what you're saying, it just has to be so.
Now, I know this cuts to the heart of what you've just been saying now, cuts to the heart of some
of what you're doing and some of what you've been doing with Mike in terms of levels of
individuation, how does, if we start more or less randomly start at the level of the single cell,
the interactions occurring at the level of the cell and then their interactions at the
level of the organ constituted by those cells and then at the level of the organ systems and
at the level of the organism as a whole, and then all the way back down again in both directions,
you know, if you think about it physiologically, it's just patently obvious that what you've
just said is so. But now, because I'm interested in consciousness and in feeling, which as I say,
I think is the most fundamental form of consciousness. I want to throw something into the mix,
which is that I do not, this is a kind of, I'm going to say this as a perfectly statement,
and then comes to the question. And I do not think that it's a matter of
hierarchical emergence. I don't think that's the right frame of reference for thinking about
our mind emerges, or how mind in my subjective sense, in other words, of there being something it
is like to be the system. I don't think that it's a matter of, well, first you have cells,
then you have brains, then you have consciousness arising above the level of brains. It's such
a common way in which people think that in at highest levels of the emergence of the functional
system, of the nervous system, you get bingo, suddenly you have consciousness.
I think it's much more a matter of, first of all, which is not to say this is consciousness,
but it's the prerequisite for consciousness, is you have to take the subjective point of view.
It can only ever be observed subjectively. So it's taking the viewpoint of the system upon
its own states. So that's not a level. That is, what is it like to be the brain? What is it like
to be the cortex? What is it like to be a pyramidal neuron? And beyond. And this is a question that
I've been exploring with Mike and Chris Fields in another forum. And because of your special
expertise in this business of what constitutes an individual, I would love to know what you
will take his on that. Because Mike and Chris have really, I was going to say broadened my mind,
but I think more like blown my mind. So what is your take on that, Richard?
Well, yeah, that's a good question, isn't it? I wish I had answers for you.
I guess I can say something about how not to do it from the field of natural selection
and evolutionary units. So the conventional way that it's done, the Dawkins-esque way of approaching
from Williams before him, is to think about the smallest replicating unit, the smallest
unit that reproduces faithfully. And the obvious problem with that view is that whilst it might
be true that those small units get to replicate faithfully, they weren't the units we were interested
in, the higher level organizations that were, well, the question is whether they were manifested
by those genes or whether they were orchestrating the behavior of those genes for the purposes of
their higher level persistence. There's been lots of people trying to talk about, you know,
if I put a bunch of replicators in a bag and select on the bag in which circumstances can I
reasonably call that collective a new evolutionary unit and not just some sort of context in which
the smaller evolutionary units were being selected, if that question makes sense, right?
When is selection on the whole different from the sum of the selection on the paths?
When is the product of natural selection acting on the whole different from
the sum of natural selection acting on each of the paths?
And you can see people getting all bent out of shape in that area in the same
sorts of ways that they get bent out of shape about that in neuroscience and in developmental
biology as well, I think. So I have at least one thing to say about that. So if you want the
effect of selection on the whole to not be decomposable into the sum of the selection on
the paths, then the relationship between the character on the whole and the character on the
parts needs to be a nonlinear separable function like X or if and only if. It can't just be a
nonlinear function like you get an extra bang for your buck, you get a sort of nonlinear
synergy or diminishing returns or something like that. The relationship between the character of
the parts and the character of the whole, I mean, it obviously can't just be linear or additive,
but it can't be sort of simply nonlinear that still remains a nonlinear separable function.
It has to be that still remains a linearly separable function. It has to be a nonlinear
separable function. And that means that, well, the reason that that's important is because that
means that there isn't any character that a part can have that can explain the fitness of the part.
Instead, there can only be combinations of characters that collectives of parts can have
that can explain the fitness of the parts. So to make, to crudely, right, to make, if you want to
know what this input has to do to make the X or output true, there isn't any value that this input
can have that makes the X or output true. That's only a function of itself and the other input.
That tells you what it needs, what they need to do in combination to make the X or output true.
But if the parts are going to get access to the fitness differences that are created by that
interaction, then they have to control the interaction. They can't just be static things.
They have to be things which interact and communicate with one another in order to figure
out answers to policies like, okay, well, if you're going to be plus one, I'll be minus one,
and if you're going to be minus one, I'll be plus one. So we need to, I need to know what you are
and you need to know where I am and I need to respond to what you are and you need to respond
to what I am. We need to do this little dance in order for us to satisfy that non, that non
decomposable product at the higher level of organization, which in evolutionary terms means
there needs to be a developmental process. The developmental process is where that communication
happens between the parts that creates a whole, which is a non decomposable function of the parts.
And the parts can't just be, the fitness of the whole can't then be decomposed into
the fitness contribution that this part made plus the fitness contribution that that part made,
right? Because if you can do that kind of a decomposition, then the whole wasn't anything
at all. So you have to have that developmental process that computes and a collective phenotype
from the collection of particulate phenotypes that you had. And that computation needs to
compute a non-linearly separable function like a deep neural network does, not just like a
perceptron, not just like a shallow network. And then you can have a character that properly
belongs to the collective that can't be decomposed into the fitness contributions of each of the parts.
Now, that's something about sort of what needs to happen and the kind of machinery
that you need to have in order for that to happen. But after you've got that, you start to realize
that the whole, it's reasonable to say that the whole is telling the parts what to do now.
That it's not just that the parts have figured out how to make a whole, but that the whole
is telling the parts what to do. So a simple example in XOR is that a way to calculate XOR
with two hidden nodes is that hidden node one will calculate A and not B. And hidden node two
will calculate B and not A. And then the output can be the XOR of it. But there are other ways to
divide that problem into two hidden nodes. And choosing between one way of dividing it and the
other way of dividing it needs, you need to make that decision, right? We can't, because the other
way of doing it, for example, is well, I'll calculate A and B and you calculate neither
A nor B and then we'll calculate XOR from that, right? And there's no right way to do it. And
which way you're going to do it isn't determined by the correctness of the output. The correctness
of the output doesn't tell you which way to do it. Which way to do it is determined only by
the complementarity of what the parts are doing with respect to one another.
They, you know, they can't discern the output on their own and they can't discern the output,
the correctness of what they're doing with respect to the input output of the system as a whole.
They're only correct with respect to the complementarity of the other parts. And that
complementaryness is something that belongs to the whole. And I think it's reasonable to say that
it's the, it was that the whole is orchestrating the parts to play the roles they need to play
in order for the whole to do the function that the whole wanted to do, right? That that that
responsiveness at that level of organization orchestrates the parts to say, okay, you do A
and not B and you do B and not A and then together that enables us to do this whole thing, right?
So even in that really simple example, I think there's enough there to say
that you're, that a bottom up way of thinking about what's going on there doesn't really explain
enough about what's going on. Is that, does that nibbling at individuality? I'm not,
I'm not sure. I mean, it's obviously at a very low level of description, but it's,
it's the kind of non decomposability that we're reaching for when we talk about emergence
that's that I think is the, the nub of it.
That's, that's very, very interesting. I had an almost,
almost a deceitful thought that occurred, which I will mention before coming to the more serious
question. I was just thinking, given what you were saying about the fundamental part played
in all of this by development and by implication, by learning, given the way that you, that you
think about it. It's amusing that us living systems who are seeking to, to prevent the
ravages of entropy, that in order for us to do this negentropic work, there has to be an arrow
of time if there's a, if there's a learning process. And so that was the semi-deceitful
thought. So in biological science, we have another derivation of the arrow of time, which,
which is in fact resisting the second law rather than derive from the second law.
But more seriously, I mean, everything you say makes perfect sense and it makes formal sense,
forgive the excess light in this room. But away from the light mark.
Let's, let's, let's return to, to my level of, of work. So what you're saying makes perfect
sense from, you know, soul to organ to organ system to organism. It also makes perfect sense
in terms of at least the group, you know, I don't know about the species. I don't know if there,
if there is, if there's work being done at the level of the species. I think the species might
just be the beneficiary, but certainly at the level of a group of, of, of, of social animals.
There, there are functions that are performed, which are directly
survival of the individual members of the group that cannot be performed by them individually.
They require the group at the, you know, it just sort of unpacking the mechanism you've just described
into a prosaic sort of biological situation. But now to the question of consciousness, does that,
does that mean the group is an individual, first of all? And, and, and, and why do we stop at the
group and not, you know, and not at the level of the species? And, and is there, is there a
meaningful and important way in which the, the group is not an individual in the sense that the,
that the, that the individual phenotype is an individual? You know, that, that seems to be an
immediate kind of question that flows from what you're saying. And I don't know how to, I just have
this sort of ridiculous intuition that there is not a, there's not something it is like to be
a group in the way that there is something it is like to be me.
Oh, you do. You, can I say that back? You, your feeling is that there isn't something that it is
like to be a group in the same way that there is something that is like to be in it.
I would emphasize feeling though, because it doesn't make logical sense. It doesn't make
mechanistic sense. So it is just an intuition, or rather, I should call it to prejudice. I find
that, I find that this is what I mean when I say that Mike and Chris have been blowing my mind is
that I find it very hard to make that leap. I'm sure that sales, your sales say the same thing
about you. Well, and, and, you know, and part of it, and this is this has been hitting me more and
more. And I know that, you know, this isn't the kind of issue that we have. But, but I think that
many folks who think about this really emphasize that what's it like to be in an experiential sense.
And in other words, that the input side of the, of that equation, right. And so we have this thing
called epiphenomenalism where some people think, well, yes, you do have real experiences, but you
don't actually act on anything. But there isn't as far as I'm aware, nobody's proposed the opposite
view. Right. In other words, there's a really symmetry in the emphasis that people put on the
feeling side of it. And I'm, I'm very interested in the action side. And in particular, you know, like,
like, so, so first person and then third person, I've been really focusing on second person,
as in starting out all of this getting going by trying to control by, by systems like cells and
smaller things and so on, trying to say to each other, you should do this, they're trying to
sort of hack each other's behavior. And from that, from that action, so I don't even know what the
vocabulary is, but I would be really interested to, you know, sort of the flip side of, of what a lot
of people mean by qualia, which is that, you know, I'm receiving, I feel it's this, but, you know,
the action side, right? What's it like to do? What's it like to know that you have causal,
you know, active, active causal power in the world and to know what your effectors are and then
there's a, there's, so I didn't say anything about the relationship between individuality,
natural selection and learning in that long little monologue that I did. But I think it's much more
to do with, individuality is much more to do with whether you're a kind of system which can
hold history that affects your future, right, which is by learning, right? Can, are you the kind of
system that can be affected by your past in such a way that you hold history that affects how you
behave in the future? But, you know, not in the same way that, well, I put the chair over that,
in that corner of the room and it stays in that corner of the room and then that affects what can
sit on it later, but it has to be in a, in a non decomposable way as well that the whole is more
than the sum of the parts. So there's a related question Mike that occurred to me from what you
just said about this in contrast to the question, what is it like to be? If you think about it in
terms of, is there something that it is like to be a system that has history like that, that has
memory like that? It's more like the question, the question is, what is it like to have been
a system like that, rather than what is it like to be right now in this moment? And then, so there's
the backwards in time, what is it, what is it like to have been a system like that, to have had those
experiences, to have had those learnings, to have had those, to have had that history, what is it
like to be that, right? And then looking forward is like, how does, how does being a system with
that history affect what you do next in, you know, in the cognitive light cone way of thinking about
it, right? That's a fantastic question.
