I, historically, I spent most of my time thinking about evolutionary processes.
And in particular, the phenomena of transitions and individuality, such as from single celled
life to multi celled life, where there's a change in the level of the unit that's doing
the evolving.
More recently, I've been thinking about processes of adaptation that are not natural selection,
that are more like learning than natural selection, and I think that they are different.
And I've been thinking about a way of modeling cognition and learning in terms of oscillations
and synchronization, and how synchronization affects higher level decision making processes.
Things like that.
That's where I'm at at the moment.
When you have to summarize your life's work in a few sentences, it's quite an interesting
exercise.
I'll tell you, there's a little home movie that was made of Sigmund Freud after he had
fled to England in 1939.
It must have been one of the early talking home movies, and he totals up to the camera
in the garden of his house in Hampstead, and he says the following, my name is Sigmund
Freud.
I started my professional life as a neurologist, trying to bring relief to my neurotic patients.
I learned some interesting things along the way, but they came at a terrible price.
That's his life.
I think the terrible price referred to is the loss of the credence of his scientific colleagues.
Although I just randomly, your little summary, very modest summary of what you're up to,
brought that to mind spontaneously, I realized that it's relevant to my own story.
I started my professional life as a neuropsychologist, and as it happens, although I'm sure you don't
know him, I worked with a neurosurgeon named Owen Sparrow, who I subsequently worked with.
I trained in South Africa.
I subsequently worked with him in London at the Royal London Hospital, but he then moved
to Southampton.
He also just pops randomly into mind, but I suppose you don't know him.
I think he must be retired now.
I started out as a neuropsychologist because I was fascinated by what is surely one of
the most fascinating questions, which is how do mind and brain relate?
By mind, I meant this thing that we are busy experiencing, and was rapidly disabused of
that conception of mind.
That was literally what was said to me.
I was told not to ask questions like that because they're bad for my career.
In other words, when learning about memory, for instance, I would ask, but why does it
feel like something to have a memory?
That was the kind of question that was shot down, and really a purely functional and behavioral
and cognitive account of the mind left me very frustrated.
This is why the story about Freud's terrible price came to mind, I think.
What I did when I emigrated to England in the late 1980s, which is when I worked at
the neurosurgery department of the Royal London, by night, while working there by day, I trained
as a psychoanalyst, which, as one of my colleagues at that time said, was like an astronomer
training in astrology.
The reason I did that is probably obvious.
It's that for all of its enormous faults, psychoanalysis was the one approach to mental
science which took as its starting point a subjective experience, took as its data, the
experience of the life of the mind.
As part of my training, I had to, myself, undergo a psychoanalysis, which I must tell
you, took me nine years, five times a week, so I really got to know myself five times
a week for nine years, yes.
That was a little longer than was required by the training, but it is quite an education
to get to know yourself in that degree of detail and depth.
What you quickly learn, if you take that subjective observational perspective on the mind, is what
a terribly important part is played by feelings, which is precisely, I think in retrospect,
it's probably the most fundamental form of subjective experience.
It is what comes from the subject, what the subject brings to its deception of objects.
My research around that time, because of the melding of these different interests, my main
focus was brain mechanisms of dreaming.
Actually, I see I'm giving a much longer version than you, because I suspect you won't
know my work as well as I know yours, but what I learned about the brain mechanisms
of dreaming was that they are not the same thing as the brain mechanisms of REM sleep,
which we had until that point assumed they were.
In other words, we assumed that we knew on the basis of correlation that dreaming happens
during REM sleep, and on that basis we assumed that dreaming was simply the subjective experience
of the objective physiological state of being in REM sleep, and therefore they were assumed
to share the same causal mechanism.
Once that correlation was established, the interest in dreams was abandoned because they
are such slippery fish when it comes to data gathering, and we studied only the physiological
mechanisms and using the methods, the best methods available at that time inevitably
meant studying animals, because you can't isolate or you couldn't those days where there
were no methods for isolating which parts of the brain were causally responsible for
generating this state without invasive techniques.
So the subjective side was completely disregarded, and all the work done on identifying the brain
mechanisms of dreaming was done on animals, and then there was no possibility of course
of monitoring what these lesions were doing to the subjective experience of dreams.
And I then did a big study, which are published in the 90s, of human beings, 361 of them to
be precise with focal brain lesions, studying the effects of those lesions on their experience
of dreaming.
And what I found was, first of all, damage to the MISA pontine tegmentum, which leads
to loss of REM sleep in human beings, just as it does in other animals, did not lead
to loss of dreaming.
And conversely, that there was another lesion site in the ventromesial quadrant of the frontal
lobes in the white matter down there, which led to loss of dreaming with preservation
of REM sleep, so they turned out to be doubly dissociable functions.
And that's the price we pay if we ignore, if we disregard, eschew subjective data.
Anyway, to fast forward from there, I became interested in the brain, from the brain mechanisms
of REM sleep and dreaming, I became interested in brain mechanisms of consciousness generally,
and recognizing that we were taking too cortical an approach to the study of consciousness,
that consciousness is fundamentally generated in upper brain stem structures.
For example, the smallest lesion that is required to induce coma is two cubic millimeters in
the parabrakeal complex.
And human beings born with no cortex certainly seem perfectly conscious in the sense that
they wake up in the morning, and that they're reactive to stimuli, and in particular, they
are emotionally reactive, as are decortical animals, but even in human beings with no
cortex, consciousness persists.
And so I became interested in those brain stem sources of consciousness, and then gradually
persuaded of the view that this is not some sort of purely quantitative level of consciousness
that's generated down there, it's not just a blank wakefulness, that it has quality and
content of its own, and that is an affective feeling.
So I've been in recent years working on two fronts, the one is trying to better understand
what precisely is going on in these upper brain stem structures that are both prerequisite
for any form of consciousness, and specifically generate affective feelings, trying to understand
the relationship between affect and consciousness, understanding consciousness as fundamentally
affective, and trying to reduce that to its underlying mechanisms, and even to try and
reduce it to formalism, to mathematical formalisms, because it turns out it's all fundamentally
homoesthetic, affect is an extended form of homoesthesia, it's not a very complicated
thing.
So together with Carl Christen, who I know you both know, I've been trying to understand
at a fundamental level what our affect is generated mechanistically in the belief that
if we can get a grip on that, then we will have a mechanistic group on consciousness
itself, and the other track that I'm working on, which takes me into your world, both of
your worlds, and also somewhat out of my depth, is an attempt to, together with colleagues,
computer scientists and physicists and roboticists, trying to artificially engineer a system
with the mechanisms that we have inferred from the biological case, trying to instantiate
that same mechanism in an artificial consciousness.
And so that's the wildest thing I've ever been involved, I'm fortunately old enough
now to be allowed to do wild things without destroying my career, but absolutely fascinating
thing to be doing too.
So that's a very long-winded account of who I am and what I'm up to, Richard.
Thank you.
Are we assuming that Mike doesn't need to do an intro because we both know Mike already?
We both know Mike, yes.
So one thing popped up there was this two cubic millimeters of brain at the top of
the stem, and its role in consciousness or the smallest lesion that could remove consciousness.
And whether or not that's the same as saying that's the place where consciousness is generated.
They're not the same things, are they?
No, that's a fallacy that has long bedeviled my field.
I mean, starting with Broca, the idea that a lesion in a specific part of the frontal
cortex, which obliterates the capacity to speak or at least to speak grammatically and
that finding means that there's a language centre, there's a part of the cortex within
which the faculty for language resides.
And so, of course, that is a long-headed reasoning.
It's not from the, sorry, go ahead.
No, but I think it nevertheless is an important and interesting fact that's that damage to
such a small area can obliterate consciousness entirely because it demonstrates, and that's
the word that's used, I think, correctly, it demonstrates that it is prerequisite that
without that, you can't have consciousness.
So it must be contributing something fundamental to what is obviously a more system-wide state.
So I mean, it's similar to genes for language, right?
You find what's the smallest genetic knockout which stops you from having an eye or stops
you from developing properly or stops you from whatever.
The smallest genetic knockout that breaks something is not the same as saying that's
the place where the information for that thing lives.
Yeah.
So for that reason, alongside another one, which I'll briefly mention, I told you that
these children, by the way, the condition is called hydranine cephaly, not hydrosethy,
but hydranine cephaly, these kids, of course, they can't speak because they have no cortex.
And so many of my colleagues' question are skeptical to put it politely, that they really
are conscious.
They say that it's the moral fantasy.
I would like to believe that they're conscious.
So I project the property of consciousness onto the behavioral observations that I see.
I hasten to add, none of them have actually related to these kids.
It's something to say that in the kind of abstract philosophical way.
It's a lot harder to sustain when you have experience of interacting with them.
But because of that doubt and also because of the fallacy that you just referred to,
I want to point out that the only evidence for this part of the brain, this upper brain
stems a pivotal role in consciousness and the aspect of consciousness in particular,
is not the lesion evidence.
It's not the only evidence at all.
I'll just quickly mention a few other lines of converging findings.
The one is that if you stimulate those structures electrically, which we get opportunities to
do every now and then in awake brain surgeries.
You generate the most intense affective states.
You don't generate a sort of waxing and waning of a level of arousal.
What you generate is intense feelings.
I mean, for example, suicidal depressions in people who've never been depressed.
Intense fear, dread and pain, excruciating pain and so on.
Really intense affects.
In fact, the treatment of chronic pain follows the same line of finding that there's a part
of the upper brain stem called the periaqueductal gray, where you can stimulate with higher
voltage electrodes and modulate, I mean, very clinically successfully modulate chronic pain.
But so that's the brain stimulation evidence.
There's also imaging.
The brain stimulation evidence, your examples were only negative affect.
No, you can, you know, positive and negative affect.
Although it is an interesting finding.
In fact, it was recently commented upon somewhere just a couple of weeks ago.
I forget where I read that, that we find more sites in the cortex that generate affect generate
negative rather than positive affects.
But the affects you generate with cortical stimulation barely deserve to be called affects.
And they're more like memories or memories of feelings rather than rather than you get
the widest range and the most intense affects from upper brain, particularly periaqueductal
gray, but at all of those reticular activating nuclei and the diencephalic ones and basal
foregrain ones, you know, just above them.
But then there's also imaging, functional imaging, you image research participants when
they are in intense affective states and where the activation is, is upper brain stem
and the pathways ascending from them.
Interestingly, that includes orgasm, by the way, speaking of positive affects.
But interestingly, the main line medications used by psychiatrists, you know, we don't
often think about this, but they are manipulating serotonin, dopamine, noradrenaline and so
on. And these, these are neuromodulators that the source cells of which are in the
reticular activating system.
So, you know, if these systems were just for the level of arousal, you can see why an anesthetist
might be tinkering with them.
But no, it's, it's the everyday, you know, psychopalm ecological interventions that manipulate
those systems.
So if you take all of those different lines of evidence, you know, the lesions, the brain
