Hello and welcome, everyone. This is Physics as Information Processing, Session 4 on Communicating
Observers. It's the 10th of August 2023. Chris, looking forward to this lecture off to you.
Thank you, Daniel, and welcome to this session.
As Daniel said, this is about communicating observers and fastening your seatbelts,
because we have a lot to cover in the next hour.
So just to do a quick review, we've been talking about quantum information theory,
and we've been talking about it in the simplest possible setting of two systems, Alice and Bob,
that exchange information through their mutual boundary.
And we've assumed that everything is finite dimensional, so we don't need to worry about
infinite energy transfer across this boundary. And of course, we assume conservation of energy,
so there are no sources or sinks in either of the systems Alice and Bob.
And we emphasize that this way of depicting things as topological, we're not assuming any
background geometry, no sort of spatial embedding, which is going to become very important in this
session. In the last session, we talked about how the boundary, which I'll always call B,
it can be thought of as a channel that comprises in qubits that are independent,
and Alice and Bob each can prepare and measure those qubits. And they can always choose
independently their reference frames for doing so, so how they define up and down when they're
measuring a spin with effectively a Z-spin operator to interact with these qubits.
We talked a little bit about the free energy principle and its quantum formulation.
And the principle basically says that interacting systems will behave in a way that aligns their
reference frames and that they therefore asymptotically approach entanglement.
So the FEP is a classical limit of the principle of uniterity. And that's one reason for studying
quantum information to learn more about the FEP and so to learn more about active inference
and what the theory of active inference says about agents.
And last time we talked a lot about the constraints that are imposed by a limited free energy supply
on any agent. Recall that we talked about the fact that in the absence of sources of free energy
within an agent, so as long as you conserve energy globally, that the free energy that each
agent uses has to come from its environment. That's clearly true for us. We have to consume oxygen
and eat food and things like that to keep running as systems. And we discussed a little bit this
theorem that if two reference frames or quantum processes Q1 and Q2 don't commute,
they have to be implemented by compartments that communicate classically. And we'll use this
extensively today. But the bottom line last time was that physics alone gives us compartmentalization
in systems whenever the systems are complex enough to have multiple kinds of measurements that they
can't deploy simultaneously. So where we're going, today we're going to start from this
place we left off last time of the possibility of agents that are compartmentalized
and into compartments that have to communicate classically. So we're going to talk about agents
that can be compartmentalized into multiple subagents that share an environment, the environment
consisting of Bob, and how those agents talk about that shared environment.
So the motivation for this is simple. It's that what we do all the time is a group activity.
And what we're doing right now is a group activity that involves sharing an environment,
what's shown on this screen, and talking about it. And the whole post-session discussion process
will be another example of just that sort of thing. So to talk about science at all, or to talk
about any kind of social relations, or to talk about anything other than solipsism, we have to
be able to talk about how multiple agents communicate about some shared environment.
And so that's what we're going to develop a formal way of talking about.
And there are two things to notice right off the top about this. One is that the way we've defined
interactions of boundaries, they're effectively instantaneous. So each agent, remember,
interacts with its boundary with some set of operators. And what those operators do is
effectively measure, each operator effectively measures the spin of a cubic. So this is a very
fast process. The other thing that we then need to notice is that if we have two agents,
and they're communicating with each other classically, then they're going to be using degrees
of freedom of their shared environment in order to communicate. And that's exactly what we're
doing right now. For example, we're using degrees of freedom of the internet to communicate. I'm
using degrees of freedom of the local atmosphere to talk to my microphone. And I'm using degrees of
freedom of the local photon field to see my screen. So all communication between agents,
and certainly all classical communication between agents,
uses degrees of freedom of the environment. And the environment, remember, is the other system,
Bob, that's on the other side of that shared boundary. So we're going to be interested in
how components of Alice use Bob as a communication channel, and in fact, as multiple communication
channels. And I just wanted to quote my colleague and friend, Mike Levin, in his statement that
all intelligence is composite. All of us, all organisms, even single cells, are composite
systems that comprise many, many different agents that are able to make different kinds of measurements
and execute different kinds of actions, and so have to communicate classically.
So we're talking about all of life here, as well as all of social systems and ecosystems,
and such things as that. So the first thing I want to do today is simplify the notation
so that we don't have to draw quite such complicated diagrams. So the picture on the left
here is a picture from the last session. It shows the structure of a very simple agent that
makes some measurements using a reference frame called E, and then writes some results of those
measurements to memory using a reference frame called Y. And those two processes are connected
by an internal clock that ticks between the input process and the output process. And the clock
tick corresponds to the expenditure of free energy to write information irreversibly on the
boundary. So the memories are actually written on the boundary because that's where classical
information lives in this theory. So you can think of this whole process from E through the clock and
back to Y as a single quantum process or as a quantum computation that maps some sector E of
the boundary to some sector Y of the boundary. And so we can represent it in this much simpler way
that's over on the right side as some process Q that maps some sector on the boundary to some
other sector on the boundary. And formally, that process can be thought of as a topological quantum
field theory. Topological here is important. It's not geometric. It doesn't assume an embedding
in space. And this will become critically important later on. And the operation of that
TQFT requires a clock tick, or it incorporates a tick of this internal clock.
And we can do this because we were able to prove, Jim Glaceburg and Tonino Marchiano and I were
able to prove last year, that we can always represent a quantum reference frame as a topological
quantum field theory. And this just illustrates the two kinds of transformations between
quantum reference frames that are important. We can take one and divide it into two pieces
that commute, or we can take a two-part reference frame, and we can swap in
another part that doesn't commute with the part that we've swapped it in for, but that does commute
with the remainder of the reference frame. So here, R is the reference component of some object
identification system. And we can swap in some different way of looking at the object
once we've identified. So for example, if the object that we're identifying is a box that can
measure both Z-spin and X-spin, then P and Q can be the Z-spin and X-spin settings on that box
that allow us to effectively rotate the filter from this way to that way, so that we measure
vertical spin versus horizontal spin. And that's really it. I mean, those are the ways that one
can transform quantum reference frames. Of course, we can do arbitrarily many compositions of this
kind of transformation to do something very complicated, but they map very simply to TQFTs
with the structure, and you can construct categories out of this and find a fumpter that's
well-defined that maps one category to another. So it's an example of the niches of categorical
techniques for solving a problem that looks difficult, but in fact, it's very straightforward.
So using this simplified notation, it becomes very easy to see
that if we have two systems, Alice and Bob, on opposite sides of this boundary,
and we perfectly align their quantum reference frames, which is what the FEP says they will
tend to do, then they become entangled. And you can see that they're entangled by seeing that once
the reference frames are perfectly aligned, they jointly implement one quantum process.
And jointly implementing one quantum process just means you're entangled. The two sides no longer
have conditionally independent states. If one quantum process, which is time reversible,
information preserving, is implemented jointly by the two systems. So a lot of things like
this become very simple when we think of these processes as just quantum computations going on
inside some system implemented by some system and how those processes relate across some boundary.
So that's what we're going to do for studying communication today.
Another thing to recall from a couple of sessions ago, or last session, is that if two
reference frames Q1 and Q2 commute, we can always join them together to form a single
reference frame. And this is just a graphical depiction in this simpler language of how that works.
And topologically, there's no distinction between the left side and the right side.
What I've done is just squeeze the top two green circles together and the bottom two
green circles together into one circle. And that just makes a simple process connecting
the top one to the bottom one. So what we're going to be interested in is situations where this
doesn't happen, where Alice consists of two components that execute reference frames that
don't commute. And so the two components are conditionally independent. They do each have
free choice of reference frame. And so they have to communicate classically. They don't share
a single quantum process. So they're not entangled. And before we go ahead to do that,
I just wanted to remind you of some of the no-go theorems that follow from this situation
depicted on the right, where we have a single agent executing a single reference frame,
a single process, a single kind of measurement, any set of commuting measurements that can be
combined into one measurement. And here's some things Alice can't do. And we've talked about
some of these previously. So this is basically a reminder. But Alice can't, using just one
measurement, measure the entanglement entropy across her own boundary. So Alice can't know
that she has an independent state. She can't know that she's not entangled with Bob. And that's a
useful thing to think about philosophically, as it applies to you and me. We can't actually know
that we have independent states. Alice can't measure her own entanglement entropy. So she
can't know whether she has components that have to communicate classically.
She can't measure Bob's entanglement entropy. So she can't know whether Bob has compartments
that have to communicate classically. And if you think in terms of perception theory,
this says Alice can't know whether Bob consists of separate objects that behave classically.
Their behavior can look classical to her. But she's not able to determine that their
behavior is classical because she can't measure Bob's entanglement entropy.
She can't measure the dimension of her own boundary. And recall from a couple of times ago
that the boundary includes some sector that supplies free energy that Alice can't extract
information from for further processing. She can only extract free energy from.
So she can't measure the dimension of that sector. And so she can't measure the dimension of the
whole boundary itself. And this of course means that she can't measure her own dimension either.
And of course she can't measure Bob's dimension because the only information she can get about
Bob is the classical information that's encoded on this boundary. She can't reach past the boundary
to see how large a system Bob is. And that's clearly connected to this first point that she
can't measure the entanglement entropy across Bob because the entanglement entropy can only be small
if her dimension and Bob's dimension are both much larger than the dimension of the boundary.
So that's a condition she can't check. So all of these kind of no-go theorems lead off an interesting
direction. And the only one that we're really going to be interested in here is the third one,
the one about measuring Bob's entanglement entropy because we want to talk specifically about how
multiple agents, so multiple components of Alice, can access information about Bob's entanglement
entropy. Okay, so recall from the end of the last session that the last thing we talked about was
classical communication. And we talked about the fact that classical communication involves
assumptions and pitfalls and that we have to be very careful whenever we talk about it.
And what we're going to do today is standard practice in physics. We're simply going to stipulate
that of these components, A1 and A2, the separable components of Alice communicate
classically. And so we're going to draw out like this. We're going to draw a classical channel
between them. And that classical channel passes through Bob. It uses degrees of freedom of the
ambient photon field or the ambient atmosphere or pieces of paper or email or something like that
that's out there in the environment to exchange classical messages. And there are a couple of
things to note here. I haven't even written down here. We're assuming that A1 and A2 share some
language for this classical communication. That's a big assumption as we talked about last time.
But I will note explicitly that classical communication takes time. That's what defines
classicality here. It's causal. So it can't work faster than the speed of light.
This is a topological theory. We don't have an embedding geometry. So we can't at this point
talk about light, which is a relationship between space and time. Because we've got time,
we've got clocks, but we don't have any space. But we can say that whatever passes through
this classical channel requires at least one clock tick on Bob's side. So it's a process that
Bob has to execute. And executing that process takes time. So getting the signal from me to you
on the internet takes some time. So the environment's clock has to tick during that.
And all of these assumptions bundled together turn out to be a fairly serious set of assumptions.
And they involve assumptions about fine tuning, about the universe being just right.
And they should make us nervous. And I just want to leave it at that. We always assume
with complete aplomb that agents can communicate classically, but it's not a straightforward
assumption. And it's worth any of you are looking at, for interesting research projects,
can look into the nature of classical communication. It's full of hidden assumptions
and surprises and things that aren't at all straightforward, even though they look like
they ought to be. So there's a challenge. So why do we assume this? Why do we assume
classical communication? We do it because we have to, if we're going to talk about detecting
entanglement. And most of you probably know the history of the notion of entanglement.
It was first noticed by Einstein, Podolski, and Rosen ever after called EPR in 1935.
And they wrote a paper, which is infamous and called the EPR paper, in which they argued that
the phenomenon of entanglement made no sense and couldn't possibly be physical.
And since quantum theory included this notion of entanglement, it couldn't possibly be a complete
theory of what's going on in the world. And Schrodinger replied the same year with a very
detailed paper where he introduces among other things Schrodinger's cat as a paradox.
And he explains very clearly what entanglement is and why entanglement follows from quantum theory.
And he uses that discussion to argue that the classical notion of a physical state is not
actually applicable to the world as it is. So he answers the EPR paper very directly.
And this discussion is currently mostly known as the Bohr-Einstein debate because of course Bohr,
already in 1928, has said in print that the classical notion of causality in space and time
simply doesn't apply anymore. And Einstein objected to that vigorously. But that was 1935.
And it was almost 50 years later that entanglement was first observed in the laboratory. Here,
the 1982 picture is a picture of the interior of Alan Asbest laboratory when he performed
the first entanglement experiment for which he finally won the Nobel Prize last year.
And these days, this kind of experiment is done all over the world and is even done with
satellite-borne sources. Potential resource is the key to quantum security, quantum
security communication, as we'll discuss in quantum cryptography and quantum banking,
the quantum internet, all this other stuff that you may have heard of.
So before talking more about these experiments, I just want to provide a definition of entanglement.
Entangled simply means not separable. That's the definition. So a state, a joint state,
a b is entangled if and only if it does not factor into two separable states.
And that's it. That's the definition. And the literature and especially the popular literature
