given what we're learning in the quantum information sciences?
I think we're learning how serious they are. But they were certainly recognized even by Bohr
in his 1928 paper. And that's a very good paper, too. It's called the present state of quantum
theory or something like that, and it's in nature. And it's available on the web somewhere.
I have a copy of it. But it was written, in a sense, as Bohr's summary of the 1927 Solvay
conference, which was the conference at which everyone doing quantum theory at that time
got together to talk about their results. And in it, Bohr essentially presents what came to be
the Copenhagen interpretation, which I think is probably unfairly called an interpretation.
And it's sort of the Copenhagen pragmatic stance toward quantum theory. And essentially what Bohr
says is that if we're going to do science, we have to assume that people can talk to each other.
And if we're going to do science, we have to assume that there are instruments that we can
manipulate and have reasonable confidence that we know what manipulation we've done. So if I turn
a knob from one to two, I have to be reasonably confident that I'm making a particular change
that I can understand. And we have to have reasonable confidence that different laboratories can
replicate the same experiment. And if we think about any of those assumptions in purely quantum
theoretic terms, then all sorts of questions are raised, right? Every quantum system is unique.
We have the no cloning theorem. So every scientific instrument is unique. So there's no such thing as
exactly replicating an experiment, right? That's a coarse-grained description of what I've done
with a completely unique quantum system. And my brain, of course, is unique. And yours is too,
and everyone else's is. So talking about a sharing a language is essentially a coarse-grained assumption.
And what the Copenhagen stance is all about is coarse-graining, yielding, effective classicality.
Or what that really means is coarse-graining, yielding, a description that we can use in
the language that we understand. So these are very, very old issues that have been recognized for a
long time. But I think, in part, because of the disaster of shut up and calculate,
they haven't really been talked about in the classroom.
Awesome. I'll just read short questions from the chat. We can just, we can pass them to the
discussion section, but there's a lot of great diverse questions. So Alexi wrote.
I think I've lost you again. The Revenge of Zoom.
Well, we looked at the chart earlier where like Bob was talking to Alice,
the unidirectional communication. Okay, good.
Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. The unidirectional. The third party is recording it, I'm sure.
Alexi wrote regarding the environment for being used for error correction. A symptom of
derealization in psychological trauma breakdown. We don't recognize the environment around us and
it's scary. Makes sense. Makes sense. All right. From Bala. Nice presentation. I heard Chris say,
entangled states are LOCC for a specific reference frame. Is this entanglement unitary or
is it related to the numbers of degrees of freedom?
I think the quick answer would be both. If you have a complex system with many
degrees of freedom, some can be entangled while others aren't. It depends on what parts of the
state are separable. So again, entanglement is just a statement about
components of a joint state that factor or don't.
So you can have a joint state that looks separable along some dimensions, but
other dimensions. The other big complication here is that
whether a state looks entangled depends on the reference frames that you use to measure it with.
And if you pick entangled reference frames, then what we ordinarily think of as separable
does entangled states become separable. So you can move entanglement around.
Awesome. Okay. From Roland Rodriguez. Is the discrete temporality only within the context
of a given holographic screen interface? With time being bracketed otherwise,
beyond interface systems is continuity or discretion kept agnostic?
I think if I understand the question correctly, it's yes. If I don't draw any boundaries,
I just have the joint state, then the evolution is unitary. And in a sense, time plays no role.
And if unitary evolution is perfectly time symmetric, so time actually drops out altogether.
Awesome. So to talk about time, we have to draw boundaries.
Awesome. Time must have a stop. And I'll ask one last question from the appropriately
monocled question quanderer. All communication is abductive. Is a sentiment that I've been
using to develop some arguments? Does that scan for you? How do we connect what we're discussing
here with quantum to abductive logic? Yeah. I could go along with that. I want a lot more detail.
All communication is essentially analogical. I would agree with that. Yes.
Andrew? Yes, thank you. So going back to the picture where the scattering picture,
so we have so far everything is topological and certainly induces breaking the boundary
in different sectors. I suppose it induces a topology on the boundary. Now, I have a couple
questions asked for the geometry, and this might be getting ahead. Is it an emerging property of
those channels between different boundary sectors? And if that's the case, then what does it mean to
have a QRF for space? Yeah, this is really the topic for September. But you do point out the
fact that it's something of a chicken and egg situation. The way I think of it is I suppose
to choose the chicken side and think about what kind of reference frame does the agent have to
implement to see space on their boundary? And the reason I think about it that way is
that's a question I want to be able to ask about biological systems. And this actually gets into
probably what won't be talked about until October. But I want to be able to ask
essentially a phylogenetic question of what sorts of organisms, where in the lineage from Luca,
do we find systems that are able to assign spatial coordinates to their boundaries?
And what coordinates come first? And I suspect that sort of discrete location names with no metric
come first. That a system can talk about, for example, this part of their membrane versus
that part of their membrane without even having any ability to say how far apart they are.
That some sort of metric representation of this angular space comes later.
And that a radial space comes even later than that. That's at this point speculation. But I
think these are questions that we can end up asking given the right kind of formalism
and the right understanding of what it means to be able to make a spatial measurement.
So the conjecture is that the metric would emerge from a discrete network metric of counting ticks
sort of thing? Yeah, I think that's correct. And the sort of cemeteries of space that we see
are very much tied up with object identity. So if we think about something like rotational symmetry,
let's see. I should stop screen sharing.
So I've got this object, right? And I can do this and I say, oh, the space has this rotational
symmetry. But for me to say that, I have to recognize that this is the same object, right?
I have to implement object persistence, which we all learn to do when we're nine months old or
something. But we tend to regard those as separate things as, you know, we learn object persistence
because space is rotationally symmetric. But we can view it the other way around that space is
rotationally symmetric for me, because I implement these constraints that are called object persistence.
Do you think we can understand phylogenetics as a whole, as a kind of scattering experiment,
like the high energy Luca event, and then dissipating and propagating in a very tangled bank?
Well, I do want to be able to understand phylogeny in exactly the same terms as embryology.
And Mike Levin and I have published papers about that. We should be able to view the
lineage of Luca in exactly the same way that, you know, we view the lineage of the zygote that produced us.
So that's why it's no coincidence that during pregnancy, the development of the embryo
mirrors evolution in terms of the parts that are developed first?
Yeah, this is the old idea that phylogenia and ontogenia are related in some way,
which from an embryonic development point of view, they're certainly analogous in ways.
And sorry, if I may ask one last question, I think it should be very quick.
Regarding the weak rotation, I'm still a bit unsure of how it ties to this
diagrammatic notation that we had with quantum channels and so on.
And there was a note in the second session, we briefly talked about the weak rotation,
you know, being a reversal in the direction of time. Is there any relation to today's session?
Yeah, whenever we think about the flow of time as driven by the input output cycle,
the input output cycle for agents separated by a boundary is always, there's always a sign
change, right? My input is your output and vice versa. So when we think about the
Bob's clock ticking when Alice does something, his direction of time, in a sense,
points with respect to the boundary opposite to hers.
But that's only with respect to the boundary. He sees information flowing in and she sees
information flowing in. That's the only point being made here about the weak rotation as an
operation. Thank you, Chris. Very well appreciated by the viewers and by us. So we'll certainly
look forward to reviewing the Q&A and everybody is welcome and encouraged to join for the
participatory discussion in about two weeks on Saturday. So till next time.
All right. Thank you. Cheers.
