The following conversation between Gregory Landway, Daniel Schmockdenberger, and Jason
Snyder was recorded for the Planetary Regeneration podcast hosted by Gregory.
It is being shared here to include the Doomer Optimism community.
All right.
Wow, I'm super, super stoked about this episode of the Planetary Regeneration podcast.
I have my friends, Daniel Schmockdenberger and Jason Snyder, to dig into a conversation
about the edges and potential of localism, global coordination, failures, challenges,
and opportunities, and super grateful for both of your time this afternoon, this evening.
And yeah, just stoked to dive in.
Maybe I'll just do a quick introduction for each of you.
I'm pretty sure that most guests, listeners, that is, know both of you, but I'll start
with Daniel.
So Daniel Schmockdenberger is, I think, really one of the more rigorous and interesting thinkers
amongst a particular emerging field of thought that is exploring, I don't know, I've heard
this sort of broadly, this loose confederation of people referred to as Game B a little bit,
although in some ways, Daniel, I don't totally put you in that category, but at least Game
B adjacent and provocative and sort of like leading a lot of those conversations.
And Jason, you're one of the co-conveners and co-creators of the Doomer Optimism movement
and podcast, and I think this is sort of a meeting of different but similar ways of thinking
about the meta-crisis and maybe in some way the meta-opportunity or potential for we humans
and how to inhabit the earth in a better way.
So with that, I'd love it, maybe pass it over to you, Daniel, just to say hello and maybe
anything you want to just frame out or say hello to the audience and then Jason, get
your voice in there.
And then I think after we do a quick round, let's jump into the meat of the conversation
here together.
I'll let you take it from here, Daniel.
Well, thank you for having me.
It's really good to be here.
Greg, I remember you and I were talking about this when we met at a conference some number
of months ago and we're talking about potential downsides to exclusively localist focus.
And so I look forward to getting into that content.
But I have always appreciated your work that is looking at how to have tech in service
of nature rather than the idea that a high-nature world means a low-tech world or a high-nature
tech world is exploitative of nature because if some subset of the population tries a lower
tech world and the other doesn't, the ones trying a lower tech world simply can't influence
the ones that have a higher tech world all that much because the tech ends up equaling
power.
So how do we get tech in service of ecology and foundational humanity, I think, is critically
important and regenerative focus.
And I am just meeting Jason, but since I work on catastrophic risk, the doomer optimism
theme is good because our approach is to take all of the catastrophic risks collectively
as the design constraints for what humanity has to coordinate to make it through and to
look at only those models of civilization and make it through all the catastrophic risks
as viable, which is definitely taking a well-informed-by-the-doom approach and then looking at how to thread
that needle as the optimist approach or what we can call post-cynical optimism sometimes.
So looking forward to seeing where we go.
Great.
Well, hello.
Pleasure to be here.
I've known Gregory for a little while and I'd like to say that we're friends and sometimes
we argue about things, but that's good.
Daniel, I've followed your work on podcasts for a few years and I feel like it's been
very useful for me to help frame my thinking, so it's an honor to be in conversation with
both of you.
I guess here I'm representing the doomer optimism podcast in world, even if it's not a monolithic
thing.
So I don't know to the degree that I can represent it.
I'm happy to be here.
Yeah.
And thanks for being here, Jason.
I forgot to mention, I think we're going to be co-releasing this on the doomer optimism
feed and the planetary regeneration feed.
So I'm pretty excited about that cross-pollination.
So just to start out, Daniel, I love the framing of high-tech, high-nature, low-tech, high-nature,
low-nature, high-tech, this sort of quadrant framework, probably you could sort of think
of it with tech and nature on opposing sides and what happens when you're strategically
oriented in those different ways.
So do you want to just take a brief moment to expand on that as a framework for thinking
about strategies in the 21st century for people who are kind of bumping up against the metacrisis,
the meaning crisis and thinking about vocations and life ways and what the hell do we all
do as individuals or as communities?
Yeah, sure.
I think if you put it on a two-by-two grid like that, high and low nature, high and low
tech, from where we are and with the implicit coordination dynamics that have to be dealt
with, I think the way you framed it, the high technology, high nature, and more specifically
technology in service of the rejection of nature and our ability to continue to engage
with it, part of it is the only quadrant that can forward.
The low-nature, high-tech is the one we're on, right, we just use our technology to nature
into trash faster than either side of that open loop can reject health trash and pollution.
And if you think about rising out of nature, building tech, using the tech to compete with
other humans to convert nature into commodities, pollution, and waste faster, that is obviously
us using our exponentially increasing capability to destroy the substrate that we depend upon.
I'm not thinking of nature as a substrate, it is a good way of thinking about it because
it leads to this kind of extract way of being, people thinking about nature as intrinsically
meaningful, beautiful, sacred, and that our life should be in relationship to and in
service to it is much better, but even from just a kind of human utilitarian view in so
far as we emerge out of, and it is our substrate, any system that debases the substrate it depends
on is in the process of self-terminating.
So the increasing tech that way, right, a linear materials economy that is looking at
nature as natural resources to be extracted, and the other side of that after they're used
for a short period of time is pollution and waste, and we're extracting them faster than
they can replenish, so we get depletion and all the planetary boundaries on the depletion
side, loss of species, loss of soil, loss of hydrocarbons, phosphorus, blah, blah, blah.
Then turning them into waste and pollution on the other side, faster than they can be
processed, climate change, chemical planetary boundaries, mining wastes, etc.
All the planetary boundaries come from high tech.
With our financial system having embedded growth obligations and a linear materials economy
being what coordinates how that tech works, and so to not cross all the planetary boundaries,
we have to address that.
If you tried to say, well, what about the low tech ones?
Low tech, low nature is like the image of some kind of post-apocalyptic scorched earth.
There's a few humans left on a shady biosphere in a caveman-like life.
High nature, low tech might seem like a nice option, except it's not inactable.
This is where we were historically, but if unless the entire world agrees to all decrease
its tech, then whoever doesn't, whether they have more military tech or more extraction
tech, whatever, they're going to grow their populations faster when in warfare, have more
geopolitical influence, all those other things.
Because whoever is seeking to do something that is in service to nature that doesn't
cross planetary boundaries has to influence everyone else, because it's not like people
in some area can solve a planetary boundary by themselves, and yet they're all affected
by the planetary boundary.
If we want to avoid breaking the hydrological pump of the Amazon or having fluorinated surfactants
everywhere, kill everything, or species extinction, we have to change what China does and what
India does and what Europe does and what the US do, which means you've got to have a model
that either they're going to adopt, which means that whatever you're doing has to actually
be able to influence.
And so realizing that there isn't a king of everything that can say, let's degrowth
and lower tech, then you don't want some groups opting to do a thing that isn't enough to
change the planetary reality and definitely can't influence the rest of the scenario.
So how do you use the top tools of coordination and technology in a way that regenerates rather
than depletes and that has the capacity to influence the rest of the world to adopt them
in time seems to me the only way forward?
Word that totally mimics my analysis and view.
There's a whole bundle of questions there that I'm really excited to dig into with both of you.
I think I kind of want to weave your voice in here, Jason, just, you know, what emerges
for you when you hear this sort of, you know, kind of, I think Daniel's staking out a pretty
clear perspective, which I basically agree with that, you know, if you think about this
hard, you sort of realistically, we have to be acting in the high tech, high nature quadrant.
I think, you know, I like that framing, it matches my logical perspective.
And I know that that's not going to match a lot of people's perspective in the
doomer optimism community, who are going to be thinking maybe there are ways to move forward
with a low tech, high nature existence or transformation.
So I'm just curious, you know, what are your thoughts and questions after listening to Daniel?
Yeah, OK. Well, I guess, first, I would want to question what kind of high tech I think most of
us enjoy the Internet, and we're often reflective that we do enjoy the Internet,
and what it enables, even though you were kind of let I adjust adjacent.
And so what does that mean? I would also want to kind of question you guys on how you would have
high tech without sacrifice zones, all of the mining of, say, the copper that would go into
all the renewable energy technologies and infrastructure for digital technologies in general.
What so I guess for me, the question isn't so much high tech versus low tech, but what is the
appropriate technology? And then bring in your challenge, Daniel, with the with the multipolar
traps. You know, I don't think I can argue with you. I think your logic is correct.
One lens that I often use is I happen to think that in many ways, collapse is happening,
or is going to be happening faster, both because of planetary boundaries, but also
because of energy throughput, just the amount of available dense energy,
as well as minerals and materials. And so we cannot continue this embedded growth obligation
on global scale. We cannot continue extracting materials in a literally linear economy and,
depositing them as waste in various parts of the world. And so I don't think I disagree with you
guys, but I think this conversation would be good to kind of flesh out what would high tech mean
in a world of planetary limits? Where are the sacrifice zones going to be? Are we going to
recycle all of these technologies? Where are we going to get the energy to do that? These are the
kinds of questions that I'm interested in. Of course, if we can use technology to regenerate
the earth, which is, I think, what your focus is, I agree, that sounds great, but can we also
live meaningful lives in our relationships to technology in a kind of Ilychian sense?
That would be good too, right? So maybe we're in a high tech world, but our personal
kind of community aesthetics are more like cottage core, solar punk. And so what does that look like?
So yeah, I think if we can explore these things, that would be good.
There's so many things embedded in what was just discussed. I think where I'll start is that we're
already in collapse and that maybe some people are thinking about living in a post-collapse
environment. I think I'd like to make some distinctions between things like post-growth
and post-collapse. I don't know if anyone here is familiar with Nate Hagen's work. I'm imagining
they are based on something I just heard you say, Jason, but Nate and I just did this whole
bin not break series on what it would take to get to a sustainable global materials economy without
radical collapse. But yeah, I just want to note that I do follow him closely and I did listen
to that series. So if we're thinking about the various types of collapse scenarios, various types
of catastrophic risk scenarios, I would like to decrease anyone's faith that their off-grid world
makes it through. And this is where the doomer part comes as a good breakfast to where optimism might
live. So if we're talking about climate change and other environmental refugees at the scale that
we're probably forecasting at UN saying 300 million to maybe a billion in the next 10 plus years,
and that after a few million Syrian refugees, nobody wants to take refugees anymore,
and that we're not talking about ocean level rise or venusification to cause this,
just extreme weather events hitting high population areas, and that how does that work? How does that
play out? Is that just really a bummer for a lot of people in poor parts of the world who have
very shitty lives in refugee camps? Nope, not in most of the scenarios. I mean, that itself would
be gruesome, but we see the heat waves in the Bangladesh or Pakistan or Iran or whatever as a
issue over there because if you have tens of millions of people, they get displaced because
they don't have enough groundwater in the store to make it through a crop loss from a heat failure.
So now we're looking at migration of the people and without enough resources and nowhere to take
them, we start to get resource wars. But you're looking at that happening on say in India where
it probably cleaves along Muslim Hindu lines, which maybe turns into a new nuclear conflict
between India and Pakistan or it happens in Iran and you similarly have adjacent country
nuclear conflict zones or you hit major supply lines of a world where everybody's supply depends
upon six continent dynamics and that the solution to fighting World War III, we instituted after
World War II, involved exponential growth of the economic system, which involved exponential
extraction so that we the major superpowers didn't have to take each other's stuff to keep growing
and that as soon as you start to go post growth, you actually remove the basis of the
not World War III solution. You don't get the situation where these impending catastrophes
are a problem over there that if I have a pretty good off-grid place in Montana or whatever,
I for sure make it through. Also, you guys probably saw the article on PFOS that was published a
couple months ago showing that fluorinated surfactants and rainwater globally already
passed planetary boundaries as defined by EPA and EU Health Regulatory Commission.
But what we're seeing there is in rainwater and in snowfall all around the world, including in
the places people are off-grid, you have higher than allowed healthful standards of chemicals
that don't ever break down that are endocrine disruptors and carcinogens and like that that
don't just affect the humans, but also affect the soil microbes and nature and everything else in
the area. So the idea that I can somehow separate myself from humanity because it's on this cluster
fuck drain, I'm going to go and be fine with my family. From the point of view of the nuclear war,
the breakdowns in the internet and supply chains, I'm depending upon to literally the quality of
the rainwater from the atmosphere I'm in. We are too interconnected to think that way.
