to be made over and over again, but in like a local context so that people can say,
in our context, how do we make the decision about what that cost is going to be? And then how do we
share that decision and then potentially make global decisions about those things as well?
Those are like primary contracts between humans, I think that's, that's my perspective. Like that
really cuts to the meat of, you know, how to overcome the coordination errors and like what
we all need to be working on, essentially. Yeah, I have thoughts on that. But wondering
what Jason is thinking. I guess I'm just curious, Gregory, what are some ways, you know,
what are some tools, platforms that you see can bridge this gap between kind of contextual
integrity, both across communities, but also across non-pungible resources and global exchange
rates? Like, do you have some ideas or does region network have some ideas of how to bridge that gap?
Yes. So, I mean, there's, there's like a set of layers here. I feel like we're writing a tiger.
I don't feel like we have these answers down, Pat, but there are some, okay, so there's a set of
pieces here. So, from sort of first principles, you know, I think you need to have, you know,
these essentially these non-pungible units that I would refer to as a class, as eco-credits,
which are a symbolic representation of a positive ecological outcome, right? Intrinsically have a
relationship with something that is like an ecological debt, debit, or debt unit. That's
most easily understood and most mature in our consciousness, civilization scale, it's like
carbon offsets, right? Where we're like, okay, you know, a ton of carbon emitted in the atmosphere
has a certain social cost. Therefore, a ton of carbon that has been avoided or has been removed
has a certain price. That's pretty clear because it's like for like, right? And obviously, what
Daniel's raising is, but how does that relate across different domains? So, I think the way to
answer and but just to say, even in that domain of carbon crediting, there's an awful lot of
complexity and challenges and I don't want to hand wave that away. Even just to get some
semblance of liquidity and fungibility and price within a new carbon economy that appropriately
places the value on living carbon in biodiverse and tacked forests such that, you know, that tree
in the Amazon is worth more standing there and providing its, you know, inner reductionist
human utilitarian language, its ecosystem services and air quotes, that it's worth more there doing
that than it is as toilet paper or whatever. That just that fact needs to get encoded and there's
plenty of challenges there. Then when you're moving across domains, you know, I think the answer to
that question, the work that Matt Prakowski's doing with Bioform Labs and Open Earth, the
John Clippinger, the work of this sort of this idea of the implementation of active inference
modeling, which is a form of, I guess, Carl Friston developed this form of essentially
like Bayesian statistics to model cognition is where this actually is coming from. So it's kind
of AI or AI adjacent, but it's been started, people are starting to develop it to create
this concept of, I guess you could say, a holistic organization that is stewarding common pool
resources, right, in which you can have this multivariant approach to maintaining non-fungibility
and bringing together multiple stakeholders to make governance decisions about what are intrinsic
values or relational values, two different approaches, not just strictly exchange, utilitarian
exchange value, where the only value comes from it's sort of like open market exchange value.
So to create that organizational structure where people can overcome coordination issues around
that, have units of account and coordination issues, it is something like, I think, kind of an AI
augmented or it's better to say just sort of like computer augmented system where people can govern
specific parameters and upgrade those specific parameters to define, you know, in our community,
this is what we find valuable. We find the water quality important. We find biodiversity, soil
health. These are things, each one of them independently, which can be monitored and measured.
What's important is to think of them as living, not to just be managing towards that singular metric
and extracting as much value, but to be, you know, just like anything, we use this information to help
us manage complex systems and to kind of build, you know, to build systems around that, then
that can have like the success of that unit's ability to manage that complexity, then that
conceivably can have an exchange rate, right? People could be buying in, longing and shorting
these different kind of self-managing units, and they can create, you know, their own sort of
internal credit and currency approach, and you sort of like start to get something that looks
like a foreign exchange system based on different currencies. And out of that, I think you, you
know, you sort of, this is getting a little speculative here, but you want, we want to,
you know, evolve the global reserve currency. The global reserve currency needs to have
its base, it needs to have liquidity, it needs to have fungibility, it needs to allow optionality
and be able to allow people to, you know, exercise agency and power, but it needs to be
derived from our success at managing these common pool resources, right? So instead of
deriving from the entire financial industry being long on the U.S. military's continued
ability to, you know, exert hegemony over oil reserves and the other elements that sort of
make up the U.S. dollar's supremacy and liquidity as a unit of account, it needs to be evolved
over time or maybe quickly to have different first principles that are generating that liquidity,
I believe. I don't believe we get out of this without evolving our currency system.
I don't know if that answers your question, Jason, but...
Yeah, it starts to. Maybe just a kind of, maybe a dumb question, but if you're trying to assess
values of resources, negative or positive externalities, both across space and across time
in nested systems, right? So you mentioned like a community who values clean water,
but then it's part of a larger hydrologic cycle that impacts the bioregion and ultimately the
globe. So you have to account for that. Are you thinking that basically machine learning AI
is basically going to do the legwork in, you know, tabulating all of that value?
By the way, you know, what is the discount rate over time and how are we thinking about that?
Well, I love the discount rate question and that I don't have a clean answer for
discount rate questions. I only have hand waviness there. My instinct is, yeah, we're going to tend,
this is a great use of technology and computational capability. This is high tech, high nature,
right? And at the beginning, you don't really need it that much. We can get away with a lot of,
like a little bit of hand waving, some shared belief, and it's not that much computational
capacity to be, you know, having a pretty solid handle on carbon cycle health, for instance.
And if you have a pretty solid handle on carbon cycle health and you include some metrics for,
you know, hydrological cycle or biodiversity cycle, you don't need, we don't need to be
getting into this really, really crazy detailed, we know everything about everything world. We
don't. You get a proxy and you can build an index off of that proxy and it isn't that crazy.
We're not tracking everything, right? Now, of course, if you have a single metric that gets
challenging because then people will eventually try to game it and, you know, so you want it to be
multi metric and sort of variant, you need some checks and balances there, but you don't want to
over-complexify it. You need the redundancy so that it doesn't just collapse on itself,
but you also don't want to, I'm definitely not a believer in just like monitor everything and
create this giant, you know, it gets top heavy really quickly. So there's sort of, you know,
there's a lean version of this, which I think is viable and you can already, if you squint,
you can already see it emerging. So I don't know either of you as an audience as well enough.
I might imagine that for many people who are engaged in regenerative agriculture or
more local resilience, a conversation about the complexity and game theoretic susceptibility
of fungibility of disparate metrics is a little bit esoteric. It does happen to be critical.
So I just rock, rock on. Don't worry about it. I hope this stuff we're talking about is useful.
I want to try to maybe ground it a little bit. So I want to give a couple examples.
So we're talking about a community values clean water. Okay. Well, let's say that the water
sources we have access to right now are not as clean as we would like them. And so we look at
how do we clean them? Well, it happens to be that the things that aren't clean in there are not just
the results of normal natural processes, but industrial chemical manufacturing process where
the water has tiny pharmaceuticals in it and has fluorinated surfactants and fluoride and
a bunch of things in there and chlorine resistant cryptosporidium and whatever.
And the normal processes of filtering that water through kind of biologic process where
the waste is used for something else don't actually work. Or we just have way too many
fucking people in areas where we're using up all the groundwater and we have to look at the cell.
So I can make water for my people cleaner through D cell or through reverse osmosis,
but the waste that I'm pulling out of the water has to go somewhere. And if it is waste that I
can't biologically process easily, because you know, when you one of the things to understand about
the post industrial world, and I don't really mean the industrial revolution,
I really mean starting with like blacksmithing is before that the rest of the natural world
is just a cycling of the same atoms in the biosphere layer, very little engaging with
the minerals deep in rocks, right. And so when we think about what mining was, we figure out how
to dig stuff up that is well below the biosphere, separate out the various elements of these rock
ores to get parts that are useful to us. And typically there's a bunch of parts that are
not that useful, which is the toxic mining tailings that is maybe the number one source of
pollution, pushing us on the freshwater planetary boundary. But even the other thing, even the
intentionally useful things that we refined, we refined the lead and the mercury and the
cadmium for industrial purposes, those were all extremely elementally low in the biosphere,
which is what allowed the biosphere to work where you have basically mostly six atoms,
and then a relatively even distribution of the types of trace minerals that occur in biological
things so that a frog and a honeybee and bee venom and a tree can all get turned into each
other through in a mushroom and whatever. But it's not true when it comes to styrofoam or
lead in the water or a chlorinated surfactant or whatever. So if humans are going to actually
leave the biosphere via mining to make this other stuff, we have to create closed loop processes
for all of those things at an atomic level, and we have to factor the breakdown of those systems.
How do you make sure they're highly resilient? Because nature already made these radically
overlapping highly resilient systems, but for the elements that are in it, and we're looking at a
different kind of elemental set. So that's a significant story, right? Because processing
organic matter waste from farming or whatever that gets into water through biologic processes,
but where it's of biological origin is different than the other stuff. So if I make my water
cleaner through desal or RO, but the downstream was I had to make some other water dirty or
somewhere else, how do I think through the accounting of that properly? And particularly,
if it's very hard to measure because of dispersals, and maybe I don't even know all the things that
were in it to know what to measure for, or how do I know in my measuring pharmaceuticals in this
water, which pharmaceuticals? How do I know? Do I just use total dissolved solids? So this is just
an example to start to say it's hard, right? It's hard to ensure that the method I'm going to use
to clean the water here. If I don't go upstream to things like fixing our entire process of chemical
manufacture and industrial process from scratch, it's hard to try to locally fix that without
externalizing some cost or some problem somewhere. And so just thinking through that is important.
That's the first thing. And then I was going to say,
Can I interject there just for a quick moment? So in the carbon world, what you're describing
is called leakage, where you're working on calculating negative externalities from the
positive action you just took. And there is sort of a way to think about that. And obviously,
from my perspective, a logical thing to do is to make sure you A, you track that, you incorporate
that, and you price it high enough to incentivize that larger transformation, where it's basically
like, yeah, if we're serious about this, and this is sort of like how we're going to be tracking value,
we've got to go upstream, and we've got to actually transform this whole system. And
it's logical how important that is. Because at the end of the day, we are getting to this,
it's sort of like we get into these recursive arguments, and we're sort of like,
are we going to allocate resources to repair the life support system of our spaceship?
That's kind of an absurd argument to get into in a way. It's like, do you have enough resources
to do that? Well, you have to go do it, right? Reallocate resources to do that thing.
This is actually, I'm going to go where I want to go next, and then I want to come back to what
you just said. So let's say that we know that optimizing for a single metric, no matter how
good it is, is very problematic. And our single best example of that so far is GDP, or GDP per
capital. Because of course, the idea that GDP going up means the total products and services
that humans are choosing to engage with voluntarily, even though they don't have to,
because it solves real problems and the quality of their life goes up. But GDP going up goes up
through war and through addiction and involving environmental destruction. So we know that's
not a good enough metric. So then we want to start to tack on other things, like a carbon credit
or a Gini coefficient or whatever. And so let's say similarly, we go to just the regenerative
world, and we say, okay, we're going to focus on the metric sequestering CO2.
We all know this is like a toy example, but we all know that we could use more NPK fertilizer
to grow certain kinds of genetically modified high CO2 sequestering plants that most CO2 per
unit time in a particular area, while killing oil city and causing more nitrogen and phosphorus
run off into the water. And so then we're like, well, that's not good. So we don't want carbon
reductionism. So we have to factor the nitrogen and the phosphorus and the soil microbiota.
And so then you start to say, okay, but how much effluent of nitrogen is worth how much of the
CO2? Now I have this exchange rate. But as say in a, there's almost no nitrogen effluent and
adding a little bit more doesn't seem anywhere near bad as we need to get CO2, you have a certain
exchange rate as the nitrogen starts to increase towards a point of criticality that exchange
rate has to change. So there's this dynamically changing based on something other than markets,
because typically the dynamic exchange is based on each owner of value deciding what they will pay
for the thing. But here, you can't just have individual owners of value deciding what they
will pay for things that are necessary for planetary life support, where a lot of people
will have incentive to free ride and say, I don't care to invest in that particular thing.
And so you have to have something like cost being fixed by law. So let's even say that we have
10 or 500 biometrics that we're factoring in our resilience. And we have some
complex algorithm for affecting the weighting of those things. Then I bring an AI system to
exploit it. And I say, okay, well, whatever strategy gives, there's going to be some weighted
function that will optimize the currency units I can get based on the current, you know, metric
weighting set. So I can use an AI to say, how do I optimize my currency extraction? And of course,
it will be addressing carbon and nitrogen and all those things in there, but it won't be addressing
the pollinator or whatever thing isn't in that set yet and factored. And so I can externalize
harm to whatever's not in the set and or by exploiting an exchange rate that as soon as I
exploited it a bit stops making sense. But then as soon as people catch it up and realize it, my
asymmetrically better than the systems faster AI figures out how to optimize for that. So
not everyone has an equal ability to exploit market value. So whoever is able to employ
higher tech tools to exploit the market value, even in a weighted set of metrics can still end up
doing that thing. And that's the thing we have to protect for. So you're talking about use the AI
to do the opposite. And this is why it was key that you said it was not a private property ownership
model that would incentivize that it was some commons communal ownership model. And you probably
have some kind of choice making that is not exclusively associated with ownership, right?
Like if someone has a voting right associated with citizenship, they can't actually sell that.
So it is non fungible, non transferable. And yet you might have certain choices like what gets
encoded in rule of law that supersedes economic incentive that happen in that space. So you could
say the voting right is a non fungible token that has power over certain things that none of the
including the regulation of what the fungible and extractable tokens do, which is right. That's
already what we have in the idea of a, you know, a liberal democracy with having democracy and
markets together. It's just this, you can see that the capacity of the market figured out how to
erode the capacity of the governance over time. So I'm not saying that the ideas you're talking
about aren't the right approach of things that have to happen. I'm just pointing out some of the
