The optimist approaches for me involve actually thinking through how to transition globally
for everybody. That strategy is the low-money version of the rich person's doomsday bunker,
which is the elite sea, some said of the elite sea, high probability of breakdown of Pax Americana
and like fuck world situation. So they have a private jet with a tank full of fuel and a
piloting for one of their multiple doomsday bunker scenarios where they can make it through
while everybody else is fucked. And I want to radically decrease their confidence in that strategy.
I also want to decrease the Key Nation-State strategy that they can make it through a large
scale war and win. But I want to decrease the low-cost version of it too. Now, of course,
I think people having a certain degree of local resilience is smart, not in so far as it means
forgetting the way the local is embedded in the larger contexts and that we are not just responsible
to ourselves, our family and our locality, but also to the world that we're contextualized in.
So I have a lot of other things to say about the where are the sacrifice zones and what level of
high tech does it take for the chip manufacturing to be able to have the internet that you want and
satellite launches and everything. But I'll just start with that part on the problem of the escape
route ideology. Love it, Jason. I'm going to kind of turn it over to you for this section of dialogue,
like just hear your responses there. Yeah, I don't personally resonate much with the escape route
ideology, but I tend to think that there's an interesting congruence between that and what I
think we need to transition more to is a more kind of distributed living systems, more localized
living systems, at least with more emphasis on subsidiarity or multi-scale localism, acknowledging
that many things do occur at, say, a global scale. I'm interested in kind of building up
a bioregional organization. And so, and I just noticed that so many of us, at least
in the West, are very unresilient, right? And so we don't know how to do things with our hands
anymore. We don't know how to fix things. We don't know how to grow food. We're completely dependent
on global supply chains. And so for me, the more people get inspired to become locally resilient,
the better off the larger system is going to be in general. And so while I don't think that anybody
can hide out in a bunker and expect to do well in the long term, I agree with you wanting to decrease
confidence in that. But I think that moving in that direction, localizing as much as possible,
is generally a good thing to do and will have good, larger system effects.
Greg, this now gets us to the original place you wanted to go in the conversation. Should we go there?
Yeah, let's go there. I'm sort of keeping track of a few things that I want to observe and
interject, but I think let's just keep this flow. It's going perfectly.
I think in general, the idea of increasing local resilience so in so far as there are
inevitable failures anywhere, they don't create cascading failures everywhere.
One of the things we saw during COVID was when the shutdowns of travel happened to prevent
movement of a virus. It also meant prevent movement in supply chains. And one of the things that
meant was the movement of pesticides. So we got locusts eating all the crops in parts of
Northern Africa and the Middle East and preventing the movement of NPK. And so all the places that
depended upon that kind of fertilizer. So I think obviously those are bad agricultural
technologies anyways, factoring all the externalities. But yeah, I don't think we want a situation
where you have a problem in one part of the world and we get that much cascading failure.
I think it's also true, as someone was mentioning earlier, thinking about not just the metacrisis
of the catastrophic risk, but the meaning crisis. I don't think there is such a thing as a meaning
crisis if people are connected in person in high intimacy connections to people around them,
which obviously is the evolutionary environment of humans in a kind of tribal world.
So more connection to the earth, more connection to the physical environment,
we're in more connection to the humans around us and more resilience to cascading failures,
all that seems pretty nice. The other thing that we need to factor with that is it ends up being
inevitable that people in two different regions interact sometimes in some ways.
This has been true since the earliest humans. Having positive some interactions has kind of
always been the way to avoid negative some interaction. So if we're seeing all the existing
into competition over resource limits, generally, and some kind of warfare with them ends up being
an appropriate strategy, if they're producing slightly different things than we are and we get
to go into trade or exchange with them, then that positive interaction is more desirable.
So that's like an ancient technology, the trading post and etc. And that is not purely localism,
because once you get things that are valuable from another area and they start to differentiate
their capacity to make those better based on their locality, specialty, whatever,
you do start to get dependence. The most recent instantiation of that in a formal way or one of
them was after World War II and the desire to never have another world war, because you can't
have a world war in a post nuclear world and ensure that anybody actually comes out of it.
The globalization of the supply chains and the formalization of the financial service enabling
all the trade was a part of the solution. The financial system obviously, as we already mentioned,
if you get exponential growth of the global economy, everybody's impulse to have more can be
met without having to take each other's stuff. The problem is you're taking nature stuff and
eventually you stop being able to do that, which is what we're hitting now. But the other side of
it is when you have these six continent supply chains, if you bomb anybody, you're bombing your
own supply chains, you have a strong incentive not to bomb people somewhere else where you depend
upon the stuff they're producing. And in so far as everywhere could produce its own stuff locally,
we are less actually interdependent with what the people in the other areas are doing.
And so then there's this question of, well, do we produce our own food and process our own
bio waste, but we don't produce our own computers and biotech and whatever. Well, whatever we don't
produce ourselves, we're dependent on and there's fragility. But we also are interdependent by
directionally and as a result, have to figure out how to make things work with each other.
And I think one of the, like, there's not enough trust in this global system, the global system
is fuck, let's regress to something smaller than global creates a kind of regressive nationalism
and also a regressive tribalism and localism of like, we'll take care of our own, we don't need
you. But it is first, it's just incongruent with all the people who still like access to biotechnologies
that their community doesn't produce, should they end up actually getting in a situation that needs
it and they still like computers and things like that. But it also, it just doesn't work, right?
Because if the AI apocalypse or the synthetic bio or the movement towards nuclear war is happening
anywhere else outside of our community, we're still fucked. And so ultimately, our technology is
big enough to affect the whole world that everybody has to be invested in what everybody
else is doing. And so this is a place where localism can be anti productive counterproductive
because being forced to stay invested in what everybody else is doing can be important to
the scale of solutions. So I do believe that there are things that should occur locally,
you get the benefits of less transportation and more freshness and tighter closed loops and the
ability to see externalities more as well as resilience. But I also believe there's a lot
of things that should not be local because they happen more efficiently with economies of scale
and because the interconnectivity of each other is actually in the interdependence is really
important. So that's the things that have to be held in tension. Yeah, fantastic. Thanks, Daniel.
And I think this is very, this is the rich part of the conversation. And I kind of wanted to weave
in a little bit of my perspective here, which is, you know, if we're framing this out, I really
appreciate the clarity of framing the way that, you know, however we talk about it, the neoliberal
global order in which globalized trade and a globalized financial system is the antidote
to, you know, World War Three and, you know, nuclear Armageddon. And I think it's important
to understand that that is actually the inspiration of the institutions that have set up the world
that we now live in. And it's super clear, okay, and that is at the expense of Mother Earth,
of nature, of living systems. I think that's a crystal clear analysis. And really, you know,
from that analysis, my personal perspective is, if you shift the financial system such that
value becomes not just an ecological debit, ecological credit balancing system,
but that we actually start to derive status, wealth, and acknowledge the value of living systems
of nature, both from a sacred and completely unquantifiable way, and like a veneration way,
an ethical way, a moral way, an artistic way, an aesthetic way, as well as a quantified way.
And this is sort of like, I have a lot of thinking about currencies and money as
properly multivalent. It should be a wave antiparticle, it should be sacred and able to be
used in transaction. But that's maybe a different conversation for a different day.
But if we close that loop, then what happens, I believe what happens, is the aesthetic values
and the sort of like regenerative efficiency of local people taking action to care for local places
and live good local lives that are tending those food forests and caring for those riparian
buffers and stewarding those forests becomes financially advantaged without, you know, like
place, you know, and we're using and leveraging technology to achieve that. And that's in my
mind, and this is very, it's a pretty simple analysis in a lot of ways, but in my mind, that's
the, you know, that's the direction, that's the sort of region direction, which is to say
that's the next step in the evolution of global institutions is to transform our financial system
to place the health, the ecological health of our biosphere and the nested bioregions
and watersheds at the center of how we measure financial wealth.
Yeah, I think saying we want our currencies to be multivalent and to be particle and wave
and to hold nature in a sacred and artistic way, but also a quantified way. I think
at first blush that sounds right. And of course, the devil is in the details on there, right?
So the quantification and then the commensuration of quantified things
is pretty deep to the game theoretic challenge and all of the entropic process we have.
So when we talk about the transformation of what has to be in terms of like our financial system,
there are some things, there's a lot of things to talk about, removing the growth obligation to
have to keep up with just compounding interests, let alone all the other things to force exponential
growth of energy services. Obviously, we have to do that because you can't run that exponential curve
in the finite biosphere forever. That's among guests because we don't know how to make a global
financial system and not World War III any other way. So that's a big... Property rights is a huge
thing. What does it mean to own property? Who owns what property? Given that if my access to a
resource comes from owning it, which also involves preclude other people's access and more stored
resource gives me more capacity to respond to future eventualities and whatever, then if all
revenue gets reinvested, I don't have an embedded growth obligation. If you have profit and you
have extraction of a resource that can give you any other resource, i.e. a currency that has
high fungibility, you have a very high theoretical incentive for maximizing that extraction. I'm
talking about profit as extraction revenue minus expense. So who owns that surplus and how do we
couple or decouple access and stewardship are really important questions, but arguably harder
then and even deeper than those is fungibility of value because if I can turn a tree into lumber
and then I can sell the lumber and buy food or buy other commodities or whatever it is,
pretty soon it's clear that if I cut down trees faster than I need them and have stores of timber,
both because of economies of scale and ease of shipping and whatever, it's more profitable to
do that in many contexts, but then I also don't even want to store the lumber because then before
I can get a new thing, I have to be involved in sale. I just want to store the high liquidity,
high fungibility, high stability global currency and that if you think about money as a unit of
game theoretic power, a unit of choice, but a unit of optionality and so it makes sense that we have
like the dollar as a reserve currency has both the most optionality and the highest speed of
exchange with the most stability and we used OPEC and a whole global system to make that the case,
like of course we did, that thing makes sense, but if I can exchange one thing for another thing
through an exchange layer, the challenge becomes I'm taking things that in reality you can't make
out of each other and making a abstracted value layer where the fungibility in that abstracted
value layer can say I have an incentive to have more of this abstract value token and I can actually
destroy real stuff to get more of this abstract value token, so I can't make a tree out of copper
but I can use money to buy copper or buy trees and so in reality those things are non-fungible
in the economic layer, they're fungible, when I just make economic calculus choices I'll end up
messing up the base layer world, so how do you quantify things but recognize these metrics are
not commensurable, there's no amount of parts per million of mercury that equals any amount of
parts per million of CO2 or any number of extinct species, so how do I decide how much of this is
worth how much of this, there's no fucking real good way to do that and if I try to figure out
some basis of the commensuration of those metrics, we're usually end up getting pretty gruesome
problems there, so do you need to quantify stuff for the accounting, yes, but it's almost like
each non-fungible reality needs its own closed-loop accounting, I need a closed-loop accounting on
copper, I need a closed-loop accounting on nitrogen but I can't have a game-theoretic
optionality token that is fungible between copper and nitrogen and that would look like a
unit of account or a token for every fucking non-fungible thing and some way to close the,
you know, and yet we want something like exchange for the reasons that we mentioned earlier,
so I would say there's some really tricky things in how we do the quantified accounting part
properly. For sure and I think you're hitting the nail on the head, I really, I talk a lot about
that, what is responsible fungification or like when you, how do you translate between non-fungible,
I think that's the big question and I think, you know, there's two ways I think to answer that and
one is, you know, at the end of the day, for it to be useful, you do have to actually be able to
have like an exchange rate between, you know, mercury poisoning and carbon sequestration or,
you know, oil extraction or a debit or service in the economy, you sort of have to and at the
moment, and there's different ways you could do that, you could do that algorithmically
through some form of, you know, we, our society, western society at least and I think most societies
have been dealing with these issues in various to various degrees of success and failure for
really long time, you know, it's like there's like blood debt, you know, back in the day, if you
killed somebody, you owed their family, you know, like five pieces of gold or whatever, like
obviously that's crazy but that's kind of the level of things that we're talking about, you know,
if, if a company commits ecocide, how much do they owe and how do you replace that and to me,
those are the coordinate, like those are the prime coordination problems. I was just up in COP,
at COP 15, biodiversity, Congress of the parties, where they're essentially negotiating this,
right, they're negotiating, they were negotiating, you know, how do you include ecological integrity,
biodiversity metrics into corporate accounting and like a framework for reporting and, you know,
incorporate that into the rule of law of all the signatory states in order to, you know,
sort of like hold themselves and the companies that operate within them accountable to ensuring
that we're not continuing to degrade the wildlife habitat is, is one of the primary things that
they're talking about. I, I tend to think, you know, or maybe this is wrong, but I tend to think
it's, it's easy to get lost in the, the complexity of that, but there's also a few clear places and
this may be, you know, this may be totally off the, you know, I may be off my rocker here, I would
say, you know, because again, I guess from a first principle perspective, it seems to me
not so much that I'm like a hand wavy proponent of the financialization commodification and
monetization of nature, but instead that that is a like an inevitable logic from a particular
worldview that is going to be unfolding in response to this specific challenge that we're facing.
Therefore, the question is how does it happen in the best possible way and how do we set ourselves
up for the highest likelihood of evolving the right answer to that big question that you just
asked Daniel, which I don't claim to have an answer to, but how do you govern standards of
fungibility between completely non fungible elements? How do you set up an infrastructure
for this type of complex accounting in a way that allows communities like local communities to express
agency so that they're preserving life ways and ecological integrity in the face of these really
like crazy global dynamics? Those are the questions that I sit with when I'm making decisions
around, you know, design decisions around region network, for instance, like how we're
approaching things. It's less like, oh, here's the magical way. I have the equation. Here's the
algorithm. No, it's more like, okay, what do we need? What are the tools we need for this decision
