So, go first.
Stephen, we were kind of having a discussion recently where you were
peer-pressuring me into drinking.
I explicitly said I wasn't peer-pressuring you into drinking.
You know, if you have to say, I'm not peer-pressuring you, but.
So the conversation was, I think, your what I was trying to do is
assuage some of your concerns about alcohol consumption.
Just like Enya, she needs his concerns about LSD consumption assuaged.
So, yes, it was there better.
Did you want just to reiterate roughly what we're talking about?
Or did you want me to answer a specific question?
We can do a summation and then maybe we can do touch on a few things.
Sure, I think what I tried to say was that I was trying to, I guess, I think
many listeners will have had experience with alcohol, so they'll kind of get
where I'm coming from and it is difficult to articulate.
The way I tried to hit it was it was like all the pleasant effects of being
tired with none of like the exhausted effects.
So like you're more relaxed, you're, and this is at, I don't know, moderate
embodiment or moderate consumption level, not slurring your speech level.
Well, I mean, you know, just like with anything, you can go too far.
So I mean, after like two drinks for an average person, maybe you're just,
you're slightly more relaxed, but it's especially like what I tried to say
was after one, I don't think you'd even really notice that you like you could have
happened. Oh, if you've never drank before, you'll notice it after one.
Well, I mean, I guess one what it depends.
But I guess getting at those, I think the beginning effects of alcohol are
so subtle that you might not even think that you, that you took it as substance,
right? You could have, you could have ordered an Irish coffee and not known
that it was Irish coffee, that it was just creamer and you might not notice
that you're that you're at all under the influence of alcohol.
It's just like, oh, I feel kind of pretty relaxed.
That's, you know, so I think the effects are pretty moderate with mild
usage and there's not a lot of like reality distortion or personality changes.
What I tried to describe with me, I think in this might be true or not,
but my general experience with alcohol is people will be like, oh, yeah,
that person's a mean drunk or that person cries when they get drunk.
For me, I think it just amplifies whoever you actually are.
And so the the the barriers and the filters.
Yeah, I bet I talk more when I'm when I'm drinking.
But which, yes, might be a nightmare.
I probably talk too much as everyone mentally cringes.
This is him censoring himself.
But I mean, there's there's one time where I was at a bar downtown
and I stepped over this like fence thing to talk with somebody and went to go
step back over and the bouncer was like, hey, sorry, club rules.
You have to go back around the through the front.
But, you know, I won't make you wait in line.
And he said it like all apologetically, like, you know,
he probably is used to people being giving him a hard time about it.
And I was just I remember this is at a point where I was way too drunk to drive.
But I remember being just over the top understanding.
I was like, oh, no, man, I totally get it.
It's your job.
I'm sure some people are dicks about it.
Don't worry, I'm not going to be an asshole about it, man.
I totally understand.
So I don't think you have to worry about like your underlying personality
changing, I guess, certainly not after like, like I said, the day after assuming
you're not hungover, you're going to be just like you were the the morning before.
And during that time, I think, I mean,
you might be able to just generalize by looking at drunk people, right?
I think the idea that your personality doesn't change is completely bunk, you know?
I mean, there's you could do steroids and you don't get any immediately.
You don't perceive reality different at all.
But over time, your personality certainly changes.
I didn't mean to say that the drugs that drugs never change your personality.
I meant specifically getting drunk one night wouldn't change your personality.
Yeah, not not one night.
It wouldn't change you drastically, but over time.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, just like, yeah, especially if you're doing it too much.
Yeah, especially if you're doing it too much.
Yeah, I certainly hope I wasn't interpreted saying that I didn't think that was the case.
When you talk about being like some more uninhibited and less filtered,
I do feel like for me, like I strongly identify with those parts of my brain,
which are the inhibitions and the filters.
So that would be like a different me.
That's fair. I think.
Can I tell you a secret?
A lot of it is pretending.
And I think I have mentioned this to you already, right?
Yeah, the the the first time I started to fall out of love with alcohol,
was when I woke up the day after a lot of drinking
and was still drunk in the morning and I had to go to work.
And I was like, well, I'm just going to pretend to be sober.
And it worked.
And I noticed after that, if I was having a drink,
I would have to pretend to be drunk to really get as much out of it as I used to.
And if I pretended to be sober, I'm like, I'm a little dizzy.
But I'm not any happier.
You kind of broke the spell when you noticed that.
Yeah, it really broke the spell.
And it was it was really disappointing after that.
It was my first step on the quitting.
Yeah, I think a large part of it is social.
So you can stay just as inhibited if you really want to.
Yeah, I think what exactly it gives you an excuse.
Yes, more than anything else, it's you have social license
when you're drunk to to cry if you're a man or to, you know,
say the things you really want to say and people are like, ah, he's drunk.
It's OK. Sure.
I think the social license more than anything else is the big benefit of alcohol.
Yeah, maybe like social lubricant is the right word and not like social like force.
Like it doesn't make you different.
It just gives you a license to be different.
And part of it that is does come from, you know, everyone, you know,
the socially the social culture of it.
There's a fund. I'm sure we could find it on YouTube, a video of this
this video summary of the study that I saw where basically they they had
a bar that they served all fake drinks and people were like, oh, my God,
I'm so wasted and all that.
Yeah, I don't know if those people had drunk before.
I'd have to check again, because I think if you I mean, you would know whether or not
after some level, whether or not you're actually getting drunk.
But again, after a couple of drinks,
that's what I'm saying is that the effect is so subtle
that you might not even notice that it's happening and or you could
trick yourself into thinking it's happening when it's not.
So when you said that you get the pleasant effects of being tired,
does it vary with what alcohol you're drinking?
I couldn't do to to be clear.
I can't really think of a better way to put it other than that.
Well, because I get that with beer and somewhat with wine, but never with hard
liquors, those tend to like give me more energy.
And maybe it's just because how much sugar is in them.
I think so, like I said, it's it's not even it's not even like being tired.
I think like it's it's the it's like tiredness without the exhaustion without
it's tiredness minus the tiredness. It's the it's just mellowness, right?
It's mellowness. It's it's it's ease.
But you can have that with different amounts of energy, right?
So I don't know if I've noticed the way that I'm trying to communicate it
and failing that I've noticed that changing depending on what I drink.
It may also be because I generally nowadays drink socially
and I pull a lot of energy out of having other people around me.
So maybe it comes from that, too.
Yeah, same. I can see that.
And what you're describing sounds to me like a nice cuddle
and I'd rather just do some cuddling.
Oh, yeah. No, no, do do whatever you want to do.
I think it what I was trying to do was was explain to you that I didn't think it was as
what if you're at a family reunion?
You can't cuddle anyone because it'd be weird.
But I also don't want to be in that mellow space when I'm at a family reunion.
Got to watch your back around those assholes.
I think that just like there's understandable trepidations about,
you know, someone's first time using, you know, using THC or psilocybin.
I feel like some of those concerns are definitely worth concerning yourself with
and others aren't.
I think what I was trying to communicate was I felt like some of the things
that you were worried about weren't worth being concerned about.
But I mean, obviously, like, certainly do whatever you want.
You know, I if if you want to get drunk some time, we totally can, but there's no pressure.
You know, if I I think like, I mean, I certainly was persuaded by, like I mentioned,
I came off the fence on where I sit on drugs after reading an essay several years ago.
But definitely talking to the two of you, put me over and
at the sense of sounding like I couldn't do it myself.
You guys are pushers.
Well, I mean, I think, I mean, there was I'd have to go back and find it.
There was a phrase that you used that I've heard in other contexts of like,
you can kind of just what was it, like shuffle or like reshuffle your your outlook
or something or some there's some some that wasn't it.
There was some better way of putting that.
I'm like, that's not exactly like what I need.
So I I'm I'm kind of sold.
But obviously, like I wouldn't find anybody who wasn't persuaded by that.
They're like, you know what?
I'm happy where I am or I don't want to shake that box or whatever.
Right. So what it forces you to see things from a different perspective.
Yeah. Is that what you were?
Yes, I don't like that, which I'm totally down with.
I mean, I like seeing things from different perspectives.
I'm just I'm not ready yet to be changed.
I don't think I'm not I'm not necessarily convinced that there's a long term
change that is drastic.
I'm sure that that maybe it's a percentage of people.
There are certainly people that there is drastic long term changes,
but I think most people do you think that you're you're underlying disposition
like you're the kind of person who would be easily rattled by something else.
Like, you know, a near lethal car crash would also change them for life or something.
Yeah. So everything that you do, not everything, I guess, but yeah,
everything you do changes your conscious experience.
You know, it changes your state of consciousness, whether it's like viewing
a piece of art that makes you feel sad or like, you know, watching a movie
where you're excited, it's it all changes your conscious experience.
I think drugs are just an extension of of that.
It can force you into a different conscious state.
That's sort of like, I mean, the example that keeps running through my head
when we're talking about, like, because drugs, I think, is way too fuzzy of a word.
If it covers everything from the tea in your morning, your morning,
or the caffeine in your morning tea to sex.
Yeah. Or if it covers from tea to meth, that's way too far.
But like somewhere on that spectrum, probably something like skydiving, right?
And that gives you an adrenaline rush, brain rush.
You probably come down and have a great day afterwards.
Might change your life afterwards.
I would totally consider skydiving a drug.
Yeah.
And I thought I was going to say you consider skydiving for real and I never would.
Falling from heises.
I think that's one of the things that we're programmed to not like for a good reason.
