That if you ask children who have never been told that the sky is blue,
like what color is the sky, they kind of look at you kind of confused.
Like, I don't know.
It's not a thing.
It doesn't have a color. Just stuff that's up there. Yeah.
It's not blue.
I mean, the reality is that the sky is absent.
You see that thing out there often.
You see, I'm going to use the thing from now on.
I don't use the blue sky anymore.
I like that. I like that a lot because, like you said,
it's independently verifiable from various ways of interacting with it.
And like if you're colorblind, you can't verify the sky is blue on your own, right?
I mean, yeah, you probably could.
There's probably ways to verify like atmospheric.
Yeah, you'd have to use tools.
But with with my hand, you can pretty almost anyone can feel
my five fingers on some part of their body.
As long as they have a body.
If not, it reached the post post human future.
I love that he ended saying this little rant about the sky with
your very foundation for truth is a lie.
A fiction drilled into your head by society.
How can anyone be honest when they are surrounded by people living in their own
fantasy? That was awesome.
Our perceptions don't give us accurate representations of reality.
That's not what they're there for.
Googleplexbyte also asked, is camouflage a lie?
Hmm. I don't like that.
I mean, by that, yeah.
Right.
I feel like this example of a bad question.
Can you point to an instance of camouflage and tell you if it's lying?
Like is a stick is a stick insect lying about being a stick?
Like I think it's just
are lying about being an insect.
It's pretending to be a stick, right?
So I mean, but it's not doing anything.
It's just being a stick insect.
I kind of feel like there has to be a intent to.
Deceive.
Yeah, but I mean, I guess it does kind of want to deceive predators
into thinking it's a stick.
I think I'll try and find this clip.
If you haven't seen Community, I'd recommend watching it.
Chevy Chase's character plays this sort of like crotchety, insane old man.
And they're having this conversation in the library about how he's like kind of
crazy and paranoid.
And then he busts out from behind this fake.
He had like this cardboard bookshelf that he's sitting next to the bookshelf with.
And he throws it down and he's like, crazy, paranoid.
Impotent. What are you guys saying?
So like he was lying about not being there with that with that bookshelf
because you wanted to spy on them.
But it was just really funny because he confirmed that he was crazy and paranoid
by by being there already with that thing.
I think that I mean, that's that's that was being deceitful.
I don't know if that questions were.
I think it's an example of a poorly phrased question.
Yeah, maybe.
I think we're just trying to at this point, argue like about definitions.
Like maybe lying implies that you have a specific target that you're trying to deceive.
This reminds me of something I wish I had brought up in the lying episode.
So we talked about how I wouldn't want there to become to become impossible to lie.
And I was thinking like there are ways that you could make it impossible for me
to kill you that wouldn't infringe on my autonomy.
Like if you were invulnerable to being killed and that, you know,
that you wouldn't have to do something to me to to create that that state.
That's true. But to make it impossible for me to lie to you,
you would have to know you'd have to at least read my mind
to know if I was lying and then, you know, signal it somehow.
That's fair. Yeah.
I mean, definitely the taking away lying thing would would infringe people's autonomy
because you're taking something away rather than giving something.
Right. It's not like you're giving them the power to tell the truth.
They already have that.
Well, I think it's more almost seems more along the lines of you.
You'd have to invade your personal mental privacy.
Yeah. To to because at this point, we're not talking about like fantasy.
God makes it so no one can lie.
We're like specific technology to make lying impossible.
Yeah. Again, I did say during that, I said that I didn't feel like this idea
was hashed out enough for me to actually want to defend it that much.
But I'm happy to keep talking about it,
but just wanted to put that out there that this is not something that I sincerely believe.
All right. I I I agree.
I still hold that if there was like some kind of magical God,
it makes it so that it's impossible to lie sort of thing that it would be good.
But for there to be a technology that reads mental states, probably way too invasive.
I don't want magical God reading my mental states either.
But I guess maybe that's included in the definition.
Yeah, like he wouldn't be reading your mind.
He would just be like, you try to lie.
And it's like, oh, did you ever see Liar Liar with Jim Carrey?
Yeah. Oh, that was so much fun.
He just couldn't do it. Yeah.
I mean, he didn't try the obvious thing.
Although, so I think I saw this when it was relatively new.
I was a really little kid.
I was like, oh, my God, he could just answer any question.
Like, you might not know.
But then his answer would have to be if he if he didn't know,
say, how far it was from here to here to the moon.
Yeah, the answer. I don't know exactly.
The answer is I don't know and not the correct answer.
Yeah. And when I first saw that, my first thought was like, oh, my God,
he could be like just a fact machine that you were a munchkin at that young.
Well, but it did.
I mean, it defeated itself in five seconds after thinking about it.
But that wasn't my first thoughts that like, oh, my God,
what if he could just abuse this and, you know, like he could go to the casino
and be like, I have a winning hand and he would he could try and like,
you know, mobile that under under his breath.
And if he couldn't say it, then he would know not to bet again.
He just wouldn't. He wouldn't know.
So, yeah, by the way, that is a perfect description
of Steven that your life munchkin only that worked out in real life.
I'll get back to you guys and see if I've successfully rigged life or not.
Yeah, it seems like you're getting there.
It just takes a little bit longer in life
because you can't skip past the boring parts like you can in movies.
That's right.
On that same thing, woodsman if
OK, this this username is WZTVM.
I have no idea how to pronounce that
says I'm a bit confused by Enya's comment
that he considers the natural world to be cute and not deceiving.
I thought you guys have discussed such things before
and I could feel Katrina.
I could see Katrina rolling her eyes right there a bit.
And yeah, I mean, OK, I understand that that is not actually how the natural world works.
But I kind of have a Disney
fide version of the entire outside world where birds are always singing
and never eating each other.
So, so, yeah, I know there's plenty of death and deceiving in the natural world.
I just yeah, it's horrific.
We should get rid of it.
I we should have this discussion on a podcast someday.
Googleplex Bytes also says that regarding lying, improving lying capabilities.
Kaye Anders Erickson, a psychologist and scientific researcher,
has a paper titled The Role of Deliberate Practice
in the Acquisition of Expert Performance.
Suggest that learning requires deliberate practice.
So simply repeating a task in a manner that doesn't challenge you
does not lead to improvement.
For example, I walk all the time.
Even commute to work by foot.
But my ability to walk is only at the level of functional.
And then it was also pointed out later that, yes,
but acting, on the other hand, is basically just lying and people can get better at acting.
So I suppose just lying doesn't make you better with lying.
You have to you have to increase your challenge level to get better.
Yeah, start lying to smarter and smarter people or more and more paranoid people.
I mean, I would I would advise practicing that if and only if you're
planning on getting into, like, international espionage,
like presidency. Yes.
Not anymore. Yeah.
We have lowered that bar.
Salespeople must have some increased skills in lying.
Yes, I would imagine.
Taren nods enthusiastically.
You do work in sales, don't you?
And we're going to trust you again.
And all this time he's been trying to sell us on drugs.
I mean, yeah, right.
It worked.
I think I'm a pretty honest salesman, but.
You would say that.
By my nature, I have to change people's opinions on things, you know.
So I think I do it honestly.
I'm pretty sure I'm an honest salesman.
I can confidently say that.
Well, the benefit is, like, and you know, I've talked about this,
that you're selling stuff that you can get behind personal.
Yeah, I'm selling something that I can be honest about it.
Right. And.
Yes, since since we're almost done, I was hoping Steven,
you would tell us that cute story about lying to your girlfriend.
Or was that what it was?
That's right. Yeah.
I mentioned after on our post episode chat that I had a story
that I forgot to share during the lying episode where I successfully
lied to my to my partner.
She was getting her master's in New York and the difference was
that I had asked her beforehand because not like the day before,
but sometime before I said, hey, would you be all right if I if I deceived
you so that I could surprise you for a trip at some point in the future?
And she said, yes.
And so if she hadn't said that, then I wouldn't have done this.
But since she did, I was like, all right, I got this.
So like the day before I was at work and like I took pictures,
you know, like I guess this was might have been before I was on Snapchat
or before Snapchat was a thing.
But like, you know, hey, it looked boring day at work.
And like the clock is clearly visible in the background, but not like the center.
So like it's not super obvious.
Anyway, so I bought Wi-Fi on the plane so that I could send pictures
like, yeah, I just bored at work, you know, that sort of thing.
And but the reason that I thought it was fun was because I successfully tricked her
and then I showed up at her at her apartment and, you know, she thought
