Yeah, we didn't naturally fall from upper atmosphere very much.
Have you not been on roller coasters?
I hate roller coasters. Oh, really?
I don't even I don't even like I'm not a huge fan of not driving when I'm in a car.
I mean, I can totally get by, but like, I don't like flying in a plane for the same reason.
Oh, I like both flying and roller coasters.
I take I take drugs to fly.
I take Xanax to fly, even though like it's interesting.
This is an aside, but my my my brain knows that
like I'm way more likely to die on the way to the airport than I am
while after I get on the plane.
But just I mean, everything with turbulence, you can look at
and you see the wings shaking when you're flying and like, well, we're definitely going to die.
There's nothing I can do, like even if I'm in the car,
like like if the driver starts having a seizure, at least I can reach over
and grab the wheel or pull the e-brake or something.
But in the plane, I'm like, well, I sure hope he's not drunk up there.
Like you just got to time it.
So you jump right before the airplane.
So do you like adrenaline from other sources, like, I don't know, movies?
Yeah, absolutely. All right.
Yeah, I mean, I love specifically the falling.
I guess it might be related to falling.
I think it's also just I mean, that might that might that might actually be
that there's the sweeping sensation in your stomach.
I went on a roller coaster once to make sure I didn't like them,
to confirm my suspicion that I wouldn't.
And I definitely didn't.
Good job doing science.
I went on the Mind Eraser.
Nice. That's a good one.
Yeah, it was it was I'm sure it was great.
But I also don't like the situations, but I don't I'm not scared of them.
I just find going on roller coasters irritating.
Like, why am I here?
This is just physically a little bit uncomfortable and there's wind in my face.
And this is not being productive at all right now.
It's been close to ten years since I tried a roller coaster.
Maybe I could try again.
I've changed a bit in the last ten years.
I feel like my outlook could be more like yours, where it's just like, you know,
especially like if you're being more mindful of it, rather than like letting
yourself get freaked out, which I feel like it might be part of the ability
to handle a good drug experience as well.
Take a lot of drugs in the parking lot, then go for the roller coaster.
Don't do that.
But I think it's being able to check on like what you're feeling and why you're
feeling it. And then, you know, I mean, even like the last time I flew was two
or three years ago, and I remember that was easier than the times I flew as a
teenager, because I was able to actually force myself to not even sit there and
do the numbers, but just know that the numbers were there and like internalize
that on an emotional level.
It didn't completely get rid of the fear, but it helped a bit.
That's sort of unrelated.
But I wonder if there's anything like that with controlling anticipations
on a drug trip.
Is there anything like that?
I'm anticipating that there might be, but I have none.
Yeah, I've had a bad trip before where I was able to.
I kind of got into that timeless state.
I was I was in and out of a timeless state, and it was going pretty badly.
And I was able to say, all right, even though this feels like this is how
I've always been and how I always will be, I can say that, you know, I did
remember that I took drugs and that the likelihood is that this won't be eternity.
You know, cool.
I mean, that's reassuring.
And I would hope to have the presence of mind if I found myself sliding.
But you can go over that limit.
Sure. You know, and when you go over, once you go over, that's when
really bad stuff happens.
A lot of the really bad stuff you hear about, you know, LSD is probably
people that took a little bit too much, I think.
Probably like with every drug, like alcohol, same thing, right?
Yeah. No one had their life ruined because they had a beer at a dinner, right?
But when they stopped at 15, then that's when they're like, oh, yeah,
then they, you know, threw up so much, they went to the hospital.
Yeah, exactly. All that stuff.
So I think you had something they wanted to bring up before we move on.
It was the skydiving thing.
So I managed to shove it in.
Like, well, I do feel like we're still doing phrasing.
There's directing your consciousness and your perceptions of it is the kind
of thing that you can do with or without drugs.
We talked about meditation.
We talked about skydiving.
Yeah. I mean, so it is that's sort of what, to me, just sort of illustrates
the absurdity of making it illegal to do that in certain ways.
I guess they need to very well articulate what their reasons are and they haven't.
Well, it's because, I mean, they did.
Well, Nick Nixon was like, oh, it was to control the countercultures and stuff like that.
You know, I mean, they've admitted their reasons.
They just forgot that they admitted it.
And now they're I would have to agree with their reasons, I guess,
to be to be moved by that argument.
Right. So the reasons wasn't the reason wasn't for public safety.
That's not the reason.
And that's the problem.
He said, what was it?
We cannot illegalize being a hippie.
Yeah, but we can illegalize marijuana.
Yeah. And there's some other, I think people X FBI, people have said things
about like targeting Latino and black communities about other drugs.
Yeah, as well.
So it's if you're suburban, well-paid white mother, you're not going to get
as much scrutiny for your drug use as if you're an inner city black teenager,
you know, and that's just very unfortunately how the drug war is made things.
That reminds me of something I wanted to ask about when we mentioned,
like you said, some people can get addicted to LSD and stuff.
But I imagine they can get addicted.
But there's people that make habits out of it, which will I would imagine
though, that those habits are harder to sustain than other addictions
slash drug habits, because you can't you can't get through a workday
if you're on LSD, where I guess depending on what you do.
But you can if you're, you know, had three drinks at lunch,
you could probably get through the second half of the day.
And most of them are not noticed.
Right. You think people would notice
if you've got three drinks at lunch.
That's what you do. I guess.
Well, so I mean, that maybe that was the best example.
What I was getting at those that like, if say you get home and go home
and get drunk every night, but you can't go home and unless maybe I'm wrong,
take LSD every night and not have it really not carry over to your work life.
No, no, it's it's like I said, it's a journey.
It's something that you take you learn a lot from.
There's a lot to reflect on at the end of it.
It's it's exhausting mentally in a way.
I think it would be very hard for someone to recommend a Reddit post
by someone who's rationalist, adjacent.
I don't know her real name.
I think her handle is like Iella girl.
She has been maybe still as a sex worker.
She does cam work and she was living in a house with other cam stars.
And she did acid every day for four weeks.
Well, if your job isn't I remember reading this.
Yeah. Yeah, I don't.
So if you guys can show it or send it my way sometimes, it sounds interesting.
Yeah, that's what that sounds like the kind of job where you could handle that,
though, or like you're not commuting to and from work.
You're not your co-workers understand if you're not super coherent.
So that might be atypical.
It was really fascinating, though.
When she stopped doing it, God, what was her reason?
Like it was a whole different world that she felt she was in, right?
Yeah, it sounded like it really did have some very permanent effects
in her way of thinking.
Yeah, I had been a while since I read it,
but I would recommend you finding the link and reading it.
We'll put it up on our blog post.
Even one use is going to give you a pretty permanent effect, I think,
in your way of thinking, but it's usually more positive rather than.
As I recall, didn't she say something about how she felt like
like she could just stop living at any time?
And yes. Yeah.
And it just it wouldn't matter because like the entire universe,
I think one of her major difficulties afterwards
after she stopped using it is that now she's now a single small person again.
And she's not like this expansive being that takes up all of the cosmos
and being shunted down into a small little meat suit again
was just very hard to to do if I'm remembering correctly.
Yeah, and it was very like it didn't matter if you died
because the entire rest of the cosmos goes on.
There's just that one little piece of you that happens to wink out
and what's the big deal?
I mean, I think accepting death is something that would help a lot of people.
Nope, go get the hell out.
You know what? No longer welcome here.
And she did talk about how it was extremely stressful,
but she felt like she was opening her eyes to something important.
And she just wanted to to know even as much as it was painful and stressful.
Yeah. Yeah, it was a really good post.
Well, I'm curious. I'll have to look it up.
It's been a number of years.
I may be remembering the details wrong, but it was fascinating.
Did we hammer down?
Did we did we have a sufficient response to like the James Randian
skeptic type who didn't want their perception altered at all?
Did we ever drive home a solid argument against that?
Dude, I don't know if you don't want your perception altered.
Don't do drugs. Oh, no.
But I guess I'm wondering is they might say something like I'm not your Randy
would or not, but someone like that might say if you're using drugs,
you can't be claiming that you're you're perceiving reality appropriately.
Would they go so far as to claim that?
I think I would say that you're you're always doing drugs.
You know, your reality is shaped by your stimulus.
And yeah, like if you exercised or did not that day,
or if you ate a certain meal that day, it all affects your brain chemistry.
The problem with them is they're they're always in the perception
that this specific way of altering consciousness is wrong, is going to is wrong.
Yeah, I don't know.
Better not fall in love because that's a very extreme.
Yeah, fear and love are the two most powerful drugs
that humans can experience.
And what do you do with people who have synesthesia and like see music?
That's they're fucked.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, that that that would be to me,
that feels like a counter example of, look, these people are literally
perceiving things in, quote unquote, incorrectly.
