going to be together and it should have been a total bummer to be like,
I'm really sad and I'm taking drugs right now and I was really sad.
But I don't don't feel like that made it a bad trip or anything.
What'd you take?
For eco synthetic psilocybin.
Yeah, those are those are really good too.
We don't know a lot about safety, but I mean, if you're just somebody who
really fears meeting somebody in an alleyway, which you probably, I mean,
if you're buying drugs out of an alleyway.
You're probably doing it wrong.
You're probably doing it wrong.
Yeah.
Taryn's like, find yourself a corrupt pharmacologist.
Yeah.
Are you guys at all worried about normalizing a culture of drug use?
I don't know.
So I agree that drugs should be legal, like every single drug.
I don't make distinctions of the hard drugs.
I think they should all be legal and people can make their choices.
But the whole talking about it and and telling people how okay, you know,
and life affirming or whatever it can be to have LSD, do you worry that
maybe there would be more people that start taking like opiates and
cocaine and things like that?
I think if we started talking about them responsibly, it would
probably be less use, less use.
I would, I would less irresponsible use.
And that's really what's important.
You know, you don't necessarily want there to be less use.
You just want there to be less people who are just like going freaking
nuts with this stuff.
And if, if there was an environment where you could have rational
conversation about the pitfalls and the pros of these things, then I think
the responsible use would definitely increase.
I mean, it's all over Silicon Valley right now, you know, LSD.
And, and that's because they talk about it in a, in a responsible and real manner.
There's some good evidence that our American culture with the drugs that
are legal, particularly, you know, alcohol, the way that our culture talks
about it makes it worse.
And so I think that if people could like just calm down about drugs and don't
talk about them in this overblown way, maybe people would have a healthier
relationship and be more responsible.
Uh, like in the way that people are in France, where they're, they don't expect,
uh, taking alcohol, you know, using a bit of alcohol to make you into some
kind of rage drunk.
We'll see like online communities and stuff like Irrowid where a lot of the
focus is on safety and harm reduction, you know, because they talk about it
openly, it's on the internet.
Nobody's going to bust down their door.
They're not all like, Hey man, you should do heroin because it's so good, you
know, it's, it's much more of a, a responsible discussion.
I also do wonder if maybe there could be some kind of, uh, assistant services
for people doing drugs, even if it is like an abusive situation, drug abuse
situation, like they, people would may be still benefit from having professionals.
They are with them.
Portugal, they focus mainly on just harm, harm reduction and they don't criminalize
it and tell people that, you know, they're the scum of the earth for doing
whatever they're doing.
And then whenever the person, they can talk to the police and say, Hey, you
know, like, I really feel like this is becoming a problem.
Can you guys help me get help?
Have you heard of wet houses?
No.
In an interesting concept, apparently, uh, most, uh, shelters for homeless
people, uh, have very strong rules about no drugs or alcohol of any kind.
And that keeps some people out of homeless shelters and they'd rather just, you
know, freeze on the street and have their alcohol.
Uh, so there was one, I heard about God, I don't remember what podcast it was.
Probably radio lab, but a shelter that's set up and they had all sorts of issues
with government regulations and getting money, but it was like, we will not give
you any alcohol, but you can come here and drink all you want.
And a lot of people loved it.
And that was like alcohol was a very big part of their lives and it's, it's kind
of sad, but on the other hand, it's just someone like, I need alcohol.
This is how I live my life and they live their life and it's not going to be a
very long life in the long run because they are slowly killing themselves.
But I don't know what can you do?
It's, I think it's almost better to allow them to have that sort of a place
than to force them out and, and tell them, you know, you have to either be
miserable or cold.
Yeah.
And, and also you have nowhere to go.
Yeah.
You know, like even if you did want help, it'd be a lot harder.
Right.
At least at the wet house, you can turn to someone or you can have friends.
There's somebody there that you can talk to that'll say, yeah, let's work
on getting you some help.
Are there some, maybe some European countries or something that have more
of these kinds of laws and procedures?
I don't know.
I mean, Portugal is completely decriminalized.
And I think, I think most places that have huge drug problems, like
gargantuan drug problems, they're going to start moving more towards decriminalization
just because like having a war on it and like forcing the market to be a black
market and just the war on drugs just doesn't work.
The drug cartels in Mexico have almost as much power as the government.
More in certain places.
War on drugs.
It just doesn't work.
Once your government loses the monopoly on violence, you got to do something.
I do anticipate that like if June 1st, you know, there was the guy at everyone,
all drugs are legal now, that there would be a huge spike in usage initially.
Oh, yeah.
There's like that taper off after like six months.
It might be more than six months.
I've heard that every culture in the world has about a 100 year period after
they discovered alcohol where like nothing gets done.
There's no.
It's not like LSDB being discovered in the United States.
It's just that now you could get it at the pharmacy rather than having to find a drug dealer.
Yeah.
And so it's not like it's going to impede society that much because it's not like
it's not out there.
It's just hard to find.
The primary reason I haven't used any of these things yet is because I don't have
a safe way to get it.
If I could go to the liquor, if I go to, again, I don't know what you'd call it,
the fancy pharmacy and get, you know, whatever drugs I wanted, like I can go to
the liquor store and get alcohol or go to the dispensary and get marijuana.
I would definitely have used most of these things by now or at least a handful of them.
I guess I'm not, I'm not sure if I'm trying to make a stronger point or not,
other than just anticipating that there'd be a spike.
But also, I guess there's something to be said about being able to trust your
source and having confidence that you're getting what you're thinking you're getting.
There's also like LSD is a journey for sure or any psychedelic is a journey.
It would wear you out if to become addicted to it would wear you out.
There's people that do it and they completely fry their brains with this stuff.
But I mean, I think a lot of people would more skew towards the side that
just uses it responsibly, like once every couple of years, you know,
let's talk briefly about the whole neurotoxicity thing, because I have felt
for a long time like a bad rationalist because I do drink alcohol.
Not, not every day anymore, but sometimes I mean, even though there is
a fair number of rationalists who don't, there's still more that do.
So I suppose it's like a big part of the whole brashless community is really
being into, I guess, for lack of a better term, like intelligence and our brains
and being able to use them and fix things.
And and I feel like stabbing my brain with chemicals is a horrible thing
for me to do.
And and when when when you first said that you didn't drink, I thought it
was because of that reason that that you didn't want to like injure your brain at all.
I mean, partially partially that too.
Yeah, but I don't think like the average alcohol user has long term
like if you have a drink now and then you're probably not going to have
long term injury from it, right?
I probably not because most people drink even the really smart, you know,
even famously smart people do.
But it worries me.
I'm like, what is all of these things through the window of every single
thing that's going to damage me, you know, isn't the right.
It's the I mean, do you ever worry like what if I could be two IQ points
smarter right now if my parents hadn't had to drop me on my head?
I was two or one minus the head dropping, minus being dropped.
I've hit it in my head like somewhere in the order of a hundred times.
And it does keep me up at night, but it does make me bummed.
But I don't feel like you drink, right?
And you don't ever wonder like maybe if I hadn't had the past thousand drinks
over the last 10 years, I'd be at one point smarter.
Yeah, no, that's like I like I said, it kind of took me away from that.
Or where that was for a large portion of my life, you know, what the purpose
was, was to just go faster and faster and get smarter and smarter.
And then the drugs, maybe they did take a few IQ points away, but they
allowed me to kind of appreciate just everyday beauty and stuff like that.
And my life experience has been better, even though maybe I'm not as smart
or something like that, you know, likely would have burned out a lot faster.
Well, I don't maybe I would have not burned out at all.
And I would have just continued to climb a ladder of success or whatever.
But I wouldn't have appreciated just, like I said, the general beauty in existing.
Quite as much if it wasn't for those, I would think maybe I would have
eventually found it, but I think it was a lot quicker road for me.
I just want to mention that, although it seems like the three of you probably
look at intelligence as something very tied to achievement.
I don't so much, maybe partially because I don't feel a strong sense
reward from achievement or productivity in general.
So, but I like intelligence for, I don't know, just for the enjoyment of understanding things.
Yeah, which is very cool, too.
Yeah, you don't you don't find it's a sense of like achievement from doing things.
Not very much.
Um, where do you where do you get that feeling from?
Like in general, in your life, what do you mean?
I mean, I don't feel much of a pleasure of achievement in general.
OK, where do you get like pleasure from then, I guess?
Um, understanding things and experiencing things that I think are
aesthetically pleasing, like primarily, I think that humans are, I mean,
both ugly and beautiful inside.
And I get a lot of enjoyment from delving into minds.
But also, you know, external reality, I just, I don't know, I enjoy, enjoy cool things.
Also, whenever you think about intelligence, a lot of people are related to IQ.
And, you know, there's this whole separate thing, EQ, like that is just being able
to emotionally connect with someone.
I think psychedelics and MDMA certainly contribute to those.
I don't know if I'm so up on the whole like IQ versus EQ thing,
maybe because I'm also low EQ.
Yeah, but you said maybe you'd lose a few IQ points, you know, maybe you'd gain a few EQ.
I'm worried, I want to nip this before we get on a whole other topic of G-Factor,
because that is an entire episode right there.
Yeah, yeah, it is.
We are at 50 minutes, so we should probably start steering towards wrapping up.
Are there things that people wanted to mention that I didn't get to yet?
Kind of.
OK, same.
