kicked out of his home and then died in the gutter a few decades later.
So they did certainly some issues, but I don't know how.
Well, coincidentally, my Facebook memories just showed me an article
I posted exactly a year ago, which is a Slate Star Codex article.
It's about how early psychedelic researchers were really weird.
But it also mentioned a recent study, a 2011 study showing, oh, wait,
that was a different study, but it was just mentioned that most studies
on safety of psychedelics show that it doesn't lead to increased
incidents of psychiatric illness.
Yeah, I think it's not, there's not as much worry about it increasing
the incidence of psychiatric illness, but bringing out or accelerating
the development of psychiatric illnesses that are already present.
And I think that's where people really worry about it.
I guess I would want to check on that evidence because I mean, yeah,
it's it's hard because there's not there's not a whole lot of research
on these things for some reason.
The 2011 study that that I was mixing it up with was one that said that
after one dose, I think it was a high dose of psilocybin
participants in the study generally showed a permanent increase
in the openness domain of their personality, which is very significant
because personality just doesn't change after you're an adult.
And psilocybin, for those who are not familiar, is the active ingredient
in hallucinogenic mushrooms. Yes.
I, by the way, did mushrooms and I did not notice that I got more open.
OK, you're still the cold, closed off person that you always were.
Like I've always wanted to be nice.
Honestly, though, like I really don't want to become more open.
OK, no, that's good.
And neither with acid.
I didn't notice. I don't feel like I got more open.
Do you feel like anything else about you changed in a permanent way?
No.
And I will relate some things that I have heard from others.
One person told me that after trying,
I forget which hallucinogenic was that he tried,
but it was probably the first like serious
mild seriously mind alternate altering drug that he had tried.
And he's like, wow, happiness is chemical.
Like I kind of knew it.
But now I really understand like happiness is chemical.
And I don't feel bad about getting treatment for my depression now because.
Yeah. Yeah, it can.
I mean, a lot of the positive effects,
I think that people get from it are just confronting things
that they haven't confronted before, as far as like psychedelics and MDMA as well.
I don't know why really that ties in.
But well, I think that, like, you know,
he doesn't think that maybe the drugs are bad and kind of confronted.
Yeah. And then also just the sense that you don't have to buy
into the things your depression tells you because it's chemical.
How how do you feel about addiction in in these drugs?
Like what is the risk for for what kind of drugs?
Well, I'm OK.
Are the only ones that you've taken the hallucinogens?
No, I've done.
I mean, MDMA is probably the one that has affected me the most in my life.
But that's also hallucinogen, right?
I think in a way, I've heard people call it hallucinogen, a hallucinogen before.
But I don't know how accurate that is.
All right. What does it do if you can get addicted to MDMA and LSD
and and Silas Oben, Silas Oben.
Silas Oben. Silas Oben.
Silas Oben. Silas Oben.
Those are both acting on serotonin.
And so you don't build as many reward circuits with those.
My experience with alcohol was, again, happiness is chemical.
And so it was like, hey, I have found a thing that when I drink it, I am happy.
It was literally joy in the bottle.
It was the best thing.
And then I didn't stop drinking for three years.
So that was not a good thing.
Yeah, I would have much less of a fear of addiction
for psychedelics than alcohol and stuff like that.
I mean, a lot, a lot, a lot of what you see is really propaganda.
Like there's heroin addicts that will tell you it's harder
to quit smoking than it is to quit heroin.
So it's a lot of what you're saying isn't really an accurate representation
of of the risks of the drugs.
It's it's something used to justify the enforcement of them, I think.
Yeah, another thing you're probably familiar with this,
Enias, is the cultural message that once you're an alcoholic, you're always an alcoholic.
You can't say I used to be an alcoholic.
You have to say, like, I'm recovering alcoholic.
I can and I do say that I used to be an alcoholic.
Yeah, right.
And I have heard and I'm I'm sorry that didn't check on this,
but I've heard that there are a number of studies that show that most people
with alcoholism and maybe I think, including other addictions,
they stop on their own without any kind of treatment or or a program.
Yeah, I don't think it's like a large majority,
but I have heard that more than half of the people who had problem for a while
eventually are just like, I don't want to do this anymore and they stop.
See that pretty quickly with LSD.
That's one of the things that I mean, really, research should be opened up on these things
just because to completely block it off is to say there's no therapeutic
effects and, you know, I mean, the community that does them
is pretty solid that there's therapeutic effects.
So how do you feel about more of the the drugs that are like just party drugs?
Like, I don't know, heroin and cocaine and such.
Before we get to that, I had another quick question.
So we won't use Enias as an example,
but we can use somebody like Enias as an example.
Somebody who kind of struggled with like facing existential crisis
and solipsism, you know, growing up and tearing you use the phrase,
it kind of forces you to face your your whatever you've had,
whatever you've bottled up.
So I'm imagining two different ways that this could go for somebody like that.
They could either end up back in, oh, my God, I'm in the matrix.
Everything's fake, or they could end up having crushed that and be like,
I can't believe that was ever a concern of mine.
Or it could just be a visual happy time.
You know, but but do you think it could go either way?
Or do you think? Yeah. Yeah.
Did you say that you used to have some trouble, too, with reality testing?
Yeah. And it didn't make it worse.
I think it didn't make it worse and it didn't make it better,
but it made me more accepting that that was a part of my life
and to just kind of have, I don't know, accept accept that that was part of my life
and not be really controlled as much by it.
Go cool. Party drugs.
Yeah, yeah.
How do you feel about the ones that are explicitly known as just party drugs,
like cocaine and and and I guess not heroin necessarily, but but,
you know, the morphine.
I definitely wouldn't call her or cocaine cocaine, just a party drug.
No, it's a Wall Street drug.
Yeah, totally. You get it.
It's an office drug. Yeah.
What now?
You know, like that joke about or not joke, I don't know that that quip about
mommy's little helper, like taking their kids riddling.
It's cocaine is like the leveled up version of that.
It's like it's like R rated riddling.
I thought the high from cocaine only lasts for like five minutes.
No, it can last a few hours.
Huh, OK.
But it is. I mean, you can use it at parties and stuff, but I wouldn't.
I mean, going to a rave or whatever, like I wouldn't choose cocaine
as my drug of choice, you know, are they because those in specific
cocaine and heroin are the ones that you see the most in popular media
as being the destroyers of lives?
Oh, heroin's heroin's pretty bad.
OK, so they're heroin.
Heroin's an opiate and it's pretty bad.
Yeah, the real danger comes nowadays because because it's again,
just a completely like black box thing where there's not research heroin
or anything like that.
Whenever people are buying heroin on the streets nowadays,
it's not even heroin anymore, and it's cut with fentanyl.
And so you're getting people that are buying heroin
and they're actually getting an even worse drug for it
just because we don't have, you know, regulated markets and stuff like that for these.
You were.
Oh, I was just going to say, like heroin and meth.
When do you really want to get into?
So there are some limits on the drugs that you're willing to do.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, definitely.
He's giving me this to like, yes, you dumbass.
I mean, it's you can't present it as all drugs are bad or all drugs are good.
You know, you have to understand that, you know, they're just be educated
about what you're doing, don't do stuff that the community at large
doesn't have positive effects out of it.
I mean, if you talk to people who have done LSD and stuff like that,
there will be people who have had a bad experience.
But the majority of them will say it's like one of the most
influential positive experiences of their life or like at least in the top
most influential positive experiences in their life.
I worry about the bad trip, too.
Yeah, I think it's worthwhile for you to know if you would ever consider
doing LSD to know about the possible bad things that could happen.
Do you take into account the warning stories as well as the good things?
Because a bad trip can last for like hours of just terror, right?
Yeah, it could last for hours and that might feel like an eternity.
But that's the whole point of spreading responsible use and stuff.
You know, I mean, it's about the environment that you keep in.
If somebody just hands you LSD and you don't research like what's actually
going to happen and you just kind of throw yourself in a pool
without knowing whether or not you can swim, it's going to be a bad time.
But if you know kind of what influences the trip and stuff like that,
I think you have a higher likelihood of it going well.
So what would you recommend for a good trip?
A good sitter, I would say.
Can you define?
Just somebody who's who's you love and you trust fully, who is going
to be sober with you for that experience.
I would say that would be a big one.
I'll also say that I did hear some warning stories about how you have
to be really careful about your environment so you don't have a bad trip.
And I didn't I didn't find that that really played into my experiences.
That also depends on like dosage and stuff, you know, you take a hefty dose of LSD.
You're saying I should not take LSD and go to a gore concert?
Yeah, probably not.
Not yet.
Maybe someday.
Once you're a little bit more.
Once I'm hardcore into the horror scene.
But then you might as well just do heroin.
So well, shit.
One of my first psychedelic experiences was with someone I was dating
who was was about to leave and it was like the last time that we were
