I was halfway through a shift at work, you know, 1,000 miles away.
So it was really funny.
But the trick was, is that it was agreed upon beforehand that I could
that I could trick her about it, right?
And I think that, you know, the only reason that I felt compelled
to ask permission was not because she's such a stickler for the truth,
but because I am, I would have felt really dishonest, even if I knew it was all
in fun to like know that I could lie that well and like misrepresent
reality to her that fluidly.
So I was like, God, we didn't actually talk about like my philosophical
discontents with lying.
And basically it does come down to the idea that, like, if you're lying
to somebody, you're taking upon yourself to say, I know what your model of reality
should be. You shouldn't have the real one.
You should have this fake one.
And I'm going to determine which fake one you should have.
That puts you in a really arrogant position.
I know we talked about this briefly in one of our early episodes,
like maybe number one or number two, where I consider lying to be a hostile act.
You are misrepresenting other the world to other people.
You are damaging their map of reality, and that will have consequences later on.
Their map of reality is less accurate because you have sabotaged it
and they cannot make decisions as well as they would have otherwise.
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
Any other last things we want to jump on or?
GoogleplexBytes also says at the end, the reason loved ones would be better
at lying to you is that you trust them more, which, yeah, that's sad.
You waste a lot less mental effort assessing the truth value of your statement.
But isn't that the whole point of trust?
Yeah. Oh, yeah, that's actually a really good point.
I don't know if we articulated that when we were pointing out that people
that you trust are easier to lie to you, but that's the whole point.
But also they turned more likely to do the kind lies, right?
So like your hair looks great, kind of lie.
Sure. I try not to do that one.
Same. I try not to do that either, because like, you know, if I ask my partner,
hey, how does my hair look?
She could say, you know, yeah, you should do this with it,
because it looks it doesn't look like you want it to look.
I want to know that, right?
I wouldn't ask.
I'm not I guess that that sort of depends on what you're trying to get out of it.
Are you asking because you want to be told the nice thing,
which case you're not really asking the question.
You're asking, tell me I look good, which case you're the liar pretty much.
Yeah. So I've had that sort of situation where
you know, partner would ask me, you know, what would you what would you think
about me cutting my hair shorter?
And I'm like, well, I'm not really that much into short hair,
but I would still love you and it's your body.
So, you know, that that is truth.
And yet kind of assuaging their fears, because when someone is asking
something like that, they're usually asking, are you still going to like me?
Right? Yeah. Yeah.
Right on. Yeah, of course.
I believe that's everything.
All right. Thanks, guys. Cool.
Yeah. Thanks for coming on.
I know we're coming up on the end of our time.
So we're going to roll out.
Thank you to Kyle Moore for our awesome sound job.
I hope you guys noticed that the podcast sounds a lot better.
Thanks to our Patreon supporters.
Check us out on iTunes.
We finally got this came out yesterday.
We finally got our logo working.
You guys will hopefully have noticed that by now.
Woohoo.
It was anyway, it's on the iTunes now.
So now you're no longer looking at that little microphone
with the waves coming out of it.
And what am I leaving out?
If you want to comment on this episode, you can do so at the basin conspiracy dot
com or at the subreddit slash r slash the basin conspiracy.
Cool. Thanks for listening.
All right. Good night.
You're just going to say bye to you. Bye.
Flushing your toilet is the best drug ever.
