probably don't go around their office advertising it quite as much
because there's a stigma against it.
Yeah.
I think that's one of the one of the big reasons for for legalization
for a lot of these things is just to make it so people can talk
about their responsible drug use and kind of break the stigmas of, oh,
you do LSD once and heroin's next, you know, I guess, I guess it's one
of the things I kind of like about alcohol is that no matter how much
you drink the next day, you won't be drunk anymore.
You can go back to how you were.
You may not be productive the next day, depending on how much you drink.
Well, I mean, it changes you over time for sure.
OK, you know, and also some recreational drugs can boost productivity.
Although I'm not sure you could consider micro dosing LSD as fun.
Yeah, I wouldn't call it.
But it does help a lot of people.
I wouldn't call it recreational.
And that at that point, whenever I think of like doing drugs
recreationally, I think of doing them without the purpose of improving
my life outside of the recreational drugs, you know, if you're if you're.
But what if you're trying to improve your like, I guess some people
who are into spirituality or whatever, they they take drugs for that purpose
to improve their spiritual journey or whatever.
Yeah.
So I know that's still recreational to me.
Yeah, I think maybe my definition is off.
But well, I think there's there's two different goals there, right?
One is to have a great time.
Another is to like, you know, be a serious scholar about your own mind or something.
Right. So while they're both probably, I guess, recreationalism,
they're not like prescription use, but I mean, there's and if you're doing
Molly at a party to, you know, roll and have a great time, that's different than
like, you know, I'm going to try this sitting at home, watch, you know,
and relax with the best friend or something.
Those are very different environments and you're probably taking it with a
different goal, but you're still using a an illegal drug recreationally, I guess.
You said you also used to be against drugs very much
until you heard Sam Harris talking about him.
It's a very good, very good podcast.
I still haven't listened to it.
That's OK. There's never heard it either.
It was actually, I think his first actual podcast episode.
There were a couple like lead up ones, but it's second or third.
And he just read the essay that he published.
I read it shortly after it was new.
Some years ago, I can't remember when.
And it took me more off the fence.
So like I hadn't really used, I think I tried marijuana a few times at that
point, but I was pretty much like, well, I'm not going to try anything
that'll practically alter my perception of reality.
So I kind of had like this, like hardcore, like James Randi and Outlook
on drug use and James Randi and like Penn Gillette and people in that community.
A lot of them don't use drugs because they're like, well, and they don't even drink.
Yeah. They're like, well, yeah, I mean, the whole point of being a seriously
scientifically minded person is having a commitment to always perceiving the world
as as unobtruse or as as clearly as possible.
And I'm kind of on board with that myself.
So I am too.
I think what changed my mind was that, like, it's not like if you were to get
drunk once you're submitting to a life of never being able to perceive
reality accurately again, right?
It's like, if you were drunk forever, that would be a pretty serious issue.
But you're taking a break.
You take a break.
I mean, it's just like, I feel like taking that philosophy and I might not
have been giving it the best steel man I could.
But if your whole thing is to, you know, observe reality as as directly as possible.
Well, like then you're never going to waste time, like empathizing with a fictional
character, right?
So like, I mean, as long as you're willing to do or anything, yeah, you're going,
you're going to be taking different levels of seriousness with whenever you want
to, you know, focus on being scientifically minded.
Right. So I wouldn't want to go forth and do science while, you know,
rolling on LSD, but it's the weekend.
And I'm like, well, this is how I'm going to spend my time.
And I'm going to, I guess it's the kind of thing that you can turn off and it's
not a permanent commitment to losing your mind.
But, um, I kind of disagree with the idea that when you're
empathizing with a fictional character or that kind of thing that you're, you're
being deluded and you're not in touch with reality, like you are looking into
your own brain, you're, you're experiencing part of yourself and your imagination.
That's not like false information.
Like fiction is different from lies.
That's true. I might be rolling with that.
I can't argue with it too hard, but maybe like playing video games or I guess
no, because you know, you're playing a video game.
If you suddenly lost the fact that you're playing the video game.
But I'm assuming when you're hallucinating, you know you're hallucinating, right?
Yeah. I mean, you can lose that.
And that's whenever you have things like timelessness and stuff like that,
that experience.
One of the reasons I don't want to do alcohol is I feel like that one in
particular would distort my thinking in a way that I didn't experience on
psychedelics so far.
So it totally distorts your thinking.
But again, it's only for like a temporary time.
The thing is I, I will, I can get as high with really good music and just
dancing and letting the music flow over me as I ever have with alcohol.
And so I consider that or, or certain works of written art, it's not, it's
not near, it's not as strong as music or as consistent as music, but every
now and then it can, I, in my opinion, anyway, it brings me to a mentally
altered state too sometimes.
Yeah.
You can, you can experience probably a lot of what people usually take away from
MDMA and LSD just by living a lifetime of meditation, you know, like, like
and really focusing on altering that state of consciousness and putting
yourself into a different state of consciousness.
Or you could just take LSD and get a lifetime of experience and, you know.
I've heard some scary stories about meditation.
In fact, people meditated so much they had a psychotic break.
Oh, I think that there are people for whom meditation isn't for them.
Like if you, I mean, you have to be the ultimate judge, kind of just like, I
mean, deciding whether or not you could handle drugs.
But, you know, if you feel like opening the doors to your mind a little bit, if
you feel like you're, you know, barely holding on or, you know, if you're
have this sort of anxiety about what might come forward or something.
I mean, I've never found meditation that transformative.
Yeah.
Well, rather like, I mean, I found it a little transformative in my day to day
life, but I've never had, you know, like a, like an enlightened experience or
anything like that, right?
It's probably a bad analogy, but it just is the first thing that came to my mind.
If you're looking at like buying a gun and you get one of like the handbooks
from a store, the first thing it'll say on like page one is like, make sure you
feel like you're a good person to own a gun.
And if you're not great, you made a good decision.
Like to not buy it.
Um, so like, I feel like if you're, it's, it's just like really any other
decision that could change your life, you know, have some idea of what you're
getting into.
And if, you know, make an honest appraisal of other than that, it's good for you.
Right?
Yeah.
That's another reason I'm really worried about hallucinogens.
Like I keep hearing like they are the good type of drug and you should be okay
taking it, but like the reason it's all, it's luck and genetics, you know,
like the reason I am down with alcohol is that it alters your mood without
altering your perception.
And I have a lot of problems with reality, not a lot anymore because I've
managed to work ways around it, but in general, I have some trouble with
reality testing.
And I am terrified that a hallucinogen would just shatter all that.
And I'd be stuck again and the place where I was, or I don't know what's real.
I'm very interested in hearing more about this.
If you, if you're cared to describe it, the reality testing.
Yeah, or like the worst places that you've been in here.
Oh God, I don't want to go too far into, I think, I don't know, it couldn't
have been just my religious background because a lot of people have religious
backgrounds, but I took that shit like seriously and it, it makes a difference
when you know that there is someone who has warm feelings about you, but is
literally watching every single thing you do all the time.
And it was just one of, one of the reasons I've never really had a problem
with mass surveillance or things of that nature.
Cause I'm like, I live for years under constant mass surveillance.
What are you fucking scared of?
Hey, it's in my, my main breakdowns is in trying to figure out if anything is
real and the worst part is when I doubt other people's existence.
Like a lot of it, not a lot of times, but sometimes I'm like, suffering
in third world countries can't really be real.
There can't be something that awful actually in existence.
It must be some sort of like simulated reality thing.
And we're being told about the suffering in those countries so that we have
like goals to work to make the world better or that we can feel better about
our lives, but in no universe could that actually be the thing.
No one could suffer that much.
And then like, if I meet someone who's gone through awful things, I'm like,
is this person real or were they created in the past week or so to intrude on my life?
And I started thinking, is anyone real?
Is it just me?
And what are you guys doing in this room?
Are you here because I am a narcissistic person that wants to have a podcast?
So what did you do?
What were your strategies?
My strategy is not to think about that shit.
To just put in a box.
Except on faith that other people are real and reality does exist and not to
engage any solipsists when they try to talk to me about things.
I'm like, you know what?
Fuck you.
It helps you feel any better.
I feel very real.
Which is something you would say to try to convince me.
I mean, through that lens, there's literally nothing I can say or do.
That is the problem.
Yeah.
Did you ever see the movie, The Thirteenth Floor?
No.
Good.
Don't you like it?
Oh, man, that's a harsh one.
Another follow up personal question, which you made it, you don't want to answer it.
I know, but what about, isn't there some part of your genetic background
that plays into?
Very likely.
I, everyone in my immediate family has mental issues, except maybe my mother.
She might just have issues because she has to deal with the rest of us.
But definitely my dad and all my siblings.
And I don't know about my wider family because they're in the old world.
I don't don't have any contact with them.
I know my grandfather on my dad's side was a alcoholic to the point where he was
