Atheism is not a religion any more than theism is.
I think we both kind of tried to be clear that we don't think that it's
a religion, but it's a religious alignment.
Is that the term you use?
That is the term we use.
They're the reply right after that was someone said that.
And Sailor Vulcan replied with, yeah, I kind of think that's a bullshit term
they just made up on the spot so that they could dodge things.
Why not make up a term like that?
I think it's a useful term to make up.
And terms have to come from somewhere.
I honestly really personally feel that it is basically a religious viewpoint.
I have an opinion about religions.
And it makes a difference in how I live my life.
And I think it should be protected as much as any other religion is by the government.
But that's only in the context of structural power imbalances, like
or privileged by imbalances, reflecting different belief sets, right?
I mean, you don't think that, like epistemologically, they're
anything like the same stance or even on the same sport.
I kind of do.
Really?
I mean, not in the in the way that atheism makes you believe anything,
but I have a very strong belief in that the material world is all that there is.
And there is no magic or people.
Some people would say that you need an extra term, right?
Beyond atheism to describe that.
And then that thing should be the thing.
Yeah, but I think the generic atheism should work as a decent protector for that.
If like maybe you can use some other term and that's fine, too.
But the strong secularist, maybe?
No, that's not right, because secular just means keeping things separate.
I believe that like humanism as a formal system, maybe include some of these ideas.
I'm not sure I didn't haven't looked that much into humanism.
I do think that the rejection of all supernatural claims,
like the strong rejection, should count as some sort of a religious belief.
And that is what I have.
I strongly believe that all that is bullshit and that people who believe it are deluded.
As far as like legality, that's what you're both in a legality
and in like social consideration.
I know there are like some people who call themselves apotheists
who are like, I don't know, man, and I don't care.
I'm just getting along.
And sure, they don't they don't have any religious belief,
but I feel like my belief is definitely borderline religious.
Nihilism are those people.
Damn you to hell.
I am no nihilist.
You I'm saying those people.
Oh, yeah, I'm an atheist.
I don't believe in that.
I don't believe in anything that's nihilism.
OK, sorry, I take it back.
You are still welcome here.
I think I think I still sort of disagree with where you're coming from,
but I don't know if it's worth beating on too much.
But it's like if Taryn thought that unicorns coats are white
and you thought and Shelley thought that they were off pink.
And I was like, I don't think unicorns exist.
I don't think those are three equal beliefs in any way, right?
No, yours is a much better belief because it's grounded in reality.
But but then to say that, yeah, that's that's a stance.
I guess how does that map on to to like
either having different beliefs about religion or saying,
I don't believe in this religion.
Well, do you not believe in unicorns
because they're mythical magical creatures?
I believe in them because I don't think they exist.
Or excuse me, I don't believe in them because I don't think they exist.
I think that the problem here is that you didn't have a word
for what atheism is and religious alignment,
which is what you guys came up with, fills that void
of explaining the idea without.
Mixing up definitions with other things.
Fair enough.
And as far as like politically relevant,
it's in the same playing field, like.
Your beliefs, yeah, it's still just the same as far as legality.
In terms of political legality, definitely.
Well, that may not matter as much in other countries,
but in the US, where there is a very specific
and strong exemption for religious beliefs,
having that sort of anti-religious belief to be counted
is an important legal thing.
And that I can get more on on board with.
In fact, this is actually a lie told to on a formal piece of paper.
I don't know if it's a lie,
but I should mention this during the lying episode.
When you sign up for cryonics,
one of the documents that they send you, if you want to sign it,
is a religious exemption from autopsy,
because if you're autopsy, you're not you can't be crap reserved.
And I said, yeah, but there's no formal document
that says I have a secular objection to autopsy.
So I signed the one that said
I had a religious objection to autopsy, even though I don't.
But that was only because there was a there wasn't a
a comparable way to get that benefit, right?
So I signed the same thing because, you know, I'm also signed up for cryo.
And I did not feel like I was lying when I signed it.
I was like, this is feels sort of like a religious ish belief.
I mean, yes, it's grounded entirely on science,
but I'm hoping that this technology comes about in the future.
And I've OK, I love that at one point,
Ellie, as I said, you know what, I got sick and tired of explaining to people
what this cryo tag that I keep around my neck is, you know,
in case you die out in the public somewhere and the EMTs come, it says,
please call this number and have them.
Yeah, take care of my body in this specific way.
So I just started telling people that this is part of my religion.
I believe if I'm wearing this when I die, I will get an afterlife.
That's awesome. Yeah.
I was like, fuck, yeah.
No, I do I have once previously
and I wrote this when I was drunk during that drunk period,
but I still kind of stand by it.
I said that I feel like some of the people in the rationalist community,
the leaders almost feel like my priests to me.
They are the people that are doing the good work that I want to see done in the world.
And I am more than happy to help contribute to that.
My inner my I'm cringing a little bit from that language.
But no, no, no, no, that's fine.
I feel like your perspective, though, makes a lot of sense,
especially from where you're coming from, right?
Like, that's the context.
That's like the whole framework that you built your like your childhood model of
reality around. Yeah. And so if you're like, I have strong emotional roots there.
Yeah. So like, I mean, if you're if you're supplanting,
you know, Yahweh with the less wrong
matter, I think, like, as long as you know that they're not the exact same thing.
And it sounds like you're not completely just like, no, I've switched out this
religion for this this blind acceptance of other beliefs.
Right. I feel like that's totally fine.
I do feel like the language would annoy a lot of people,
but I totally get where you're coming from.
I'm sure I just pissed off like 90 percent of our listeners.
I do think that it's dangerous to to venerate someone so much
that you would just accept anything.
I would not at all.
There there have been at least a few situations where I was like,
God, but like if it if it came out that someone high up in the rationalist
community was abusing children or something, I'd be like, yeah, fuck you.
They're all in jail, but also like just on
factual or logical philosophical disagreements,
like, even though I think someone is really smart,
I'm I still am likely to disagree with them about some of those things.
Yeah. So you're in any decent religion, I should hope
you'd be allowed to disagree with their priests all day long.
You can't disagree with your peace.
Get out of fucking religion.
I feel like we're not using the word religion in the same way.
Yeah. And I feel like you're the only one using it.
I'm sorry. I'm completely fine.
I should bow out because I'm doing things wrong.
It's such a vague word.
Science is is a religion.
You know, everything.
Oh, you're cruising and bruising everything.
Everything breaks down to like philosophy on the back end
and somewhere there's a belief, you know, but science is a method
of exploring the world.
It's I would not consider science my religion in any way.
I have very much broader and deeper than just science.
Where science is like a tool.
Where do your Bayesian priors come from?
No one knows where your priors come from.
That's part of the matrix.
Should we go on?
I'm down to keep going.
OK, we'll probably get more mail about this thing
that I was just saying.
Oh, this one is just kind of a fun one.
I'm not sure there's a lot to reply to it,
but GoogleplexBytes says, oh, why is the sky is blue
used as a proxy for absolute truth so much?
Yeah, I always try to avoid that one
because its color and size guys can be different colors.
And gosh, that's a bad one.
We shouldn't shouldn't use guys blue as fairies a lot.
Now, I agree.
But my inner devil's advocate is going to just find a way to argue this.
So I'll I'll I'll defend it in that I think it's popular
because you could imagine in the context of having this argument
like say three people are sitting outside and there the sky is currently blue
and they use that as a claim like, OK, well, you're saying this,
but how can we relate to that to a state like statement like
they all look up and point the sky is blue or grass is green.
Now granted, grass can be different colors.
The sky can be different colors at sunset or there can be clouds.
Grass can be, you know, brown.
It can be yellow. Yeah, whatever color.
It can be painted white like a football field.
Those don't change like what you're what you're getting at.
I think sky is blue is the default.
Like, you know, I think it's like saying this this table is is flat
or this table has four legs like I always like to use number of fingers
because I can see it.
And if you can't see, you can feel my hand, right?
Like if you have things that prevent you from perceiving
what I perceive, there are other methods for you to tell that I have five fingers.
I've heard that the sky being blue is a bit of a social construct, too.
