Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Eni Ashbrotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber, and we have
a couple of guests with us today. I'm Shelley. I'm Taryn.
And today we are going to be talking about the recreational side of drugs, since we were
talking about the new tropics last time. After the microphones went off, the discussion
kind of went other places, and we said, hey, we should record this as well, because this
sounds interesting. So I am the kind of person who believed everything they told me in school,
and things have changed a little bit, but I have never done drugs, and I've always been
deathly afraid of them. And I have been hearing recently from a lot of people that maybe drugs
are kind of an interesting thing to try now and then. And you guys are here to convince
me of this, I guess. Well, I actually have a perspective similar
to your own, in that I didn't do any recreational drugs unless you can caffeine. I probably wouldn't.
I think caffeine is recreational. I mean, for some people it is.
It can be useful, but it doesn't make you happy, right?
It's for some people it does. It makes you happy if you need caffeine to function. You
just not happy without it. You get it in you, and you're like, ah, normal.
My husband has, what I believe is a purely placebo effect, whereas as soon as the mountain
dude touches his lips, he's like, oh my gosh, everything is great.
Before his body's had any time to, yeah. But yeah, so I hadn't done any recreational
drugs until last year, and I am in my 30s. Did they destroy your life?
Not yet, working on it. So I still have not done alcohol or cannabis,
which are the most common recreational drugs. So you went straight from like, so I think
you know, when you're talking about like the stuff that told you in school, you're thinking
like dare program, which to those who are unfamiliar, you could probably Google like
reefer madness videos on YouTube, which is like the propaganda films from, I don't know,
the 40s and 50s, 60s.
Well, see, even when I was in middle school, I knew marijuana was basically harmless.
I see.
Everyone knew at that point, just because it's so used so widely by so many people.
But they talk about it like as like, so the dare program was this like drug scare tactic
thing that they have people go around to schools and was always sort of like, whenever they
talked about it, that'd be basically cautioning like, Oh yeah, marijuana.
OK, we can no longer say because people have books and stuff now that, you know, it's
it's going to destroy your life, but it's a gateway drug.
It's going to it'll first you have a marijuana's, then you're going straight to heroin.
And fun fact about dare, it actually increases drug use.
Yes. How would it increase drug use?
Because and this totally makes sense when when I was in the dare program anyway, and
I think they still do this, they tell you don't ever do any of the hard drugs, like
heroin or ecstasy or anything like that.
Because as soon as you do it, it'll be so amazing.
That's all you will ever think about for the rest of your life.
You'll become an instant hardcore junkie addict.
And it's basically not true.
And a lot of people.
OK, so I have recently read a very interesting article from New York Times.
I think it was about a guy who was talking about how he became a heroin addict.
And he said, no one, no one shoots up the first time they do heroin.
That's just you don't do that.
That is hardcore. You don't put needles in you.
What you do is you get like some painkillers that someone got from their doctor.
They got a little extra that brought them to the party.
You grind it up and you feel good.
You have a good time.
And the next morning you wake up and there's no hangover and you're not addicted.
You just go about doing it and you're living your normal life.
And so you're like, oh, there's actually nothing to worry about.
And so then he started taking it more and more and eventually got to the point
where it would be cheaper just for me to buy a smack and shoot it into my veins
than to keep going with these prescription pills.
And that's how you get to the thing.
So if people just were more realistic and be like, hey, kids,
this is a bad idea and here's why, as opposed to like you do it one time
and your life is over and then you do it one time and like, well,
everything I've been told is a lie.
So what you mean, the lies of unintended bad consequences.
Did you ever take any opioids for pain management before you started
experimenting with drugs?
I took, I was given a large, largest quantity of Vicodin after surgery
and I took one and that was it.
Hardcore.
You're just going to write it out or did you, did it not agree with you or?
I mean, I thought it may have helped the pain, but then after I stopped,
you know, I took one and then after that I was like, you know,
I don't really need any more.
So whatever.
I had the same thing.
Most people don't do that with their leftover opioids.
It's interesting because a lot of people, like I've even known some people
well, I know knew one person that developed a problem with it,
but like I took it and I never felt high.
I just felt like the pain went away and then I fell asleep about 10 minutes later.
It made me incredibly sleepy.
And you know, that's fine because that's all I want is to not be feeling pain at the time.
But, but no, apparently with some people who has a much stronger
effect where they actually get happy.
I feel very glad that I didn't have that happy high
because I tend to have this is this is the main reason I'm worried about drugs.
I tend to have a rather addictive personality type.
Like if I get into a game, I will do nothing but play that game for a while.
And I mean, I tend to get that way with anything that I really enjoy.
So if I really like the drug, I would probably have issues with it.
I have an issue with alcohol.
There's different ways you can like stuff, though,
like like psychedelics usually operate on serotonin instead of dopamine.
So even though you like them, you're not as likely to actually
build like reward circuits in your brain that will end up, you know,
reinforcing bad habits with them.
I'm very dopamine driven in general.
So I would probably get addicted to we all we all are.
But I like I hate serotonin.
It just makes me feel like I don't like this kind of happiness.
And why is it why is it taking over my brain with this this weird happiness?
No, the serotonin kind.
Oh, really? Yeah.
Well, from a drug perspective, because I mean, you experience serotonin
and you probably well, like it in an everyday experience.
Maybe, but whenever it's pushed over the natural limits, perhaps, perhaps.
But I'm also I have like a general depression
throughout most of my life.
And so I think I'm lower serotonin in general, probably.
And also the SSRR style drugs don't do that much for me.
Yeah. So what was it that got you to try your first drug?
Well, part of it actually was the rationalist community.
Peer pressure.
I am ashamed of my community now.
So I had heard from various people, like even one time doing psychedelic
or hallucinogenic drug could have permanent positive effects on your life.
Terenes had said the same thing.
And that is one of the things that really worries me.
I do not want my utility function to be fucked with right now.
Maybe maybe, like, if I get to a point in my life where I'm not happy
with who I am, then I would take some be more willing to take those drugs.
But I don't want things to permanently change me.
And Terenes like saying he said he said basically like any any Warhawks
who took some LSD would be like no longer as into going to war with things.
Yeah, I would imagine I'm sure there's outliers and stuff like that.
But generally, I doubt too many jarheads could could could do a lot of LSD
and still feel as good about why it's just you feel less separate,
I think, from from other people, at least in my experience.
And MDMA is probably another big one that would make it generally very hard.
I think those are the two ones whenever we're talking about like recreational drugs,
you should probably stick to a lot of stuff outside of MDMA and LSD.
I don't think has as many therapeutic uses.
Yeah, actually, that was my impression, too, when I was considering what I wanted to do.
Probably, I'm not going to do MDMA, although I have heard definitely
about the therapeutic uses, but psychedelics in particular.
Yeah. Yeah.
So why not MDMA?
Um, it's certainly more dangerous.
Yeah. Yeah.
Is it dangerous or I guess can you expand on dangerous?
Yeah. Well, MDMA is is neurotoxic to a higher degree than than LSD.
Neurotoxic like alcohol is neurotoxic or neurotoxic like neurotoxin is neurotoxic.
You know, I don't know enough about it to relate those two.
But generally, MDMA is less safe than than psychedelics.
Have you found yourself being stupid or the last few years in ways but pleasant ways?
I'm not as focused on just.
Yeah, I'm not as I'm can appreciate
my own experience more and appreciate being present more rather than just living
for the future quite as much.
And that's something that I've thoroughly enjoyed.
Hmm. I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing.
I like living for the future.
I think one way of thinking about that, though, is that if your only drive is for
like future stuff, that's where like all of like the the Buddhist talks about
like why people are so miserable all the time.
That's what that's exactly it, right?
Well, I mean, so that that is a big part of of both my misery and my drive in life,
though, it's that part that the mis the drive is like, I want there to be
something of me in the future.
I want to make a difference.
So I'm yeah, working on that.
But then there's also the misery where eventually a few hundred years,
everything dies, nothing matters.
Any contribution I will have made will be have wiped out.
Like who remembers any?
I guess Shakespeare and Homer have lasted.
But even then it's it's eventually it won't matter.
Even if you have like an amazing critically acclaimed book that's bestseller
a hundred years from now, no one's going to remember.
Yeah, I think I was more thinking about just living day to day.
Oh, yeah, no, you're thinking about like instead of like, man, I'm kind of enjoying,
you know, right now I'm, you know, between that's like 10 a.m.
I'm having coffee or whatever, rather than like just living in constant
anticipation of like, oh, man, I can't wait till this or, you know, I'm waiting
for 1230 and then I can do this like just being able to sit and bask and relax
and be happy where you are for that minute.
I think it's more what you're getting.
Yeah, it's it was very hard for me to do nothing before.
But that's very unproductive.
Yeah, yeah, like if I'm doing nothing between the hours of 1030 and noon,
those are an hour and a half that I could have been, you know,
working on a podcast or a book or something.
All of this is just like, man, I should be using drugs a lot.
Like, I know I'm going to join us in the productive side.
I'm currently doing a lot of nothing.
And I'm, you know, I could use a kind of brain reset.
Let's let's just do it.
I'm going to be doing nothing.
I might as well be happy doing nothing.
Unfortunately, drugs do have like a big image issue where you think that,
you know, it's just a dichotomy.
You know, you're either, you know, completely this, oh, man,
it's all just peace and love.
And or you're like completely grinding away in the machine
to make more money for the man or whatever, you know, like.
Or make more difference to the future.
Yeah, totally.
And but you can, I mean, responsible drug use is something that exists.
It's just, I mean, a lot of people who are responsible drug users
