And yet they're managing to live their lives just fine.
Everybody perceives stuff incorrectly constantly.
That's the nature of what we are.
Like if you an easy example is if you put a straw on water,
you know, you see the straw bend, even though it's not bent.
That's just because perceptions aren't there to give us an accurate
representation of reality, they're there to help us survive.
You know, and there's some things that didn't really need to evolve in.
We didn't need to evolve to be able to see things straight underwater.
And we can perhaps reduce our biases, but we'll never completely overcome them.
Yeah, because they're part of being human.
Maybe this using a drug like that will help you to realize that,
that no matter how hard we try to overcome everything,
there always be some little thing that you're missing and that's screwing up
your your perception.
So don't get too arrogant and don't get too sure that you have everything figured out.
I think that's when I really got into heuristics and biases was
whenever I started doing drugs, just because it kind of forced me to see,
whoa, you know, my perceptions can be wrong.
What other perceptions that I'm commonly assuming are correct are are actually
wrong. Is that really fueled that whole journey?
Fascinating.
How I would have thought people would have gotten into into rationality.
Took drugs and became a rationalist.
What my takeaway from today is that I probably will continue doing psychedelics.
I have not been convinced to try alcohol or cannabis.
I do think that it's a good thing to at least consider what you want to do and why.
Yeah, I think to agree with you that there's I don't I think my understanding
and I'll know more later that I'll be able to see more to this personally later
is that I feel like if you're if you go through your entire life without ever
trying any hallucinogen whatsoever, you've probably missed out on something that
definitely would be regrettable to miss out on.
I don't feel like that's the case with alcohol.
Alcohol is just to make talking to people slightly less terrible.
It can make talking to people a lot less terrible.
I mean, before alcohol, I had severe social issues.
It can also make talking to people a lot more terrible, though.
The same time depends on the people.
Yeah, I was very much depends on the dinner thing or I guess a party a couple
weeks ago. And there's this guy who just all of the sensors were off.
And turns out he needs those sensors.
So yeah, it depends.
But yeah, I don't think I'm missing out on anything really important.
I was just trying to make it try to try to dissolve some of any
anxieties or trepidations around it.
Yeah, you're not.
I don't think I'm missing out on anything that with cannabis and alcohol.
No, I almost feel the opposite way.
Like maybe this is because of how much alcohol has affected my life in that period.
But like, I think I think the experience of alcohol is partly interesting
and something to be tried at least once for its own sake, but also just so you
can know what everybody else in the entire world is is done and talking about.
Whereas like hallucinogens, I'm still not sure I ever want to try that.
I like who I am right now more or less.
Not enough to murder me yet, anyway, given another year.
Right on.
Are we OK going on to listener feedback?
Yeah, that sounds fun.
Let's just go.
Do you have anything that you want to jump on?
I'll skim if you've got a list to go right ahead.
Sure.
Leibnit. OK, this is on the lying episode, so very pertinent to having shell here.
Leibnit's integral cax says, I think lying really quickly gets into gray areas
when you get into deceptions that are not explicitly lies.
What if I have to pretend not to be uncomfortable in a social interaction
in order not to lose status, for example, I deceive you about my emotion
and there is no real moral reason for or against it.
Same goes for other social deceptions that are not technically lies.
What if I know that having my chocolate bars lying around would cause people
to ask for a piece and I don't want to give them and I don't want that.
So I put them away in a drawer.
It's definitely deception, but it can't harm anybody.
I don't agree that that's deception in any meaningful way.
No. I mean, if they'd asked to have any chocolate, you said, no, that's deception.
I mean, but not having it out is different.
Like that's I mean, that's like we talked about, we give examples of, you know,
asking about, I guess, I mean, whatever, how much money do you make with the example
we use that kind of sucks, but whatever it is that you don't want to talk about.
There's difference between like carrying a putting a badge on your sleeve
that had like a personal bio like that included your like IQ bank statement,
your all the stuff that people don't like talking about your religion,
your politics or whatever.
And like to not having that card on your on your forehead all the time
doesn't mean that you're lying.
Right. Well, there is a spectrum between like hiding information
and then like a deceptive hiding of information because, you know,
they're going to assume something different.
Right. I think maybe if you're having chocolate bars lying around at the
office or in your house, it's kind of implied that they're there for other people.
It's OK to take and signaling all these kinds of hidden messages,
maybe not so hidden unspoken messages.
They really kind of play into deception, I think, in a gray area.
And the social example that the person used,
I thought that was often very clear deception where you're like
smiling, hugging someone and you deep down, you're like, I hate you.
Isn't that like where a lot of the drama of the typical housewives
of New Jersey or whatever comes from?
It's like, I love you, you backstabbing bitch.
Even if you don't say I love you, like you can act as though you
like someone when you really don't.
Yeah, you could just go up to them and just think, hey, you're a shit person.
You know, hopefully that'll help them change.
No, I don't think that would be the correct way to help somebody not be a crappy person.
What if you don't like your boss, though?
I think your boss falls into one of those those
powered power dynamics that we talked about where you sometimes
you can't be perfectly honest with somebody who has a lot of power over you.
Right. So let's you laugh at your boss's jokes,
even though they suck or something, right?
That's really funny. That's not funny at all.
I feel worse for having heard your joke, but I have to say it was good.
So those, I mean, that's dishonest.
That's that's textbook lying.
But I think that that's kind of one of the situations where you understand it.
Because if you're if you're right,
honest to your boss, unless you get along with them really well,
you don't have a job anymore. A lot of people need jobs.
So, yeah.
So I guess it is still deception,
but a kind that is sometimes unfortunately necessary.
Yeah.
And it's hard to tell when it's more deceptive or less, right?
It's really hard. It is a great area. I agree with that person.
I really don't like my sister very much.
But lately, my mom has made an effort to get the family back together.
And so I am nice when she is around.
Like, hey, it's great to see you here at mom's place.
How fun to be talking with you.
And, yeah, I can relate.
This is reminding me of when I interact with my grandmother before she died
and she had really a lot of dementia.
And they people really avoided telling her a lot of things
or like would just play along with her.
I think there's a special exception to when someone is actually has mental
problems, though, like dementia that is that is very does like being kind
to them and consider it because that is terrible.
Well, that's actually I think what you're that's what they teach in schools
of people who work with this population that, I mean, I'm waiting for FDR
to come on the news. He'd do that, Nancy.
Like, I mean, you don't say he's been dead for 30 years.
Like you don't go to the world because their cage doesn't need rattling.
Even if they're going to forget it in five minutes,
you just don't make things worse. You don't rock the boat.
So you kind of just.
But in that, you're not dialoguing with like rational agents, right?
You're not. I mean, there's not.
I think there's that's not a sense in which, I mean,
that level of dishonesty could be considered a bad thing.
I guess there's a lot to be said to being able to get along with people
socially, even if you don't like them.
And I don't know, where do you draw the line between being one of those
backstabbing new housewives and being someone who is like,
I want my workplace not to be a tense, horrible place.
So I will act OK.
I get along with people I don't like.
And then I just don't I don't invite them out to Saturday night drinks or
something or maybe once every six months, you know, just to keep the work.
But whatever it takes to keep the workplace amicable.
But you don't like you mentioned that I'm not sure what you're talking about.
The New Jersey housewives.
I'm sure it's some TV show.
Yeah, I've heard that like the housewives knew of something or others.
I haven't actually seen any of them, but I've seen like memes and clips.
So but there's a difference, I think, between like inviting them over every week
and like acting like your best friends, but secretly hitting them versus just
like being nice, right?
I have a really it was so weird and uncomfortable at my last job.
There was a co-worker who every now and then
like he'd be hanging out my cube for some reason and like a hot young intern
or something would walk by and after she'd go, he's like, man, I'd tap that
ass and I was like, uh-huh.
And I wasn't sure if like, should I play along to keep things pleasant?
Or should I be like, you, sir, are a bad man?
And I it was the most uncomfortable thing.
I didn't know what to do about that.
And I feel I feel really bad about myself because I basically just didn't say anything.
I let it pass and I feel like maybe I should have said something.
Well, I mean, you got to like weigh the risks to yourself, right?
I think he was a co-worker, not a boss.
He didn't have any.
But I mean, like if work life started getting worse for you
because this guy knew that you thought he was a scumbag, like, I mean,
it all depends like how far he's like, if he's making this person uncomfortable,
that's maybe that's time to step in.
But if he's just saying stupid things to you, no one's
no one's being harmed other than you for having had to hear it.
So it's up to you.
Do you want to escalate?
I probably should have said something just that he wouldn't have done it again
because it happened like two or three times.
Oh, he wouldn't have done it again to you.
Right.
Which would have been fine.
As long as he didn't do it again to, you know, anyone that was the object of that.
Yeah.
OK.
Ooh, this is a fun one.
Sailor Vulcan says, I would like to point out that there is a factual slash
logical error made in this episode.
