were small bundles of sticks often used to start fires.
They would use them to start the fires when they burned the witches and
beforehand they would like kill the gays.
And so the gays were like the faggots to warm up the fire for the witches or
something, I don't know, which I think was also bullshit.
But I'm very skeptical that that's the etymology, but much of a just so story,
but true or not, like that if someone's going to say, therefore you want your,
you're like, you know, this is like meeting that you want to kill them or
something, I'm going to call horseshit on that.
Another example that's maybe better illustrates my point.
I remember at some point, right when I stopped watching The Walking Dead was
when they brought on Negan, who was played by John Winchester's dad or John
Winchester from, forget his name as an actor.
He played the comedian and watchman.
And he did the whole, you know, Eenie Meenie, Mindy Mo, and then he beat
people to death with his barbed wire covered bat.
It was hilarious.
Well, and awful.
But it was, he was just a great psycho bad guy.
I have no idea how I made it that far into the series.
It wasn't fun.
But someone wore a shirt with like that said Eenie Meenie, Mindy Mo,
on it to school or something.
This is something I read about when that episode came out like five years ago.
And they either were told to take the shirt off or they got suspended or
something serious, because apparently historically it wasn't catch a tiger by
his toe, it was catch something else that ends in IGER by their toe.
And like, I didn't know that.
And I'm probably older than the kid wearing the shirt.
And I'm going to bet that the kid didn't know, the kid wearing the shirt
didn't know that probably people making the shirt didn't know that.
Quite possible that the people who wrote the Walking Dead comics and created
the character of Negan didn't know that.
But if it used to me, if it used to be mean, something much more sinister
than it's meant for at least 50 years, and someone's going to bring that up
and get somebody in trouble for it, then like, that seems really stupid.
Right.
You know, so anyway, etymology of words.
I bring up that long digression because I guess that's my bias coming into this
that if there's going to be, unless it's a compelling discussion of, well,
here's why it means this or something, I'm going to be skeptical.
But that doesn't mean that it'll be completely, it doesn't mean that it
you won't be able to break down our resistance to it.
It just means that you might encounter some that is there sort of just by
default, but is open to being, you know, obviously.
Yeah, I find etymology is very interesting.
It's just like, they're fascinating to read about, but I agree that they
shouldn't necessarily guide usage.
Thank you for very succinctly making the point that I tried to make, that I spent
five minutes not making.
That's exactly what I was trying to say.
Yeah, I also, I mean, I think it's really funny that you had said, am I the only
one not interested in etymology?
Cause I'm just remembering like all of my Philly last wrong meetups were sidetracked
at various points by discussions about the etymology of a certain word.
And then we're all just on Wikipedia on our phones.
And like people had, you know, studied Latin and Greek.
And don't get me wrong, in the academic sense, I think it's interesting.
And like you said, fun and interesting topic, but shouldn't guide usage and
shouldn't be, one should be able to condemn somebody for modern usage or
something that used to mean something bad.
That's, that's going to be my shorthand for it.
That's my long-winded way of, or a long-winded thing to, sorry, get us back on track.
Well, I don't even know.
Cause I kind of want to go on a tangent about the meaning of words.
I don't think it's a tangent either.
I think this is kind of what we're talking about.
Like I have heard, and while I was in my social justice phase, I've tried
really hard to not use ableist words.
And that means that people find the word stupid to be bad because originally it
meant somebody with like slow mentation.
Same thing with retired, which is now considered a slur, even though originally
that was the medical diagnosis.
And the word dumb is someone who can't speak, even though now we just mean again,
like someone who's acting like a fool.
Um, I forget how many others, there were a bunch of other words.
There are literally a zillion.
Oh, not literally a zillion.
There are a ton of things like that, right?
So did they literally excise all words that could be constituted as an insult
from the language?
Cause these are all just ways to insult people.
Well, I actually have a document where I had a bunch of non ableist swear words
that I kept and I would substitute them.
Okay.
Some of them are great.
I mean, I would have to pull it back up.
I don't know.
But just like saying something is abhorrent or this person is, you know, a
shit Lord, as opposed to something else that you might say.
Okay.
What else would you say?
Asshole?
Cause that's not an insult.
Some people don't have assholes.
I'm pretty sure everyone has an asshole or they would die.
Well, or they use a bag.
Yeah, there are some people in bags.
I mean, there's still a hole.
That's ableist of you.
That's ableist of you shit Lord.
God damn it.
Yeah.
And for like, kind of, we were joking about saying fuckers as a gender
inclusive, right?
You know, um, hey boys and girls and they're like, Hey, fuckers.
There was a book and I think I brought this up before, but I remember
Julia Galev had the author on not to talk so much.
They talked about the content of the book, but then they talked briefly
about the proposed title that I think that he then walked back on.
Um, it was, I forget the, the full title, but the subtitle was how to
think like a crazy philosopher, which I can't use the word crazy anymore.
That was another one, right?
Yeah.
And so like, I, but the thing is like in that usage, I totally get where
that, what the author was going for.
And it's like, here's how you think, you know, like a crazy philosopher
and you imagine somebody, you know, eccentric, whatever.
Right.
And they didn't go any of the old Greek dudes.
I don't think they were using it as a pejorative.
If anything, it actually kind of was praise.
They absolutely, that was exactly the intended usage that they were going
for, but because crazy is a, uh, it's a no, no word now.
It's a no, no word.
And I, it's one of those things, I know this isn't the topic where we're
really on, but I think it kind of is now.
Yeah, I guess.
Or at least for, for the moment, yeah, because this was relevant.
Yeah.
I guess for me, it's like, you can, you can make any basically anything super
mean and pejorative, right?
But there, if you're using a word like crazy, isn't that crazy, man?
Hey, don't, don't say crazy, man.
That's not really cool.
Yeah.
Um, like you're missing the, what I'm trying to say.
And you're, it seems like it's just someone's being pedantic, right?
Um, just likewise, I think this was a Louis C.K.
joke where he talked about how Jew was both the accepted and the pejorative
for a group of, for like a Jewish person, depending on how you said it.
Um, like, yeah, yeah.
So I mean, if you put, if you put a twist on it, it's like a pejorative, but
it's also the official okay word, right?
Yeah.
Interesting thing I just talked about with my parents last time I saw them for
dinner, uh, the word Pollock is literally the word for Polish person in the Polish
language.
Yeah.
Uh, so, I mean, Pollock is entirely correct.
And when people try to say poll around me, I always get really annoyed because
I'm like, no, I'm not a fucking wooden beam out there.
You hang things on.
I'm a fucking pollock.
That's the word.
Use it, but I'll show you a poll.
Yeah, right.
But I was talking with my parents and my parents were like, yeah, but you weren't
in Chicago in the early eighties when we immigrated here.
Cause apparently there was a big wave of immigration from Poland around that time.
And, uh, and Chicago was where almost all of them went.
Uh, and so there was a lot of racial prejudice against Polish people because,
you know, they were taking all the good jerbs and they're doing them for cheaper
and worked in harder and just making things tough for the American.
And so all these dumb Pollock jokes started going around because, you know,
if you can make the popular consciousness that Pollocks are dumb,
maybe they won't get the jobs.
If nothing else, at least you feel better, right?
Oh, so it became a pejorative because people are saying it in the mean voice.
My parents were actually kind of sensitive about the word.
And I mean, they're not really anymore, but, uh, they were like, yeah, I, I
still have weird feelings about that word, even though, even though it is the
correct word in the Polish language, like, well, I'm reclaiming it for us.
Damn it, because, because Poll sounds stupid.
Yeah.
I remember being a little kid and wondering why Negro wasn't considered cool anymore.
I was like, it literally just means black and black is okay.
Uh, in the, or in the eighties, when I was a kid, you couldn't say black.
Yeah.
And I've still heard some people say, oh, you should call them African-Americans.
And I was like, nobody calls themselves African-Americans.
I was really glad when in the mid late nineties, it swung back to black.
It's just so much simpler.
It's just one syllable.
Yeah.
I also.
African-American can be technically incorrect if they're British.
Yeah.
Or if they're, you know, not African.
Actually, Elon Musk.
What's up?
Elon Musk is African, right?
And my, my thing on this, before I even knew that this was the thing, which I'm,
I'm glad it landed on the right, right side just by history.
But I think of the black people who's like numbers I have, or like, you know,
that I've interacted with a lot, I think one of them is like what you would
call African-American, like one's Jamaican.
One's from Canada.
One's like one or two are Caribbean, something or other.
Like we don't, we don't talk a lot about their background, but I just knew
