Yeah, yeah, no, I still do it.
I mean, it's a lifelong habit, but much better now at catching it when it's
happening or sometimes I'll say stuff out loud and then kind of have to walk
back and be like, oh, wait, I just, I realized I just did that thing.
And actually, I'm going to rephrase that.
I've heard it said as if you were a character in a fantasy novel and this
thing was whispering these things to you, the reader would obviously go,
that's the evil sword you're holding, throw it and fire.
I like that.
I saw this summarized in a tweet on Reddit that was like, therapist, you know,
you should stop thinking about yourself in such harsh terms.
Me in my head.
Yeah, you dumb bitch, stop thinking about yourself that way.
I was like, relatable.
Uh, all right.
So we've got off topic again.
We're talking about pronouns and things that are not pronouns, but are gendered.
So what is the point of these?
I mean, like, I think we kind of got pretty close to it when we were talking
about the familial gendered words such as aunt or uncle that does actually help
differentiate who you're talking about, maybe even more so in Chinese.
If you were saying eldest brother, like, you know who that is.
Why not use their name?
Why use any pronouns at all?
I guess maybe I, these are, if you're posing it to me like a real question,
I can think of like quick answers, one of which might be like you use a, you know,
in it could be like a more formal thing to call somebody by their name.
Like, Hey, bud is way more like friendly or even Hey bro or Hey sis is more
congenial than like, you know, calling them by addressing them by their formality.
Well, there's different ways you can say someone's name too.
There totally is.
A lot of like conversational guides will tell you use people's names
that actually establishes intimacy.
I know why I use them.
I find it computationally expensive to constantly reference people's names.
Like, I don't think of people by their names.
I think of them as like the physical object I see and the feelings I have for them
and like our relationship and stuff.
So like kind of a subperson.
Well, not a subperson.
It's like, it's an entire like entity in my head, but the name is not part of that entity.
There's, there's the feelings and the history we have and all this.
But I have to like specifically call up a name and I fail sometimes,
even with people I've known for a long time.
But my mother once went through the all of my siblings and the dog before
finally getting to my name and trying to get my attention.
It's funny how often we were actually just talking about that at work.
We're like, if you have a bunch of kids, the parent will be like,
Joseph, Christine, Greg, where the hell you are?
You know, I'm talking about get in here.
I'm terrible with names.
I don't know exactly why that is.
I have my suspicions, but I.
And so like calling up someone's name to me does cost brain cycles
and it can be derailing.
And so I find pronouns much easier.
They're just like, boom, there, there, there.
And if I actually have to pull up someone's name, takes a little bit more time.
Usually it doesn't take that much time because like Steven, you're Steven.
I know that Steven, but if you keep calling me that, I'll think I've done
something wrong, but every now and then it's just, you know, faster.
Saves me that millisecond or whatever.
Yeah.
That kind of the thing with the intimacy too is like when you're
saying referring to someone by name every time, it can, I think promote that
feeling of intimacy or like, oh, they remember my name.
They care about me.
But then also, yeah, you do like, if you refer to someone by their entire name.
Whenever you were in trouble, you're in trouble.
Yeah, with your parents, if they'd say your full name, you're definitely in
trouble because now I don't even know how long it was 20 years ago.
That book came out that was like, Hey, you know, if you want to make friends,
if you want to influence people, use their names.
Del Carnegie.
I don't know if that was the actual book it was, but.
Yeah, that's how to win friends and influence people.
If you want to get more intimate with someone, you use their name
because people like hearing their names.
And so all salespeople use people's names now.
And at this point, when someone uses my name.
You know, associate it with marketing.
Yes.
I am instantly suspicious of them.
I'm like, even when my friend uses my name, I'm like, okay, you get that one today.
But, but use my name a lot more and I start getting suspicious.
We're trying to pull over on it.
Right. Exactly.
Man. Yeah, I do remember there was this kid that I was friends with in high
school, but it took a while because this kid would come and sit next to me.
I feel like, Hey, Jessica, how are you doing today?
Like, how was your day?
And I was just like, what the hell are you doing?
It was just such bizarre behavior for like someone that grew up in New Jersey.
But then like, it took me a while where I was like, Oh, he's not some creeper.
He's just like, actually, like being friendly.
What is this weird?
And then it was nice after I realized that like outside of the creepy bubble of
New Jersey that like, sometimes people are just nice and friendly and go out of
their way to like be nice because it's nice to be nice.
Who would have thought?
I think invoking someone's true name a lot during like conversation with them.
Like that's in chapter one of every like neuro linguistic programming book.
That's in if it's not in Carnegie's, how to win friends and influence people.
It might be an influence science and practice.
And that's that's exactly why I don't trust people who do that.
Now they they obviously want something from me.
It's funny.
Anyways, we have about a half hour left on this topic.
Yeah, let's um, I mean, we can cut it shorter if we have less to talk about,
but we don't want to go over.
I'm trying to actually just think of how to segue to the science part.
The science part. How about we just go to the science part?
All right, let's hear about some science.
All right.
Yeah, so we were starting with like how you define gender versus sex.
And nowadays the TLDR is sex is anatomy and gender psychology.
Can I ask about that real quick?
Sure.
My impression was that nowadays sex was about anatomy and gender was about social
role. Is that not the case?
Or is this a newer development or what's exactly going on here?
I've heard it referred to both ways.
And I think, hmm, yeah, I think that maybe
I'm not positive.
Maybe originally they started saying like social role when it was,
I think, started to it probably started being questioned by the feminist movement.
Who weren't even thinking in terms of being transgender, gender identity
being a thing at that point.
It was just let's, you know, break down the usage of these words.
Why do we need these gendered pronouns?
Well, it's so, you know, who to treat differently and like, oh, that's kind of fucked up.
But this is the one time every two years my psychology degree comes in handy.
I think I did taught us both, like in books throughout my years of doing that stuff.
I would see both definitions for gender is always the same for sex.
It was always plumbing or, you know, anatomy.
It's more than that.
But well, but yes, but as like as far as the, you know, quick definitions,
if you're going to go for, you know, sex is plumbing slash anatomy.
I like it was never plumbing in the books.
I like calling it plumbing.
And then gender was always either social role or psychology.
OK.
So I think the answer is yes.
It almost feels like we need three words now, because those are pretty different things.
I mean, you can be a cis girl and completely reject the social role of being a woman.
And I think that that should be an acceptable identity.
I mean, I think I just don't have an identity.
I've looked within. I've done drugs to look within.
There's just no one home.
I might be I might be I might be a P zombie.
Huh. But yeah, you are a meat popsicle.
Well, I feel like we should get into that another time, because that's super
interesting. Let's table that.
Yeah. In general terms, I pulled this quote from somewhere.
Medical news today says, in general terms, sex refers to the biological differences
between males and females, such as the genitalia and genetic differences.
Gender is more difficult to define, but it can refer to the role of a male or
female in society known as a gender role or an individual's concept of themselves
or gender identity. Yeah, that's confusing.
I'll link to this.
Just it means more than one thing, which is, I guess.
Yeah, it's easy to understand.
It's confusing in practice.
The point of words, which like is funny, because it's kind of the crux of some
of the arguments about the non-binary pronouns and inventing new pronouns.
But the point of having words and vocabulary is to be able to distinguish between ideas.
Yeah. And having that one word mean two distinct things is awkward.
Yeah, that can obfuscate what you're trying to talk about.
And yeah, I was going to link to, and I still will, there was this good breakdown
slash diagram from what is it?
GenderSanity.com.
I will still link to it, but we're going to get to user, yeah, listener feedback.
But a listener actually made a much better essay and a bunch of diagrams.
Well, no, we can link to both, but yeah.
But put the listener one up top.
Yeah, so like if you're having trouble trying to visualize this or if you're a
visual person or, I don't know.
So shout out to the wealth who sent this in on Patreon.
And I think they put it on the Discord server, too.
Or somebody did, because that was Comic Sans, wasn't it?
No, that's the font from the XKCD or...
No, it's the oatmeal.
Okay, never mind.
Somebody, oh, at the very least, it's not XKCD.
It was a...
No, they've got it.
It's a...
Unless it's possibly the what is XKCD.
No, it's the font in the diagrams is XKCD.
And then the main body text is this font called Playtime with Hot Totties.
In the diagram.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was thinking of the main text font.
And I was thinking of somebody else who posted an article for review on the
Discord and someone's like, first feedback, don't use Comic Sans.
But yeah, wealth wrote their blog post in a, um, not aerial or times in a room
in font, which looked fine, but it was distinct.
In general, I don't care.
You know, you can, interesting fonts are fun and interesting.
