And it's a drag because transgender, I think at least you're right, as of yet,
it's not been slanderized in the way that transsexual has.
And yet it seems to me like a valuable distinction.
Like if you want to change your gender, both kind of how you identify with
yourself and how you want to be identified and not do anything to your sex parts,
right, to your plumbing or otherwise, like, so if you're not going to do anything
transsexual, you're just transgendered, right?
And then I realized that the words carry baggage, but if they didn't, that's
that might be, if we were building them from scratch, that might be how we had put it.
Yeah.
And that would be a useful differentiation too, because there's plenty of trans
people that don't actually want to change their bodies.
Yeah.
So it's, I wonder what the word will be that will be okay.
Or if they'll, if they're all just be a reclamation of transsexual or
who may just be stuck with crappy words.
Like we usually are.
Yeah.
We'll just transcend words and communicate via telepathy.
Ooh, that'd be fun.
Oh, yeah.
Another like jump back to the earlier conversation real quick.
I just remembered that I was thinking about the way American sign language will refer
to people like the use of pronouns in sign language is point to a person or kind
of point generally to a group of people and wave your finger around to show all of them.
Nice.
Which like is great.
That's the perfect way to do pronouns.
You can't do that with words as easily.
I guess you could say them singular or all of them, but yeah.
All y'all.
All y'all.
Such a fun way to say a word or a phrase.
All right.
Um, yeah.
And then there's a bunch of theories as to whether trans identity is first of all real
or people are making it out for attention.
I don't think anyone who's met a trans person actually believes that they're making
it up for attention.
Oh, plenty of people do.
You could have met trans people though.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Well, I mean, like, you know, dogmatists, I guess, but, or, you know, there's a lot
of people that will say, Oh yeah, like this is clearly something you're experiencing.
However, it's a mental illness and should be treated with like basically
deconversion therapy.
You could say that about almost anything though.
Yeah, you can.
And there is like a, a non assholeish way that that could have been like a supposition.
Right.
If you're saying doc, I feel terrible, you know, 70 years ago, if you had a psychiatrist,
which you probably didn't, um, I feel like I'm a man in a woman's body and they'd
be like, sounds like you're sick.
Right.
That wouldn't be that was 80 years ago.
They probably would have like diagnosed you with hysteria and then giving you a
vibrator.
Right.
Yeah.
So 50 years ago, um, but, but like I'm saying, so that there is a, there's a
way to view that where it's not necessarily mean, right?
Like if you went in presenting with that and it never happened to anybody else before,
it sounds like you're sick.
Um, not, not that anyone is and that that's not how it is.
But from, if you, from a, uh, from squinting, that, that doesn't seem outlandish.
Yeah.
Well, actually, I think that's kind of interesting.
Um, like you can pull trans people and ask if there was some medicine you could
take that would make you feel okay with the gender that you were born as, would
you take it?
And I feel like usually like it's close to half.
We'll say yes and half no.
We're like, some people actually really feel like their experiences with being
transgender really shaped them in a way that is integral to their personality and
that other people like I suffered so much, like no, give me the pill.
Or I would rather have not experienced that it was the worst.
I think Alicorn has, um, a fiction that deals with that.
Although the fact that I'm saying that is kind of a spoiler, but
Well, now you can't tell us what the story is.
I kind of wouldn't like to it anyway.
It was really, it was an interesting thought experiment that didn't quite
give away the plot twist.
Okay.
Uh, was there anything else that you all wanted to talk about on this topic?
Nothing that I can think of.
Not.
Yeah.
I mean, as far as like wrap up stuff, I do think that it's really, you know, I
could, if you had told me, Hey, one of the co-hosts to the show is currently in
the process of, um, of transitioning, I would give like 50, 50 odds as to whether
or not they wanted to talk all about it or they wanted to kind of be left alone
about it.
And I think it's really cool that not deriving anybody who wouldn't want to
talk about it, but I think it's, it's cool that you're like available and excited
to talk about stuff, um, rather than like leave me alone.
It's my business, which is a completely acceptable reply.
I would assume anyone that is on a podcast or YouTube channel or something
would be kind of person that would want to talk about it.
Cause they're already,
I think it depends.
Some people like to keep their professional, if to the extent that this is a
professional thing and they're, they're personal stuff separate, right?
Yeah.
And some of it's pretty personal.
Speaking of which, you've been on testosterone for three weeks.
Yeah.
How is that?
Do you feel different?
What's going on?
I feel different.
I'm taking the low dose and then like uptight trading, um, to a normal male dose
or at least kind of, I guess I'm going to uptight tight trade until I like,
it's at where I like it.
I like it right now though.
It felt different pretty immediately.
And it took me a while to be like, is this just placebo?
Um, but now it, it seems consistently to, and this matches with other people's
experience, uh, including just like men with a hypogonadism where you just have
more energy, um, I feel like I have like lower anxiety, a bit like better
self-esteem, self-confidence.
Do you have to from, from the testosterone, give you better self-esteem,
self-confidence and more energy.
Can I get some of this shit?
Just get diagnosed with, uh, hypogonadism, although you don't want to have too
much testosterone, maybe a bit more give you a heart attack to the extent that I
don't have like, I was thinking about this, you know, am I happy with my assigned
gender when he mentioned that 50% of people would say yes or no.
If they're transgender, um, I'm happy with whatever.
But like, if I get to, if I could pick, you know, if I was picking my body from
like a, you know, out of these, you know, pick out of the monster factory.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I picked somebody who looked more like Thor than who looked more like me, right?
And maybe cause he's my favorite superhero, maybe because he's the most
attractive guy on the planet.
Yeah, right.
Everyone would like to be more attractive and more powerful, right?
But like, I'm trans, I'm, I'm, then I started to think of like, is it just
attractiveness?
Cause then like, um,
masculine attractiveness, I was going to say, I'm more into Loki.
Well, yeah.
Loki or like a Legolas is like, you know, he's like not masculine, but male
attractive, right?
Yeah.
So like, but no, if I had to pick, I'd pick Thor over those two.
And I'm not sure if that's, you know, favorite hero in CBN or if that's, but
what I would prefer is maybe that is part of my, I don't know what you'd call
it, complex there.
Yeah.
Or like your preferred gender presentation.
I guess, but I guess my identity, I've got really, you know, other than like
everyone doesn't like how they look for the most part.
But other than like the generic stuff, I'm fine with what I've got.
Yeah.
That's, yeah, you suspect the fault.
I guess, uh, suspect the fault is kind of if you're like, yeah, I don't
really feel like really attached to my assigned gender, but I also don't feel
like I need to transition, like whatever.
Yeah.
Whatever, whatever they gave me, I think, I think I just abide.
Like in that, that's sort of my thing with most things, like whatever, man.
Like this is, this is what I got dealt.
Like, what am I going to do?
I could go to extreme lengths to try and change parts of it, but like it's not
what the cost right now.
Well, yeah.
And it, it, and maybe it's not, maybe it is within my like financial and
life scope to try and do something, but not even sure what I'd try and do.
Sometimes I was like, you know what, I'll just do what I'm doing.
And it really wasn't hard.
Uh, there's other states where you have to get diagnosed with gender dysphoria
and like have being seen as psychologists and a diagnosis.
And then there's even more extreme ones where I know, I'm not sure if this is the
case.
I think this is still the case in some states.
They make you present as the gender that you want to transition to, if you're
like, I heard about that.
Yeah.
But like pre hormones.
So like a lot of, you have to start dressing up as, yeah.
Oh my God.
Are you kidding me?
Yeah.
So it could go risk, like, you know, public harassment and violence and possible.
They have the right body type and look at everything.
Even without hormones, but a lot of people can't.
Yeah.
There's no way I could walk down the street and address.
Well, I mean, I could, but.
And be read as like a cis woman.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So, um, I heard from some people before that when they first started taking
testosterone, they got a lot more, um, almost like uncontrollable urges and like,
I don't know, just this desire that like you feel as a teenage boy, like, I want
to do this.
And is, have you gotten anything of that stuff?
No, um, I researched a lot before starting hormones to see what to expect.
