Every now and then, like my sister will send an email in Comic Sans.
And I'm like, it's really hard to take your email seriously.
Please tell me you don't email your clients in Comic Sans.
Yeah.
I'm not a font Nazi, but I'm told that that and Papyrus are like the worst.
I don't know why Papyrus because Papyrus doesn't look.
I think it's one of the like, they had an original set of fonts that came with
early computers and the ones that looks distinct and interesting were
Comic Sans and Papyrus.
And there's like a couple of others.
Um, and now they're just kind of thought of as like, I don't know, outdated
and stupid.
There was that SNL sketch where Ryan Gosling's losing his shit because the
Avatar poster wasn't Papyrus.
That'd be my other comic relief for the show notes.
Yeah, that I actually do find that really funny.
But, um, I actually, I like the use of the handwritten font here because it
matches the handwritten style of the graphs.
And, and they used a sub font for the diagram text as a graphics designer.
I find this pleasing.
Cool.
Right.
So the diagram I was going to link to just shows that spectrum between biological sex,
male intersex or female, gender identity, being men, gender queer or woman, gender
expression, so masculine, androgynous, and feminine, and sexual orientation.
So attracted to women by asexual, attracted to men.
And those are all the spectrums that you can kind of fluctuate between.
And yeah, getting into what the differences are between the sexes.
I lost the attribution for this one.
I'll find it.
But, uh, someone said there's not a single biological sex marker found exclusively
in male bodies or female bodies.
So that's where I just wanted to get into how much, well, on one hand, um,
differentiating male and female is really simple.
And then, and then it's not.
Stephen looked like he was about to say, well, I, I, I think that's one of those
things that's like technically true, but, uh, imprint in practice is, uh, like
uselessly true.
Um, like, how was it phrased?
There's no one thing, genetic marker or something.
There's not a single biological sex marker.
Right.
So like that sounds, yeah, I'm, that's technically true because there's like
edge cases, but it is one of those things where it's like, it's true so often that
I'd bet you $1,000 in any like average case.
Um, like I made the, I had somebody, I think I mentioned this in the last episode.
I can't remember.
I talked to somebody once who had said there's no differences between men and women.
And I was like, if I went in for stomach pain to the doctor and they charge me
$400 to, uh, like an ultrasound of my ovaries, I'd be pissed and I wouldn't pay it.
Right.
Like if you went in for, you know, whatever issue and they, or if I got charged
for pregnancy test or something, like those, those are the things like there are,
there are differences that if I was a doctor and some patient comes in, presents
the stomach pain, whether or not they're a man or woman, excuse me, whether or not
they appear to be a man or woman, um, and they check whatever box on the sheet.
If they check female, then I'm not going to check for testicular cancer, right?
And I should probably get a big slap on the wrist.
If I charged them for a testicular cancer test.
Well, I think, um, in those cases, it is the responsibility of the person being
treated to disclose.
I mean, if they care about getting the correct medical treatment, I've also
heard that argument.
So like I kind of was gritting my teeth when he started saying that.
And then I realized you were saying a totally different thing, but a bunch of
other people who are anti-trans or whatever have made the argument that like, oh man,
what if you got rushed in for emergency medical care and then they like did the
wrong procedure on you because you look like the other Jen.
It's just like, yeah, okay.
You can invent whatever like wacky scenario you want, but happily, I wasn't
going there, but I mean, if it's a medical procedure dealing with those parts,
they'd probably discover pretty damn quick.
Yeah, I'm not sure how thorough surgeries look, but I bet a doctor could take
your clothes off right before they cut into you.
Well, and I'm not sure how, how thorough a gender reassignment surgery looks.
If it's really well done or something, but I'm betting a doctor could tell.
Maybe not.
I don't know.
It's, there's some that I think are good enough.
You would probably need a chromosome test.
Awesome.
And even then chromosomes.
So like, I would say like, not the way that that's phrased, that there's not a
single bio biological sex marker found exclusively in male and female bodies.
It's not saying that that's the norm either, but it's just the kind of yes,
generally you can probably be comfortable in 98% of cases based on site.
Is that the way it's phrased, it makes it sound like, well, you can't look at
someone's genes and know anything when in fact, you almost always can.
Well, I'll get into genes.
Yeah.
What's the complete androgen insensitivity thing that's called?
Yep.
Yeah.
I mean, that's the acronym CAIS.
Right.
And if you looked at someone's genes, you would get the wrong information from that.
But it's fairly rare.
And generally when you're confused, that kind of gene check will work.
Like just giving someone the impression that they can't get any information by
looking at someone's genetic information is wrong because you usually can.
Yeah.
I mean, you can get a lot of information, but you do actually have to look at those
things.
And I think that the point is that it's not necessarily good practice to assign
anyone biological marker as this is a definite sign that this person is
biologically this because you can change hormones and you can change everything.
Yeah.
At that point, if you're trying to like reduce it just to one thing anyway,
it starts to feel like you have an agenda.
Like why are you trying to reduce someone to just this one thing?
Well, kind of weirdly enough, I was just reminded of people trying to
figure out when a fetus becomes sentient.
I guess I was thinking of it because I keep seeing those horrible billboards
that has a picture of a fucking nine month old baby being all adorable and wearing
a onesie and making eye contact and all photoshopped to be photogenic.
It's always a white baby.
It's always a white baby.
Anyway, it's like, oh, I have a heartbeat after this many weeks or I can feel
pain starting at this stage.
And I'm like, show a picture of what they look like at that stage.
Fuckers, you look like a brainstem with like translucent gelatinous skin
the size of like a single cell.
I'm sorry.
I don't care.
I'm not sure what age, like human fetus starts to look like humans,
but my sister takes a while.
It does.
I'm not sure.
Let me see.
I bet it says in here.
I'm scrolling through texts from my sister.
They don't even look that human when they're first born.
Babies are.
No, they're weird.
I did see my niece when she was first born.
She looks a lot like Voldemort from the seventh Harry Potter book.
I was just going to say a lot of mythological monsters are based
on fetuses because we as a species find fetuses to be grotesque.
Like if you think of the gray aliens, they're just big fetuses.
If you think of a lot of like horror movie monsters that have that kind of
like baldness and the like big eyes and kind of melted look, I guess,
like like attack on Titan has the the big baby creepy things.
So all I know about fetal development is that this is what a baby
looks like at 12 weeks.
Yep.
So that seems to look vaguely human shaped.
So I guess a picture of an ultrasound will be my next niece.
I won $10 actually, because it's a niece, not a nephew.
So it or you're betting on the gender.
Well, they were betting on the sex.
That's right.
Yeah, we're I threw this out because for whatever reason, someone was like,
I bet it's a boy.
And I was like, I'll take that action.
So it is.
It does have a vaguely human outline at that point.
But I bet if it was pulled out and looked at, it would be not very human looking.
Yeah.
She said, I think in here, how big it was at this size, too.
Or yeah, in those pictures.
Oh, you know, she doesn't.
Who cares?
It's like the size of your thumb or something, right?
Yeah, size of a peanut, maybe.
It looks like the head is about a third of the or more of the total.
It's like twitty brood.
You know, anyway, where was I?
Yeah.
So we've got chromosomes.
Human embryos start out looking phenotypically female.
And I hear this a lot.
People say that everybody starts life as a girl that's not actually correct.
They have the male and female reproductive tracts.
So that's the wolfie induct and the malaria induct.
I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing those correctly, but those become the vagina or the penis.
Wait, what happens to the other one?
Does it shrivel away?
Men and women have the same organs.
They're just acted on by hormones, so they either protrude or don't.
But they just morph into the thing or the other thing.
It's not like two things.
It's like one thing that could turn into the one or the other.
More or less.
OK.
So why the tracts have different names?
I mean, they are different tracts, but I should have paid more attention in school.
Yeah, I believe, you know, it actually would be either the ovaries or the testicles
are the same thing, right?
Yeah, that's just the gonads or gonads.
I have a really bad case of readers, vocabulary or whatever they call it.
There's so many words.
Yeah, that I've only ever seen written anyway.
Yeah, the penis, the clitoris becomes is what the head of the penis would have been.
And then the shaft goes deeper into the body.
It's really interesting.
Oh, good stuff to know if you're going to make love to a woman.
Good thing to know if you're trans.
There's another tangent, but I just find this really entertaining.
There's a surgery that's an alternative to phalloplasty,
which is where they take the skin of your arm or leg or your side and use it
