Yeah.
Well, no, it was, it was a, it was a Latina person or a Latino person.
I'm not sure Latinx thing is they didn't like, so they didn't like some white
person from, from outside the country and outside the language saying, here's
how your language should work.
They, they thought that it was, uh, imperialistic and rude, um, and maybe condescending.
Yeah.
And that kind of brings another axis into play there.
Yeah.
It's tough cause I mean, that, that opens a whole can of worms.
I don't know how you treat the rest of the world about doing it.
Like you can't go through and, you know, gender neutralize every language that,
especially some of the really heavily gendered ones.
Like I know Spanish, for example, is crazily heavily gendered.
Spanish has genders on like inanimate objects.
Most of the romantic languages do.
Most of the romantic languages have at least the humans gendered and a lot of
them have all objects gendered too, which is weird.
Um, I, I agree entirely that there's absolutely no reason for that to be a thing.
Uh, but it has been for thousands of years in certain languages and changes very hard.
Well, and also I think there's just this idea of like, all right, cool.
So you Americans are now going to step in and tell me like how to use my language
is sort of like, might be the perceived reaction for some people.
And that might not be well received.
All right.
Yeah.
I mean, it might be a change worth making, but.
From the inside by convincing them it's a good idea by not by policing them
from the outside, maybe.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Maybe.
Yeah.
And I like wasn't even, I mean, I'm not surprised if it was something that was
invented by white people, but I was under the impression that actual, uh, Latino,
Latina Latinx people had come up with this.
For self-reference.
Oh, cool.
At least some of them do use it.
The, uh, the woke among them.
Do.
Latin.
At least online.
Yeah.
Woke is now a pronoun.
Yep.
Uh, yeah.
So like referring to groups where they've got ladies and gentlemen and boys and girls.
Uh, I heard somebody say that, um, a gender neutral alternative is like friends and guests.
And then, uh, homies, I like to just say comrades or yeah, homies.
I liked, um, I think that's how I remember Christopher Hitchens opening up a talk
like that and he's like, you know, brothers and sisters, ladies and gentlemen,
comrades.
And he had one other one or something, but in his delicious British accent, but I
like to do comrades in there.
Yeah.
I get the feeling that I really enjoy that one.
Hey, fuckers, here's my presentation on the third quarter profits.
Uh, yeah.
And then you've got mother, father, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew.
Yeah.
Those are really hard ones because those actually convey important information.
Hmm.
Yeah, like how important it is that, you know, you're talking to your
aunt or your uncle.
See, this, this is an interesting thing.
I think this came up on the discord is, uh, someone relate a quick story
about the mother, uh, their mother.
And then they realized that they said mother, which is a gendered word.
And they said, I don't know why I didn't just use parent.
And I said, I, I replied, this makes a material difference to me.
The, that story with the word mother is different than the word parent.
And they said, I feel the same way, but why?
I was actually part of that conversation.
That was, that was one of the, that was one of the very few
I'm there live for it.
Wasn't just reading about it two days later.
And it's not because it tells me anything about the parent because it
doesn't women vary so much and, you know, men vary so much.
And there's tons of overlap.
Uh, the information conveys is about the relationship between the parent and the
speaker.
People generally have different relationships with their mother than with their
father.
And, uh, I guess that was generally conceded, but also viewed as a unfortunate thing.
I think there's also for me, the fact that like, if I'd said, my parents said
this, because it's not a common way to refer to a parent, you would think that,
oh, they must have a really troubled relationship or some, some unatypical
relationship with their, with their parents to refer to them as parent rather
than mom or dad.
Well, and also like the relationship you have with the sibling of the same sex
is a different from the relationship you have with the sibling of the opposite
sex, especially after a puberty hits.
So that also conveys information.
If you say brother or sister, depending on what your sex is,
my brother and I call each other brother and bro a lot.
And, um, like, Hey, talk to you later, brother.
Um, and I remember Rachel, cause she's a single, my wife is a single child.
And she's like, I think that's just, she, she expressed at some point like that.
It's not that it was weird in a bad way.
She was confused by it.
And I'm like, it's a lot like how you call your mom, mom and not Laura.
Like it's a special moniker that only she gets from you.
Oh, uh, so like to me, calling my brother brother, he's the only person I get to
call that, right?
Unless it's like, you know, someone else like my bro or something, right?
We don't have that in English, but I know in Japanese and a few other Asian
languages, they have specific words for brother or sister that also refer to the age.
Yeah.
So you would say like eldest brother or younger sister.
All right.
I'm going to link, I'm going to reference and then link to this.
They have a lot of like social status pronouns and honorifics there.
Just because he mentioned older, older brother or older brother, they also don't
have as many gendered pronouns.
Yeah.
Um, I found this ridiculous YouTube video that I won't summarize, except for it's
Nick Offerman narrating what's happening in an old West saloon and the people in
the saloon can all hear him.
And it's, it was amazing and it's like eight minutes long.
I'm going to put that in the show notes because it's really funny and everyone
should see it.
So back to the show.
Completely unrelated.
Yeah.
Wait, can I, can I piggyback a tangent off that?
Yeah.
As a writer, I'm curious if you narrate in your head while you're like just going
about your everyday life.
No.
Really?
Not usually.
I have done this for like, I don't know, since I was a little kid and like it,
it's especially, it happens especially hard when I'm reading or writing really
intensely, but I'll be walking around and being like, and then I walked out the
door and I looked left and right and I saw a dog and I was like, that's a good dog.
Oh, you have that running in your head as well as those things.
Neat.
No, I have not had that.
I, I, there was a brief period in my life where I was reading so much that I
started to think in terms of the written words.
Like I saw parentheses in my head when I was not a parenthetical.
Um, but in general, no, I don't, I don't have the self-narration like in what is
it series of unfortunate events?
No.
Oh, there's a show.
Maybe it is that one that has the narrator that is, uh,
just the punchline to a lot of things is the narrator saying, no, he didn't.
Right after a character.
A recipe development.
Is that a recipe development?
They did that a lot.
Oh, it might not be the only one, but there'd be like, oh, I'll take care of that.
And then who was the narrator?
It was, um, I'm blanking on it, but he'd be like, he didn't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For most people, they just walk around narrating what's not, not narrating in a,
like you could write this down since, but just like in a word vomit in their head,
but this is distinct that your version sounds much more interesting.
Like you could write it down.
Whereas with the rest of us just wrote down what the train of thought that's
going through our head because it will look out and like, you know, oh, look over
there.
Oh, I forgot my keys.
I should grab a coat.
Like just the random shit that's in your head all the time.
If you just wrote that down, you'd sound insane.
But it's in our heads in most of our heads all the time, right?
It's actually like, if you read stuff that's written by amateur writers, it
does tend to come off that way and it's pretty funny.
Well, that's, that's also just the, the insight that, especially Sam Harris
pushes a lot through just mindful attention, that this is the, you can,
you can step behind that sort of, that train of thought.
You could step out of the way of it and watch it go by and not get swept away
in it like all day and then have all of your thoughts just kind of be pulling
you around all day.
Yeah.
Yeah, you do that in meditation.
You do it in CBT.
It can be really useful to actually step back and watch what you're doing and
realize like it, it took me a really long time to realize I was doing negative
self-talk all the time.
And I would never want one of my friends to talk about themselves or like
to have someone be talked about the way I was talking about myself.
And I realized the double standard of that after a while of observing it and
being like, yeah, but well, it motivates me to like be like, oh, come on,
dumbass, get out of bed, worthless pieces of shit.
And like, it's like, haha, it's kind of funny.
But like, if you do that all day long, that I was thinking about like,
probably doesn't, that's probably not really good for your self-esteem.
That's first of all, awesome that you noticed that.
And second, differently awesome that like, you noticed it.
And you're like, no, I'm going to stick with it anyway and like,
talk to yourself and how good of an idea it was.
Well, that's how I've come to change my mind about a lot of things.
That's awesome.
Yeah, it's it's a gradual process.
Do you still do that?
It's in like, isn't that one of the points of CBT to stop?
