And it kind of really varies based on the individual, um, which you would expect,
you know, having witnessed cis men and women having different personalities.
So if you're someone who would be predisposed to having anger issues and
like it runs in your family, then testosterone can definitely exacerbate that.
Um, also you could be on the wrong dose or I'm doing injections and I think I
might switch to a patch or a gel because a common, uh, issue some people had was
that when the testosterone is first injected, you have a lot of it.
And then you can get like the crankiness and whatnot.
And then when it dips towards the end, when you have to inject again, then you
can get that like hypogonadism, uh, weakness and dizziness and exhaustion.
I might check that out all those things all the time.
Maybe I'm just tired.
I don't know.
I mean, it's worth looking into.
Could be.
Levels.
That raises another question that's going to ask, are you aware of any cases
where with identical twins, one is transgender and one isn't?
Is that like something that comes up in the literature?
Cause that'd be interesting.
I haven't like specifically heard of that being the case.
I know like I've heard about cases where one transitioned first and then the
other one eventually did, but I've more often heard that usually or not usually,
but I've only heard of the cases where both twins transitioned.
That speaks to a genetic component then.
Oh yeah, definitely.
I mean, uh, it definitely runs a component while you're at some point because it
can be like people that aren't twins too.
It runs in families.
There's it's been linked to, uh, I think there's a, at least statistically
significant appearance of a genetic component.
I don't think the Wachowskis or Wachowskis on how you say their name, the
matrix directors, I don't think that they're twins, no, but they were brothers
and other sisters and they both transitioned.
I think, I think around the same time, if not at the same time.
No, there was a period of several years where, uh, we, we referred to them as
Wachowsky siblings because they were different genders.
Nice.
I think that was three, four years.
It must have been the few years where they weren't famous because after,
after matrix reloaded, then they kind of fell off my radar for like 10 years.
So it was, it was, uh, right about the time of the third matrix movie.
Right on.
You know, originally Switch was supposed to be female in the matrix, but male in
the real world.
Yeah.
I learned that from the amazing podcast, the Doofcast.
Oh, okay.
Wait, which character was Switch?
Switch was the, uh, everyone else wore black leather.
Switch was the, uh, the blonde girl with the short hair that wore white suits instead.
Oh, did she really have much of a, like, role?
No, she really was a tertiary character.
Yeah.
The only significant thing about her is that she says not like this just before
she's killed, uh, which was a really touching line.
Uh, but, um, no, she, I mean, she was just like, she said tertiary character, but
it would have been so much cooler.
And that's what they apparently wanted, but they got pushed back.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So apparently you couldn't do that in 1999.
Yeah.
But yeah, that would have been interesting.
Cause then I mean, certainly, uh, I tell you what, rather than me trying to
summarize it, check out Doof Media's, uh, podcast on the matrix.
They did a whole series on the Wachowski movies.
Yeah.
I was going to say more than just the matrix, I think.
Specifically the, the first one was on the matrix and it was amazing.
So I remember other than being like, so we're going to try to not view everything
they make through the lens of this is a coming out trans experience.
But there's a certain light where you could kind of like cast on this way.
It all looks a little bit like a coming out trans experience.
Well, certainly the matrix, I hadn't thought to even view it through that lens.
And I mean, no one did at the time.
Right.
I guess, but that was apparently one of the intended things behind it.
And I loved it when that was brought to my attention.
So anyway, yeah.
Let me take that back.
It probably wasn't no one.
There's always niche parts of the internet where someone is like, dude, this is
such an allegory for this thing.
But it wasn't on the radar, not in the popular consciousness at all.
Fair enough.
Yeah, I really wonder about that.
Like you can do literary analysis on a lot of things and show that it's all about,
you know, the hero's journey is everything.
Right.
And I wonder to what extent it's kind of people overreaching or maybe just,
just as likely as we, as humans do, all kind of have the same mentality
and experiences like on a deep level and make sense that everything would kind
of follow these same themes.
Like you do have to think about why nobody really likes utopian fiction
or peaceful video games, generally.
It's really hard to make a video game that's not combat like related.
Animal Crossing, I disagree.
It's not really hard.
It's just, it's just that it's really easy to make one that is combat related.
I guess.
Well, it's also harder to get people to want to continue playing something
that doesn't have some kind of, at least a competitive element.
Where, because you're not getting stronger and better than like, what's the point?
Well, yeah, but you can get stronger and better, like starting a valley
just by making a better farm or forming better social connections.
But like, totally, that tends not to be the mass market appeal.
You get like more niche audiences that like to play Animal Crossing
and remember Pokemon Snap, that was a good nonviolent game.
Well, it was kind of violent, but it didn't have anything like
the replay value of the regular Pokemon games.
Yeah.
I mean, if they had kept making more games of Pokemon Snap, though,
I think it would have continued to be popular because they came out with
all those new Pokemon that could have all different, you know, at any time.
Not to the pictures of these ones.
But yeah, I don't know.
I think this is, well, I guess on video games, I'll plug really quick.
I just played Link's Awakening, the remake, which is not like a remaster
where they just like made it look better.
They remade the whole game and it was a lot of fun.
It was, I played that game, I think it's 26 years old now.
So I didn't play it 26 years ago.
I played it something like 20 years ago on the Game Boy Pocket.
Actually, I remember this.
It was on the Pocket, the black and white one.
And then I played it on the Game Boy Color because there's a dungeon
that you can only beat if you can see the game in color.
Oh.
Because things are red and blue.
Did they design it that way to like sell the console?
They, well, I think it was to give her, I think it was to give an extra thing
to people who played it on the new console.
I don't know if the game had enough pull to like push people into buying the console for it,
but it could have.
The perk is the huge payoff.
You get to choose a red or blue tunic, which either the blue one doubles your,
or I guess halves the damage you take, and the red one doubles the damage you give.
So it's a huge benefit to be able to beat this dungeon.
So yeah.
And the black and white version, do you not have different tunics?
There would be no way to differentiate them unless they had different styles.
There were ones where you got different tunics.
I played a Link to the Past just before this one because
Switch lets you play the old games now.
And it was, it gave you the option to, I think you got like an upgraded defense or something,
but it looks maybe about the same, but it's still black and white-ish.
No, but in Link's Awakening, you only get the one tunic
unless you're playing through it the other way.
So with color.
Well, fuckers, I think we should wrap up.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, I got to give a big shout out this week to Richard Meadows for their support
up there for our podcast.
You can tell we're really distracted, but Richard, thank you very much.
This is awesome.
This is the thinking of the patron thing?
Yeah.
Okay, awesome.
I jumped right to it before you tried to, before you tried to wrap up.
Well, dude, rock on.
I snuck it in there.
And now we have to thank Richard.
You the bomb.
We've been forced to thank you.
But we, I would voluntarily thank you.
Yes.
If I had to take a pill where I could thank you or not thank you,
I'd take the one where I take, thank you.
All right.
We're falling asleep.
So goodnight.
Yes.
Sorry for not doing feedback and
there's less wrong stuff.
We'll get to that next time.
Promise.
Okay.
Bye.
Bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
