that one of them was Caribbean or Jamaican or something.
But it's like, I don't, I don't think I know anybody who hails from Africa.
Right.
Not, not personally, I know people who, you know, but like it African-American
makes it like, oh, your, your, your skin's dark.
You must be from Africa.
Right.
And it's like, maybe my family's been here for 350 years.
Like you don't fucking know.
Maybe for from the Middle East.
Well, pretty much every African-American has been here longer than my family.
Well, yeah, you guys got here, what, 81 or two?
82, I think.
Wait, no, could have been 83.
I have to ask my parents.
It's only a few years before I was born.
Yeah.
I don't know a lot about my ancestry.
I know that some of my family members were around at least as early as the Civil War.
I'm trying to think.
Oh, yeah.
I think I mentioned this.
Major Gilmore.
That was, that was my, oh yeah.
Where major was this first name?
Yeah, that was the first name, but I think he lost his left thumb.
I saw his gravestone.
And I think he lost his left thumb in the Civil War fighting for the north.
And it was either my great, great grandfather or four greats.
But yeah, anyway, sidetrack.
So we're talking about the definitions of words.
Right.
I see the first point here is how do you define gender versus sex?
Were you hitting on that or did you want to keep going with something else first?
Well, I'll get to the, like one last thing I wanted to say, kind of on.
The track that we were going was, I think that what a lot of people don't take into
account, and maybe this is hard because it's subjective, but the thing you were
talking about, about like the word Pollack or Jew being said in certain contexts,
being pejorative or actually just descriptive, I think that there's definitely
a difference between people intentionally misgendering people in a way that is
meant to be harmful or just because they slip up or because it's hard or they
don't know or whatever.
And so I think it's like common for people to kind of treat them as though they
were the same thing.
And again, the subjectiveness, maybe from one's internal experience, it feels
like the same thing, but it just feels like a lack of kind of analysis on the
part of the person.
Like I was having a hard time and I was kind of bouncing between feeling
sympathy for the people that are really triggered by people using the wrong
pronoun in the last episode.
And then also being like, yeah, but I don't think that justifies yelling at
somebody. I've seen people get way bent out of shape and scream at somebody and
like tarnish their reputation for being a transfer when like it was an honest
mistake.
That sucks.
And by I've seen, I mean like on Tumblr in real life, actually, like I've only
really had good experiences in real life where people tend to, I don't know, I'm
in a bubble of trans people if I all like are liberal and kind of cool.
So whatever.
This is where I put on my tinfoil hat about, especially online activity being
intentionally divisive by non-actual honest actors.
So like we talked about this at some point post Trump where like a large part of
the the online support was not American based and it was there to just like, you
know, stir controversy or like amp this up or, you know, whatever, whether it be
completely fake stories or just amplified through Twitter bots or whatever
operating out of Russia.
I'm pretty sure that a lot of the stuff that divides the left that you see
online comes from the same sort of farms.
And I'm kind of basing that off of just like my supposition of why wouldn't you
attack both sides?
And if your goal is to make your enemy divided, then you just you hit both
halves and make them fight each other.
Yeah, I don't think that they needed Russian bots to be able to do that though.
Like a lot of people live in bubbles.
I think one of the problems with the internet is that it forces people to
interact in spaces where they're not separated by their nationality or their
country of origin or their age group and everything.
So you do get these shockingly different views.
I think people that makes people really other people that they just haven't
really had any kind of experience with people who really believe these sorts of
things and in bad faith, they're kind of like, oh, they create this caricature of
like the evil Muslim who oppresses women and likes terrorism and stuff.
And like meanwhile, there's a really complicated set of scenarios that led
to this person having the beliefs they do.
Totally.
And that happens on every avenue online and probably, but like you said, less to
a green, less to a lesser degree in real life when you actually like see the
person and talk to them and like humanize them.
But I do think, for example, like the, the online website that, um, published
that whatever review of that bad date that that girl had with Aziz Ansari a
couple of years ago, that was apparently owned by a Russian, uh, corporation.
Right.
So like that got that got amplified.
And they're, they're only reason to seem that that really did anything was to
have the left eat its own tail, deciding whether or not this was bad.
Right.
Not going to even talk about the whole thing.
Um, but that, that seems to be me at least weak evidence that some of it,
this amplification is on purpose to make people hate each other.
Well, I mean, there's, it's been proven that some of it is from Russian.
Well, that's what I'm saying on the right for sure.
But well, that, that's all I was saying.
So these, these, I mean, it's undeniable that some of it is because we literally
have proof.
Well, I didn't.
So I, I just had, I had a couple of anecdotes and some, some, like I said,
tinfoil hat conspiracy.
Well, I think there was an article about a month ago.
I mean, it, this is, it's not a secret.
Cool.
Yeah.
Well, called it is a regular hat now.
It is no longer tinfoil.
Excellent.
Yeah.
But I mean, I think that without the trolls, there would still be these kinds
of discussions going on.
I don't know, um, well, like, I mean, I know some people, um, I've met in real life
that literally do this kind of thing.
And they're not Russians.
They're, they're here.
Yeah.
But I was even thinking just, you know, controversy and drama gets pushed,
like disproportionately to the front of news or to the front of people's minds.
Yeah.
Like that's kind of what drives Facebook and a lot of social media.
I remember also being like kind of addicted to the drama and the
outrage porn for a while.
Again, like the social justice area.
It was like, I was kind of like checking blogs daily and being like,
what do I have to be upset about today?
Oh man, look at this terrible thing.
This person said it's a, it's an emotional hit.
It's an angrily blog about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I, yeah, I remember that too.
And, and it is kind of like a drug.
And that's why it keeps getting shared.
People feel good when they get this emotional outrage.
They're fighting the good fight.
Right.
Yeah.
I've, I, I still fail at this from time to time, but I try very hard to, uh, if
something outrages me, not share it.
And like I said, I still fail sometimes because fuck.
Well, yeah, but I mean, like, I, I forget what it was, but I saw something
recently that you posted on Facebook and some people in your comments feed said,
well, actually this is what happened and you edited the original post.
Right.
So the fact that I think it's fine to share stuff as long as, you know, you're
willing to update later, but like, oh, actually, like, you know, this turned out
to be false or.
Or more than once then I thought, yeah.
I think what it sounds like what you're trying to do.
Having not, since I don't really follow you on Facebook, um, is like, if you see
something and you have the impulse, like this pisses me off so much, people need
to be as pissed as I am.
You like check that impulse.
Yeah.
So that, that sounds awesome.
That's a bread flag that I should not share this.
That's cool.
And again, if, if something slips through the filter once in a while, I bet it's
after some consideration.
So sometimes it still sounds like you're trying to do it.
It's like, it's like a diet where it's like, yes, I'm, I'm good.
Most days I still, I'd still commendable, but most people when they feel their
diet's diets don't, you know, burn down all of civil society.
Not that I do that solo, but, you know, a hundred thousand matches altogether.
Where were we?
Yeah.
Um, I had a couple of counterarguments again, kind of where we left off.
I don't even know if I want to get into that though.
Um, something I did have was if we wanted to continue talking about why
gendered third person pronouns exist and whether they should continue to.
Hmm.
And not even just pronouns.
I was thinking about it and we've got he, she, they, uh, we've also got, what
did they call them?
Honorifics, mystery, misses, and then they've got Ms and mix or I don't know
if you pronounce it mixed, but mx, which is supposed to be the gender neutral one.
I think you pronounce it mixed.
Never heard of that.
That's new to me.
It's just the one that is, you know, like gender neutral.
Yeah.
No, I just, yeah, just new to you.
Okay.
Yeah, I think it's interesting, um, being non-binary and like interested in how
people use the language.
I've actually looked some of this stuff up or seeing other people talk about it.
Like, uh, you've got, this isn't even English, but or Latino, Latina.
I've seen some people writing that as Latinx as well.
Uh, I've seen responses on like whatever Twitter feeds or whatever Twitter replies.
All my stuff from Twitter comes from like copy pastes to Reddit or little
screencap it and someone's like, why don't you, why don't you?
Like, you know, white girl on this out of Starbucks.
Like, why don't you not tell me how to use my fucking language?
Um, apparently they're the, the push to, Oh, was it Italian?
