to construct a penis, huh?
But there's another thing called metodioplasty,
where they actually just release the clitoris from the clitoral hood,
take the skin that was the labia majora, like the inside of it
and wrap it around to make a shaft.
And then you can just take the like fatty deposits that are the, I guess,
like pubis and insert these little implants to make like a scrotum.
So you can just take the organ and make it into the other organ.
What about like erectile tissue?
Or is there some kind of implant that can become flaccid or?
Well, yeah, that's that's the thing that's fun about it.
Or like maybe not fun, but you have to choose between one or the other
if you want to get like bottom surgery as an FTM at this stage
of our medical knowledge and know how.
So if you get phalloplasty, it cannot become erect
because that's the one where they take skin from somewhere else.
So you have to insert this, like, basically a balloon that you inflate.
And sometimes one of the test uses the thing that you use to pump it out.
On the plus side, you can get hard on command and just stay that way.
On the downside, maybe Al.
Am I am I the one hearing about like all the surgery to that area?
And I'm thinking like, ouch.
Well, I'm assuming once it heals up, it'd be OK.
Totally. But until it heals up, it feels like someone's taking a hot poker
to your genitals. Yeah, but that's every surgery.
It's a that's a really intense procedure.
And I mean, like when I say they take a skin graft of the arm,
like your arm from your wrist up to like the elbow is just like the skin is gone.
And it takes a while to grow back and you usually have.
Yeah, I guess like that was the other thing that like is funny.
I don't know, like I've known a couple of people that have gone through this surgery
and they're like, so my doctor's like, how big do you want it to be?
And I'm like, oh, like just keep in mind that however big you want it to be,
we're going to have to take that much skin.
Yeah, that's such a trade off.
I mean, I guess I don't want to be able to wear pants.
I'll stick with a kilt.
Yeah. And then like the meta surgery, though,
since you're just using the clitoral tissue, then that actually can get erect.
But you can't make it very big because the clitoris is as big as it's
going to get on testosterone, which like kind of goes from like a few centimeters
to a few inches. Really? Yeah.
Like it varies. Even like after puberty, you can get a bit bigger.
OK. Yeah.
That's one of the effects that testosterone has on FTM.
Isn't testosterone like a little Megali?
Didn't we talk about it before?
It's like basically going through puberty again.
Yeah, there's some things that can't change anymore.
Your bones, they get done growing and then the growth plates fuse.
There's a trick to get around that that everyone is really horrified when I talk
about, I like, I don't know, I like biohacking and medical stuff.
So just like, hey, there's a surgery where you can actually like grow your arms
and legs by breaking the bones and stretching them out and then letting
the osseous tissue just grow back in.
Easy, they're bone saw.
Oh, yeah.
It's an inside reference to Worm and Ward fans.
What a good character.
But power.
I thought it would be such a cool power if used for good.
She's like a biotinker and like tinker is like make tech or something.
It's kind of vague.
And she makes tech, too.
She does, but specifically, yeah, biology stuff.
So like she, she just, you know, she wants, she can just hack two things,
two people together to give them, you know, weird new shit.
And she's a villain.
So she goes kind of balls of the wall with it and way worse ways than you're
imagining.
Awesome.
Yeah.
So much worse.
Thanks, Wild Bo.
Yeah.
So enough talking about creepy surgeries that I think are fascinating.
Let's see.
Yeah, we were talking about ducts.
The first five to six weeks of embryonic development are attributed to the
X chromosome alone, which is why men have nipples.
And females grow from an embryo to fully developed through the influence of
only the X chromosome.
Do you want to hear, I'm sorry, I'm going to take us on a tangent.
It's about time.
It's someone other than me.
Do you want to hear about the craziest creationist thing I've ever heard?
Is it enough to do with the rib?
With what?
Oh, I don't know.
I just assumed it was about like why, like men and women having different
numbers of ribs.
No, although interestingly, I thought they had different numbers of ribs until
I was in my teens.
I did too.
I was raised Catholic and everybody just said that as though it were like a
fact.
You would think that the speaking the 21st century people would like, I've
realized that that is not true.
Many of us have seen a chest actually of ourselves.
I mean, you can feel your own ribs as long as you aren't too obese and count them out.
Yeah.
All right.
Anyway, I'll count somebody else's later.
Okay.
So, uh, this, it was, this was actually a creationist that is, um, well-ish known.
He had, uh, like appeared on some Christian radio shows and he had a talk
circuit.
I want to say Ray Comfort, but I'm not sure.
Maybe it wasn't him.
The banana man.
That's what I call him to love it.
But, uh, at some point someone asked him, why do men have nipples?
The answer he came back with it was, well, you have all sorts of different
skin on your body, like your finger, the skin on your fingers is different from
the skin on your back and which is that's different from the skin on your
lips and the skin of your eyelids and like, how, how does the skin meet up
somewhere?
All the skin has to like turn into other skin.
So that is what the nipples are where the skins all touch and become a
different skin.
That's like, that's like the, the zipper where it's all ties.
That's the end of the bag that we tie it shut.
And I'm like, do, does Ray, does he have some kind of weird skin line that goes
from his lips down to his nipples?
Like, what the fuck?
It's funny because that's almost not wrong.
I mean, the nipples that has nothing to do with that, but there are these like,
uh, lines throughout our body that are divided by various genes.
That's like why you can get a calico cat.
Oh, yeah.
Or you can actually get a ginander morph.
That's where, uh, a organism is split left half to right half, uh, one side
being male, one side being female.
Really?
Yeah.
If you look, Google ginander morphic animals, you can find some really cool,
like half hen, half rooster, uh, a lobster that's blue on one half and black
on the other half, some really cool insects.
That's really cool.
Yeah.
The human body is not split up like that.
Our pieces are all scattered, but that's one of the things I was going to bring
up in the abnormal cases.
We can have chimerism.
So you can have a human that's got, uh, one testee and one ovary.
I like the pictures of cats where like they're faced right down the middle,
like it's like orange and stripes on one side and like solidly gray on the other.
Yeah.
Those are kind of cute.
Yeah.
And that, that has to do with that, um, chimerism.
Uh, let's see.
All right.
So around the second month, the fetal testes start producing enough
androgens to offset the maternal estrogens and that causes masculinization.
In normal cases, quote unquote, humans inherit 23 chromosomes from their parents.
One pair of chromosomes helps determine the baby's sex.
Uh, simplistically, two X chromosomes equals female and an X from the mother
and a Y from the father equals male.
Y makes you a guy.
That's how I remembered that.
Which yeah, gender stuff aside.
Right.
That's how you check it on a multiple choice test to remember which chromosome does what
and won't hold mnemonics against anyone.
I've actually heard that if you come up with intentionally, though, like funniest,
most bizarre, like meanest mnemonic, you're more likely to remember it.
So I use those when I'm trying to remember people's names.
Sometimes I'm pretty mean ones.
That's fantastic.
You have to share some of those later.
Uh, I don't know if I do.
You don't have to.
I would love it if you did.
I have to see if I can remember.
I don't want to know what mine is.
I desperately wonder what mine is.
Your name is very memorable.
Oh, okay.
Uh, and I didn't have one for you.
Fuck.
Feel less special.
So yeah, at the end of your Y chromosome, there's an S-R-Y gene, which is, uh, the gene
that helps send the embryo down the masculine pathway.
Uh, you need more than that S-R-Y for sex determination and differentiation.
Uh, so we were talking about the woman with case.
I don't know if anyone actually pronounces the acronym that way, but that's the androgen
sensitivity.
They have the S-R-Y gene, but they lack androgen receptors.
So in terms of hormone effects on their bodies, which includes the brain, uh, women
with case have much less masculinization than the average 46, uh, XX women, because
their cells don't respond to androgens.
So, um, just like, I guess, uh, cisgender women.
Yeah.
To each XX being the, okay.
That being the like, you know, normal woman.
So yeah, case women are actually more quote-unquote feminine.
Even though they have the XY.
Yep.
Okay.
