Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky.
I'm Jess Dickey.
I'm Stephen Zuber.
Son of a bitch.
Look at what you've started.
Yo, what's happening now?
I'm going to be a flying squirrel next time.
They're so cute.
They're really cute.
I can be Boris.
You can be what?
Boris.
Boris.
And someone has to be Natasha.
Oh, okay.
Because she's a flying squirrel.
Actually, we could get a moose.
Drake could be moose.
Did you really never watch Rocky and Bullwing go?
Oh, Rocky and Bullwing go.
Okay.
Was one of them a flying squirrel?
I thought it was just a squirrel.
Yeah.
He was like wearing a plate helmet because it was a flying squirrel.
Oh, great.
Yeah, this was slightly before my time.
Well, I mean, I think it was before my time, too, but it was just so fucking funny.
The fact that you were just railing against web apps or phone apps makes me think that
maybe it was exactly at your time.
You know what?
Screw you guys.
Sorry, buddy.
Okay.
So back on topic.
Yes.
Didn't take us too far to get or too long to get far field.
So yeah, we are sort of continuing.
We are not continuing the conversation last time, but we are continuing to talk about
gender stuffs because I just wanted to talk about some of the what gender is, I guess,
right?
Yeah.
I don't know.
I think we left off last time, but we don't have to.
I mean, if there's more things to be said, I will be more than willing to keep going
there.
And we're very smartly recording this the day before the first part of this episode
comes out, so we don't respond to anyone's thoughts on it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yet.
Yet.
We'll see if we even bother.
We'll see how it goes.
All right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nervous.
I don't know.
Don't be able to grade.
The whole thing that really attracts me to rationality is this is a community of people
that don't taboo talking about pretty much anything.
It's true.
It doesn't mean that you're excited to talk about everything.
Yeah.
No.
Some people will still like, I don't know, like if you're talking, trying to think of
just some other, any other hot button topic, you know, like that Google memo a couple
years ago, right?
Or race.
It's like, yes, these are conversations and they're fun and et cetera, but like that
doesn't mean that like you're not trepidatious because especially in a public conversation
like this, that people are going to be like, well, now you need to address this because
you guys miss this important part or you mischaracterize this.
But that's the kind of, I don't know, like I actually want to receive that kind of feedback
because if they're right, then it's like, oh, then I need to update.
Like that's kind of what I'm looking for by doing this.
Like I have feelings of being non-binary or not having, you know, a binary gender identity.
And I'm kind of just viewing it through the lens of here's what I know about other people's
experiences and how they've expressed them.
And here's what I feel like I should be doing about this, but I have a lot of doubt myself.
I do.
Well, when gender stuff started happening to me, I was just like, oh, man, why?
I do also like the conversation in the back and forth and the listener feedback stuff.
I mean, at some point I do get tired of it.
I think there was one topic that we went on for three episodes with feedback.
And after that I was like, I just, I don't want to address this anymore.
Was that UBI or?
I don't remember.
More than once, actually, this sort of thing has happened.
Yes.
That's what I'm talking about.
I'm not saying I don't want criticism and feedback.
It's mainly just like, how vehement and how long is it going to be?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I believe, like, I don't know, with the hot button topics, people do tend to get really
emotional about them and then like, but that's the kind of stuff that I want to be able to
be better at talking about, if that makes sense.
I like the Rationalist Community Framework of let's look at what the facts show.
And then like, you can present both of your opinions and then we'll just evaluate them.
Facts.
Sorry.
Yeah.
You no longer believe in facts, Steven?
We're in a post-fact society.
You have your facts and I'll have my facts.
God, I can't even finish that sentence.
Okay.
Yes.
Yeah.
All right.
All righty.
So where would we like to embark today?
I was kind of trying to frame last post's discussion around doing a double crux on kind
of where you and I disagreed and I was actually editing the episode and going back and listening
to it, I realized that kind of, and I think we kind of realized this while we were talking
about it too, but I was kind of misunderstanding your argument.
It seemed like we were kind of making two separate arguments where you were kind of saying,
I just don't want to be forced to use pronouns that, you know, somebody else's pronouns for
like, do you want to actually phrase like what you're, I don't want to put words in
your mouth and I forget the exact way you phrased it.
The, what I was saying more or less is that I don't want to have to find out what everyone's
gender is and memorize it and then overrule what, I want to see like what my eyes are
seeing, which is not the right way to put it, but what just.
Your intuitions telling you?
Yeah, exactly.
Like I don't, I am, when I use pronouns, they are the pronouns as they correlate to perceived
sex or in some cases the, the target sex that someone, you know, wants is striving for.
And like, I don't, I don't care about all the other stuff and I hate how it interferes
with my thought process and how I feel like I'm constantly having to self-censor if I'm
trying to be very accommodating of my friends.
Yeah.
And I was kind of misunderstanding your argument as being against the validity of trans or
non-binary experiences or whether trans people's gender identity is quote unquote real, which
I, you know, after talking to you realize that wasn't what you were trying to say at
all.
It was really just about, I don't want to do these language things.
Right.
And yeah, and then we were kind of talking about there being like camp one versus camp
two where gender is either something that's projected by the viewer onto the Vee, or it's
the felt experience of the person to whom it's being applied.
And yeah, I don't really know if we can either, you know, support one or the other of those
with facts.
We can say how it's been used historically, but even that's very muddy because I think
that, you know, like sex and gender have just been used interchangeably for such a long
time. And I think it's only like, I forget, I think it was since the 60s, probably like
with the, you know, start of the new wave feminist movement, where they started trying
to separate it out and say, well, sex is anatomy and gender is psychology, which I do
like, like, I'm glad that there is that distinction.
And I wish people would actually use it that way, but they still don't.
And I think mostly it's because of squeamishness around people using the word sex, because
we're such a fucking puritanical society.
Yeah. I mean, it's like putting, which I guess this turns out to be a historical myth,
but like putting little pants on the legs of pianos, because can't be shown naked legs.
I've never heard that.
I had heard it a number of times about how crazy Puritans were.
And then later turned out not to be true.
That's not the reason they put the little, you know, clothing around the legs.
Well, I heard so much bullshit about, like, you know, with Albie on seat about how crazy
the Puritans were that, like, yeah, that's just kind of a drop in the bucket.
Right. But it's, it's believable.
Yeah, it's not the weirdest thing.
For my thought, just briefly on the etymology of, like, the uses of word
gender and sex, like, I, am I the only one who's intensely
uninterested in, like, the history of words?
Probably.
I think you're very interesting.
The phrase that I'm interested in, like, oh, this used to mean that.
That's interesting, like, in a, in a completely abstract sense, but never
from, like, what I'm, what we're talking about.
Like, if it, if it means this and it's meant this to everybody who's talking
about it for, like, the last generation, then, like, I don't care what people were
using 400 years ago to mean this or that.
Like, especially if someone's going to make an argument.
Well, because they used it this way 400 years ago, it's like, um, like the word
fag in British, that's a cigarette.
And in American English, that's a pejorative term for a, for a gay person.
But it's apparently also a bundle of sticks that you'd use to set somebody
a fire when you're burning them at the, at the stake or something.
And it's like, so if you say the word fag, you're really meaning this.
It's like, I'm not really meaning that.
And it's bullshit for you to pretend that I am, right?
If, if, if I'm, if I'm asking to bum a fag, it means I want a cigarette, right?
If I'm British, if I say it, if I say it in a correct accent, if I am an asshole
in America and I say that dude's a fag, it means that I'm an asshole.
It doesn't mean that I want to kill them, right?
So to point out that 300 years ago, it used to mean that, you know, this, the bundle
of sticks you'd use to set people on fire, like that doesn't.
I don't think it was a bundle of sticks used to set people on fire.
My understanding was just a faggot is a bundle of sticks.
So ha ha, gay people, right?
Bundle of sticks.
Oh, I guess I, I've definitely heard, I mean, not even the used to set people
on fire, but I've heard it mean, I've heard people at least in a parent
earnestness say, oh, because it used to mean, because you used to be able to use
a, a faggot or a fag or whatever it was called of sticks to, you know, you could
use that as a kindling for a fire or something.
Therefore.
Yeah, that's always something along the lines of the, since, you know, faggots
