Although something that is interesting is I have heard that case women tend to be
overrepresented in like science and engineering and mathematics.
So I don't know what that is going on there.
Uh, I'm not sure that's true either.
That's just here.
So that'd be interesting.
Yeah.
I'd like to look that up.
Uh, yeah, live, living organisms have a variety of sex determination chromosomes.
So we've got XY.
There's other species that have XO, ZW, Z0, haplodeploidy.
I probably pronounced that terribly, uh, temperature dependent.
That's a fun one.
Uh, meanwhile, many other organisms have only one sex or hermaphroditic or
change sex at a certain life phase or as needed.
Dude, that'd be pretty sweet if we had the temperature dependent sex.
We're like, today I want to be a girl.
Just got to get down to 50 degrees.
Now it changes like the, the gestational temperature will determine whether you
have male or female offspring, but it doesn't unfortunately happen throughout
the rest of your life.
Well, that's a bummer.
I'm no longer as impressed by biology.
No, but then they've got the ones that you just change sex either because
there's not enough of one, uh, sex in like your school of fish or just
because, Hey, what the hell?
The dinosaurs in Jurassic Park.
Yeah.
Which, you know, they had frog DNA.
I guess frogs also do that.
Yeah.
Which I make any goddamn sense.
I remember reading in one of Dan Dennett's books, he was complaining about
that cause like, that was why they had the frog DNA.
And he was like, we're more closely related to dinosaurs than frogs.
Or excuse me.
That yeah.
So really?
Yeah.
Oh, it's just that.
Oh, cause they're amphibians.
I don't know, but they're reptiles.
No, dinosaurs are your birds.
Right.
I guess birds split off less distantly than amphibians then.
According to Dennett.
Okay.
I'll take his word for it.
He did know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So.
But they both are kind of like, lizardy looking to the human eye in the 90s.
So, and I think, and I think the sex swapping thing was something that they
wanted to incorporate in the plot.
They needed it for the story.
Well, I mean, somehow life would have, uh, found a way.
No, as a dinosaur fanatic, I have to, even though I know we're running late.
Oh, they're high fiving.
It's enjoyable.
Okay.
Dinosaurs, like the reason that we think of them as being lizardy looking is
because we found some bones and people just kind of like shrink wrapped them with
scaly skin and were like, yeah, I think it looks like an iguana.
But like, there's more accurate.
I mean, they found whole preserved dinosaurs and amber and.
That's the thing that really annoyed me about Jurassic World because Jurassic Park,
they went through like pains.
Oh, yeah.
No, that was really up to date.
Yeah, the information they had at the time that was really accurate.
They even, you know, said that like some, some scientists think that dinosaurs
might have had feathers in that movie.
That was the cutting edge at the time.
And then by the time Jurassic World came out, we knew that dinosaurs basically
had feathers, at least most of them.
You know, Jurassic World was garbage for a lot of reasons.
Update anything.
They're like, yeah, let's use the science that's 25 years old to to make this.
Didn't they even call it out in the movie?
Like they were like, oh, how come the dentists don't have feathers?
And like one of the scientists was like, well, we realize that people like it
better this way or something.
Or this is the, I don't know.
Oh, maybe.
I'm not sure if they did it or not.
I didn't actually see the movie because I saw it.
If they did hand wave it, which I don't remember if they did.
And then that actually totally excuses it for me.
As long as they acknowledge it.
And be like, you know what?
We know we're doing this.
Fuck you guys.
Then like then I'm all for it.
It's still slightly annoyed.
Yeah.
But but less annoyed than if they had just like gotten it wrong or didn't care.
Yeah.
We thought we're too dumb.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anyway, I want to link to a picture of my favorite dinosaur, Thurtsinosaurus,
because I had this toy of it as a kid and it looked like this fucking badass
thing with like these long claws and this like cool, zooty snake head.
And then now like more recent drawings of it just showed us this big,
floofy sloth looking thing with like big poof of feathers.
It looks like a kiwi and I love it.
I saw a picture of what whales would look like if we just found their bones
and just wrapped them with some flesh.
Oh my God.
I need to see this link to that too.
Okay.
All right.
Oh man, this is such a tangent episode.
I got you.
Okay.
Right.
So let's see.
Female.
Yeah.
So XY is what we use.
And most other mammals also use this as well as some insects,
some snakes and some plants, notably Ginkgo, which is really old.
Ginkgo's been around since the dinosaurs.
In this system, the sex of the individuals determined by the sex chromosomes,
the females typically have two of the same kind of sex.
Chromosome, the XX, enter the homo-gamedic sex and males typically have two,
which are the XY and they're called the heterogamedic sex.
And then there's the other less common sex determining karyotypes,
which are XXY, XXXY, XXXX, XY, XXX, yeah, 4X is Y, XYY, XXX and X.
All of these develop differently from the XY and the XX karyotypes.
Missing or having an extra chromosome affects height, bone structure,
your arm and leg length, the size and shape of your hands and feet,
your muscle and fat distribution, your motor skills, your fertility,
your secondary sex characteristics, facial structure and temperament.
Although there's some controversy over that one, particularly,
there's actually this myth that XYY increases aggression and criminality.
You've probably heard that one.
I hadn't heard that one specifically.
Oh, yeah, there's this like, it's the hypermal, the XYY,
they're overrepresented in prison and then like actually
statistical analysis shows that that's not true.
They're actually much less likely to be.
I mean, oh, what it was, is if you separate for like poverty.
OK, if you take out like extraneous factors and that's interesting,
our control for that, then actually it shows that XYYs are less likely
to be criminal than the normal XY.
Does that mean that there is a disproportionate amount of XYY people
in poverty or below the poverty line in America?
Probably weird.
I wonder what caused that.
Oh, I mean, I mean, could it just been, you know, random genetic drift?
Did they have the platform saying full cognitive capacities if you're XYY?
No, that is one of the stereotypes that's associated with
mentation difficulty.
So that sort of explains the poverty thing.
They tend to be more, I think, on the ADD spectrum side of things,
more impulsive, yeah, the things associated with some learning disabilities.
Yeah, there's I was actually just going to say that the different
karyotypes can affect your IQ in interesting ways.
So you might see differences in executive function,
spatial reasoning, speech or language, but not in all the ways that you'd expect.
So, for example, people with a single X chromosome are shorter and
but like triple X chromosomes are taller than average,
but both are generally assigned female.
So you would associate normally like, OK,
the X gene is going to be associated with things like that are associated
with femininity and generally we tend to think of shorter height,
but not always the case.
And the prevalence that X, X, Y or that's a client filter syndrome
is actually fairly common.
Researchers estimate about one in five hundred would be XY.
People are born with an extra X.
And then on the other hand, the four X, Y is really rare.
And that only appears in about one of every a thousand births.
Does X, X, Y have any impact on anything?
Or do you really have to just get a genetic test to notice?
It can.
It's associated with some motor skill difficulties and I think some
kind of more autistic spectrum mentation difficulty.
But I think often it does go undiagnosed.
That one is, yeah, depending on how many more copies of one of the chromosomes
you have, it can be more debilitating.
I think that, um, yeah, X, X, Y or triple X or X, Y, Y, they tend to be
like pretty normal, or at least like not as a problematic.
Is it isn't normal ableist?
It probably is average.
You can actually hear me probably strongly with the worry,
but I'm just trying to think of.
I'm giving you a hard time.
Yeah.
I had another house reference from the TV show.
Oh, I actually haven't seen house.
I feel like I should watch it.
You might love it.
I probably would.
If you like medicine stuff that they had like medical people on on staff
to help make the stuff as out there as possible while still being possible.
And it's exactly an allegory.
It's it's I could go on for two minutes as to why it's Sherlock Holmes in a hospital.
