But that's that's what it is.
Yeah, no, I'm familiar with it.
Um, the premise, I probably would enjoy it.
I just don't really watch TV that much.
I did try to watch Grey's Anatomy, though, and I found it to be like kind of
neat and then also just not nearly enough, like cool medical shit going on
way too much fucking who's sleeping with who.
And well, I mean, that's what it is.
It's a relationship drama that just happens to be in a hospital.
Wait, which one?
Grey's Anatomy.
Yeah, I never watched that.
I was watching Scrubs in House and I was all I remember at the time I was like,
yeah, I think I'm all maxed out in my medical based TV shows.
You know, basically just the other coin of that.
It's it's a friend sitcom that happens to be in a hospital.
Right, exactly.
But it was a it was a sitcom and then there was my detective show for medical stuff.
I didn't need a third one.
Right, right.
Only so much medicine you can take in your entertainment.
For what it's for what it's worth, I'm told that Scrubs is the most accurate
of working in a hospital for better or worse.
If you ask people in hospitals, what's the most accurate show of those three?
People said Scrubs.
Cool.
Yeah, I think it's weird that I actually feel like I could just go home
from working eight, nine hours at a hospital and then just probably watch
Scrubs or something like that and still be fine with it.
I remember not wanting to like play video games when I was working
in the video games industry, because I was just like, I've been dealing with
that all day, I could read a book.
Maybe it's just that I care more about medicine than video games or maybe
it just hasn't burned me out yet.
Anyway, it's different.
I mean, it's kind of like I'm not a front end developer, but if I I've done
some and then you're sitting there staring at clunky UIs and just being
really pissed because you know what the fuck's wrong with it.
Yeah.
So yeah, I can imagine being a game developer might actually take some
of the fun out of game developer game playing.
Yeah.
All right.
And then, yeah, I mentioned mosaic genetics where some of a person's
cells will have the XX chromosomes and some of them will have the XY.
So weird.
Intersexual chimerism is what that's called.
Or no, that's actually something different.
Intersexual chimerism, it might be the same thing, but this is particularly
when it's two embryos that have their unique DNA fused together and developed
as a single fetus, which results in an individual with two sets of DNA
in a single body.
And that's where you can actually get like the person who has one over
in one testicle.
All right.
We were running low on time.
I'm going to speed through some of this.
Or from that episode of Full Metal Alchemist.
What's up?
Did you watch Full Metal Alchemist?
I did.
I remember when he, the Chimera.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a very gut wrenching moment.
He baited without, well, is it spoilering?
If it's been up ages?
If you're never going to see it, I felt like maybe.
It'll ruin some shock valley.
There's Chimera stuff in Full Metal Alchemist that is intense, so have fun.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay, that's good enough without spoiling things.
All right.
All right.
Let me speed through some more of this.
Yeah.
So I was just talking about your chromosomes and all the different
formations you can have.
Another sex determinant is your hormones.
So that's your fetal and your endogenous hormones.
Endogenous meaning?
Or the, I was going to define them, but uh.
Thank you.
Fetal being theorized to be what causes your like transgender orientation
and stuff because being exposed to more fetal testosterone or more fetal estrogen
can affect you developing one way or the other, regardless of how like your body
has decided to configure itself to some extent.
But um, yeah, fetal is just what is flowing through your mom's womb while you're in there.
And endogenous are like the hormones that your body creates.
And there's, you know, estrogen and testosterone, but those are, there's several of them.
There's estradiol and progesterone and a few different ones that do different stuff.
Morphology, we know that one.
Height being the archetypal example where you've got kind of the two intersecting U-curves.
So what is that that we're defining right now?
I was just saying height, like being kind of the archetypal example of how differences
are spread out between men and women where there's a lot of overlap in the middle.
But then you've got your two peaks on either side.
And you can apply that to all of these, I think.
Yeah, your gonads, your testes, your ovaries, your, uh, non-specific genitalia that's in
the middle, or no, uh, yeah, I wrapped that up with genitals, but gonads are the ones
that are inside and then genitals are the ones that are on the outside.
Your psychology and neurology and then there's some other weird physical differences that
I think probably have different evolutionary purposes, like for example, heat regulation.
Uh, your nerve sensitivity and your other senses, sensitivity, your digestion, your skin composition.
I'm okay, two things.
First of all, I just found out about the skin composition thing about six months ago.
Oh yeah.
My entire life, I thought men and women just had the same skin.
Turns out men's skin is about 25% thicker and is more dense in collagen.
Yeah, it's got like the overlapping collagen where it's more of a grid, whereas women's
is kind of more like stripes.
And I was, I was just really blown away by that.
I was, I had no idea that we had difference in.
Yeah, I would say a lot of that probably has evolutionary reasons that one in
particular, um, women have to stretch.
Uh, I was wondering digestion.
I didn't know about this.
What are the digestion differences if you know them?
Um, different metabolisms, uh, different dietary needs.
I mean, like, you know, that they have the men's and the women's multivitamins.
And I always thought that was weird bullshit.
No, actually, like there's slight dietary differences.
Oh, okay.
Um, so yeah, if you've got the regular XX or XY, um, thing going on, then you will
have one set of these or the other set of these, or kind of somewhere in the middle
of these two intersecting curves.
Uh, you can also be intersects where that's defined as people whose bodies
differ from the standard male or female, maybe standard is a better word.
It's like, what is it?
Less ableist, just because it hasn't been pejoratized yet.
That's not a word.
Um, intersex people about, we'll get there.
We can pejoratize standard as well.
Oh, I'm sure we can pejoratize anything.
Yeah.
About, um, 0.05% to 2% depending on what you're basing this on of the population
is born intersex.
So, um, I think the, the lower number comes from them only counting people
with ambiguous genitalia, uh, which would, you know, roll out like case women
or anybody else who has like hyper androgenism, which is where you just
have elevated naturally occurring testosterone.
I think, um, a lot of people are probably familiar with, there's like this Muslim
woman who I think has probably hyper, hyper androgenism.
So she has a really fantastic beard and just rocks it.
I will briefly enter, just throw in there because I was perusing random
skeptical episodes today, trying to find one doesn't matter, but I found one.
It was episode 463 transgender factor fiction.
And this one was hosted by, um, Alison Hudson, because there was like a year or
so hiatus that Brian took from the podcast.
Um, I don't know who that is.
Uh, there are, I guess not like they didn't have a Wikipedia page that I couldn't
find, so they're not that famous of a skeptic, but they're in the community.
Um, they are a male to female transgender person who was, um, they, anyway, they
did the episode, it was fun.
So you can't listen to it unless you're a subscriber to the podcast, but you can
read it on their website at sceptoid.com and you just search for transgender
factor fiction and there'll be a link to it in the show notes for this.
And before, or when it, before the episode goes up, I'll have just give it a
thumbs up or a thumbs down that I'll put next to it to see if it's accurate.
Well, I'm assuming it was written by a trans person who's in the, he's at the
rationalist community, skeptic, but skeptic community.
That's probably good.
Cool.
Yeah.
It's talking about intersex people.
Yeah.
And a few examples of, um, conditions that can cause someone to be intersex is the,
uh, androgen sensitivity syndrome, uh, the hyper androgenism, adrenal hyperplacia,
where, uh, that is just your adrenal glands are producing too much of their
chemicals in general, Ovo testes, uh, gonadal dysgenesis and.
Man, there's a bunch.
You can, I'll link to the Wikipedia.
It's fun.
And then I was going to talk about being transgender.
So that's where your birth sex assignment, which is, uh, usually based on your
genitalia is wrong.
Or so you say.
And then the opposite of that is cisgender, where trans being, I guess other and
cis being same.
So either you are in agreement with your, um, birth sex assignment or disagreement.
People who identify as transgender or transsexual, I think that that latter word,
people don't like as much anymore, are usually people who are born with typical
male or female anatomies, but feel like they've been born in the wrong body.
For example, a person who identifies as transgender or transsexual might have
typical female anatomy, but feel like a male and seek to become a male by
taking hormones or electing to have sex reassignment surgery.
Going back to our first half of the podcast discussion about words, meaning
things and things becoming pejoratized.
Like transsexual is technically more accurate, but not liked anymore.
Right?
Yeah.
And I think it again, really is just that it was used negatively for so long.
Okay.
It's hard to actually keep a term for it.
Like I think that maybe transgender is going to end up being the one that sticks,
which is kind of like, eh, cause it's not super accurate like you were just saying,
but like transvestite is super no-no, tranny is bad.
Like there's a lot of slang that's also considered bad because it's
associated with the porn industry and objectification, but like.
