So, so there's no doubt that a lot of carbon and a huge variety of molecules were delivered to the surface of the Earth by the impacts of stuff from space, comets, asteroids, whatever.
The problem is that those collections of molecules are mostly things we don't want very little of the right molecules at very, very low concentrations. So I don't think they played a major role in the actual origin of life.
I think what played was much more important for that were the, the in situ the chemistry actually happening in local environments it could give you a lot of just the right things.
Thank you so much for your talk. Really fantastic I on the slide where you're talking about the various forms of energy that drive the production of cyanide I'm wondering specifically about UV radiation and is there a sense of an optimal level of UV radiation to drive the production of cyanide
production of amino acids from there.
I mean, it's so people have worked pretty extensively on photochemical processes that lead to cyanide production. It depends extremely on the chemical composition of the atmosphere.
And the wavelength of the light so this is high, high up. And since there's no ozone right you have a lot of very short wavelengths UV which can basically rip, rip things apart into atoms that can then come back together to make this triple bond species that are very high in energy.
But whether that's so that nice thing about that is it could be a, it's a kind of global process whereas the cyanide that's made an impact is localized.
So, there's still a lot of debate about what's the best way will be the most efficient way to get a lot of cyanide in the right place, the right time.
Yeah.
Hi, so I'm, I'm wondering if after studying this for all these years if you're convinced or have an idea if life is possible in other planets whether or not you think that that's something that is out there.
Yeah.
So, you know, I used to say, we have no idea that's why we're doing this we're trying to understand if it's easy or hard to get from chemistry to life.
And having worked on this for a long time, we still don't really know but there's a lot of steps in the pathway that we used to think look really hard, right, no idea.
And now it turns out they're easy.
So it's kind of making me think that well, maybe I mean there are gaps that remain to be understood but maybe the whole pathway is actually not that hard and if that's really the case.
There ought to be life on a lot of exoplanets out there.
Yeah, and that's a little scary right because nobody has contacted us, it didn't either getting to intelligent life is really hard, which could be.
Or maybe most likely thing is that life frequently does get to the point of intelligence and then itself constructs, which we're very close to now.
So we don't know, we'll see.
Sorry to end on it down.
I have a follow up to my last question. So if the origin of life when conditions are right is something that happens on a very short time scale. Yeah, why is it that we only certainly know see one lineage of life here.
Yes, that's a different question, right. So everything that we see now traces back the common ancestor.
But that common ancestor, the Luca last universal common answer, but was essentially like a modern bacteria, it had everything that modern biology has.
And so we don't see with very few exceptions.
Anything from before that point.
And so it looks like a single unique origin, but it didn't have to be that way it could have been that life was popping up all over the planet.
You know pops up here gets hit by a comet, you know, it's killed off pops up again over here.
It's possible that there were many independent origins and that, you know, cell fusion events resulted in the exchange of genetic information, horizontal gene transfer, right.
Immortial sex, if you want to look at it that way, that would have speeded up evolution.
But all of that period of history is been erased.
And what we can really do is speculate and think about possible mechanisms.
I was wondering about like the primary earth and how I'm over here.
And so you're saying it was all localized right based on different environments or is wondering a is there any evidence to see that, you know, ancient nucleotides ancient amino acids, you know, are they different on different parts of the earth.
And second of all, what was kind of the driving force to have the standardized nucleotides we see today and the amino acids we see today.
Right. Okay, so two very interesting questions. So, so first, you know, if you look for old rocks, like the older the rock, the less there isn't it.
The earth has plate piconics right and so we're constantly losing continental landmass to subduction. And so they're only a few couple of two or three places on the earth where you have you have rocks that date back to 3.8 or more billion years
ago. And those rocks by and large been fairly heavily processed.
So, there's, there's no record of the early organic chemistry of the earth.
That is what is making Mars looks so interesting right Mars never developed plate piconics. And so there's a lot of really old surface on Mars, and maybe, or maybe not, there might be some residue of early either early chemistry or early life.
But it's one of the main things is driving the exploration of Mars at this point.
Okay, and then, sorry, the second question was
Yeah, yes, right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's also a very interesting and somewhat controversial question so there are some people who think that the chemistry just intrinsically goes towards the standard building blocks of harmony.
Now, is that because people have spent the most effort trying to understand how to make those building blocks and they've neglected other possibilities.
To some extent, maybe, but we have looked at a lot of alternatives alternative chemistries. And this is the subject of my talk tomorrow.
Basically, you know, this, the, the, the summary is that RNA always with our RNA just looks better than anything else that could have been made.
And I think that's pretty remarkable. We, it's maybe too early to state that too strongly, but it really looks like the chemistry is just funneled towards making RNA.
Maybe if we ever get to exoplanets, you know, some other star will find worms of life that have the same basic underlying chemistry.
You don't know.
So I'm also very curious about the third mystery. What, what is the functional first peptide, the first question you had.
The function of the first peptides that were made by coded synthesis. So, okay, so I think that you have to go back a step. And so there are many ways of making peptides.
It's not hard. What's hard is to make them in a coded way. So the question, at least the way we're thinking about it is, could there have been some simple peptides that were made in a non coded way.
Maybe just because there are some amino acids around more than others, they come together, they make kind of random sequence strands that are biased because to contain certain amino acids, but those do something useful.
And if so, if there's something any a little bit useful there then it would be worthwhile making more of it.
So we have a selective advantage to start to start to build in coding of the system.
Now what that primordial function is we don't really know where we're thinking about peptide aggregation phase separation forming harder gels.
Other people are thinking about peptides that interact with RNA stabilized structures.
But we don't actually know what the most likely thing is.
I was just thinking in bio mineralization, for example, for formation of crystalline, like you have an IDP disorder proteins, which allows, for example, not to crystallize.
So you said how crystals are important you need certain courses, maybe not. Do you think that can be a function like you have just tiny peptide just creating an environment like this environment just modulate crystal formation or non crystal formation for RNA.
Could be, could be either, either of those kinds of things or also thinking about, you know, peptides like to interact with, with membranes and maybe primitive membranes had not only lipids but also peptides and here to them inserted so yeah what we need are experiments to actually show like, okay, this is a way that a primitive peptide actually could be useful.
And that's what's missing.
additional question.
If not, thanks again for absolutely great.
Okay.
Definitely.
Okay, maybe they can edit out the parts where I couldn't get the movie to play.
That would be that would be good.
All right, let's see.
Yeah, sure.
Oh, I mean,
I've seen.
Very cool.
Yeah, very happy about that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
