But turns out it's not enough.
So, okay, here's another.
I cannot seem to play any of the movies, which is really sad.
Huh.
So some treat.
Okay, I do I do I do that, actually.
Yeah, you can turn off the laser pointer maybe we can.
Sorry about this.
Yeah.
All right.
Okay, so this is how we were thinking about things when I started to work on this we imagine a little bit of RNA floating around and really chemically rich environment and activated monitors coming in finding their partner by base bearing and building up a complimentary
program. Okay, so it seems easy and beautiful when you see these animations that were made by Janet do lots of but when you try to do the chemistry it turns out to be not so great.
And there's a whole list of problems here is trying to get that to work experimentally.
And what I can say at this point is that we've solved most of these, we're still working on optimizing a few but I think we're pretty good now at doing copying chemistry.
I'm just going to show you one thing about that that illustrates how a bias a preconception can get in the way. Okay, so this is the way copying a template actually works using these reactive building blocks.
Hi, at the beginning, we would have this. So this is a primer that's bound to a template we want to copy this part of the template.
We saw monitors would come in one at a time sit down on the template, react with the primer which would grow by one unit and then we repeat that process, until we built up a full.
So it turns out, doesn't work that way.
And so, for the chemists in the audience you can look at the right hand side here for the rest you can get the schematic view here, what happens is that two monomers react with each other.
This bizarre dye nucleotide this dimeric product, this binds to the template by two Watson correct base pairs.
And what's really amazing is that the structure of the bridge, the linkage between the two monitors is perfectly set up in three dimensional space, so that the reaction goes really quickly.
And so, it really took us a while to overcome this idea that copying had to work like it does in biology but apparently, we now think that primitive copying worked in this chemically distinct way.
And only later, when enzymes ribosomes or enzymes evolve, did we get to the modern way of doing things.
Now, that's good for copying a template but what we need in order to do evolution is to actually replicate that we got to make copy the template and copy the copies copy those copies indefinitely.
And that turns out to be really hard for a lot of different reasons. And so, one of the, one of the things that happened over the course of the pandemic was my lab was shut down for a while like everybody's.
I do accept stay home and think, and came out with this model that you see here, called the virtual circular genome model, which we think is a way of actually replicating RNA sequences that overcomes all of the problems that had blocked us for so long.
And so the idea is the genome of a primitive cell would be this green circular sequence. So this is an RNA sequence just shown as a line.
But there's no actual circular molecules. The idea is you have a whole bunch of little pieces little fragments that map to the circular sequence.
And the result is they can come together in all kinds of different configurations. And whenever they come together and like this you can extend one using the other as template.
And the difference is that now replicate the active replication has become distributed across the whole circular sequence, instead of working like it doesn't biology where you start at the beginning.
You go through the middle and you get to the end. Here you do a little bit of copying all over the place that's everything everywhere all at once.
And we're starting to test it and it's, I think it's looking pretty exciting and figuring out exactly how to get this to work and under what conditions is, is one of the big things that were that we're working on.
So if we can get that to work, then we're, we should be much closer to being able to actually build for the cells, like you see here so little membrane sacks that include bits of RNA, but with the chemistry to actually drive replication.
Okay.
So I haven't said anything.
There's a membrane that encloses this and that also has to grow and divide right we want to have a primitive cell systems go to be able to grow and divide and do that forever also.
And so we started working on that about 20 years ago, actually.
I was pretty nervous about getting into this field because I'd never worked on lipids, and the technologies for working with lipids are not as easy or,
how should I say effective as the technologies for working on nucleic acid so, but it's turned out to be a fascinating venture.
I've learned a lot of biophysics, and one of the nice things is use microscopy to get beautiful images so like what you see here is when a vesicle made of a simple fatty acid the lake acid.
You just shake it up and water under the right conditions and it spontaneously makes beautiful membrane structures and here you can see smaller vesicles trapped inside a big one.
They're really, really quite beautiful.
But they also have the amazing property that they can grow in very interesting ways and so I'm going to show you here's another movie.
This is one of these vesicles that it's encapsulating a fluorescent dye which is what you can actually see. We add food which is more fatty acids, and it grows like in this really unexpected way.
I almost fell off my chair when I saw this the first time. This is, this is a whole series of experiments that were done by Ting-Ju when he was a graduate student in the lab.
So it turns out that if you have these vesicles that are kind of complex and they have multiple membrane layers, you can throw in more of the building blocks of the membrane fatty acids in this case.
They'll get incorporated into the membrane which will grow and will grow in this unusual way into filaments which we kind of understand but not completely.
These are very fragile so they can break down to smaller daughter vesicles which can grow and the cycle can repeat.
But then in more recent years, we came up with a completely different way that this can happen and this was work that was done by Stephanie Zhang, a graduate student and Anna Wang when she was a postdoc in the lab.
And here we're making much bigger vesicles but they only have a single membrane. We start to feed them with more fatty acids.
And what you'll see, you look carefully, is that the spherical structures start to fluctuate and they start to spontaneously divide.
Turns out we have two completely different ways now of driving growth and division that works basically with very simple physics and it's just soap and water.
There's nothing elaborate or fancy about this.
Okay, so some of the things that we thought were like super hard and no idea how we're going to get growth and division, turn out at least in some cases to be really easy.
And whereas some of the other things like doing RNA synthesis and replication, we're still working.
So I think putting those things together is getting us closer and closer to being able to build in the lab a system that can grow and divide and evolve, which is what we really want to see.
And if we can do that, that will be, I think, giving us some understanding, not necessarily of how life actually evolved but at least how it could have evolved.
So I'm almost done. I just want to end by saying a few words about the origin of coded protein synthesis. So a lot of people think that, you know, protein synthesis is universal in life, as we know it now.
And so it's obviously central and it's important. So it's, it would be nice to understand how a system that complicated could have arisen spontaneously by evolution.
And the way I think of it is that there are kind of three major mysteries about this process.
The one that almost everybody likes to think about is the origin of the genetic code, right, how did certain amino acids become associated with certain three letter RNA sequences. I'm not going to talk about that. I have no idea how that arose.
But I think there are two other equally important questions.
So the ribosome, that machine that builds proteins, uses very special substrates, right, it builds proteins using RNA molecules, which have an amino acid attached to them.
You could not evolve the ribosome unless molecules like that were already around.
Why on earth would amino isolated RNAs have been around.
And so we think maybe they were doing something else before they were involved in protein synthesis.
And that led to the emergence of perhaps ribosomes that that made them more efficiently and with specificity so that a given up amino acid would be attached to a given RNA.
That would set the stage for the evolution of protein synthesis. The other thing we're starting to think about is the other requirement for evolution.
You couldn't evolve the ribosome again, unless the thing that it made is useful, right, has to contribute to the survival growth of the cell that it's in.
And what could that function again.
I really have no idea. I mean, there are a few possibilities, but it's completely up in the air.
Okay, so, so let me just. So there's just a diagram showing how the way the ribosome works, you know, you have RNAs tRNAs that have an amino acid attached they come in the ribosome hooks things together builds the growing chain kicks out the empty tRNA it's done.
So why would you have molecules like this around.
So,
we think that these amino isolated RNAs might have been doing something else, what could that have been, well turns out that the amine of the amino acid, if it's not protonated like it's drawn here, sorry, is a good nucleophile, it's more reactive, it can attack activated
phosphate. And it turns out that it can facilitate the assembly of little bits of RNA into more complicated structures, which can be ribosomes.
So we think that could have been an early role for these molecules in building up structures.
And then that kind of set the stage by by having a selective pressure for making more of these amino isolated RNAs. And then that chemistry was co opted during the evolution of the ribosome to actually make proteins.
Okay.
So just to summarize.
I think, you know, we, what we've actually learned about the process is, is that a lot of things that looked really hard, if you overcome your preconceptions you can figure out ways that they happen easily.
Okay.
And almost all the big advances in this field have come from overcoming some kind of bias or preconception.
And I feel that this is a great field to be in because there've been so many surprises, and there's just been this enormous wealth of totally surprising and unanticipated chemical and physical phenomenon that we never would have stumbled across if we weren't trying to figure out how life
got started.
I think that we're close to maybe having a coherent pathway that it gives us a picture of how things could have happened, step by step, where none of the steps are, are just incredibly contrived, for example, so that's the least the goal.
So let me just end by, I've tried to mention some of the key people. My lab has had so many brilliant graduate students and postdocs over the years.
Here are the few of the ones that have contributed recently to some of the advances that I talked about. So, like to thank all the people who worked in my lab contributed to this.
And all the people who've helped us all of our collaborators and people who have supported the work.
They deserve a lot of thanks. And thank you for listening.
I'm happy to take question.
So please, if you'd like to ask a question, which broadly encourage me to use a microphone.
Hi, hello. I'm an astrobiologist. My name is Jonathan. You mentioned the isolated amino acid RNA and how they formed, what was the origin of that, or is that also a mystery?
How did that amino acid end up? Yeah, because the end of the RNA. Yeah. No, that's a great question.
There are some simple kinds of chemistry that you can use to do that. I'm not convinced yet that we have something that the right one, the one that looks prebiotically realistic, there are a lot of different ways to do it.
It's not a hard reaction. But we're still searching for something that looks more likely to have happened.
And you also mentioned you in the many ways that like broke the primordial superdome that one of them was the cyanide diluting in the water with the hydrothermal vents mixing and creating life.
Is that like your main belief or is it like?
That's just one step, right? That's the important thing is, is the idea that you can build up a reservoir of material and accumulate it and then use it later on.
And that happens or can happen at many steps in all of these pathways. I only gave that as one example, but there are a lot of other examples.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Where do you imagine the chirality coming in? We have the chirality amino acids and the sugars and the lipids and so on.
And they all had to become chirally pure at some point.
So that could be a whole lecture.
You know, if you like 20 years ago, it was this huge mystery that how could you end up with, you know, all the molecules of a certain type having the same handedness, right?
And they're just, you know, there was this the so I reaction sort of auto catalytic wave doing it. There were, there's no one ever figured out how to do that in a way that would get you the right molecules.
There are other many other ideas about how it could happen. Then, maybe five, six, seven years ago, crystal ball, Vietnam, a Spanish geochemist came up with a process called at the beginning called crystal grinding later chiral amnesia now
Vietnam ripening. And the idea that if you have something that crystallizes to make separate right and left handed crystals, and you put energy into the system by grinding them down.
And a finer powder that dissolves recrystallizes on the bigger crystals and there's a cycle and that leads the crystal the solid form to diverge spontaneously to be all right handed or all left handed simple physical process.
No one believed it at the so counter and to but then it was quickly replicated.
Turns out, again, no, no, we can't figure out how to get that into the chemistry at the right stage. And now there's a whole lot of exciting work is just coming out about how to use spin spin interference magnetic field.
To essentially to drive an anti selective nucleation of crystallization. And this works beautifully on exactly the right molecule. So, maybe that's the answer.
Yeah, it's this that whole fields and transformed multiple times.
Thank you for your wonderful talk so RNA is very negatively charged. Yes. So, so has that worked with advantage or disadvantage.
And it's I think it's a really one of the most important things about a genetic material is that it should be fairly uniform right you want to have a be able to have an arbitrary sequence.
Because you need it, you need different sequences to do different things. And so to copy those sequences, you want to have the structure, the surface and the chemistry be fairly uniform, independent of the sequence and so being having a,
highly negatively charged backbone, I think helps with that. If you don't have that, you make molecules that that are have an uncharged background they tend to just glom up into a little three dimensional, you know, lobs of good, which you can't replicate.
The poly anionic backbone is an essential aspect of the chemistry of RNA.
There's an online question.
You cared a comment on the concept of the lipid world, the idea that the earliest organized structures were lipid my cells, and the catalytic and catalytic entities were different arrangements of the hydrophilic lipid head groups.
Yeah, so, so the way I think about it, at least is that, yeah, the lipids are critical, they could be very simple, maybe just fatty acids, maybe more complicated.
I'm a little bit skeptical, but I could be totally wrong about the idea of whether interactions between the head groups contribute to specific interesting catalysis I think they're more important for making the bilayer membrane structure that
closes all this other stuff of the cell, and, and does it in a dynamic way that allows for growth and division, and as well as permeability to substrates and exit of waste materials so I think it's those physical properties that are important.
What's missing so far is a really effective pathway for generating things as simple as fatty acids it's one of the least explored areas of prebiotic chemistry.
In one of your slides you had a plot of the amount of bits it takes to describe a certain arrangement and the amount of effective like work it can do or.
Right.
Yeah.
I was wondering how you were, how you go about looking at a structure and giving a number for the amount of bits it takes to describe it.
Good, good question. So, what we do is we buy industry selection will find a structure and, and then we can take that structure and make a new library in which we've dope every position with all the other possibilities.
All right, so if there's an a we put in mostly a but a lot of also some GC and you do that at every position so now we have another huge library.
Then we again we select out the variants that work.
And then we align all those sequences, and we can immediately see okay this position you have to be an a this position you have to be a C at this position you can be any.
But these two positions you have to be able to make a lot of quick base for. And so from that information, we can calculate the information content required to specify that structure.
What is the difference between RNA and DNA.
Yeah.
So, so the difference is a small chemical difference. It's just one oxygen atom at a particular place on the sugar.
It has a very important consequences.
And so DNA is very stable. It doesn't degrade very quickly, just in water where it's RNA is, it tends to fall apart.
And, and you know you can ask is that a good thing or a bad thing, you know why didn't everything begin with DNA, instead of RNA.
So this is a very periodic pathways that might give us the building blocks of DNA at the beginning so this is actually something people are still debating.
Hello, I have a question so is there any biological evidence for your proposed pathways like a, is this special nucleotide exists in some Asian bacteria and still take part in some biological pathways, some biological evidence like that.
No, all of this early chemistry is kind of gone. I mean it's only laboratory chemistry, nothing like this happens in biology.
And I, rather intensive searches, people have made for the so called shadow biosphere, you know, small remnants of this earlier RNA world, nothing like that's been seen and I think the answer, the reason for that is, is just that early life wasn't very efficient
and very well adapted to its environment like modern life is, and, and it was just all eaten up. So, and the conditions of the chemical conditions of the modern earth they're very different from the chemistry of the earlier, for example, there was no
oxygen, no free oxygen around on the earlier so the kinds of chemistry that could have happened would be very different.
And none of this could happen now. So, we, we just have to reconstruct what's possible from experiments in the lab.
So, thank you for your brilliant talk. I'm curious that when you were introducing the central dogma of life, which is the relationship between DNA RNA and protein.
So you link DNA and RNA with one arrow. However, you link RNA and protein with three arrows. So for that three arrows are you do you have a specific meaning.
Yes, yes actually what the meaning is that the messenger RNA codes for the protein sequence, the ribosomal RNA makes it and the tRNAs bring the amino acids to the ribosome so RNAs have three different roles in building proteins.
Another clue that life began with RNA.
I have a very general question about something that I've fully understood over here.
What is the driving force for making things more and more complex over time like usually we talk about systems that strive towards equilibrium they want to be as boring as possible but once we have an energy gradient of some sort.
Yeah, the generator rat race things want to be more complex and more efficient how does this work.
So there are many, many examples in which far from equilibrium systems generate local order, right and that energy is is dissipated through locally ordered structures and biology is just one example of that.
Right, so all of this depends on different inputs of energy, chemical energy and the form of reactive molecules that we're still figuring out.
What it is for how to use thermal energy to drive some parts of the cycle, mechanical energy can drive division.
There are many ways in which energy comes into the system so all of this is is a collection of far from equilibrium phenomenon that they've come conspired together to generate order.
Can you describe it as a driving force for complexity is that some way to formalize it in some way.
That's above my pay grade I mean I know that you need, you need energy to drive the assembly of these systems that, yeah, advanced non equilibrium thermodynamics is complicated.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, this is a good lecture to make us rethink where we come from. So my, my question, I'm here. Yeah, so it seems there's assumption most of the this chemistry like involving RNA happens in solution.
So is it possible that it happens with assistance of solid surfaces all kind of a close compartment and hopping from surfaces to surface. Yeah, yeah, that's a very actually very interesting idea.
So, long time ago, Jim Ferris, and I think initially with Leslie Orgo showed that you could assemble that the surfaces of certain plays basically could catalyze the assembly of nucleotides into RNA strands.
And unfortunately, it hasn't really gone beyond that. I mean the idea persists but experiments that would show something more interesting haven't, you know, worked out or been done.
I think part of the problem is if you have an RNA molecule absorbed on a surface, it won't be in the right geometry that you need to copy it into a double helical product.
Personally a little skeptical that minerals would play a direct role in, for example, replication chemistry but they certainly could do all kinds of other interesting things.
It is something we think about a lot.
Where do amino acids come from.
Cyanide.
In the beginning, in early on in the earliest history, there are very well worked out, very high yielding pathways to go from cyanide to not all but most of the biologically important amino acid.
And these pathways they're made in a totally different way they were made by metabolic pathways inside cells by enzymes.
So, how, how that transition was made from a purely chemical approach before there was life to this metabolic approach that we see now.
Again, one of the big mysteries in this, in this whole area.
There are very few cases where we can see how something went from pre-added chemical reaction to a metabolic reaction.
Hi, I had a quick question.
So when you were showing, oh, sorry, the vesicle growth, with the introduction of micelles, it had this weird elongated morphology.
And I was wondering what drove that instead of keeping like a more uniform circular morphology.
Yeah, we've wondered about that for a long time. I mean, I could tell you the theory that we have. I have no idea if this is correct.
But the idea is, if you start off with a vesicle that has multiple layers of lipid.
And then you feed it with more lipid coming in from the solution.
The outermost membrane layer is going to be the one that grows first.
And, but there's not much volume in between it and the next layer on the inside. And so the result is the extra layer gets sort of.
And then over time, everything in quillibrates to a multi-layered filament.
And sort of see that happening in some of our confocal microscopy images, but I still think that's an area that needs a lot more study to really understand the biophysics.
Thank you.
A lot of biologists I've met, they have varying estimates on how long they think it takes life to emerge from a thousand year process, linear process, etc.
So I was wondering, your proposed model here where RNA developed this way, how long do you think that takes and why?
Yeah.
Okay, so the question of time scales. Again, I think it's very interesting. I think you have to, the time scales that are relevant depend on the process you're thinking about.
So, you know, we're in that image that I showed, we're thinking maybe on the order of 100 million years for the Earth to cool down enough to have liquid water.
So that's 100 million year times.
Once you've got liquid water on the surface.
Okay, then maybe you need the right environment in terms of hydrothermal circulation of volcanic region impact praetors, maybe getting the right geophysical environment could have happened on the scale of millions of years or tens of millions.
If there's not the right geophysical environment, then the chemistry can start to happen. Maybe it takes thousands of years to build up a reservoir of cyanide in the form of barocyanide salts.
Once that gets processed by heat, the derivatives that are made are much more reactive. And now the chemistry is going to start happening on the time scale of hours to days to weeks.
Once you start building up nucleotides that can assemble and can polymerize. Now you're talking about reactions that happen on time scale of minutes to hours.
When we get to an entire photo cell system that can grow and divide, I think the time scale will be hours to days, because there's a lot of different parts to that.
So, so I think once everything was in place, things started happening really quickly, but it may have taken a long time to get everything just set up perfectly.
So what role do you envision for the extraterrestrial delivery of organic molecules and things like carbonaceous chondrites and so on, as opposed to the in situ synthesis of some of these building blocks on Earth.
