Good evening. Can you hear me.
Welcome to the latest in the series of firing lectures.
The series is named in honor of Professor Roy Ering, who was an ASU Regents Professor and chairman of the department and contributed importantly during his tenure as chairman to the growing reputation and excellence of the department.
Today's speaker is Professor Jack Shostack.
Jack is a university professor and professor of chemistry at the University of Chicago and an investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
Prior to this year, Jack was an employee at Harvard University and at Harvard Medical School. He had multiple appointments at Harvard and carried out all of his duties with in a distinguished fashion.
His training was initially at McGill University for his bachelor's degree, and then he moved to Cornell and worked with Ray Woo on his PhD thesis subject.
Thereafter, he started his career all in the Boston area, had a number of positions over a period of years at the Farber Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School, and then at Mass General.
And while he was there, he carried out a few things that some of you probably heard about.
So he, for example, worked on genetics and biochemistry of DNA recombination, which led to the double strand break repair model for metotic recombination.
In parallel, he made fundamental contributions to our understanding of telomere structure and function and the role of telomere maintenance in preventing cellular senescence.
For this work and sharing it with two other individuals, he was awarded the Nobel Prize for his work.
Most people would be satisfied with that.
Jack went on to just as remarkable things in more recent years.
I'll abbreviate it for this particular introduction since I have to introduce him again tomorrow, and I'll talk about it in more detail then.
But in the 1990s, Jack and his colleagues developed in vitro selection as a tool for the isolation of functional RNA DNA and proteins.
Simple concept, but incredibly powerful for fine molecules and special activity of function, even though it's a discovery of a few decades now.
It's still increasing in its utilization and the extent to which the world relies on that basic technique to find new and highly potent and selective molecules for specific utilizations.
Since the year 2000, approximately, his research interests have focused on self replicating systems and the origin of life.
And this leads us immediately to the title of this evening's lecture, namely the origin of life, not as hard as it looks.
Please join me in welcoming Jack.
Thank you very much for your very kind introduction.
Thanks for inviting me to come back to ASU and talk to people again.
I've had a great day talking with lots of different people about all kinds of exciting new things.
So in today's lecture, I try to give a not a comprehensive overview of the origin of life, but sort of focus on some of the things that I find particularly interesting and maybe try to give some idea of where we've made progress and what kinds of things have
held us back from maybe moving as quickly as we would like.
So what you see on the slide here is just a schematic of our conception of what a really simple primordial cell might have looked like, just a kind of a lipid envelope with some small bits of genetic information on the inside.
And this looks simple. I mean, it's obviously a stripped down version of a modern cell. It's got the important things except for proteins.
But, you know, there's an enormous number of questions that arise if you try to think about how something like this could have emerged from the chemistry of the early earth.
And again, even if you get to this stage then what right how did that lead subsequently to the evolution of more and more complex forms of life.
So,
I was talking to a few people before giving this lecture and they said that, you know, it's always interesting for people to hear how you got into a field so I'll try to bring that out a bit.
I thought about different ways of beginning this talk.
And, you know, I could have, you know, everything, of course, were before.
Well, we were setting up but now I can't advance the slide.
Okay, I can use this.
Good. Alright.
So I thought about beginning by talking about exoplanets, because after all, that's been one of the just most amazing advances in science in the last two decades.
We have catalog now over 5000 planets orbiting different stars.
There must by extrapolation be millions of very earth like planets out there in our galaxy alone and of course we'd all like to know if there's life on any of those planets.
Is it so hard to get to life that maybe we're the only place in the galaxy or even the universe where there's life.
I'm not going to talk more about that. I'm going to instead like, I also thought, well, you know, I could talk about life being a far from equilibrium phenomenon.
Right. And it's, there's so many interesting questions. How does, how does that generate local order of the kinds that you see in life, like these incredibly complicated metabolic pathways and everything depends on the input of energy into the system in the, in the right way.
So we have Paul Davies and Sarah Walker here who can tell you all about that from their work.
So instead I decided to talk about life from the point of view of information, because that's really how I got into this field and got interested and and obsessed with it really.
So when we talk about information.
It can be talked about in a lot of different ways right so this obviously goes back.
So I'm sure with this to, you know at the beginning from from Shannon classical information theory.
How much information does it take to specify a given string of symbols.
And then that led to advances in compression technology which I think mostly stem from Kolm algorithm, algorithms, which is how much what's the shortest like algorithm or computer program do that can actually regenerate a given string.
In technology, we don't really care so much about the actual sequence of symbols in the string right we I mean we all have about 3 billion base pairs of information in our DNA and it's not really that much you can put it on your smart phone.
But what's important about it is the parts of it that actually code for something useful, and even those parts.
The exact sequence is not usually what's important right because there are many positions in the sequence that don't matter that can be anything.
And so the actual amount of information to specify, say, a given functional tRNA or given functional protein is is less.
And even that is not exactly what you need or should be thinking about in a biological system.
In a conversation between two people, what matters is the meaning of the string right and physical complexity doesn't quite get to that because there are many, many different ways of building different structures that do the same thing.
And so that means, in effect, it takes less information to specify a given meaning in a biological system.
Okay, so, okay, not to be the dead horse but this is obvious parallel between the information stored in DNA and in long term storage on computers and in biology.
We have this sort of more transient form of RNA which by the way also does all kinds of functions just like proteins and so on and so it's very parallel to what we see in all these to build devices.
I've been interested for a long time in how did the first organisms begin to accumulate information about their environment about themselves and about how they function in the environment.
Where did that information come from and how did it grow to the extent that we see in biology today.
And so the way that I got into that was essentially by doing Darwinian evolutionary experiments on molecules, instead of on collections of organisms so Darwinian evolution has been operating for billions of years and has generated all the diversity of
objects that we see humans have been doing directed evolution for thousands probably maybe tens of thousands of years and the animal and plant breeding.
And all that it really took to sort of extrapolate that from organisms to molecules was the technology of BCR.
So what we started doing were to begin with completely a library of completely random sequences.
A very large and what we wanted to know is how likely is it that a given random sequence can actually do something interesting.
So in the experiment of course you can, you can define the past that will be binding to a target molecule catalyzing a reaction, want to know how much information does it take to specify a functional molecule.
One of the reasons that I decided to do this experiment was that by talking to different people I got vastly different answers some people thought that you can get an RNA molecule to bind to target.
It'll be like maybe one in 10 to the minus fifth random sequences, others had no building a structure it's like really hard and you have so many factors to contribute it'll be like one in 10 to the minus 50th you'll never find one experimental
There's 45 orders of magnitude of uncertainty it seemed like worth doing an experiment see if we could narrow it down a bit.
So what we were able to do pretty easily was build libraries of on the order of 10 to the 15th different random sequences made in DNA transcribed into RNA, and then take that set of sequences and subject it to a selection.
So enriching for the ones that do what we want and throwing away the ones that don't, and then amplifying those survivors with or without adding a little bit more variation and going around and around this cycle.
And then ran that cycle until the population is taken over by molecules that do what we want.
Okay. And, and so the answer was that we could actually this actually worked. And we could get molecules like the one shown here. So this is sort of surface view of the three dimensional structure of a short bit of RNA that folds up.
And this is beautiful three dimensional shape that has a little cleft on the surface that's complimentary in shape and electrostatics to ATP. So the combined ATP at a concentration that's biologically relevant.
And this was at about one in 10 to the minus 10 of the random sequences that we started with so actually not that hard to get functional sequences out of out of nothing.
So then, I got interested in taking this one step further and saying, Okay, you know this molecule binds with a certain affinity and specific.
How much harder is it to bind something more tightly.
Intuitively, it's, you know, to do any tasks more efficiently. It's, it's harder. And so it should take more information the question is how much.
And so to get at that, we embarked on a series of really painful and tedious and laborious experiments that were done by James for others when he was a graduate student in my lab.
And what James did was to select for RNA sequences out of this random tool that could bind GTP as a target.
And he got a whole bunch of different solutions.
And what I'm showing you on this slide are the simplest looking solutions they're just stem loops, the red bases have to be what they are the blue ones can be anything.
So there's a certain amount of information in the sense of the Chris Adami type of physical complexity that is required to specify each of these structures.
So if you select for tighter and tighter and tighter binding, then you end up getting more complicated structures. So these are a little bit more complicated and if you keep going, you get these ones which bind 100 times tighter.
And they're much more complicated in their secondary structures and in the number of phases that have to be what they are. And so you can actually you can do the same kind of experiment selecting for catalysis.
So this came out of an experiment that was done by Dave Bartel when he was a graduate student in the lab, selected for ribosomes RNA enzymes that could catalyze a ligation reaction.
And again, he got more than one answer to that problem.
And I'm showing you here one ribosome that's fairly small and simple that does this reaction with a certain rate, and this much more complicated reaction that does a much better job.
It's a better catalyst, and it's more complicated you can see it takes more information to specify a sequence that does something better.
But can you quantify that and well sort of right so if you calculate the information required to specify all of those structures and plot it against either the affinity or the catalytic rate.
There is a lot of scatter about this line, but you know, you'd expect a lot of scatter and the basic lesson is that it takes
more bits of information to specify about a tenfold increase in activity.
And I, so this is a very old result.
I've always wanted to improve on this, but the experiments back then, 20 to 30 years ago were so hard that no one's ever wanted to go back and do this again.
But I'm still fascinated by the idea of trying to quantify the relationship between information and meaning or function.
You can do these kinds of things with DNA and with proteins and this is just a pretty picture of how you can use the ribosomal machinery to as the ribosome is reading a messenger RNA and generating a Mason peptide chain you can trick it into linking
it covalently. This allows you to select for function on the basis of what the proteins doing, but it drags along its coding messenger RNA so you can tell what you got.
And unfortunately, so this one lesson from this is again it's not that hard to find functional molecules.
Which is a good thing because otherwise I think it would be very hard for life to evolve new functions to become more complex to adapt better to its environment.
In a small scale lab experiment, we were able to make new proteins that bind, for example, ATP, and other people have evolved.
So, so I think that these kind of give you some insight into how the first living systems got the initial information the way we think about it is that protocols like in that schematic I showed in the very first slide, could have been seated
in just random sequence bits of, for example, RNA, or whatever the primordial genetic material was, probably RNA.
And if you have enough of those, right, some of those sequences carry meaning intrinsically and could do something that would help that cell survive better or replicate better, take over the population.
And that's the beginnings of Darwinian evolution.
Okay, but to do that requires a few more things, right, it's all in the details like, okay, to do this kind of acquisition of information, you have to be able to replicate that genetic material.
And that has to happen with errors, so that new variation is possible. And it has to happen in a way that selection could occur.
So, how can all of those things happen.
So, if you look at a modern cell, it's very hard to think about how that could ever arise, because we have DNA storing information in an archival form.
RNA is an intermediate generating proteins that do all the functions in the cell. And the problem is that all of these things depend on each other.
Right, so you need RNA and proteins and metabolites to replicate DNA. You need DNA to encode the RNA.
You can't make proteins without the RNA and the code and the archival information and the metabolites.
You know, trying to think in a rational way about how a system like this could have emerged, and they held back progress in understanding the origin of life for decades.
Right, because people were generating all kinds of crazy theories about how everything could just emerge at once, which is basically not possible and there's a clue in the structure of this diagram.
That maybe RNA, this molecule in the middle, is the answer to that sort of paradox.
And that was recognized in the 60s by a few smart people like Francis Crick and Leslie Orgel and Carl Losey.
And recently, the structure of the ribosome was solved by several groups and I'm showing you here a picture of the large subunit of the ribosome from work by Tom Stites.
And what this is a huge and complicated molecular machine, right, whose job is to make all of the proteins in our body.
And if you look at this sort of face on view of the large subunit of the ribosome, which is the one that actually catalyzes peptide bond formation.
What you see in the very middle, where this little green squiggle is this is a transition state analog that is occupying the catalytic center of the ribosome.
And one of that is only RNA, which are these gray squiggles, the proteins of the ribosome are these gold structures, but it's clear from the structure that the ribosome is a ribosome that makes proteins.
So all the proteins in all the organisms in the world are made by catalysis by RNA molecules, the large subunit of the ribosome.
So logically, the only the conclusion we draw from that is that RNA came first, and that early life was a lot simpler.
So we imagine primitive cells looking kind of like this, still cells with a membrane boundary inside RNA as the genetic material.
And coding for ribosomes that carry out different kinds of functions, including the replication of the RNA.
Okay, so now our problem of how to get to this point has become a lot simpler.
What we have to do all is figure out how to go from the chemistry of the early Earth to RNA molecules, and then figure out how they could replicate and develop to this stage.
So we can deal with the other complexities of modern life, DNA, proteins, metabolism, all of that you can think of as phenomenon that arose through the process of Darwinian evolution.
The evolved features, they don't have to be there from the very beginning.
All right, so when could this have happened. So this is adapted from a review by Jerry Joyce. I think you can take all the numbers on the timeline with a grain of salt.
The Earth had to cool down from its molten lava surface to the point where you could have water on the surface, liquid water on the surface.
There's evidence from the chemistry of zircon crystals that that was actually pretty early, maybe as little as 100 million years after the Earth was actually formed or after the moon forming impact.
And somewhere between that period and the earliest convincing evidence of life on the Earth, there's a period of about 700 or 800 million years to somewhere in their life got started, we don't know when.
There must have been chemistry going on on the surface of the planet that gave rise to all the building blocks of biology, or nucleotides, lipids, sugars, amino acids, all made by just chemistry happening in different environments on the surface of the young planet.
And then somehow that gave rise to RNA, which gave rise to replicating RNA, and eventually to the first cells of the RNA world and then the RNA world evolved the ability to make all kinds of complexity and adaptation.
Okay. So, so then the problem is now simpler, not I wouldn't say simple but it's it's simpler right we can ask how did this RNA based type of life emerge from the chemistry of the early Earth.
And you can talk actually to more than a few synthetic organic chemists and they'll say that is just completely ridiculous.
And I think that preconception that doing complicated multi step pathways that give rise to a complicated and delicate product that the preconception or the bias that that's impossible has also held back the field for a long time.
In the last, I'd say 10 or 20 years that we're starting to actually address that problem head on and think about well how can you overcome the problems right that idea that that life emerged from this primordial soup where everything was mixed together and sort of magically
assembled into cells is completely ludicrous and people now are developing ideas doing experiments and showing that there are ways to break down long pathways into shorter subsets.
There are ways of concentrating materials that you need crystallizing intermediates. There's this buzzword of systems chemistry which means thinking about things in a bit a little bit of a different way instead of, you know, mixing a and B and trying to get only see you say
what else had to be around and can you make use of other things that were present to actually give you the products that you want. So, so, so what I would say is, so you've probably all heard about the famous Miller Yuri experiment right so Stanley Miller as a graduate student with Harold Yuri
who passed an electric discharge to a reducing atmosphere what they thought the atmosphere of the early years looked like and found precursors to amino acids were generated.
And so, at the time it was revolutionary right it said that making at least the subset of building blocks of biology is not that hard.
And I think there was a period where people thought well maybe everything will be that that that easy. And, and that there were a few examples that that raised that hope again so for example one a row showed that you could take hydrogen cyanide.
All right, and just reflex it in water, just boil it in water, and, and make adenine adenine is just a pentamer of hydrogen cyanide. And so people started to think well maybe, maybe all of the steps and making all the building blocks will be easy.
And then things kind of stalled because people realized well in these reactions in the Miller type reactions in this or a type of reaction, what you actually make is a mess.
Right, there are often thousands of products and they're all present at parts per million or parts per billion, more sensitive your techniques are the more you see there.
But the way to build biology is to make a lot of just a few compounds, just the ones we need.
And so that's the real problem and that's where progress has been made in prebiotic chemistry in recent years.
This idea of cyanide as the ideal building block is something I really love, you know, partly because there's a certain irony and in cyanide giving rise to life, but I kind of like that.
There are lots of different ways to make cyanide in the atmosphere.
We don't really know what what is the most important quantitatively.
It's clear that you can make HCM, and it can rain out onto the surface. And, and my colleague John Sutherland and others have figured out very elegant ways to make use of cyanide to efficiently generate the right product molecules.
But there is a problem in the cyanide that's generated in the atmosphere can dissolve in raindrops and rain to the surface, but it's going to be very dilute.
Very dilute cyanide doesn't do anything interesting, it just sits there and hydrolyzes to form a mind and ammonium formate and then you have nothing.
So how can you actually make use of the cyanide that would be generated in the atmosphere.
And so John came up with this very elegant idea that cyanide could rain out into surface lakes. And if you're in a region where there's hydrothermal circulation of the water through fractured rock.
So for example volcanic regions like, like you see in Yellowstone today, or impact craters.
What can happen is this lake water will circulate it will percolate down, it will be heated by the underlying magma reservoir, and then rise back up to the surface carrying with it ions that have been leached from the rock.
Time among those will be iron, iron two, and iron two reacts very rapidly and avidly with cyanide to make ferrocyanide.
The idea was that ferrocyanide salts could build up in concentration there is stable very stable form of cyanide could build up and precipitate out.
And, and you could build up over maybe thousands of years layers of sediment highly enriched in ferrocyanide salts, and this idea has been refined very nicely.
And by recent work from David Catlin at the University of Washington in Seattle, who assume that that this actually can work in very nicely in alkaline carbonate lakes, which are again a likely prebiotic type of environment.
So, I think this is kind of a major conceptual breakthrough right you start with something that's very dilute that you can't use, you figure out how to build up a concentrated reservoir of material that at later times can be thermally processed and then can go on and do subsequent reaction.
And from cyanide to nucleotides, the building blocks of RNA.
That's a complicated process say there's a lot of steps to go from something as simple as cyanide to something as complicated as the nucleotide.
How could that happen. And again, I think one of the real conceptual breakthroughs has been in realizing that some of the intermediates on the on these pathways tend to selectively crystallize out.
And this is a particularly beautiful example.
So, this is a crystal from a paper by Donna blackman.
This compound is ribosominoxazoline, which is one of the key intermediates on the way to making all of them.
So, the idea is that the reaction that generates this molecule generates the one we want, plus a bunch of side products.
If you want crystallizes out, we can build up a reservoir, you can wash away all the impurities, and then at some later time, when conditions change, you, you're ready to go on to the next step in the pathway.
Okay, so I'm not going to go into any more detail, the pre biotic pathways kind of because I wanted to talk about what came next.
So, so back to how to make RNA, which we have to, we really have to understand right because this is going to be the basis of primordial heredity and evolution.
Okay, so we're going from cyanide through a pathway to making nucleotides nucleotides when their phosphate is chemically activated, something I'll talk about a little bit later and more tomorrow.
So, we're going to make short chains of RNA. And then, making the complimentary strands you have a duplex, a double stranded RNA is, is a little bit more complicated but that's a step that we've worked on in my lab and have made, I think a fair bit of progress on recently.
So,
this is a really nice movie.
I don't know, any idea how to start the movie.
I think one of the mysteries of science so you can test everything and it always works perfectly and then it comes to the real thing and nothing works.
Okay, well we can skip this one but the next couple really needed so hopefully we can
hear this out.
Yeah.
Okay, well I can't show you the structure it's a beautiful elegant structure and I think it's really incredible that you can actually assemble it just using chemistry and with no fancy evil enzymes.
So, one of the huge advances again a conceptual events and how to do that came from the late Leslie or gal who's really one of the founding fathers of the whole field of prebiotic chemistry.
What I personally realized was that thinking about how biology does this is can be misleading right and so some biology, the molecules that are used by enzymes to make RNA and DNA are nucleoside triphosphates so they all have this chain of three
and these are great substrates when you have an enzyme that's a really good catalyst.
If you don't have an enzyme if you're trying to let things happen spontaneously, these molecules just sit there and they don't do anything.
And what Leslie realized is you need to make things that are more reactive and to explore a lot of possibilities.
And in by the early 1980s had settled on these molecules like what you see here these are phosphoramidazoleides, and they're chemically reactive enough to start polymerizing all by themselves without an enzyme and to some extent they can polymerize on a template and build up a copy of that.
We've had some advances in the chemistry net recently that make this work better.
And I'll talk more about that a little bit later in tomorrow.
But first I wanted to just mention another kind of preconception that I say held back progress for a long time.
And again it came from thinking about how does all this template copying the synthesis of long polymers how does it work in biology.
So in biology, we always have a primer that will bind by Watson quick based pairing to a template strand, and the enzyme comes along and uses these monomers as substrates and incorporates them one at a time to grow the chain, the complimentary sequence.
And so, for a long time, everybody who was trying to do this kind of copying chemistry without enzymes, figured it had to work like this, right you have a primary you extend it one base at a time.
We thought well this is maybe too simplistic for prebiotic system or a primordial system.
We thought of well maybe you can make it a little bit messier by having a whole bunch of primers scattered along the sequence and then extend them a bit join them all together.
That seems like a move in the right direction.
