We're going to present our proposal that it's called an integrative view of collective
action for human and social development.
So here is our outline and our general objective is to create the conversions between the ecological
psychology and the inactive approaches towards collective action.
As an example, we're going to use the case of autism spectrum disorders in order to
create this rethinking and reconsideration of collective action.
So first of all, our theoretical approaches begin from the ecological psychology.
In this sense, we are taking into account the environment based on these pivotal notions.
The first one is the envolt and also the habitat that were deeply defined by Bach's and Chameron
in 2018.
The first one that is the envolt is how it's created the individual set of affordances
given its biological setup, its development, and its individual history.
Then the next notion is the habitat, that is the environment as a set of resources for
a typical or ideal member of a species that share a form of life.
In this sense, we're highlighting this, right, like the member of species that share a form
of life in a typical or ideal way because it's a concentrated form of life from certain
group that could exclude other forms of life.
And we will further explain this in the next slides.
Then it's the affordances 2.0 notion that was deeply defined by Chameron.
Affordances 2.0 is a relational and dynamical way of thinking affordances in which affordances
and the abilities of the living organism co-interact in real time and they are culturally dependent.
As we know affordances, the term of affordances was first defined by James Gibson and Eleanor
Gibson and there are like many concepts but in this one in a dynamical and relational
way of thinking, it entails that affordances depend on the particular history of development
of the organism that is the ontogeny and thus the affordances are subjective and salient
for a particular individual when the individual perceives and acts upon them.
So the world that an organism inhabits and experiences throughout its life will depend
on its physiological needs, its repertoires of sensory motor schemes and the affordances
and a relational way of thinking that permit their individual or living organism to establish
functional partners to interact with the environment.
Now in this sense we are also going to talk about the notion of the affordative space.
So the affordative space implies many dimensions into the space that can be seen as the habitat
that as we know is a concentrated environment based on a form of life and this one was defined
by Gallagher and Ransom and it's defined as the abstract range of possibilities provided
by an any active movement in body or change in environment.
So the affordative space implies these dimensions, first the evolution that is the species anatomical
differences then is the development that involves the developmental parameters along the life
cycle of the living organism and then is the social-cultural practices that involve the
social normativity and the ontological niche.
So these dimensions will enable and constrain the individual's action possibilities.
Now the next theoretical approach is the sensory motor approach that was deeply defined by
Ezequiel de Paolo, Burman and Baran de Aran in 2017 in which as in the active view we see it
the living systems are networks of dynamical processes so dynamical processes involve also
the sensory motor regularities that cannot be also named as sensory motor contingencies
or sensory motor coordinations that happen through patterns of agent-environment interactions.
Bodyly coordinations also and also the coordinations between the environmental processes and the agent.
And as we said before the sensory motor regularities are contextualized in certain time and they are
hysterized so the movement in the sensory motor space can be generated by the closed-loop system
in a given situation during a certain period of time.
So the sensory motor abilities are coupled with the niche also.
The niche is defined as a network of affordances available to the animal.
So the sensory motor trajectories are for example when we walk in our daily life,
how we grasp, how we explore the world and how we coordinate with other agents and the environment
and with our own bodily interactions. Now the next theoretical approach is the sense-making.
So in the active view we conceive cognition as the sense-making of the world based on our
organismic self-organization, our embodiment, our needs, our skills and the situation, the
lived situation. So taking into account the previously defined concept of UNVELT that as we
know is the way the organism inhabits an experience environment based on their biological instances
or their biological organization. We are taking into account also the sensory motor schemes or
sensory motor regularities, the perception and actions situated in the space-time
that will guide what it appears to be meaningful for the agent and toward which the agent
audience her actions. So in this sense agents actively make sense of their environment in
terms of how it affects to them. And the sense-making is based on the concept of autonomy
that is also a pivotal concept of the active view in which the living organisms self-generates,
self-distinct and self-organize. So the agents establish a perspective from which interactions
with the world acquire a meaningful and normative status. So the organisms cast a web of significance
of the world grounded on their biological organization and the interaction with the world
itself. So in this sense taking all of these concepts we are kind of like proposing to rethink
collective action and also based on these next notions. First is a cultural permeation that
was introduced by Inesipolito, Daniel Huto and Gallagher in 2021. And they talk about how the
culture permeates and how it connects and influences cognition based on a dynamical coupling
in which the organism systems attune with the environment to physical, social and cultural
factors. So a great example for this kind of cultural permeation is the essay made by Iris
Marion Young who is a feminist phenomenologist in throwing like a girl, that is the name of the
essay. And she talks about how women, adolescents and girls, how we attune our physical and
perception and action capacities based not only in our censoring motor regularities but also on
the action possibilities given by the social-cultural practices imposed by the gender
structure of femininity. So I really recommend this essay if you want to look further about
this kind of thinking. And the next notion is also the social materiality and the joint action
in which the first one, the social materiality, is on how mental activities are not considered as
decontextualized or isolated but they are interwoven in interactions among living systems,
among individuals and also among the physical and social worlds with the living organisms.
So in this sense we are taking into account the objects that surrounds us,
that seem to actively contribute to the typical and a typical psychological development
that is the cognitive, affective and social development influencing to several degrees
the way that people, the way that we experience the world. So we are taking not only the agents
and the environment but also the spaces, objects and its interwoven relations. And the final
notion in this slide is the situated normativity. The situated normativity is the ability of the
skilled individuals to distinguish better or worse or adequate from inadequate or correct from
incorrect in the context of a particular situation. So the situated normativity consists in a
situated appreciation expressed in normative behavior that is concentrated by certain form of
life disconnects profoundly with the conception of habitat. And then the next notion for rethinking
collective action is the participatory sense-making that is the concept in the inactive view for
intersubjectivity. So we illustrated with the figure made by Hannah de Jagger who is a really great
philosopher from the Fourier cognition approach in which she explains that the participatory
sense-making is made by two living systems that depart from a kind of sense-making based on their
sensory motor schemes, their development, their historical cycle, their historical context.
And then they create another system that will be called their participatory sense-making.
So they participate in each other's sense-making. So the participatory sense-making involves
dynamical actions such as breakdowns, repairs, and transformations of the agent
concerning the relationship in the interaction itself. So in this sense the Fourier cognition
proposes to study the interaction itself, the inter corporeal-dialogical relationship that
we create during our interaction. Now Melina.
Problems of thinking social cognition in individual terms rather than really in
interactional terms. So as Dallager said, rather than making an inference to what the other person
is intending by starting with mobiling, bodily movements and moving from there to the level
of mental events, we see actions as meaningful in the context of the physical and inter-subjective
environment. Moreover, he highlights the importance of the environment not only as a physical location,
but as a pragmatic context in a social situation. So in this regard, the world itself
does much of the work involved in social cognition. Furthermore, I'm trying to find
a way that covers the whole interaction of the agent environment system in constant and changing
interactions. A physical model we think can explain this proposal could be found in ecological
resonance. This ecological resonance is the activity of the perceiver in her environment,
like the perceiver environment dynamics, and how it generates perceptual information that
subsequently constrains the dynamics of perceptual systems. That is the neural dynamics of perceptual
systems in terms of informational coupling or synchronization, such that the perceiver's
perceptual systems resonate to the perceiver environmental dynamics. This is proposed by Raja
in 2019 and then by Cermero Anderson and Raja 2020. Accordingly, we propose that different
approaches to collective action can be conceptualized in real-time social interactions with this
approach, arguing that some assumptions have been treated as trying, as active inference,
can contradict some of the basic features of sensory motor trajectories that we have
sketched here. In particular, the historicity of the agency and the sense-making that is explicit.
So furthermore, and as just has been published by Raja and colleagues in 2021, active inference
presupposes successful perception and actions instead of explaining them, which precisely,
in the case of ASD that we're going to treat in a few slides, many problems are presented when we
discuss the term successful. So we will expand on this. Okay, so part of our model that we are
trying to propose here has to do with understanding these interactions, the dynamics of the sensory
motor skin's trajectories in the affordative space. So these sketches that we made are based
on the Paolo's and Hanne de Jagger's proposals in several of their books. But what we are trying
to say here in the first figure is that the mutuality of the autopolytic system in interaction
with the environment is generating the necessary autonomy to develop sensory motor skins.
Then in the middle one, what we are seeing is the interactions that are depicted as the
pointed line ones, maybe, yeah, exactly those ones, and they are continuous and bi-directional,
which means that there's feedback between the body and the environment, generating affordances
for the agent and the particular sensory motor skins that get mastered over development to
configure an autonomous system with particular basic abilities, like walking, grasping, drinking,
etc. And then on the third one, we can see the bi-directional umbelts generating through
development like an affordative space that constitutes the ontogenetic niche in the environment,
which itself has its own trajectory, that transcours both the agent and the niche over time.
Yeah, so given this perspective, it is also important to acknowledge that each affordative
space generates umbelts, in this sense, for example, that have an intrinsic affectivity
that pertains to the understanding of the world of each individual. Therefore, in specific cultures,
the interactions, for example, depicted in the figure one, becoming differentiated understanding
and apprehension of the world, that is the habitat. So specific normativities portray specific
affectivities towards the world that in turn are experienced through affordances and become part
of the identity of each organism or individual. And when those experiences are shared in social
groups, then they are differentiated. So what is usually called like abnormal behaviors,
yeah, or pervasive behaviors, could be better understood as different from the norm.
Yeah, like a different relationship to the habitat understood that the generation of different
sensory motor schemes and therefore different affordances and sense makings than those that
are called typical. So there is a relation, an umbelth, and it is constituted differently,
but not abnormally or pervasively. So in this sense, we are taking into account the case of
autism spectrum disorders to rethink on how we research on collective action, right?
So autism spectrum disorders, briefly, they are conceived as the differentiated communication,
social communication, and social interaction conditions in which they present repetitive
and restrictive behaviors, such as repetitive behaviors, such as echolalia, mannerisms,
stereotypic behaviors, or also rocking, and also a steaming that is the stimulating themselves
with different parts, like objects from the world. Also hypersensitivity in different
sensory modalities, and yeah, and also they present different kinds of affectivities towards
older agents, and they can also present delay languages, no, sorry, delaying the language,
yeah, and they have differentiated communication towards other people. So the traditional view
of autism departs from these theories, basically. First one is a dysfunction triad that involves
the theory of mind, the weak coherence theory, and the executive dysfunction theory, and also the
systemizing theory. So in the dysfunction triad, they talk about, in a representational and functional
way, they talk about a deficit in autism, a deficit in, for example, theory of mind, and they relate it
to directly to a lack of, for example, activity in the nervous system, in the central nervous
system, right? And the next theory, the systemizing theory, it was defined by Simon Badon-Goen,
and he talks about autism as a hyper-masculine type of phenotype, yeah, in which he says that
by having a higher systemizing ability, they have lower empathy capacities. So apart from that,
there are many objections, for example, from your ethics, and also from the foreign cognition view,
and also from the feminist epistemology towards this kind of theories, we want to also focus on how
they depart from a biomedical model of disability and otherness in which they consider autism as a
condition to cure, eliminate, or fix. For example, it translates on applications in therapies in which
they conceive their repetitive and restrictive behaviors that are autistic traits as unpurposed,
inappropiate, or aberrant, so they prohibit them or eliminate them. So in contrast, we are departing
from an inactive and embodied cognition view that in this sense, Hannah de Jaguer deeply
defined it, and she says that autism is a distinctive sense-making. So according to her,
the autism spectrum conditions comprehend a different kind of sense-making, therefore,
a different participatory sense-making, that as we know is an active concept for intersubjectivity
or our capacity to interact socially. Accordingly, their capacity to interact, communicate,
coordinate, engage, and establish dialogical relationships will be distinct. So we put here
an instance that is pivotal because I think that it shows how the social affordances, how the
affordative space is involved is the case of autistic women and girls, because they not only
depart from this distinctive sense-making, but they also depart from the social pressure from
social normativity that is in the gender structure of femininity, in which they show how they
have to mask the autistic traits during their development, because the social pressures of
femininity for them are really, really, really tough, and they have to express themselves
in a way in which they hide their, for example, manualisms, their echolayas, or also their
stereotypic behaviors or the steaming. In this sense, we recommend the study
led by Sara Bargiela in 2016. So Hannah De Jagger says that autistic particularities of moving,
perceiving, and emoting relate to how people without autism make sense of the world. So the
restrictive and repetitive behaviors could involve an engagement with the social-cultural world,
and also an appropriation and an effective discharge through their own votes. So we are
taking the autistic traits as their own own votes, as their form of life, and also as their
own sense-making, like an autistic own vote. So in our way of rethinking collective action in
cognitive science, it's not only to take into account different own votes, but also to consider
participants in our research as autonomous agents based also in the participatory sense-making
notion. So here we put a testimony by Kieran Rose, who is an autistic woman, and she says,
we move, communicate, and think in ways that those who do not move, communicate, and think in those
ways, struggle to empathize with or understand so that others pathologize us and exclude us for it.
