you can pay 5% of your taxes in this currency or in this thing.
And that thing you only get by doing rewilding
or regenerative activities in the area where you live.
Could something like that happen from the ground up
if there is the political change of consciousness
in lots of people?
Do you think is the question the feasibility
of putting in a tax like that
or that some kind of tax like that
would change people's minds?
Well, I guess I'm looking for a way
to link the love for nature
and the powerlessness we feel in our current economic system
to exhibit our love for nature.
And this way is linking the incentives
with the behavior a little bit.
Michael Sandel, a Harvard professor wrote this book,
The Moral Limits to Markets.
And you're not, I may have you've read it and...
Heard of it, not read it.
It's good read, I recommend it.
He speaks about some of the dangers
of replacing intrinsic values with extrinsic motives.
So specifically, I've been swimming in this
because I've been concerned about the monetization of nature
or which is happening anyway,
but how do we design that more intelligently?
Time and time again, it's been shown
that if you replace a civic desire to do something,
if you replace a civic desire to do something
that's coming out of collective restraint
or some sense of duty to the common good
with an extrinsic motive, namely money,
the initial intrinsic or moral reasons
for doing that erode.
So for example, a town in Switzerland
was asked if they would accept to be a nuclear,
I won't call it waste site,
but if they could bury nuclear waste in it.
And initially something like 60% of the town said,
yes, okay, we'll do it.
And then the government said,
well, let's try and get that a little bit higher
as a percentage.
And so we'll offer you also a financial reward
on top of that.
And it's astounding the amount of people who consented
actually dropped half because you replace
the intrinsic good civil care with this sort of carrot,
if you will.
So that's a microcosm of our global situation in ways,
yes?
Well, I think relating it to,
if you heal nature and here's some money needs to happen,
this is the dilemma we're in.
Like we have a very, very narrow window
to get life through this bottleneck.
And if we don't create financial mechanisms right now
to protect and restore nature inside of this car
and economy, then we'll be losing a lot
of our life support system, right?
And all of the other things I stated earlier.
But if we only do that,
and if we don't think about the more fundamental
psychological relationships we have to nature
and also healing that divide,
I'd be very concerned about the deeper human,
humanness, if you will.
So I think that putting in a tax like the one you described,
people may accept it or they may resent it
because it wasn't chosen by them.
And it's not arising out of some deeper
intrinsic incentive.
Well, it wouldn't be taxing people.
It would be relieving tax
if you did these pro-regenerative, pro-rewilding things.
So it would almost be like a subsidy.
I think we should do an experiment on it.
There's also experiments being done
on universal conservation income.
So what happens when you give communities just UCI
to look after ecosystems?
And what does that do to values?
I think mapping the values inside of pilot schemes like that
would be very meaningful work for someone to try and do.
Okay, so someone listening, start that up, keep me posted.
But yeah, this gets at one of the core arguments
within the field of ecological economics.
There's a lot of people within that field
that want to put prices on ecosystem services
and include those in the market.
And others are like, those things are priceless.
And once you monetize them and put a dollar marker on them,
it changes their value to us as human beings
and they become part of the economic extractive system
granted with probably more accurate prices,
but their prices nonetheless.
So is this kind of what you're getting at?
Being the natural world and the financial world,
are they compatible at all?
I think the question is less, are they compatible?
Because with billions of humans on the planet,
we need some kind of system of value in exchange,
but it's under what conditions
or what changes to the financial system,
do they become compatible?
Like what are some of the tennis that need to be upheld?
And I was curious about a few weeks ago
that I didn't know the etymology of finance.
Have you looked that up recently?
The root of the word finance.
No, the root of the word, I don't know.
Yeah, right, it's interesting.
It's the repayment of a debt, if you will.
It's having an obligation to something or a restitution.
Isn't that so interesting?
And so, yeah.
Well, so the relationship of humans
to the entire natural world of planet Earth
is finance in a way,
because we have an enormous debt to nature.
Exactly.
And so for me, yeah.
We're using debt to extract more
and accelerate the destruction of nature.
So the question is,
I think the Capital Institute
wrote this paper, Regenerative Finance,
but it's more, how do we design finance
to pay that debt back more intelligently?
And I think that we must think
in terms of time horizons here.
So in the short term,
there are very meaningful schemes
that we can develop and design
that I think are important for ecological
and social regeneration.
And it's more about how those things are structured.
So for example, what do we do about the commons, right?
Like finance has to answer the question
of these ungoverned vast expanses of landscapes
and how we incentivize their protection
considering that all harm can be externalized into them.
That must be answered.
We must answer what we can do
about land privatization and ownership,
because if ecological economics or let's say,
I don't know, impact investment goes in
and you can start spending a lot of money
off doing things with land, with biodiversity and otherwise,
how do we make sure that we naturalize
in a way those gains is the way that I think about it,
which is it's not just those landowners,
those real estate funds or real asset funds benefiting
from the income from that carbon or biodiversity,
but it's cycled back into nature and communities
in the same way that nature would have it.
So I think these are all sort of design constraints
that have to do with land tenure or land ownership.
Biodiversity credits is a huge conversation
that we're in the middle of
because we're creating this measurement layer
for biodiversity.
And in terms of biocredits, the question there is,
should we enable offsets at all?
Well, offsets have existed for 20, 30 years.
What would a biodiversity credit offset?
Well, what physically would that be?
Can you give an example?
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, there's a whole taxonomy of them.
So there's about six different categories
that a group that we work with Nature Finance has outlined.
I can send you that paper later.
An offset can be everything from,
most offsets are hyper localized.
So you're a developer, you need to raise down a forest
or you want to raise down a forest
to build a shopping mall or an apartment building.
Some ecological value will be lost there.
And so you must recreate that ecosystem elsewhere,
replant trees somewhere else.
That's a biodiversity offset.
Or then you have biodiversity certificates,
which are essentially,
I'm Nestlé and upstream in my value chain.
I've replanted some trees
or done some watershed restoration.
And there's different ways now via MRV,
which is monitoring reporting verification.
So it's a combination of ground truth,
sort of sampling and satellites, remote sensing.
You can show that you've committed some good deed
in restoring that ecosystem.
And you can essentially have a biodiversity credit, right?
Showing, I have done a good deed.
Now that can just remain there.
It's omitted, but it's never sold or traded.
And in a way, it's a way of showing your investors
or stakeholders, we're assuring ourselves
