that we've lost 70% of the populations
of animals, birds, fish, reptiles and insects
since I've been on the planet?
The way that this functionality gets lost is very quiet
until it's very hard for ecosystems to recover.
So in climate science,
there's a concept of tipping points, right?
These are states in which the,
an ecosystem or region will just enter into a new state
if enough changes happen to it.
So you think of the melting of the ice sheets
or the Amazon becoming a dry land savanna.
The absence of these key cyclers of life,
let alone for all of their other values
that I spoke about earlier,
means that nature's, yeah, hanging by a thread.
However, rewilding is a movement that I am a part of
and have supported and it is astounding
how quickly life bounces back.
I mean, you bring back beavers to an ecosystem
and within a few months, right?
The pools are back.
I have Derek Gao came on my podcast,
he's an amazing kind of renegade rewilder from the UK
and he speaks about the lights come back on
and everything that can sliver, fly or swim
just comes back to those little ponds.
And I think that we have friends who are reintroducing
beavers and rivers sort of slightly illicitly
because they were just like, we just need to get
the beavers back.
The reintroduction, especially of these keystone species,
and another paper came out last year, this year, well, 2023,
showing that there are way more keystone species
than we even knew, right?
And so the reintroduction of them,
it is astounding how quickly nature bounces back.
So yes, we have lost a lot and we need to get life
through this bottleneck right now,
which is why we need to conserve and protect
many of these last wild places
and create the connectivity between them
by allowing creatures the space to move.
How successful or growing or is there a lot of momentum
behind the rewilding movement?
Can you give some other examples other than the beavers?
I know that E.L. Wilson championed the idea of half-earth,
where humans live on half and wild creatures
are undisturbed on the other half.
And it's kind of a good overton window
to get us going in that direction.
And there's 30 by 30 initiatives and stuff.
But can you unpack rewilding as a cultural theme
a little bit more?
If the word culture was important there,
it can be a culturally contested word as well.
In the UK, for example,
there's a lot of tension around the word rewilding.
A slightly perverse phenomenon has begun happening
where rich landowners purchase large tracts of land
to rewild them.
But it's not a sort of comments-based,
democratically land redistribution kind of thing.
So I think like with carbon markets
or even biodiversity markets that are coming,
and we can talk about that.
We need to be very careful.
But there's a few groups that do this amazingly.
So I'd encourage anyone to check out the world
of rewilding Europe, the work of rewilding Europe.
It can be everything from restoring crayfish
to the apennines in the Italian Alps
so that all of those streams and rivers
get back their functionality to bison.
So bison are being reintroduced.
I was visiting some rewilding projects in Romania.
And the bison, it's like the wildebeest,
they turn up the soils, they capture the carbon,
they clear out the undergrowth, more trees can come in.
And actually, in the US where you're based,
the wildebeest and the First Nations
had this very symbiotic relationship
where they would migrate with the wildebeest.
And the wildebeest would clear the land
and they would, you know, plan in their ways.
I think.
Sorry, buffalo bison, exactly, thank you.
Wolves, you've got the famous example, obviously,
of the reintroduction of wolves in Yellowstone.
So these are all sort of examples of rewilding.
The separate, I think that rewilding in today's world
has to come with a relationship
to human biocultural economy.
I think some of the misinterpretations
of the half earth could be conservation, you know, 1.0,
which was fortress conservation,
which was kicking native people off their land
to create these enclaves where only nature thrives.
It would be ideal if we could understand
how to create these corridors.
And there's lots of tools for coexistence
between humans and the reintroduction
of some of these creatures
because they don't kill a lot of livestock,
but it takes, you know, one sheep being killed
for fairly enough for farmers to be completely against.
In Switzerland, we're about to cull
quite a big portion of our wolf population,
which is heartbreaking because of attacks on farm animals.
But the attacks aren't so marked.
But the question is not how do we sequester half the earth
for wild creatures when we take the other half ourselves?
It's how do we learn to coexist and share our land
with those who came before and are our kin
and our ancestors?
And obviously a lot of native communities
or IPLCs have that knowledge.
But it's about learning to coexist
with more of that wild in our doorstep.
I have a couple of follow-ups to that.
One is a story that recently happened to me.
Like you, I love megafauna
and all the different 6,000 mammals species on the planet,
particularly African megafauna like lions
and leopards and elephants.
And you read stories where messiah warriors
have to kill a lion for some ritual
or they're protecting their village.
And so they have to kill one of these beautiful animals.
And you get really upset about that.
Like why would they do that?
And yet a few months ago,
a raccoon came in my barn and killed three of my chickens.
And I was like, oh, dang it, I can't have that happen.
Now I didn't kill it.
I captured it and drove it like seven miles away
and let it go in some forest.
But what is the difference between me and this raccoon
and that raccoons are abundant here
versus someone in another part of the world
that has animals that we might deem
as really important keystone species for our planet?
You know, it's this coexistence
and the boundaries of your moral compass
and your daily life, you know?
Do you have any thoughts on that?
Totally.
There's a lot of kind of interesting initiatives emerging
in terms of how we can use technology
or different tools to make those boundaries
more productive, let's say.
So for example, if you're thinking of Africa,
which is why I thought of it,
African elephants can often charge into towns, villages
or you know, farmer's plots.
And it's really an issue.
Africans hate bees, the elephants,
African elephants hate bees, right?
And so initially some of the communities
would put beehives surrounding the fields
so the elephants would just stay away.
But it's been shown that even just the sounds of the bees
drive away the elephants.
So now there's a sort of bioacoustic approach
where people are placing the sounds of bees
to keep the elephants away.
You can tag the creatures and have, you know,
alarm signals for when they're coming in
or you know, warning signals.
So I think that there's ways that we can be intelligent
about that coexistence.
On a psychological level,
I think the separation that keeps us from,
I think it's perfectly sane that you get angry
when that raccoon kills all of your chickens, right?
Like, and I don't know what ancestors would have done
in some idealized 2000 year history.
Like maybe it would have been exactly the same thing.
But there's something about coexistence here
which strikes me as well when it comes to
how many humans will be migrating
and how we are going to have to let in
our, you know, our human kin
that may appear so fundamentally different to us
but who essentially also need home and place to live in.
So it's a deeper question on how we begin to work
on human beings' internal relationships
to duality or otherness.
And I would believe that the same skills we cultivate
on a human level may transpire
into how it relates to other creatures
if we're deliberate enough about it.
So on the emergence and hope rabbit hole,
if it were possible to tap into the love for nature
that you think resides in all or most humans,
we still are in an economic system
that's based on profits, tether to energy,
tether to extraction.
And so that's the cultural goal.
But I'm just wondering if there could be,
