and we're assuring the long-term viability of this business.
It's not just a do good action, that's the point.
It's like protecting nature
means you're ensuring the viability of your business
in the longterm because you're supporting
the very fundamental assets
that your entire business depends upon.
A big question right now is whether biodiversity credits
should be allowed to be traded,
whether you should have secondary markets or derivatives
and all of these financial tools on top of that.
The argument for that says that for markets
to generate enough money, they need to be liquid, right?
And so the tradability, let's say we plant 100 trees
in the Amazon and that generates, I don't know,
100 bio credits.
And let's say you have a profit share, revenue share
with that local community, whereby they get 80%
of any future sales of a credit,
which doesn't happen right now in some of the carbon markets.
So it's sort of benefit sharing, if you will.
If you can trade that once,
that community gets 80% of the value once, right?
And then the developers get the other 10 or 20%,
let's say for the work that they did
in developing and monitoring and reporting.
If that credit can be traded 10 times,
they'd get 10x money back.
And so you can see why it's appealing.
Which they would then go spend at Home Depot
and Walmart and other places on things
requiring carbon and extraction.
It's a good question, but you saw the results coming back
from that UBI experiment, right?
That the world's largest UBI experiment
where actually people don't always spend
on consumption necessarily,
but more money doesn't always mean better for the planet.
Granted.
So that's kind of the question of bio-credits.
I have an article that you could link to,
which is called selling nature in order to save it.
And in that, I outline a lot of super interesting arguments
for and against this financialization of nature and...
I have a couple of questions.
First of all, I'm not a fan of the carbon trading schemes
because I think they're mostly schemes,
but at least carbon is kind of standard.
But I would think biodiversity
would have a biodiversity quality asterisk
on just about everything.
Because if you're gonna develop a shopping center
in Ecuador by the Galapagos,
and then buy some credits to buy some farmland in Kansas
and put some trees there,
that's a little bit different of a biodiversity quality, yes?
Absolutely.
And so in the conversation of offsets,
there's a few working groups right now
on this biocredit conversation
that are sincerely trying to learn from the mistakes
we've done in carbon markets,
and saying that biodiversity can't be fungible
in that way in an offset market
across vastly different eco-regions.
But there are other dangers.
There are four main dangers,
and we can quickly, quickly speak about them.
But one is ecological.
When you create these ecosystem service markets,
the way that they're structured
often incentivize the reproduction
of very strange and artificial ecosystems
that nature wouldn't have.
So if you look at stream mitigation banking,
which the US did,
which is the oldest ecosystem service markets,
they prioritized rivers that didn't stray,
that didn't erode.
And the sort of, you know,
the proof of a good river restoration project
was that it didn't erode,
which is ridiculous because rivers move.
So the carbon tunnel vision
or the optimization of any one ecological variable,
for example, number of species
or proximity to a protected area,
means that you will begin to incentivize
the overproduction of that one thing.
So we could get monocultures
of specific types of biodiversity,
which is happening now,
which is why the tool that we're building
at the Crowther Lab is attempting,
and really will be the world's most holistic
measure of biodiversity,
because we're taking in all the possible variables
across genetic species and ecosystem level diversity
to try and negate as much as we can
that over-optimization for one variable
of what we call nature.
So those are the ecological risks of these markets.
One thing that keeps popping up in my mind is
a lot of this is happening fast
and people are becoming aware
and working on these projects on rewilding
and regenerative agriculture and bio-credits, et cetera,
except it's just at the margin of this juggernaut
of the Star Trek Borg of an economic system
that is still optimizing extraction and profits
and all that, the super organism.
And if those could be linked somehow,
like in New York State,
they're outlawing propane stoves
because propane comes from fossil fuels
and it's bad for climate.
The COP 28, they're trying to phase out fossil fuels
without the rest of the world agreeing that that's necessary.
It's like a conversation within its own little tribe
and echo chamber,
and yet the value system of 80% of humans
having screensavers of nature,
if there is a way to link those
so that it's a much more agreed upon thing,
which is why I think your work is so essential on this stuff,
which is unpacking humans' connection to nature
as a value system,
the consciousness of what you care about in your life.
Somehow that needs to be integrated with our incentives
and I don't know how to do it,
but I think it would be much more scalable
if people like you
and working on these efforts for biodiversity
if that was acknowledged as one of our cultural goals.
I'd say that it's less fringe and mainstream
than what it might appear.
For example, this year we saw the launch of the TNFD,
the Task Force for Nature-Related Financial Disclosures.
This was huge.
It followed the TCFD,
a very valiant effort of hundreds of people
trying to calculate in impacts, risks, and dependencies
of value chains on nature, so corporations.
It's very likely that most global companies
will have to disclose their impacts and risks
and dependencies on nature in the coming years.
So these are huge shifts within the financial industry,
which is why this was the cop
with the most amount of financiers, right?
And the biodiversity cop that was in Montreal last year,
the same.
There's a lot of initiatives underway right now
to reprice sovereign debt, for example,
linked to nature, KPIs, key performance indicators.
Central banks.
There's a whole greening the financial system movement
where central banks are looking at,
okay, how do we calculate the true cost?
And regenerative agriculture was niche maybe a few years ago,
but I'd say now where we saw what was happening
in this latest cop, which was the first cop
where food was really hugely present.
When the hundred and X, what was it?
60 countries signing up to globally reform the food system.
So I'd say that things like rewilding
are still a bit niche, but fundamentally,
calculating in the costs and the impacts
of this massive debt that we've incurred
on the natural world and understanding that
if we don't do that,
the whole house of cars comes tumbling down.
That is exponentially coming into awareness.
And I think that all of the natural disasters we're seeing
and people forcibly having to leave their homes,
it's having us wake up.
So luckily it's not niche
and I'm surrounded by so many initiatives
that I can't even count them.
That's good to hear.
So you also are an ESG investor
or in that sphere of environment sustainability governance.
Can you unpack a little bit about your work in that field?
Sure, yeah.
I think ESG is sort of a,
it can be a box-ticking exercise I think we've seen.
What we do with ground effects
is that we invest with a worldview and a philosophy,
which is this indivisibility that we have with nature.
It's fundamentally saying if I was this ecosystem
or this species, what do I value?
What does nature value?
What are all of the voices that we're not bringing
to the table from the other kingdoms,
let's say, of life?
And so we're an animist investment vehicle
and for those who haven't come across the term animism,
if you think of an ecology as like a web of relationships,
animism is the felt sense of those relationships.
It's the sense that the world is alive
that we're embedded in this web of relationality
