and what we find beautiful
and probably the dissonance when you look up
from that screensaver to the other windows
and the other things you're doing
and maybe you're cubicle.
But it's a message about what we value.
And so fundamentally, obviously, carbon and climate,
they are one and the same with biodiversity
and most things that we've referred to as carbon
are living beings.
They are part of the natural world.
But for me, poetry is what gives us art and dance
and music and culture and myth.
And it's this rich, rich tapestry out of which
human civilization and culture emerges from.
And just try this thought experiment for a second.
Imagine a planet that had no more elephants.
We just, the last elephant was gone.
Or a planet that had no more tigers
or no more, place your favorite creature
in the middle of the circle.
Even if you had never met any of those creatures
in your life, come across them,
wouldn't that somehow inside of you
create a fundamentally different feeling
of the earth and what it is to be alive?
Like we exist because all of these other beings exist
because these ecosystems exist.
I can see it in your face.
So for me, these are the emotional reasons,
like why biodiversity?
Whereas if I was to tell you, 33 tons of carbon
is the sequestration potential of a whale, 33 tons.
It's a different physiological response.
So I don't know if you wanna comment on that
before I get into the practical reasons,
but for me, that's why, again, biodiversity
is what we're for, is what we're in love with.
It's why we want to create these changes.
It's why we'll consume less.
It's why we'll make the efforts to change our lifestyles.
Whereas climate, unfortunately,
has become what we need to abstain from,
what we're doing wrong, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
And it's a big tech focus.
Like it's an engineering problem
as opposed to a value's deep humanity
tethered to nature problem.
Yes, absolutely.
So do you think that those emotions that people feel
in the fact that 80% of our screen savers
are something nature-related,
is that related to people's experiences with nature
as they grew up, or do you think it's something innate
in who we are as evolved beings on this planet?
Like you and I, you said that you grew up
as a nerdy girl in the forests of Switzerland.
I was a nerdy boy in the forests of Southern Oregon,
and that imprinted nature on us.
But is that just waiting to be a seed germinating
in all of us?
And it's just been kind of squelched by our economic system?
Or what are your thoughts on that?
100%.
I think, first of all,
early childhood exposure is key
because those neuronal connections that get made
in early childhood with the living world,
I had John Young, who's an amazing nature mentor,
come on my podcast, and he's done a lot of work
with the eight shields method around nature connection
and mentorship.
He trained with the Sand Bush men,
and with a host of other elders,
and he says, you know, there's primary connections
that get made with the living world in early childhood
that is very hard to replicate,
and you can't skip that step.
And so part of the work that is upon us today
is to recreate some of those experiences for adults
because it can happen, it can happen.
And that kind of leads me to the second part
of your question, which is, you know,
E.O. Wilson, amazing biologist, ecologist, philosopher,
speaks to a thing called biophilia,
which is also part of our core sort of investment thesis
if you will, ground effect.
And you're checking if it's on your bookshelf.
It's here somewhere close.
You'd better have some, E.O. Wilson.
Oh, I have all of his books,
but I actually have biophilia and it's close by,
but not on this shelf.
So there's the answer to your question.
The innate love of life or of nature,
or you know, put in your ecological word
that human beings have,
we are physiologically hardwired to connect the living world
because first of all, for thousands of years
and going back through, you know, genetic history
until when we were, you know, emerging from the ocean,
our bodies are hardwired to sense the land,
read the land, connect, listen and feel.
And when we do that, our bodies and souls drink from that.
And so for me, it's, you know, people always ask me,
well, how do you get so connected to nature?
Why do you care about this?
My answer is always that potential
is exactly the same in you than it is in me.
I just have been fortunate enough
and deliberate enough to cultivate it.
So I think it's innate in every single human,
which is why despite all of the things
that we're seeing around us today,
I have great excitement about the future
and our ability to restore and reconnect.
But maybe we can get to that after.
I do want to get to the practical part
of the biodiversity question
because I think for rationally oriented listeners,
it's also, there are some important myths,
I think, that are to be dispelled
about the differences between biodiversity and climate.
And so now we're moving out of the terrain
of sort of psychology and soul and care
and all these things and into some of the practicalities.
Can I ask one more question about the psychology and the care?
Many questions.
Because if I don't, I'll forget it later.
Many, many, many.
The statistics for biodiversity as you and I
are acutely aware have been quite disheartening
for a long time and accelerating.
And I used to be obsessed with shows
like Planet Earth and the BBC and nature documentaries.
And I can't watch them anymore.
Even as beautiful as they are,
it's a little painful for me.
So my question for you is,
yes, we are all have the potential to care
and love nature the way you said.
And I think that is a huge opportunity
for a cultural awakening.
But those of us in the scout team
that have the empathy and the love
and the diligence, as you said earlier,
it can become too painful at times.
How do you manage that dichotomy?
And do you think it's true that those who are most empathic
and feel what's happening to nature are doing great work,
but they have the risk of being overwhelmed
and saddened and burned out?
There's many ways to approach that answer.
Yes, and not just those who work in nature,
but those who work in all of the meta-poly crisis space.
There's incredible burnout.
And I think one of the most important initiatives
or series of initiatives that I'm seeing
are how those who are on the front lines of this movement
or the back lines doing the brunt work of, you know,
the brackets in COP or whatever it may be.
I'm referring to the brackets
when you're trying to fill out those, you know,
those documents in the main halls.
The ability to know how to self-care and regenerate
and sort of internal renewal in order to go out
and do this work is key.
And so we can speak about this later,
but one of the areas that we're looking into,
into supporting financially is all around
climate grief, anxiety and care.
And I did a podcast episode with Britt Ray on this as well.
But personally, Rebecca Solnit wrote
this amazing little book called Hope in the Dark.
And in that, her definition of hope is the closest,
the word hope always kind of sat strangely with me.
Her definition of hope is the closest
that I've gotten to understanding the way that I relate
and I'm able to sort of greet the world with, you know,
beauty and expectation of something better.
Hope is expectation of a different outcome
without specifying what it needs to be.
And it's hope in the unknown and all the possibilities
in quote unquote, the emergence.
Like she writes in the book, you know,
inside of the word emergency is the word emergence.
And so it's this notion that, I mean, like Nate,
how many times have you picked up a pamphlet or a book
or some shred of information sort of fluttering across time
that landed on your lap or you saw it on a billboard
and I don't know, Kansas or something.
And something that someone wrote or did or spoke or sang
at some point in time moved you,
possibly hundreds of years later.
And so in a way, I mean, she has this amazing quote.
I pulled out some of my quotes for this podcast
because I love, love quotes,
but she has this amazing phrase, right?
Where she says, like, change can come upon us
like drops of soft water that wear away stone
