People always ask me, how do you get so connected to nature?
Why do you care about this?
My answer is always that potential is exactly the same in you
than it is in me.
I just have been fortunate enough and deliberate enough
to cultivate it.
So I think it's innate in every single human, which
is why, despite all of the things
that we're seeing around us today,
I have great excitement about the future and our ability
to restore and reconnect.
I'd like to welcome my friend and colleague, Alexa Fermanish,
to the program.
Alexa is an investor, a consultant, facilitator,
and activist on the environmental crises,
basically an all-in strategy on developing programs
and interventions that repair our planet's ecologies.
She is currently the co-director of SEED Biocomplexity,
a new initiative with the aims of creating
the world's most comprehensive assessment of biodiversity
for any location on the planet.
She also co-founded the animist investment studio
called Ground Effect to direct capital
on behalf of other species and shift worldviews
towards one of interbeing with all life.
It's no surprise, longtime followers of this podcast
know that my value system and ethics and what I care about
that Alexa and I found each other
during the virtual connection of people working
on behalf of nature.
This was, at times, a personal conversation.
Alexa is a friend, and she is a champion for Earth's future.
And I hope you enjoy this conversation.
And please welcome Alexa Fermanish.
Alexa, great to see you.
Hi, Nate. How's it going?
I'm good.
Winter started here.
And I can't bike as much as I do in the summer,
but I'm trying to snowshoe and do other things.
Boy, I've talked to you so much on our little WhatsApp channels.
And when I met you in Europe, there's just so much to talk about.
How can we get started?
You have a long list of things that you're passionate about,
you're interested in.
Maybe just start by giving a little bit of your background
and what you're working on most recently.
And I have lots of questions.
Wonderful. And, Nate, it was such a pleasure
to be with you in the mountains some weeks ago,
months ago now, I guess, in my home country.
And I loved our long walks and philosophical musings.
Let me start with what I'm doing now,
and then I can give it a little bit of background.
I'm currently managing two slash three main projects.
The first one is I'm the co-director of an initiative
at the Crowther Lab, which is a very interdisciplinary
ecology lab at ETH University in Zurich.
And the initiative that I'm co-directing,
we're building the world's most comprehensive measure
of biodiversity for any location on the planet.
So it's a super exciting project,
and I can talk more about that if you'd like.
About five years ago, I launched my own investment vehicle,
investing on behalf of nature.
It's called Ground Effect,
and it's an animus investment vehicle,
which I can also get into.
And we have about 20 plus current investments
across grants and for-profit,
all trying to support nature,
and obviously the communities who live close to the land
to thrive and regenerate and do what they do best.
And then lastly, I'm a little bit like you,
in that I do everything I can to speak, share, create,
as much as it is to keep myself sane.
I don't know if you have the same experience,
but I have a podcast called Life Worlds,
and I do a lot of writing and photography,
and I'm a wilderness guide.
I bring people out into the land.
And so all of that kind of exercises my more holistic,
creative, wanting to connect part of my being.
I'm sure it's the same for you with your podcast.
It is the same.
And so just, yeah, I guess how I got here,
back to your question.
I was thinking about this the other day.
It's like, if I were to teleport you back,
like 30 years ago, maybe 25 years ago,
you'd find a very geeky,
very kind of awkward and lonesome Swiss girl
in the middle of the forest in Switzerland.
We live outside of the city,
surrounded by tons of books.
Like I love science fiction.
I love these like long epic novels
that talk about like multi-generational timeframes.
A lot of them were animals though,
the Red War series, if anyone knows those, video games.
I loved so many different types of video games
and adventure games.
So I was very immersed in that,
but it was always with this relationship to nature
when I look back towards it.
And then I studied political science
because I was deeply curious about
the relationship between human and natural systems
and how human systems perpetuate themselves.
I think you've been one of the leading voices
in helping me to make sense of all of that.
I worked in journalism for a while
and then I moved to Mexico for most of my 20s.
And to summarize of a long arc,
I think it might be encouraging
for some of your listeners to know,
especially the younger ones,
that I followed a very non-linear career path.
And a lot of people around me,
the word judgment might be a bit strong,
but there was definitely curiosity
around the different trails I took and paths,
but they were always centered around wanting to understand
the living world much more deeply
and human psychology fundamentally.
And that obviously leaks into what we do
with human systems.
So I worked with many NGOs doing
land-based regeneration projects,
working with local communities,
biocultural restoration.
I launched a company myself that was guiding
learning journeys for investors,
CEOs, executives into the land,
looking at regenerative economics and business principles.
And that was because when you're working
with an environmental nonprofit, for example,
you often see that a lot of the damage
is happening upstream in the economics
and the mindset of extraction consumption, et cetera.
So it was a very powerful tool.
We ran that for about two years,
brought about 120 people through the process,
and I continue to be a facilitator
and deeply committed to guiding
those deep ecology experiences for people.
And yeah, long story short,
four or five years ago started the investments
and joined the lab about a year and a half ago.
So biodiversity, nature, human,
society and economics has been my big focus.
So why are you focused on biodiversity
and why does this specific ecological issue
call to you rather than something more stream
than just climate change writ large?
I love this question, Nate,
because I feel like this question
is the basis of our friendship.
Fundamentally, your love for all beings and for life
is, I think, the glue that connected us
from our very first conversations through to now.
And so it's a question I would wanna ask you as well.
There's a series of emotional reasons
and very practical ones.
Which ones would you want me to start with?
Whatever you are called to.
Of the emotional ones.
The emotional ones.
It's always interesting which ones you lead with first.
For me, it's quite simple.
I think that emotionally, it's easy to fall in love
with a furry-haired lemur or a Chinook salmon
or a particular tree friend
or tree that you have close to your home.
Biodiversity is what we're in love with, right?
Whereas in a way, carbon and climate
has become almost like a deadening conversation
around a very abstract concept, a single molecule.
Now, if you're a perfect animist,
you can absolutely fall in love
with a molecule of carbon.
I would, great merit to that.
But in a way, they contain very different ways
of relating to things.
Like 80% of people have nature as their screensaver.
You work throughout the year.
You save up, you save up to spend two weeks into,
spend two weeks going into the land.
Like nature is, I think, fundamentally,
we are all biophilic.
You want me to pause?
Wait a minute.
80% of people have something on nature
as their screensaver?
Yes.
What does that, just that one sentence
relative to the rest of the things in our economy,
what does that say about our economic system
and about us, really?
It says a lot about what we value
