And then that rope binds you to that place.
And then if you're bound to a place,
it's like all of this meta crisis, even the word,
it's like, what the hell is this?
It's like this hyper object I can't grasp.
And so these local connections are doorways into caring.
There are places that open the aperture for us to understand
and relate to and process what's happening in these wider systems.
For viewers of this show that found what you just said
as beautiful as I did,
how would you recommend that someone just get started
to cultivate that relationship where they are,
just find a sit spot within 15 minutes of where they are?
Well, how else do you get started?
So I mean, you obviously have sit spot practices.
There are tons of these practices.
On my podcast, I have a bonus episode called Sensing Place.
And there I share some different practices people can do.
One of the basic things is like learn where you are,
like understand your watershed,
like literally like map out your watershed,
like where does the water come from?
Where does it go when it leaves my tap?
Where are the reservoirs?
Where does my waste go?
Situating yourself in a place
and then looking at it across time as well,
like what did it used to be?
In the Regenesis Institute,
it trained you how to be regenerative practitioner.
It's a great course.
There's a concept called the story of place.
And in the story of place,
you look at geological time processes,
migrational human and animal.
Every single place has this latent identity or potential,
just like every human has their own unique flavor,
like their own little charisma or way of being,
their own color.
And so get to know that part of your place.
You can do a story of place, for example.
And just committing to being there
and, you know, pollinator pathways
and all these things that sound very,
can sound very trite and kind of provocative
are actually, I mean, some of the wisest
and most grounded people I have met,
who I trust the most,
are people who are embedded in their place
through some of these very humble daily acts.
And is this available to everyone
or is this a little bit of a privileged elite western society
where those have access to wealth,
have access to parks and such,
or can anyone in the world start this in their local place?
It is a privilege to have access to green spaces.
I think, for example,
I was reading a statistic about the UK recently
and it's abominable,
like inner city, underprivileged communities
don't have access to a green space.
And ironically, the most privileged people
are the ones who spend less time in place
and who move around from place to place
and are the least-binded.
And so it's interesting
because it's like a function of privilege,
but it also correlates negatively sometimes.
But to answer that,
I don't know if during COVID,
you saw this phenomenon of weed watching.
It became viral.
People became obsessed with the weeds
that grew under their house.
You know, people...
No, I didn't see that.
Yeah, there's a whole...
I did a whole episode on urban ecologies
and it's like there are ways, even in the city,
to create those threads and those ropes
and those cords that I described earlier.
And in that episode,
in one of those episodes,
I speak about the Chicago Green Corps.
And I think that if we can support
neighborhood revitalization programs
or inner-city developments
for some of those communities
to just begin to participate in, you know, creating parks,
which, by the way, we will need
because of climate mitigation adaptation.
Like, we will need more nature in cities
because otherwise they become, you know,
these heat domes.
And so even a few trees really shifts the temperature
in a microclimate in a city.
So it's incredible because both, you know,
psychologically and spiritually, this is important,
but climatically, there are all the right incentives
to do this and water catchment and, you know, erosion
and flooding and all of these kinds of things.
I'm going to put you on the spot with a hard question.
And this is a question that I might do,
frankly, on later today
because it's just suddenly become a bee in my bonnet.
A bee in your bonnet?
A bee in your bonnet.
I love it.
You and I have spoken on the issue of the superorganism
and malloc and the surplus created from agriculture
and then fossil carbon and then currencies,
world reserve currencies and now AI,
and it's just accelerating this power dynamic
in human systems.
And of course, we need bottom-up value shift
and all the efforts that you're working on
and many other people, those are critical.
But I sometimes wonder if the main thing
to shift this planet away from the
Wiley Coyote cascade moments ahead
is to somehow shift the consciousness
of one to 2,000 elite people in the world
away from consumption, extraction, status, power
into recognizing that, well, first of all,
they're going to lose all that on the default path.
But secondly, that we have arrived
at a species-level conversation.
It's not their fault that we're here,
but it is within their power and their fiduciary,
given where they reside to maybe make big changes.
That's a big question.
Do you have any thoughts on it?
I think if we don't attempt to do that
with the right few thousand people,
the damage that is happening will be greater, right?
So for me, it's not a question of if,
it's a question of how.
It doesn't mean that that consciousness
shouldn't come at the expense of, you know,
just average people and, you know, everyone else.
But I think that people who today
steward disproportionate influence and power
and capital, possibly,
if they can have some deep embodied
and, like, there's no going back kind of notion
of some of the things we've been discussing here,
everything that then bursts forth from that place
will be different.
And you actually take, because it's not self-interested,
it's something deeper.
And we need people who hold that to understand
and redistribute and serve the whole more greatly.
How we do that, I don't think it's through facts.
I think it's through, you know, David White said,
poetry is the thing against which I have no defenses.
Poetry is the thing against which I have no defenses.
It's through something aesthetic and poetic
and poignant and embodied.
And people can experience this in a midlife crisis,
you know, in a way, these are rites of passage.
And, you know, if you were to tell me, like,
one thing that you wish everyone on Earth could do
once in their life,
I would say hopefully when they're younger and they're teens,
but bring everyone through a rite of passage,
like a vision quest in the land,
which is a transformational moment
when you realize that you are embedded in
and depend upon systems much wider than your own self,
your own ego.
So this is how I would begin to go about something like that.
Have you witnessed that with people
that you've brought through your nature expeditions and such?
Yes.
Yes.
Well, maybe you need to have those nature expeditions
for those 1,000 to 2,000 elites.
Sign up, come with Alexa.
I would not call them elites
because that's already stroking the ego.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But if we could draw up a list of people
who are willing to take four or five days
to go deeply into the land
and listen to actually
some of their deepest callings of what they are,
I would love to draw up that list with you.
Let's do it.
But these things are happening.
I mean, there are people who are working on this, right?
And so I think it's just about
also skillful action
and how we give those same people the tools
once they reemerge
to sustain that consciousness shift
because I've seen it as equally destabilizing
and some people have it after like plant medicine journeys.
You return to the default world to your job
and you're like, what do I do?
And many times,
