your task was stewarding a system of thousands of people.
So you can just overnight say,
I'm going to close down Monsanto
because people are reliant on that.
So for me, it's not just what's the experience,
but what's the follow on
and what's the viable alternative for them to exist within.
So you mentioned the importance of poetry
to which we have no defenses.
And then based on what you just said,
is there a way that we can incorporate science and art together?
What do you think the role of art and creativity
is for the metacrisis space
and specifically biodiversity
and the things you're working on?
I think that science helps us know what we need to know
and I think that art moves us into doing it
or understanding it.
So art...
So they're both necessary?
Absolutely.
Art, I understand, almost is culture, right?
And in a way, our arts have emerged from culture
or co-create culture,
which emerges originally from nature itself.
But culture is the edifices that we build towards, right?
It's the gods that we build edifices for.
And so if the biodiversity nature movement
doesn't become a cultural movement,
an artistic movement, a vocal movement,
think about extinction.
Extinction can be silent
and just devastatingly heartbreaking.
But what about if we had public spaces a morning
or the memorial day to last species, which does exist, right?
It's what are all of these ways of expressing
the things that the science is telling us
in order for it to become visible and undeniable and real?
And you and I were together in this...
What was it called?
Scandinavian Impact Safari that small giants created.
And one of my big takeaways from that safari was,
you know, make it real.
Like, let's make all of the examples
of how we can live differently,
physical and tangible and touchable,
how we live together, how we farm, how we do urbanism,
how we do energy.
And for me, that is art, that is culture.
It is embedding something that is a philosophy
or an idea into something real
and lived for daily people's lives.
Thank you. I happen to agree.
You've listened to some of my podcasts
so you know some of the closing questions
that I may ask you.
I might mix them up a little bit.
I'm just so impressed by the work you're doing,
and I spent enough time with you
that you are such a machine in...
Machine is not the right word,
but you're just so productive and on the ball
and capable.
I just wish there were thousands
or hundreds of thousands of humans like you.
The world would be a much better place.
For people listening that are resonating
with your words and are aware of what we face,
do you have any personal advice on how to be alive
at this time? How to cope?
How to engage with these challenges?
By the way, Nate, right back at you.
Yeah, I think there's three things.
There's kind of my mantra.
One is learn to see beauty.
The other one is join your comrades
and the other join your comrades, your friends.
And the third one is contemplate death.
So very briefly, learn to see beauty.
This world is astounding,
even in the depths of the war
and the crises that we're facing.
The fact that you and I are here alive,
like the amalgamation of different things
that had to come together for this to be,
for friendships to meet in form, for the ocean to be.
So cultivating that beginner's mind
and learning to see the world anew every day
with the eyes of a child or the eyes of an alien,
just like descending upon the earth and saying,
how did this come to be?
Because in a way, that beauty is what sustains us.
And so, Nate, go back and please watch your Planet Earth shows
and cry and see the beauty in them
and don't shy away from that.
The second one, I think, is I join your comrades,
which is there are so many good people
working on brilliant stuff.
Like, if you're ever bored, there's something wrong with you
or maybe you're being deliberately bored,
which is also important, but like,
there is so much that you can do
and so many things that you can join
and you're not alone in doing that.
There are incredible people out there doing this work
and so just go join them.
And the third one is about contemplating death
and this I take from the Buddhist practice
and it's a Plum Village practice,
but it's, you know, a thousand millennial old teaching.
And it's every morning I wake up
and I do my meditation and my little morning things
and I contemplate that I am of the nature to grow old,
I am of the nature to get sick
and I am of the nature to die
and that everyone around me
is of the nature to grow old,
to get sick and to die
and everything that I care for
and everything that I love will one day die.
And you sit there
and there's some guided meditations online
you can find or I can send them to you
and you contemplate profoundly what it is
to slowly, slowly have all those things
vanish and disappear, yourself included.
And if you do that on a daily basis,
the wonder that you have
and the sort of self-arising gratitude
you have from just being here right now,
today in your senses is profound.
Do you do that every day or repeatedly?
Yeah.
Wow.
Wow.
I've done it a couple times and it was profound,
also quite scary,
but I never thought you'd do it every day.
Wow.
Okay.
On that note.
No, no, no.
I'm going to both do that
and I'm going to find a sit spot on the land here later today.
What about young people?
I mean, you work at A.T.H. Zurich.
You're surrounded by a lot of young people.
What advice do you have,
especially for young humans
who are resonating with, deeply,
with what you're saying about the natural world,
but are aware of all these things?
Do you add any others to the beauty and the joy
and the meditating about loss and death?
Yeah.
I can only speak to things that have helped me
because I don't know what it's like to be 18 or 19-year-old today,
but there are youth movements that are growing,
that are wonderful.
If I was in those shoes,
I would join some of these youth movements
and educate myself profoundly
on all the ways that I've been or unlearning, if you will.
I love reading arcs of deep history,
going back thousands of years.
I love reading biographies of people
who have built movements or changed the world.
I think there is so much historical context and precedent
that can get lost in today's runaway world of A.I. and tech
and all the social media.
As much as we can,
situating ourselves in those longer arcs of history
and human evolution, and those who've come before,
I think is probably incredibly important.
Another thing I would say, which I mentioned before,
is don't be scared to feel and find contexts and containers
that will help you through that process
and where you can help others as well.
Do you have any specific one, two, or three book recommendations
on the grand arc that were meaningful, helpful to you?
Yeah, for sure.
I really liked Louis Mumford, Technics and Civilization.
He speaks about the ways that psychology form,
shapes forms and technologies in vice versa.
Very interesting, very interesting.
I really love Jason C. Scott's books,
like Seeing Like Estate or Against the Grain,
that kind of contextualize the great simplification.
Actually, Nate, his books are about simplification, like deeply.
I have Against the Grain.
Seeing Like Estate is almost better.
And then, gosh, I can't even give you a third one,
because there's, I would even say something
even like a Fridge of Capra book,
like something that speaks about systems dynamics
and spirituality in these wider arcs.
In terms of biographies, I'll come back to you
because there's almost too many to name.
You could send Lizzie a list and we'll put them in the show notes.
Fridge of Capra, by the way.
