Not personally.
Okay, I'm trying to get them on the show.
I don't know anyone who knows them.
Okay, awesome.
I'm not going to ask you what you care most about in the world,
because I already know, unless you want to add to that.
Yeah, I mean, what I care the most about in the world
is that everyone can wake up and realize their own divine nature.
It sounds super cheesy, but we are all spectacular beings.
And if people could wake up and perceive their non-duality
with each other and with the world, like fundamentally,
and that they are fine how they are,
we don't have to consume, we don't have to strive,
we don't have to postulate,
we don't have to step on other shoulders.
Like this feeling of like you are enoughness and rightness.
If I could just like create a bomb and like place,
like curve that around that globe behind you around the world
and just for everyone to wake up with that feeling,
I'd be deeply curious what would happen.
So you are at a university,
and I think there's 240 million college students,
humans around the earth.
And the university has good programs
and is moving towards environmental and system stuff slowly.
But I think young humans, postdoc sort of people,
have huge potential to weigh in on the research
and the questions where society really needs to address.
Do you have any suggestions there on research questions
or programs or how the academy can be more support
to a living world in the future?
Yeah, so one of the things would be research
on a post 1.5 degree world.
I know it sounds a bit apocalyptic,
and it's not necessarily what you'd expect me to say,
but if we're looking at two plus degrees,
which might be just a reality.
Okay, what makes the most sense to do today?
Because I think that a lot of the global initiatives we're seeing
are not based on that understanding,
and I know that you agree with this, right?
Because so much of your work is around this.
How would we think about food systems differently?
Where would the food growing belts be?
How would we think about, you know,
voluntary migration of people already now?
How would we start designing social systems?
Like, there's a whole lot of planning
that we could be doing that we're not,
because business as usual,
a little bit more green is the name of the game.
It changes everything,
and energy depletion changes everything.
So, within the academy,
we have climate people looking at,
we might be headed for a 1.5 to 2 degree or higher world,
but that doesn't make it into the rest of the academy,
and the law, and the ecology,
and the agriculture, and everything.
That's a great point.
This would be critical research.
Like, I've been looking for a map.
Please tell me if you have it,
if any of your listeners do.
Let's say 2.5 to 3 degrees.
What can grow where food-wise in that?
What are we planting today that doesn't make sense for that?
What should we be planting differently?
Food and forests, obviously.
And the human implications of that are obvious.
I don't have to state them.
So, this gets to the heart of one of the dichotomies in our world,
which is evidence that Dubai, the last couple of weeks,
is for the academy, for a tenured professor
to get resources to fund that
and be an acceptable research project
within his or her university,
there has to be like a phase shift
in the thinking of the higher ups
and where the money comes from and everything.
It's almost, no, we don't want to go down that path.
That path is...
Because if that research is needed,
then it calls into question all this other stuff.
I hope it can happen,
but do you see what I mean?
There's like two conversations going on.
I do.
I would be curious to hear from people
who have wanted to study that agenda if they've struggled.
And I could imagine that there would be academic
or other homes to host that work,
and it could be inside of foundations, for example.
I mean, the role of philanthropy is not to be underestimated.
So, maybe it's not inside of academia,
but it's finding some good researchers to do that.
And very quickly, the second thing I would get people to study
is sort of climate or biodiversity psychology.
And how do we really move people
and how do we create incentive systems
that are differently than what we've been doing before
because things aren't working so well?
How does the communication really work?
And, yeah, a lot around that human collective processing capability.
I think a lot more concrete research on that,
on the psychological component, would be critical.
So, when I asked you what you most cared about,
you kind of used your bomb to change people's recognition
of what they're capable of.
But instead of a bomb, if you had a magic wand,
is there anything you'd like to add to that
to change the default trajectory of humans in our planetary future?
If you could change one thing.
Yeah, I knew this question was going to come
and I really don't have an answer for it.
I hope that in the last hour I've answered it in different ways.
God, because it's like, yes, let's give people vision quests,
but then that seems trite when there's war happening.
So, then it's okay, what do we do about peace and justice?
But that emerges out of a dual mindset.
And so, it's like, okay, well, let's tackle non-duality,
which is at the core of religion.
But then religion can become tribalized.
So, I don't know, you've heard a lot of these answers, Nate,
over the last, you know, I don't know how many episodes of your podcast.
What would you do?
What would be your wand at this point in time?
Well, Kate Rayworth just asked me that on episode 100,
and I said, very similar to you,
that we need a change in consciousness
to focus on the weave versus the me.
And to recognize that we're part of this interconnected natural world
and that life is precious.
And if more people had that deep understanding,
I think there would be ripples throughout the system vertically and horizontally,
and then better decisions, better research, better incentives,
better institutions would emerge.
Of course, there is no such magic wand that would do that.
But we have podcasts, we have videos, we have conferences,
we have education and work like people like yourself.
So, we're doing many magic wands in our efforts.
Can we crowdsource solutions from your listeners?
Can you create like a one-website Google forum?
That's just what is your hack for the consciousness shift
and see what people respond?
There's so many opportunities like that.
I mean, we have three people here on my staff and I need to grow it.
But that's a wonderful idea.
There's also another thing that I'm thinking about
and I don't have the tech expertise to do this,
but I'm sure some people do to do a discord on the great simplification
so that in a city in Switzerland or in Mexico or in Kenya,
those people that are listening to this and engaged with it
can connect with each other and form some local initiatives
because I think you're right.
When we find others who are working on this stuff, it is uplifting.
And it gives a deep sense of meaning and purpose
and it will have impacts on the natural world.
So, yeah, I agree with you.
Yeah, absolutely.
I have so much more I want to talk to you about.
So, you have to promise to come back.
If you did come back, what is, in addition to the topics we discussed today,
is there one topic relevant to our collective futures
that you are passionate about
and would be willing to take a deep dive on?
Thank you for the question.
I'd want to deep dive on some of the solution sets around nature
or let's say approaches versus solutions.
So, nature markets, investments, initiatives,
sense make together, like which ones make sense, which ones don't.
What are some false solutions that seem to, you know,
portray themselves as, you know, salvation and, yeah,
like let's sense make some of the ecological approaches
that are emerging at this moment in time.
Let's do it.
Do you have any closing words for this whirlwind overview
of your work on behalf of the natural world?
Hmm.
I'm very grateful to have had a chance to come on this and speak.
Thank you so much, Nate.
Thank you, Alexa.
Good luck with everything and I'm sure we will be in touch.
Thank you.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification,
please follow us on your favorite podcast platform
and visit thegreatsimplification.com
for more information on future releases.
This show is hosted by Nate Hagens,
edited by No Troublemakers Media
and curated by Leslie Batloots and Lizzie Siriani.
