and that there are many other beings out there
who are their own persons
and only some of them are human.
And they are a genetic kin, they are our relatives
and they have just as much right to be here as we do.
So a lot of ESG or even impact investing,
I see a sort of what can nature do for us
and for the human economy and how can we keep thriving?
And that's just not how I feel the world.
The way I feel the world is how can I support the thriving
and the regeneration of these other beings?
And sometimes they value things
that I don't necessarily value
or that the economy doesn't value
but that are fundamental to the underpinnings of life, right?
Maybe a little net, a little tiny fly
is serving a critical purpose
that I can't quantify or understand
but just because it doesn't make it into my calculation
doesn't mean it's meaningful.
And so very practically,
we're using financial capital, money,
to try and turn it into something that nature values.
And we do that in a few different categories.
So we fund earth's living processes.
So agriculture, food, soils,
rewilding, biodiversity initiatives,
large landscape restoration, preservation,
core scientific research
that really illuminates the awe and the wonder
and this kind of ecological backbone of all life.
So we've given some funding, for example, to the fungi,
the mushrooms and mycelium
that support everything we see above ground.
We support kind of guy and voices, if you will,
of those who speak on behalf of nature.
So advocacy and journalism, activists,
we've supported the rights of nature
which is giving other entities in the living world
legal personhood inside of the human system.
It's incomplete because who are we to grant them
our personhood in our legal system
but it's still a bit of a hack.
It's like ecocide, it's like let's use
the current legal tools that we've got
in order to encourage more of this life to thrive.
And one of the latest categories
that we're looking into for this next year
is the development of human inner consciousness or wisdom.
So the inner growth of human beings
and how do we embed a much more wise operating system
inside of our human systems?
It's so impressive.
I am such a fan of your ethos and your work
and I'm realizing that we have not even got
to half of the topics I wanted to cover
and we're an hour in.
So we might come back to the philanthropy and ESG investing
but I wanna talk about you have a podcast.
It's called Life Worlds, which you started
and from the main page of your website,
the podcast series that explores
how to orient your life around nature.
We discover the mindset, skills and actions
that are required to partner wisely with other forms of life
and engage in acts of brilliant restoration.
What inspired you to do this
and can you talk about your experience?
It's always funny to hear something
you've written read out to you.
I guess, two main reasons.
The first is through this work,
I was meeting such amazing characters,
probably a little bit like you.
And it was like, I need more people to know about their work
and have their voices and their initiatives
and what they're doing in the world, right?
And so initially, the podcast was I wanted to give a platform
to all of these incredible actors
that are really, really pioneering different approaches
at this moment in time.
But the reason why it shows Life Worlds
and the focus I give to all of the episodes
is that our culture is steeped in duality, right?
In this I, them, me, you know, this othering, if you will.
And as I mentioned earlier,
my frustration with a lot of the climate and nature movement
is it's still for humans, you know,
for human's sake on our terms.
And I believe and it's pretty certain
that the more that we think like ecosystems
and take their interests in mind
when we rewild, restore, do agriculture, do law, do finance,
the more intelligent the intervention is,
but also the more that we transform.
And so at the core of the podcast
is this question on the human separation of nature.
And so with all of my guests,
they're not just exceptionally adept in their fields,
but they are all cultivating a different worldview
and relationship around nature
where there's a different relationality,
the integration of constituencies of different voices.
And in a way, Michael Abelman, who's an amazing farmer
who came on the front of the first episodes,
says, you know, how do we make our way into the slipstream
of the biological activity of all life
and see ourselves as part of that system?
And so what I ask with Life Worlds
is how people cultivate their own internal worldviews
and skills and being able to embody
the perspectives of ecosystems,
both because at least we're more intelligent
in intervention and secondly,
because that's one of the psychological
and spiritual transformations
that's really needed right now.
Do you, in your experience, there's Mother Earth
and we're talking about Gaia and all the other species
and the ecologies, have you found that women
and the feminine side of humanity
is more in touch with that?
Or is it 50-50 or do you notice anything
along those lines?
I think the feminine in each of us
is just waiting to be expressed,
no matter what body or whatever you find yourself in.
There is a feminine principle,
which is more nurturing and life-giving and tender
and in touch naturally.
Feminine leadership is something I exalt
and only want to see more of in the world.
And I would love that all of those
who are more in their masculinity
to also have the permission to be that
in a way it's like indigeneity,
like we are all native to this planet.
And so, yes, more feminine in the world
but more feminine in all of us.
And in terms of the podcast,
the guests are completely split along those lines
because yeah, it's more about cultivating
a deep sensory skill set and acuities and perceptions
than necessarily the bodies that we're in.
So one of the points of your podcast
is it's important to view the world
through a non-human lens.
And you and I, when we observe what's going on in the world
and the ecosystems and the impacts, we do that.
But do you ever actually go so far
as to empathize and imagine some creature in nature
you're looking at and imagine what it must be like
to be a spider or a gopher or a squirrel
or orangutan or a leopard or whatever you're seeing?
Do you go that far and try to imagine
what life would be like living as such a creature?
Come to one of my dance parties.
No.
I think that metamorphosis is a very archetypal
and guttural inclination of human beings.
And so what I mean by that is throughout time
our ancestors developed ways through ritual,
ceremony, dance, song, beat, whatever you name it
to embody the life worlds of other beings.
I think it is fundamentally part of human culture.
I mean, here in Mexico, I was at a,
in this crazy room the other day
with about like 2,000 tribal mass
from across the country, dancing masks.
And some were human, some were non-human,
some you couldn't figure out what they were.
But our ability to shape shift
and take the form of other beings,
I think has been culturally present
in most continents of the world.
So do I personally do it?
There are nature reconnection exercises
that can train you in physically embodying
the different acuities of another being.
And it's quite interesting when you playfully
give yourself over to that process and you don't,
you're not gonna do it very seriously sitting there.
I'm going to become a wolf.
But like, what would it be?
And it's a fascinating process.
And we've done it with people you wouldn't expect, right?
Like very A type, C suite executives,
but everyone has their own space.
And we can tap into something very deep
and very ancient if we do this.
In terms of an investment thesis quickly,
because it's part of some part of ground effect.
It's like a permaculturist,
where they say, you know,
spend 12 months observing the land
before we make an intervention.
I think that if you're trying to restore an ecosystem
or create an intervention in any kind of nature-based context,
imagining what it's like for that ecosystem to be
in the same way that if you're trying to design
