an intervention for a human system, right?
Whether it's, you know, shopkeepers or farmers,
what is their life like?
Doesn't mean you have to like,
wear their clothes and become them,
but a sincere curiosity is critical, I think, in this work.
I agree with that.
So do you think before organized religions
way back in the day, we were all animists?
That that was just kind of the way things were?
Many people, a lot smarter than me on this topic,
have said yes.
Animists just being, you know,
we understood that there were energies and rivers and rocks
and we existed within these cycles and life processes
that also transcended our own planet, right?
But these cosmological cycles of time,
we've really lost that cyclicality.
And for me, animus is also systems thinking.
It's like, things lead to other things,
they're entangled, there's emergence, there's chaos,
you know, it's all of the kind of systems one-on-one.
And because we were so activated-
So animus would be the world philosophy
most linked to systems ecology?
Oof, I would have to think about that one.
It's a big statement.
Okay, keep going, sorry you're interrupting.
No, I think it's a good question.
Let's entertain that for a sec.
It's tricky, I think because animism permeates
a lot of world philosophies,
like I've practiced Buddhism for quite a few years
and in a way animism is almost like a practice.
It's a worldview of understanding that the world is alive,
as I said earlier, and that things are entangled
and that we can have relationships with them, you know?
You, I know from our conversations,
have relationships with your animals, right?
That may seem silly, but it's true.
They're my family.
They're your family.
Only about half of my best friends are humans.
Exactly, I love that line.
And so is that animist or is that Buddhist
or is that humaning or is that being an earthling?
You know, the boundaries aren't so clear,
but being in our bodies and having sensory acuity
is to sense and feel the world
is a fundamental part of systems thinking, right?
Because you have to adapt.
You have to watch how things move.
And if we're cut off from that,
from all of that sensory intelligence,
we don't have access to a deeper form of knowledge.
So that's the way I would answer the question.
So here's a bit of an aside,
but given the limits to growth and the peak oil
and the four horsemen and the other things
that I talk about, I think we're approaching
a cultural transition, both in our economies
and in our relationships, everything,
the great simplification.
I predict that as things get more chaotic
and uncomfortable relative to the past,
that humans penchant for religiosity
and for group cohesion around a purpose and a story
that's larger than ourselves will become widespread.
And I think there will be a lot of new religions
that pop up from some charismatic person with a story.
Many of them will be untethered from reality.
I think the animus story of we are on this spaceship earth
hurtling through a lonely, dark, lifeless universe,
this blue-green planet is special.
And the species that we share it with are precious.
And this is what I ascribe my meaning to and my purpose.
I think that will be one of the religions
of coming decades.
The question is, will it be just a tiny thing
on the far fringe or will it be serious and meaningful
and maybe shifts our entire culture?
I don't know.
Any thoughts on that?
Yeah, it's a very good question or thought.
I think the answer to it will be in relationship
to how we're able to work on some of the things
you spoke about earlier in the podcast
relating to grief and despair and tribalism.
As the crisis upon us will lead to massive displacement
and the breakdown of fundamental ecological systems
food, et cetera, we could tip the other way
and become deeply tribal and sectarian.
That is a very possible outcome,
which is why I think that supporting and working
on the cultivation of much better human psychological tools
and human wisdom and all of this inner work
that some people think is woo, but no, it's just leadership.
It's like we need people to be wise leaders in this time
if we're able to, in a way, you know,
E.L. Wilson, again, like paleolithic instincts,
medieval institutions, god-like technology,
if we're able to take those paleolithic instincts
and make them a bit more sophisticated
and that can constrain or bound our behavior
and relationship to that technology
and reform those institutions.
I think we stand a very interesting chance.
Something I have seen, and this came up a lot in my podcast,
is that when we heal the earth, we heal ourselves
and we don't wait around to be a fully, you know,
like woke enlightened human being
to start doing all the good stuff.
It's like sinking your hands into soil, right?
Like people who work in inner city farms
who have had a history of drug abuse, you know,
or substance abuse.
Just sinking their hands into soil is so deeply healing
or the Chicago Green Corpse, right?
Like going in and, you know,
under financially privileged communities
who start to restore their parks,
who never had a relationship with nature,
suddenly become much more deeply connected.
So I think that that feedback loop between human and land
will happen because we have so much to restore and protect
and the incentives around it are emerging
and the initiatives are emerging and there is a movement.
So we will see this earth religion happening.
Now, something that I want to posit to your listeners
is any system of faith needs places of worship.
And I would love to imagine different urban centers
who have like nature temples or it sounds kind of cheesy,
but like, where are places that we can go
which aren't linked to a current world religion
where we can sit amongst others or do things amongst others
who care for the earth and when you're a Hindu or a Buddhist
or a Christian, it doesn't matter,
but we're here for our relationship to the wider whole.
That I think is a very interesting artistic intervention,
for example.
So do you think it's important to be able to attach oneself
to some piece of land somewhere one might call home
and considering and thinking about that place as sacred
or even an extension of oneself?
I mean, I've lived where I have for the last 17 years
and I'm used to it.
And sometimes it seems almost mundane
because I know the trails and the trees and the animals
because I have my wildlife card out.
But I also become very deeply connected
and I know when something's different.
And when I travel and I come back here,
I can't wait to go on those trails again
because I feel I don't own it.
It's not that.
It's that this is my place where I'm tethered.
What do you think about all that and the importance
of connecting to land?
Well, first of all, I think that whether you feel connected to it
or feel that it's sacred, it is, first of all.
So it is all sacred and you are all connected to it,
whether you're awake to that or not, you know.
The importance, Simone Weil has this great phrase.
She says, you know, rootedness in place
is one of the most important needs of the human soul.
And so fundamentally, the answer is yes.
Now there is a certain colonialist way of doing it
which is I arrived to this land and you're mine.
But there is this longing in my own heart
and it's to be claimed by a place, right?
Instead of me claiming something,
it's, wow, can some place in the world call out for me
and have me come and tend to it and steward it and look after it?
And again, as I said before, like we are whole
by the nature that we make whole.
And so the more that people can tend to a patch,
it doesn't have to be like a glorious, you know, mountain range.
I mean, who has a mountain range anyway,
but it can be an un-glorified, very un-sexy kind of local place
that you tend to, but it's a relationality between you
and the world and a place you get to know.
You get to know its seasons, how it expresses in different moments.
John Young, who I referenced earlier in terms of nature mentorship,
he speaks of this concept called sit spots,
which maybe you've come across.
It's a very common educational tool for kids and for adults, really.
And it's you find a place within 15 minutes of your home
where you can sit, it can be a park under a tree,
but you're looking out, you're looking into the natural world
in some way, you're there.
And you go there if you can every day, 10 minutes, 5 minutes,
you sit 15 minutes and you sit in that place since your sit spot.
And I can't tell you Nate, the amount of people I know
who have been given this practice and now do it regularly,
I'm talking like 50, 60 people,
and their relationship to their sit spot transformed their lives.
And as John Young says it, it's like,
initially your relationship is like a string,
it's like a little string to the place.
But over times and over sits, those strings become a rope.
