or an earthquake breaking centuries of tension, right?
And so in a way, change can happen slowly or suddenly
or unpredictably.
And when you look at all of the changes
that have happened in our lifetimes
in the last hundred years, incredible things.
So first of all, to all those who are despairing,
I'd say, yes, but we have no clue what's coming.
We have no clue what these thousand points of light will bring.
And there are thousands, millions of points of light.
And quickly, the second thing I would say is
the grief, the fear, the pain, the anger,
it's so normal and also we have to feel it.
Because if we numb that,
if we can't watch the planet Earth episode anymore
because it hurts us,
then we're going to numb our capacity
to rile up all the positive emotions,
all the fiery emotions that have us actually,
you know, do whatever ours is to do, right?
Whether that's activism or journalism
or reforming the financial system.
So the depth of our pain and the depth of our grief
out of that arises a broken heart that will heal
and help to like do whatever it can in the world.
And so actually psychic numbing and dissonance and denial
and all of this, all of these sort of counterintuitive
psychological processes keep us further away
from the actions that the world needs.
Which gets us back to the need for healing
and being kind to yourself and marathon, not a sprint
and some of the other things that you're involved in.
Yeah, while you were speaking and using Rebecca's quotes,
it reminded me that word combinations some other,
from some other human you will never meet.
Yes.
And visual combinations have the ability to create magic,
which is something that's unexpected.
You can just with combining certain words, influence
and other person's mood and their actions.
It's quite something.
It's one of our superpowers as a species.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, another one of my great mentors,
I've never met her, but has been Joanna Macy.
And so I would encourage anyone, you know,
badass, elder, Buddhist monk, activist.
She created a whole work of body of work
that's called the work that reconnects
and it's about facilitated group processes
directly pertaining to your question
on what do we do in order to feel it all
in order to be able to act.
And I think that the one thing that is so insidious
and perverse about our current society
is individuality in a way and isolation.
So if you're alone watching Planet Earth and weeping,
yeah, that's kind of hard
and maybe you have the psychological tools for that.
But if you host a screening with 10 of your best friends
and you know you're all a bit sensitive
and you feel safe to weep together,
like collective in the collective is when healing happens.
Individually it happens as well, but it's much harder.
And so I think that what I would love to see
and what probably will happen as this crisis deepens
and also expands in ways we can't predict positively
will be collective places of grief and ritual and mourning,
which is a form of activism, which is a form of hope.
But so I would encourage people, you know,
there's tons of resources out there
and I've got a bunch on my, you know,
on different websites and so do you.
Like Traynup and Khalid Gibran, an amazing mystic,
wrote, the deeper that sorrow carves into your cup,
the more you can fill it with joy.
So that has been my experience.
Like I'm super gooey and so I will like break down
and cry and feel it, but the next minute I wake up
and I look outside and there's a blade of grass
and I'm like, holy, like we live in a world
where a blade of grass exists.
Like how spectacular is that?
Yeah, I hear you.
And sometimes I think that energy surplus
and the trajectory that we've followed,
that material wealth has acted like an accordion
to move us towards an individual experience of the world
as opposed to a collective one.
And I do long for a return.
Just the question is, what are the externalities
of that return gonna be?
But beautifully said, please continue where I interrupted you
on the practical aspects of biodiversity.
Yeah, no, no, I think it was a very important sort of,
it's not even a tangent.
Yeah, Nate, it's about the development elasticity,
I think for that pain and how we bounce back
and feel and bounce and feel.
Practically, and I see this a lot
because of my work with the lab.
And you read this phrase,
which is kind of even incorrectly written,
which is corporations, governments
are just wrapping their head around climate
and now they have to do biodiversity, how do we do this?
And so there's been this massive ontological,
physiological error in the middle of the climate
or carbon movement, if you will,
that has negated the role of biodiversity
and nature at large, let's say.
They are one and the same.
So first of all, our economy is 100% dependent on nature,
not 17, not 60, not, there's nothing,
nothing that enables you and I to be here right now
if it weren't for nature.
Food, water, clothes, air, like you name it.
So 100% of the economy is dependent on nature
and yet they've been approached as siloed problems, right?
And maybe I can give like two, three examples
of the ways that biological and life processes
create the climate and how these feedback loops happen.
First of all, maybe some of your listeners know this,
but one out of every two breaths that we take
comes from the ocean, right?
It comes from plankton, phytoplankton specifically.
So every second breath is created by these organisms
that are, by the way, dying out
because we're packaging them up for omega-3s
and it's crazy, but they also seed cloud formation.
So about 60% of the clouds above
in the southern oceans around the Antarctic
are seeded by plankton because when they breathe,
they create little molecules as molecules go up into the air
and they seed clouds.
So very practically, these plankton are seeding the clouds
and seeding the climate.
Another example is the concept of keystone species,
which I know that you know,
but these are essentially key creatures
inside of ecosystems that activate a whole series
of other ecological processes.
So when you think of all of the animals
that move and migrate through the earth,
you have the wildebeest across the Serengeti, right?
And they're churning up soils and spreading seeds
and making niches for other animals to live
and by pooping they're bringing carbon back down
to the soils, but they're moving across the land
in these like massive vein-like corridors
called wildlife corridors.
And you must see them as if they were cells
inside of your body moving through veins.
It's the same with the salmon, right?
The salmon that take their annual migrations
and looking out the window like from deep out in the ocean,
they collect all of the nutrients
and they come back up, nitrogen phosphates
and they come back up and they swim up river
and they die hundreds of miles from the deep ocean
where they initially spawned.
But those massive migrations,
like movements of all these fish
are literally feeding the forest.
So as all these creatures move,
they're feeding the trees, they're feeding the carbon,
they're cycling these ecological processes
and they are part and parcel of the carbon cycle.
And so a paper came out a few months ago
that maybe you can link in your show notes
that show that the reintroduction
of a lot of these keystone species
like the muscox and the bison, the wolf, certain fish
can detonate huge cascades of carbon
capturing inside of ecosystems.
So salmon and wildebeest are keystone species.
So not only is biodiversity important in its own right
as a separate issue than climate change,
but biodiversity is part and parcel of climate change
because of the sequestration and the ecosystem services.
What happens if we start to lose
a lot of keystone species?
I think the easiest way of bringing this home
is that the earth is like your body.
Well, the earth really is your body,
but and if you look at all of the continents, like organs,
the creatures are the connectivity between them,
the all of the kind of connectivity, right?
The amino acids, the blood cells or whatever you name it.
And so these creatures are keeping your stability
in check through feedback loops.
So if these species disappear,
it would be as if you're cutting off vital connectivity
between your different parts of your body.
So therefore your body goes out of whack.
So you may get invasive species coming in,
you get disturbances, right?
Ecological disturbances for, yeah.
Keeping with your analogy of the earth as a body,
what are the, dare I ask what the implications are
