I think the venture of the pine palm pilot and for those of you who can remember the palm pilot.
So, yeah, there are lots of similarities but some key differences between the kind of canonical micro circuits that are on offer to, if you like, explain one instance of predictive coding.
The similarities inherit from the sort of a common interest in trying to get above my bone memetic formulation of sense making and action.
So in fact, Jeff Hawkins hosted a meter, it must be 30 years ago now when I was a young man, well, you know, we started talking about these things.
Shortly afterwards he worked with a gentleman called Dyleep George who's still doing quite exciting work.
Together they came up with something called the hierarchical temporal model, the HTM.
And that shares exactly the same fundamental characteristics that we're talking about before in terms of the separation of temporal scales as you move deeper and deeper into generative models.
So there's a shared commitment not just to generative modeling as a constructive view of sense making and action and mnemonics.
But that also extends into the very, very specific architectures that speak to a separation of temporal scales, which was celebrated in Jeff's early work.
The Thousand Brains one does, you know, it's gone off in its own particular direction and I think that the other connection here would be more like a mixture of experts perspective on generative models.
So I think a very plausible notion that you could have a whole bunch of generative models, all competing to explain the lowest level of a sensory hierarchy.
And each one will be fit for purpose for a different context.
And one way that they can, if you like, resolve in further particular context in which they're operating is to compete to see who can explain the sensory input the most.
So in statistics, this is called Bayesian model averaging, where you weight the predictions of each model in proportion to the free energy or the evidence log evidence, sorry, the evidence for each model.
And I think what Jeff has in mind, from my point of view, would be those, you know, there are millions of these little mixtures of experts that are all competing.
So I think it fits very comfortably with the overall free energy principle, probably less comfortably with predictive coding with specific architectures that will be informed by neurobiology.
You know, the Thousand Brains formulation is not quite, doesn't have quite the same commitments as the normal canonical microcircuit formulation of predictive coding.
And the empirical evidence speaks to the canonical microcircuit formulation, just because the canonical microcircuit formulation was designed to account for the empirical evidence, whereas Jeff didn't have to worry about that because he, you know, he's just trying to find the right architectures.
But a lot of shared commitments, some differences, some nuances, and I, I've been to see what it comes up with in the next 10 years.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We'll go to Margaret Heath next, Margaret. I see you've got a couple of questions in there. So you want to cover both of those. That would be brilliant.
Thanks.
Hello. Yes. Thank you, Professor Piston.
Thank you for all your work. It's really, it's, it's yummy.
I have a question that is on two levels, really.
The one is to do you've discussed in other lectures, this notion of temporal death and counterfactual breadth.
And typically theories of the imaginary or the imagination, think of this as, as disconnected from sensory information, or the external, and something that happens internal to the organism.
Curiously, I'm quite interested in Andy's extended mind stuff in the distributed cognition collective cognition where you'd have ensembles of agents doing stuff like this.
So that would change the formulations a little. I was wondering if you could talk to us about those sorts of ideas.
Yeah. I mean, by coincidence, of course, the, the notion of counterfactual breadth.
That is, if you like, another dimension to the temporal depth.
I came from a Neil Seth and Neil Seth has an office next to Andy.
I declare being the author of the extended mind and designer environment.
So I think there's a lot, you know, they clearly have their own views of things, but there's also a lot of synergy between between the two.
So I think there's a very close connection between those perspectives and you can trace the legacy of these ideas. I'm sure you have done, you know, from your historical lightings that have emerged in terms of people like Andy Clark and Neil Seth.
And the like, in terms of the, you know, the, the counterfactual breadth being divorced from the sensorium.
I think that must be right in this because there's no full divorces if you allow for this vicarious sparse connectivity that just is the message passing on the belief updating in a higher architecture we're talking about.
But I think sort of this common sensically, yes, if you are planning what to do, and you're planning in the future, you're planning a rollout, a trajectory, a path into the future.
Clearly, there are no observable outcomes from the future.
So it is purely counterfactual. And as soon as you entertain more than one path into the future, you don't have to. I mean, thermostat doesn't, you know, it just causes one little tiny trajectory into the future.
But if we're now, you know, in the planning as inference kind of active inference or predictive processing, then you're going to have more than one path.
You're going to evaluate that. And of course, the number of paths that you evaluate is exactly the counterfactual depth that Neil was referring to.
And it also introduces interesting semantics which philosophers like, which of course, once you've got more than one path to select from, you induce a problem of selection.
As a mathematician, that's fine. That's based in model selection. I just, I just select the one with the greatest evidence or the least expected free energy.
But of course, if you're a philosopher, you've now got the notion of free will because you've got the act of selecting amongst the counterfactuals, or not free will depending upon if it's prescribed.
Yeah, yeah.
So, yeah, I think, yeah, I think, yes, it has to be imaginal in the sense that it is imagining a future. And you can indeed articulate that on the simulation theory, for example.
And in that sense, it is divorced from the sense from the sensory input, but of course it is underwritten by you by the sensory input because your paths do depend upon where am I at the moment and that is conditioned upon sensemaking.
So, yes.
So, just to then make the link to, if you think about Levin's collective cognition work.
All right, so the mark of blankets and, and then I listened to a really fascinating Chris Fields with you on a philosophy bubble, I think it was, where we spoke about that boundary condition, the information processing on the boundary and then the distinction between two
blankets and how to unpack that, when are they one marker of blankets, and when do you have to compute them as separate entities with separate agency.
Yeah, you're bringing in a whole other fascinating world here, you know, people like Mike Levin Chris Fields.
They would talk about things like distributed cognition and basal cognition and describing the more elemental kind of active influence I was describing as driving them to sort of even molecules or at least macromolecules and cells and asking questions about the emergence of multi cellular
civilizations and the intracellular signaling and would this be described as well it certainly would and could be described as active inference. And of course, once you do that you can use the, the teleology that you get from cognition and
distributed cognition. So I very much encourage that and encourage Chris Fields in his mantra that you're in reality there should be no difference between physics and psychology and biology and philosophy they're all the same thing and we should all be using the same words quite
primarily in an interchangeable way and I would fully subscribe to that. The, just one interesting example of that which I always like to reiterate is, you know, once you understand that you once you allow yourself to with with gay abandon, use cognitive
terms to describe the behavior of cells, either maintaining or destroying their mark of blankets, you can now, as my dozen has done, talk about cancer as a delusion, you know, a false inference.
Think, you know, think in a way which I think is quite an expressive and interesting way to think about your physical phenomena at the cellular or the molecular level, in terms of this kind of
not ascribing intentions to cancer but it's certainly the same kind of collective or situated cognition that societies of people of things like you and me, you might might express.
The two final points here, of course, there isn't just one mark of blanket there are probably not an infinite number but certainly almost uncountable because of all the commentorics.
So any sparsely coupled system, you can draw mark of blankets everywhere.
And of course you can have mark of blankets of mark of blankets. So you really usually have to identify the mark of blanket of interest and that defines you as a psychologist or molecular biologist or sociologist or ethologist or whatever.
You know, that's your scale of mark of blanket and that kind of mark of blanket is what you like to talk about.
So, you know, as we intimated before, just having a deep generative model or a hierarchical generative model means there are multiple mark of blankets in the brain.
And that's because Chris, more recently, as coming back to David's question, is more recently tried to understand what the locus of sentience in terms of consciousness as in terms of an inner screen and the notion of a reducible mark of blankets.
Right in the middle of our brains in the pineal gland that cannot because of its lack of sparsely contain any more mark of blankets within it.
And that has some special characteristics that Chris argues might might, you know, might be associated with consciousness.
You introduce those there in terms of his take on mark of blankets. His take is beautiful and abstract and comes from quantum information theory, where effectively he replaces the mark of blanket with a holographic screen.
And I think that, you know, that's that's what you were you were referring to, which is a wonderful move, sometimes a little bit beyond because I've forgotten all my quantum physics, but it is, it is an interesting move to make to think about the
the relationship between communication and exchange between the internal the external bulk via a holographic screen because the holographic principle tells you all the stuff on the inside, all the information on the inside bulk has to be on the surface on the
blanket on the holographic screen, which basically means that everything I need to know that is no more about you is on your mark of blanket is just how we exchange.
And that means I will never quite know what's going on inside your head and can never know my definition. So that has been interesting consequence I think.
It's just a lot for it. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go to Harris, you know, fight to next. And then Dave, I see you put a number of comments in Dave so we'll then go to you after after Harris.
So, Harris, you could summarize the question you put in chat that would be great. Thank you.
Great talk and really insightful answers. Thank you. And here is my question.
Scribes in ancient times were tasked with copying text by hand. And it was a rather laborious and time consuming process.
Those scribes aim to minimize the effort, expanded in the copy process, much like physical and biological systems.
The stroke to achieve the most efficient and accurate reproduction of the original text, while minimizing surprise by reducing the likelihood of introducing errors.
The techniques such as using templates employing standardized formats, and even utilizing the money money money money devices to improve efficiency and accuracy.
So Professor Christon, considering the parallels between the least action principle in physics and the free energy principle in cognitive science.
Is it safe to utilize these principles to inform our understanding of human cognitive processes in activities that require this extra meticulous precision and optimization, such as the manuscript copying work of those scribes.
Yes, I think, well, is it safe to apply it? That's a loaded question, a very nice question. I think yes, I think it would be perfectly viable to apply that.
And I think it's very good of you to actually introduce the notion of a principle of least action, because that's just what the free energy principle is.
It's nothing more than a principle of least action. So you can articulate using a path integral formulation, literally, as the understanding both action and perception as evincing or just pursuing paths of least action, which is as you're
intimating paths of maximum efficiency, paths of minimum error, paths of maximum replicability, paths of maximum and sustainable and resilient reliability.
If something was able to persist and exist on its own attractor, in its own preferred states, very, very precisely, you would get exactly the behavior of your scribes.
So I imagine they had a very comfortable and relaxed life with this very, very specific model of what they do, and they did it perfectly.
And in that sense, I think would be an example of something that would easily be described in terms of a path of least action.
And as such, it would be fair to apply the free energy principle to that kind of behavior.
I guess what you'd have to ask, though, is, well, if we are just trying to minimize prediction errors, would your scribes ever become creative?
Would they become poets? Would they start to experiment with different artistic scrolls?
And then one gets into the interesting questions, well, where does that kind of information seeking come from?
And then, of course, the answer from the point of view of the free energy principle, it's only when you get big enough that you now have the opportunity to think about the consequences of your action,
and then that curiosity, that epistemic affordance, that expected information gain starts to come into play.
So, again, you might think that scribes that committed their entire lives just to copying manuscripts were not, probably, got quite bored.
I assume they have quite big brains.
So they probably wanted to automate that and do something that sated their curiosity because you can get a machine to do that because the machine doesn't plan in them.
It doesn't have that epistemic, explorative capacity that a machine does or a calculator would.
And I mean calculator in the original sense of people actually doing calculations at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution.
So a very interesting question. Is that what you meant?
Yes, yes. Thank you so much. Great answer. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. After David, we'll then go to Arend van Kampen and then Richard Barry. So David, do you want to go next?
Dave Douglas for me.
Me. Great. Thanks. Okay, welcome Carl.
I've been in many of your presentations at Active Inference Institute.
Now today you've mentioned the richness of the Markov Blanket concept in various contexts.
Now in a paper of yours from a few years ago, I'm sorry I forget the title.
You mentioned that the blanket around an informational regime within a living tissue, particularly neurological tissue, might or might not coincide with cell membranes or tissue boundaries.
Do you have any further thoughts you can share with us about that?
There are some people on this side of the pond who would be very pleased to reflect on your thinking about how one differentiates a psychological process from the people in which that process embeds itself or a meme from the various brain tissues that the
meme embeds itself.
We're updating the work of Professor Gordon Pask, who I think addressed some of these same questions in a very concise or incisive way.
I think simplifies things by simplifies the work to be done by slightly multiplying the number of conceptual tools to be used.
Can you expand upon that last sentence?
I should repeat the gist.
When we talk, there's traditionally, going back to Bergelonfi, there's been a lot of, many, many times people have pointed out that a lower or in your terms a faster level of activity may be controlled or steered or motivated by a higher level or a slower level of control.
So you have this asymmetric mutual influence and control and communication, duality, param.
Now, usually the assumption has been that there's a single way to perform that kind of analysis.
In fact, that it's just a simple, if you have multiple levels that you have two more than two levels to deal with, there is necessarily a strong or weak ordering among levels of control.
Okay, there's the word of God, there's the traditions of men, there's your work as a farmer and there's your physiological needs and there's a strict hierarchy, A controls, B controls, C controls, D.
And that that individuation occurs in one and only one way. It's just controlled. Control is control.
Presupposition is presupposition.
Now, Gordon Pask, working in the 50s, 60s and 70s, along with some, some of our colleagues still around still active in cybernetics, discovered that well in the realm of teaching, of teaching and learning.
It's much simpler to say, no, wait a minute, don't try to conflate all control relations into a single kind. There are after all, psychological processes.
And there are mechanical or physiological processes.
The physiological processes are spatio-temporally distinguished. Machines, you can look at the boundaries, they have a boundary in space, they have origins in time.
But they say, and the psychological processes also have boundedness, but it's not that same kind of boundedness. Where is Beethoven's symphony? I want to know where the exactly the spatiotemporal boundaries of that are.
It's a category error. So Pask just says, look, there's individuation into minds, psychological entities, memes, and there's also individuation into spatiotemporally bounded.
Bounded things, regions.
It is the case that mental entities control and listen to other mental entities. It's the case in, oh, say, the organization of a thunderstorm, perhaps, or, you know, dirty water is a better example, turbulent, dirty water.
There's control of large, the possibilities of small entities by large entities, but the large entities are also dragged around by the small entities. So you have that control.
There's also the case, more importantly, perhaps, that sometimes a mental entity, say a meme, in the classic sense, controls the web browsing activities of a number of individuals. And at that point, the psychologically differentiated individuals acting among themselves control and are influenced by
physical entities. The fact that your electricity went out today knocks out an entire class of mechanical innovation. The computers aren't working.
And I know that in one of your papers explaining the physiology of predictive processing and active inference, you, at the end of one of the sections in about one sentence say it's not clear that the boundaries of the
functional processes always coincide with the boundaries between cells or between tissues. That's the point where my ears stuck out and I said, I remember Gordon Pask telling me about that in 1975.
Here's Carl Friston, please tell us more about that. Is there more than one kind of individuation, either instrumentally in the sense that, oh, I feel like dividing the world up in this way, or I can divide it up that way, or I can divide it up both ways and then see how they fit together.
Or maybe cells and memes and songs and cultures and legal traditions and biological species individuate themselves in various ways.
Dave, I think you posed the question great. Carl, do you want to respond?
Yeah, well, it's a lot to respond to. That was illuminating. I didn't know about that work, but it all sounds very sensible from my point of view and the kind of work that I should know about.
So in brief, the way that you were talking about the separation of temporal scales and the circular causality, I understand that from, say, Herman Haken in terms of the slaving principle and your top-down and bottom-up causation.
I think that view is nicely evinced with the recursive message passing in these deep generative models. It also makes the entire sense that you should be able to apply things like the pre-Henry principle to different kinds of things,
whether they are memes or communication or the products of culture, for example, right down to amoeba and single cells that have spatial temporal boundaries.
Absolutely. The free energy principle is just a principle by which I mean it is a method. It's a tool that you can apply it to. Could you apply it to things with spatial temporal boundaries like a cell? Absolutely.
People do that. Could you apply it to something more abstract, such as the passing of memes on the web, for example? Absolutely. People have done that.
I think that the Markov Blanket there is not really quite so well-defined spatial temporal. It's more, as you would define it, if you're a systems theorist, it would just be input-output relationships.
In terms of systems theory, the Markov Blanket is nothing more than defying the system in terms of its inputs and outputs. You'd have to label the inputs and outputs on your Bluetooth or your Ethernet in a social web.
And that would be the way of defining the Markov Blanket, the sparse connectivity that defines the Markov Blanket. And then it wouldn't quite define Beethoven's symphonies, but it would allow you to then talk about the Markov Blankets of this community
or this social group and the exchange of ideas provided they can be classified or quantified in some form or way as message passing between Markov Blankets and you should be able to apply the free energy principle.
I say it's been done. It's been done in a very mental way by looking at population voting dynamics, by simulating agents, passing messages on the web, but in a very simple way, in proportion or in a way that each agent believes in the veracity of another person's
agent's belief, depending on how similar that agent is to itself. And then you get some really interesting polarization dynamics through this multi-agent active inference that I think you could describe in terms of passing memes.
And the collective commitment to a meme, I think, would start to speak to this more abstract, mindful kind of application that you are intimating.
Thank you. We've only got a few minutes left, so I'd like to squeeze in the last two questions. So, Arend, do you want to go next and then we'll finish off with Richard?
Yes. Thank you, Dr. Friston. Really great to be here and see you live. I watched you on with Lex Friedman a while ago.
My question would be, I worked with Dr. Fritsch of Capra, who I have in a picture I'm going to see here, and he says in 1991, so my question is, would you agree with the observation of Fritsch of Capra that global disorder, social entropy, is caused by a crisis of perception?
I think I will have to go away and think about that. It speaks very much, doesn't it, to the earlier question about, you know, could one use the free energy principle and related formulations to talk about
societal disorder in terms of communication and the way that we perceive others. I think it would be trivial of me to try and give you a clever or informed answer without thinking about this.
It does be one useful thing I think that could be brought to the table here is that the free energy principle is due to James's maximum entropy principle, which of course is, you know, could be cast as what are the constraints on a particular kind of disorder.
But the twist from the point of view of the free energy principle is that the entropy that James was talking about was the entropy of the measurement. It was the observation.
And I think, read as a perception, I think there's a deep connection now between James's maximum entropy principle, which, you know, for him, is how does a physicist perceive by doing her measurements?
And, you know, almost paradoxically saying that the best, the best kind of perception is maximizing the entropy of the measurement representation, which for the free energy principle would be the variance of that Q distribution of the external states that are being measured.
So I think there is some deep connection between perception as measurement and observation and the natural tendency of things to minimize their thermodynamic free energy and maximize their representational entropy.
What that means for the entropy and the disorder of the of the thing and of themselves, I'll have to think about.
Yes, I was just referring to the work of Kenneth Bailey, a social entropy theory, which I've been looking at. And that's why the perception, the observation, the interpretation of reality differs, right?
So that is the, I think, the cause of many, many misinterpretation and many misactions at this time causing this social entropy.
Yes, yeah, we don't have time, but, you know, it would be, it would be really nice to talk about sort of some of the pathologies of perception from the point of view of applying the free energy principle to psychiatric conditions like hallucinations and delusions, sensory attenuation,
and what that would look like in terms of communities talking to each other, making inferences about each other. There's some really fascinating, fascinating issues there.
Thank you.
Thank you, Richard.
Do you want to ask your, do the last question? And if everybody hasn't seen it, there's a question to us all collectively from Paul Pangora, but we won't have time to cover that. So Richard, do you want to go ahead?
Thank you. Thank you, Professor. Fascinating talk. I'll try and use carcimony and minimize my use of free energies.
So we make decisions as a society collectively.
We draw inference from the world and information we are provided, sometimes very inaccurately.
And I'll go back to the Butler inquiry and the decision to go to war on incorrect inference around weapons and mass destruction.
We do it daily in the courtrooms where 12 good citizens will be asked to draw inference from evidence that they perceive has been presented to them and make some some pretty high risk decisions around individuals.
And of course, we get it wrong. And the post office inquiries is a really, really good example of actively getting it wrong. So, so my question really, really straightforward.
Is there a way we can manage what you've described in a more consistent way and draw inference? Sorry, have more confidence in the way we draw inference from the world?
I think the short answer would be you're not going to find a cure, but you can certainly articulate the problem that would reveal strategies to cure.
And I'm using the word cure, presuming that course you don't want to have this extremely unstable and unpleasant situation where you just don't know where to turn for reliable information.
So everybody has lost epistemic trust and everybody else with fake news and the like. And I've also heard the argument just to generalize that in terms of young people nowadays having so much access to different channels of information on social media and elsewhere.
That's an incredible burden on their mental health. And I think that would be useful understood in the same spirit of, you know, you don't know which you and I don't know which news channel to trust if you happen across American news channels.
It's very difficult to know, you know, is this reliable information or not? From the point of view of the free energy principle and applying it to understand what has gone wrong and how it could be remedied.
It's very, very simple that, you know, if you, if the imperatives for a sustainable maintenance of your Mankov blankets and the implicit attracting set rests upon minimizing surprise and the expected surprise that underwrites your
planning is literally uncertainty or entropy. The expected self invasion is the entropy. What that means is we are all in the game of choosing those actions that minimize uncertainty.
And coming back to what we're talking about before about the counterfactual, we have to choose between different actions. And if we have many, many more actions available, then necessarily there's going to be an entropy or uncertainty over what we're going to do.
And that can be crudely and that has been associated with angst. So if I, if I represent that and I have that hypothesis, what state of mind am I in? And I now don't know what to do next.
That is anxiety. And that has direct physiological and neuroendocrine consequences.
So if that is true, what that means is if I've got too many choices, and I cannot trust which, which, what actions to make, I cannot trust the differential reliability of various sources of information because this over connectivity that necessarily
distributes the probability mass over all the things I could do that necessarily increases my anxiety. So you're looking at the, the way that we select sources of information for building our world models and our beliefs as a problem of
activity is selecting the right kind of data places, you know, whether this is just an eye movements, you know, from moment to moment or whether it's actually subscribing to a particular news channel or social group, making that that is an action, and it's an action
that I'm currently in the service of trying to maximize the expected information gain that depends upon the quality on the precision of the information. If that job is made almost impossible, because there are so many people shouting at me as an adolescent.
You can see immediately how one this would lead to a a pernicious and irreducible uncertainty about how to act and select the right, the right sources of information or points of reference or role models that will itself then produce a
self model that is imbued with anxiety and angst and just knowing not knowing what to do next. So that was the kind of pathology I was talking about right at the beginning when I was talking about over connectivity.
If you just, if it's just your teacher and your mother and your father, and your, your priest, depending upon your, your culture, and you in view them with an epistemic trust, then this issue goes away.
But that does require very sparse, much more familial kind of interaction and belief sharing and evidence accumulation. Is that the sort of, yeah, we didn't get as far as talking about juries and the legal systems use of influence. That's itself an interesting issue.
Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. I think it's one to to sort of work through and take forward. So really, really helpful. Thank you.
I think we are done, Jonathan.
