And then at a certain point, once you understand that system completely enough, you can extend
it a little bit, which, you know, in the postdoc level, you take the current whatever the field
is and extend it a tiny bit after proving that you understood it perfectly.
People who got a lot of praise and a lot of success and identity around never making any
mistakes and getting everything perfect are not oriented to do things that have a very
high risk of failure.
That's great, dude.
So true.
So when when kids are praised for getting things right, you fuck them up because a number of things.
One, so think about this.
In general, all the praise that kids get is when they do something that the authority wants them to do and has already
designated as right and good and true, right?
So whether it's the teacher, the preacher, the parents, they get praise for doing what someone else
wanted them to do.
They almost always get punishment for doing things that made sense to them that they wanted to do.
So this is how you condition people to be good, you know, cogs within an authoritarian system where we
defer our own agency, our ability to assess the world in our own agency to somebody that knows better than
us and the teacher, the preacher, the parent, right?
They all represent that.
And then it becomes the boss and the, you know, macro economy, the state, the et cetera, writ large.
And so if we want people that actually can really be innovative, we can't train them that way.
We have to train them to self assess and self initiate and not actually get hits of praise from getting
something right that others already figured out.
And when we do that, like oftentimes there's a kid who becomes a spelling bee champion or math
genius, because they just happened to fucking figure out like how spelling works or how math
works, and they got so much praise for it that, and they weren't getting enough unconditional love
otherwise that they were optimizing for the extrinsic reward associated with the math of getting the
praise, even though they might actually hate math or be not terribly interested in math, they just
happened to get it.
If you didn't do that, then you might find math is all right, but they're actually fascinated by art.
And so then they can become very good at something they have no passion for.
And it's all based on extrinsic motive that is damaging intrinsic motive.
Wow.
Wow.
Do you have kids?
I don't have kids.
Like you'd be a great dad, dude.
I was picturing your kids, man, they're going to be so well developed.
If and when you have them.
I don't, I don't, I don't either.
I think partially because I'm like terrified of not doing a good job of it because I still feel like
I'm doing so much work on myself.
But it's, it's interesting to think about a generation of people close to our age that have an
understanding of things in this way that can actually usher in the next generation of human that is
allowed to express their full potential without being confined into this system.
And, and most of the people that have the deepest have had the deepest expiration about the nature
of reality either aren't having kids because they see how much is wrong with the world and they're
applying that creative and parental energy to try and dissolve problems in the world where they
don't feel secure enough in the world with nuclear war looming again for the first time and macro
economic collapse and climate change, et cetera, to want to bring kids in.
So, yeah.
So, okay, so moving on into, I mean, I, there's so much, I mean, there's literally so much done
back in any one of these topics, but there's so many things I want to cover with you.
But the education thing definitely piqued my interest just learning that you're homeschooled, but
you're a really bright guy.
So where's the connection and that's making sense.
Now, what about, I see, I didn't go to college.
To me, higher education was moved to Hollywood, plan a band, deal drugs done.
I mean, I had it figured out.
So I thought, I think I went to LACC for like two weeks.
I took health and which, you know, later, I guess came to serve me.
Violin made it two weeks and I took health and classical guitar.
I was like, oh, cool.
I'll learn how to play rad guitar.
I go in and they're like, oh, we're going to learn how to read music.
I was like, no, that's math.
I'm out.
But when I look at higher education now, just from what I see in social media, there's this just
where we are culturally is so interesting because this millennial generation, I read
something the other day, for example, that they surveyed a bunch of millennials and 50%
of them indicated that they would prefer communism over capitalism, you know, and there's this
whole postmodernism and Marxist ideas and all this, to me, really crazy stuff that
they seem to have seeped its way into higher education and have this generation of kids
that are in this weird Orwellian 1984 thought police, political correct insanity.
Like, what's the deal with that right now?
And do you know what I'm talking about?
And do you think that this has been perpetuated intentionally?
Or is this just a natural progression of A plus B equals C and how things have carried on?
All right.
That's it.
Like quite a few really deep topics mixed together that really need kind of unwound.
Yeah.
So postmodernism has one topic in its relationship to higher education.
Okay.
The trend of higher education writ large and the other issues beyond postmodernism, looking
at macroeconomy and questioning capitalism and looking at other macroeconomic systems
and generational dynamics that millennials are expressing are all important.
And they're somewhat tied, but they're also some different dynamics.
So in my classic interview style, I just ask six questions under one umbrella.
Yeah.
So take a stab at any part of that.
To me, I'm just, you know, I'm very zoomed out and I'm looking at things that I see
like that, like, wait, kids don't understand communism doesn't work.
How did we get there?
You know, it's just, it's so bizarre to me in this whole, I don't know, the climate
of so there's a free speech being crushed unless the people agree with you.
Like this sensitive snowflake, weird safe space, whole college thing.
Okay.
So the issue, as I see it, is actually quite nuanced and complex.
And most of the reactionary simplistic takes on it are part of the problem.
So let's explore this nuance.
All right, cool.
So let's take the issue of race, which is right at the heart of that topic.
We can look at race.
We can look at gender.
We can look at transgender LGBTQ.
We can look at any of those dynamics that are part of the, the identity
politics part you're bringing up.
Right.
Now this is related to postmodernism and it derives some of its intellectual
basis from postmodernism, but it's also related to some other key things.
So if we look at race and we look at Black Lives Matter or people of color
movement or et cetera, we have not ever properly dealt with the fact that this
country was, that this land that we call this country was fully inhabited by lots
of nations of people that we completely slaughtered to make this land.
Right.
It was, we're going, we're getting taxation without representation in London.
We don't want to be here anymore.
So we're going to go somewhere else and hey, look, there's a whole continent
that's totally free because we have better military than equipment than they do.
So we can kill all those people and take that whole land.
There's a real moral fucking problem to having your moral legitimacy as the
United States of America and the beautiful constitution declaration of
independence being based on genocide.
And we're pretty happy to acknowledge like after Germany's genocide, they're
fucked up, right?
There's a whole cultural thing.
But our genocide was not that long before and it was more people.
It was a lot more people.
Wow.
That's interesting.
And it was the genocide of the Native American people employing the slavery
of the Africans and we mean real fucking slavery, like captured the people by
military force, killed lots of them, tortured and killed lots of them, lynching,
et cetera.
And we, we, like, we don't want to really acknowledge that this country was
built with that.
It was built with a pretty decent amount of Chinese slavery, a lot of
African slavery and one major genocide.
All right.
So then we've got, you know, we have to fight a war to finally get rid of
slavery not that long ago, like really not that long ago, where there are old
people alive today that still remember elements of slavery dynamics, right?
Like that's a big deal to get.
But then, okay.
So we abolish slavery without abolishing the mindset that was associated with it.
So a lot of people didn't want to go on.
So then we've got Jim Crow and segregation and all that.
And then we kind of overturn that, kind of, right?
But slaves actually economically work really well.
It's kind of nice to be able to have people do all the shit work and not get
paid and be able to concentrate the profit margins.
And as soon as you don't want to do that with the slaves, now people got to take,
you know, other people have to take the shit jobs and who wants the shit jobs.
And now you have to dilute the profit margin to pay minimum wages.
So there's a lot of people that just didn't like that, right?
For legitimate understandable reasons.
And they could justify making another group of people different enough that
slavery was better than their own sacrifice in that zero-sum game dynamic, right?
Or near zero-sum game dynamic.
And then we have, okay, so now it's not full segregation legally, but that
mindset's still there.
And the people who are coming out of segregation have generations of trauma
and no education and no inheritance, right?
As opposed to people who are coming from generations of education, inheritance,
and not the same types of trauma.
So we have the ghetto phenomena and what that means.
And we know how epigenetic trauma works now generationally, right?
We know how mimetic trauma works.
And so then we look at, do we still have a system of systemic injustice?
Fuck yes.
We still have a system of systemic injustice.
And any white person who wouldn't just trade to be black recognizes that the
ethics of the pie slice theorem aren't in place, right?
Pie slice theorem is if it's just, there is a symmetry, right?
Between you and I, which is all cut the slice of pie and you get a pick which side.
But I don't get a cut and pick, right?
If I cut and pick there's something fucked up, or you can cut and I'll pick.
But anyone who says I wouldn't want to trade positions with the other person,
but they should be fine with it, there's a problem.
And that's, that's the dynamic here.
So there is a real response to unresolved trauma that is still affecting things.
Now that said, the response is coming from a place that is largely influenced by
trauma rather than clear strategy and trauma usually perpetuates itself.
And so if a bunch of people with black lives matter saying, hey,
there are real issues where, where there are a lot of black people who are getting
killed by police for reasons that are totally unfounded and then not getting
prosecuted in the same way, not getting attention in the same way.
Like that's a real deal.
And how does anyone go about trying to go to school and feel safe when you can be
going to school doing all the right things and, and have that kind of dynamic occur?
All right.
So then they go shut down a freeway out of like upset and anger or whatever.
And then while that's trying to get attention for something that is real,
it is strategically problematic, right?
Because then you have the alt right largely arising as a response to those
type of dynamics saying, look, our way of life that we care about is being threatened.
And look, these people are rioting and causing chaos and whatever.
They're validating our ideas about them not being strategic good thinkers, et cetera.
And so, and because of a postmodern dynamic that in general, the progressive
