left has, it makes it harder for them to cohere because they want to validate
everyone's perspective because they're suffering, they're still in response to
the pain of imperialism or one perspective is imposed on everyone.
So part of the response is to say, hey, fuck, everybody actually has a perspective
and the perspective that you're saying is just true because it's science or whatever.
A lot of our social science that arose at the same time as our physical science
was actually just imperialism.
And so postmodernism emerged amongst I'm radically simplifying here.
Postmodernism emerged with a partial meaningful truth, which was to say,
this is just objectively true.
This is science.
We did the right epistemology subjectively true and it's true for everybody.
Doesn't acknowledge that especially as we get into the social sciences,
there's a shit ton of bias, right?
And so, you know, we went looking for monogamy and pair bonding in the animal
kingdom because of Victorian age ideas that actually made us do.
Zoology badly, right?
And so we like we see that kind of thing.
Everywhere.
So postmodernism said actually different perspectives on reality, running different
experiments, end up yielding different kinds of insights.
And we still know that are you healthiest on a vegan diet or a paleo diet?
I can show you just as much fucking research on both of those that look at
different metrics, right?
And so whether I'm looking at pH or I'm looking at insulin levels or I'm looking
at telomere level, like I'll get different answers and also which populations.
But when I try and reduce health to some finite set of metrics and there's a
million fucking metrics that we can't calculate, I can get a lot of partial
answers that seem like the whole answer and seem like complete science because
I'm studying a very complex system in a very simplistic way.
So bias is very easy when you try and set a complex system in a simple way
because your metrics look really fucking clear.
They just don't happen to be all the metrics that matter.
And so postmodernism acknowledged that and said, Hey, all the perspectives
actually have to be factored.
Now there was a kind of virulent version of that that didn't acknowledge.
They're all the perspectives should be acknowledged, but they're not all going
to be equally true.
Some of them can have distortion in them.
So we need to be able to bet for distortion and all the perspectives are
going to be less different in simpler systems.
So in chemistry, the epistemology is more straightforward than it is in social sciences.
And some of the virulent version of postmodernism just started rejecting
truth writ large, right?
Like any claim of truth is an imperialist claim and nobody can claim truth.
And all perspectives are equally true.
And, but we can see that that was a virulent version of an appropriate
response to the way that science, imperialism, capitalism, along with
fucking like, you know, colonialism, right?
All kind of co-emerged and trying to untangle those was like part of the goal there.
So if you actually read Foucault or Derridaugh, there's a meaningful good
thinking in there.
Most of what you see happening that tries to intellectually reify itself with
those people is not actually being done very well, but that's because trauma is
influencing a lot of it.
But then on the other side, we've never actually taken responsibility to deal
with that trauma was created.
So when I say it's nuanced, it is, and it's a really big deal.
Because if we look at the alt, the alt right and the control left, they have
moved to a level of polarization and radicalization that is very hard to
imagine how that reconciles.
And with a tremendous amount of fear on both sides and trauma on both sides.
And associated with that, the desire for secession from the nation, the desire
for whatever that leads to war in a world where our military technology is
that we don't get to make it through wars the way we did in the past.
And so the idea, hey, look, we fought a war with the British to come get this
area and it worked well.
Yeah, we had fucking muskets, right?
And as the military technology goes up, it becomes more and more problematic.
And when we get to the level where you have decentralized, exponential
technology, which is where we're at right now, we don't get to make it through wars
anymore.
And humanity has always had different dynamics that led us to polarization
and radicalization and then war.
And we have to actually learn how to fucking deal with that.
And part of it is we have to be able to understand how to take multiple
perspectives that have partial truth, that the not successful parts, you know,
find the successful parts and figure out how to do dialectic, how to do
synthesis and be able to find a solution that doesn't just solve for some
things while externalizing harm to something else that's affected, but
actually solve for the whole set.
Okay, so that's just the postmodernism snowflake part.
That makes perfect sense.
Because to me, looking from the outside, I'm like, I see the trauma and I see
that these young people that are wrapped up in that ideology, I see them as victims,
you know, but I didn't think about the past.
I'm just like, you're victims of a perspective that you've adopted, I guess,
because there was trauma.
And I'm just like, God, I feel so bad that this kid thinks that communism works.
I mean, it's just like.
Okay, so now I want to address this part.
Yeah.
When in the depression, there were people openly in the streets discussing
socialism, Marxism, laissez-faire capitalism, because the system was failed.
Right, in a failed state, people are open to like look at any possibility.
We are very near a failed state.
And we're actually very near a failed civilization globally.
So when you look at climate change and the fact that we can't fucking get it
right, right, like we can't get it right, we, we keep driving ourselves towards
the point of self-induced catastrophe and possibly extinction.
And despite the fact that the Club of Rome identified this over shooting
limits in the sixties, right, and, and limits of growth in the world through
models, despite the fact that it's been called out and we're, we're following
the model, we keep progressing on the motherfucking model, right.
The Paris Accord was not enough for us to make it.
We would have, everything would have been fucked if we did the Paris Accord
and we couldn't even do that, right.
And so, and that's driven mostly by our current structure of capitalism.
Because if I over fish the ocean, right, if I use a mile long drift net and I
take all these fucking fish out of the ocean, that's more money for my
fishing company this quarter and leaving them in the ocean is worth nothing to me
economically.
Now it's worth something in the future, but the other guy's going to fish
him out if I don't fish him out.
So it's not like I can leave him there for the future.
So it is a competitive race for near term wins, mortgaging the future.
So we make 13 species a day extinct on average.
We've fished out 90% of the large fish species from the ocean on a three
quarter water planet that took three billion years to get all that fucking
life and in a hundred years of industrialized fishing, we've fished
out 90% of the large fish species, extincted many of them, 80% of the
old growth trees gone.
That's capitalism working really great.
Not working really great, right.
We're on the verge of a very realistic AI apocalypse where we should be
developing the AI very slowly.
We should be very intelligently looking at what it, because unlike, you
know, when, when Edison's working on a light bulb and light bulb fails, it
just doesn't work.
Maybe it blows up.
No big deal.
You do it inside of a container.
You work on AI and it fails and sometimes it doesn't work and sometimes
it kills everything because it is an auto poetic tech.
It is a self organizing, self authoring tech light bulb business.
It works or it doesn't work, but it's built on the outside.
But, but biotech, right, where you make a new fucking life form and now it
replicates and it does its own mutation, that is a self replicating tech
where if you get it wrong, you don't get to stop it.
And nuclear wasn't, right?
Nuclear is a reaction and then it stops.
It's really bad, but nanotech, biotech and AI are auto poetic, self
replicating tech that might be, depending upon how we do them, in
commensurate with biological life as we understand it with faster
feedback loops than us.
Now we should develop that as slow as fucking possible because the
upsides are awesome, but we should do it in highly controlled, safe to fail
environments, but all of the fiscal incentive is getting to market first.
That's a capitalist incentive who gets to market first, where we're in a race
towards the cliff and the arms race is the same thing.
Why do we have when Carl Sagan showed us in the early 80s that it only took
four 100 megaton bombs to kill all life on earth with a nuclear winter, why
do we have 600 times that many?
Like why the fuck do you keep making nukes after you have enough to kill
everything down to viruses?
Because if you have a for profit military industrial complex where you have
a source of supply where you need to manufacture more demand to keep your
supply going, it's not like supply and demand is a real thing.
There's an initial demand, you create a supply, but now you have supply and
you manufacture artificial demand, which is why we buy all kinds of shit that
doesn't make us happy that we think will make us happy because marketing
creates artificial demand.
So capitalism is actually broken existentially.
So there are people who learned that, okay, Marxism had some nice ideas and
there were some good ideas that didn't actually end up working out that well.
No, of course, if we really go study it, we never implemented Marxism, just like
we've never implemented laissez-faire capitalism.
We've implemented weird models of capitalism.
And by the time the USSR came around, it was nothing like Marxism for a bunch
of reasons, but Marxism doesn't actually work at scale.
It works, that kind of model works at 150 person tribal model, it doesn't
extend beyond it.
Capitalism did seem to work, but at the cost of radical externality.
That externality, when you get to this many people in this much tech, actually
self-implodes.
So what has worked up to this point worked, worked at the, but when we say it
worked up to this point, we have been utilizing unrenewable resources moving
towards the point of criticality the whole time.
And it has required war, right?
And it has led to diseases we didn't have before because of environmental
devastation and et cetera.
And we have a world where today almost everyone has low grade mental illness.
Like ubiquitous addiction, ubiquitous low grade anxiety, existential angst, fairly
decent low grade depression, right?
These are not natural to the human condition.
Tribal people don't have this shit in the same way.
So we say it worked, defined work.
This is optimizing for some metrics at the expense of others in a complex system.
So the fact that there are people questioning, is there a fucking better
system than this?
Because we're not fixing climate change in the system where it's still more
profitable to do the fucked up thing.
The perverse incentive is ubiquitous in healthcare.
Why do we do biohacking stuff?
Like why doesn't healthcare prevent diseases?
Because there's no fucking money in preventing diseases.
There's a lot of money in treating them.
There's not that much in curing them, but there's a lot in treating them forever.
So what is going to get researched when the money goes in, has to have ROI back
out in the capitalist system?
