Although it's not a true connection, but like a direct message or a Facebook message
is like, oh my God, I've struggled with X, Y and Z and I've been listening to your show
and now I'm getting over it.
I mean, it's like, well, OK, my life has meaning and purpose finally.
And not to say that being a plumber or working construction or working in a gas station
or whatever wouldn't as well because, you know, there's people needed
in all of these different areas, but to do the thing that I really love to do.
It's been so fulfilling and it directly helps people on a on a really deep level.
So God, man, that's funny.
I was just going to like touch on like just sprinkle on a couple of things
that we went into and yeah, I have a feeling weird.
I'm going to have to be coming down a lot if you'll if you'll have me
because there's many conversations that need to the need to happen.
But I definitely want to get into, you know, Neurohacker Collective,
what you guys are doing, qualia, just getting now that we sort of created
a framework and a reason that someone would want to optimize themselves.
Is other than just like, well, now I can get more stuff for myself
and be happier for myself, but to actually, you know, be a piece of biology
and consciousness that can go out into the world and have some discernment
in terms of what I want to put my energy into or not.
So how did Neurohacker Collective come to be
and what are you guys all about for those that are unfamiliar?
Yeah, so there's a few founders
and they all had interesting different stories that kind of came together.
I'll share mine here is so I was running a think tank
that was working on the types of issues we're talking about, social issues.
How do we actually have civilization self-organized as well?
And so one of the things we noticed, pretty easy to notice,
is that all the problems we want to solve are problems that are caused by human action,
whether we're looking at species extinction or climate change
or female general mutilation or war, like this or human behavior,
or mod topics, right?
And so how do we get, how do we support humans to behave in ways
that are good for themselves and good for the whole simultaneously
without directly or indirectly causing harm?
So then it's the question is, what are all the things that influence human behavior?
Obviously, we talked about economics.
If a particular action is incented, it's pretty hard to prevent it, right?
So how do we create an economic system where the whale is not worth more
than it is alive if we don't, if we want to have any whales?
That's a big topic, right?
How do we create, you know, social systems and tech influences our behavior,
our environment influences our behavior, our psychology, our worldview,
our definition of what is fundamentally meaningful to us?
But our biology also influences our behavior.
And everybody who has ever had a, you know, a pretty significant sickness
or even just had their hormones out of balance or a hangover knows
that your physiology can go into a state that affects your psychology
and your cognitive capacity and disposition significantly,
where if your neurotransmitters are off or your hormones are off or et cetera
in a particular way, accessing gratitude or happiness or hope,
it might be very, very hard and staying out of anger, frustration, et cetera,
it might be very hard.
And that's going to affect behavioral, not only their own suffering,
but also behavioral predispositions.
Same with complex thinking.
I've actually got to be able to have a decent working memory to be able
to hold multiple perspectives at once and synthesize them.
If I don't have enough working memory to hold multiple perspectives at the same
time, I'll default into a simplistic perspective.
So, right, which is why malnourished people are so easy to brainwash, right?
That is a part of it.
And, and so the, you know, the thing we started looking at there is how does
physiology affect human predisposition, not just their own experience,
but how likely they are to behave violently or behave charitably,
psychopathy, empathy, you know, types of dynamics and also the ability
to understand complex things, the emotional resilience to hang in with them
in difficult times.
And as we're understanding more about mind-brain interface,
there is a bi-directional interface, both influence each other.
As we're looking at the way the brain and the physiology affect the mind,
right, the emotion and the cognitive dimensions, we, it's not just a genetic
like, oh, you're, you have a genetic predisposition for psychopathy,
therefore you're a psychopath.
Typically, the genetic predispositions for a psychiatric thing are, are genes
that do something like process a specific nutrient, right?
Like we'll, we'll look at psychiatric issues from genes that process the
methylation of a B vitamin or the excretion of a mineral like copper
and zinc or something.
And so if those nutrients are necessary for a specific type of brain function,
like empathy or impulse control, and they're not being processed well,
then you might not be able to have impulse control.
And what, what we actually can do about it is without changing your genome,
just actually say, oh, the gene that would code for the transform of this
vitamin isn't happening.
We can just give the post-transform version of the vitamin and that mental
illness is actually better.
So this is the kind of field of integrative psychiatry and psychopharmacology.
And I started seeing how many of the dynamics that address the world have a
physiologic component to them and starting to look at, could we up-regulate
the neural networks that mediate empathy, that mediate impulse control,
that mediate emotional resilience, that mediate complex thinking,
that mediate a sense of agency so that human bio-hardware was not only
predisposed to feel better, but also predisposed to have increased capacity
and behave in ways that are fundamentally more, you know, pro-social,
which just does correspond with healthier too, right?
And it's interesting because we're evolving in a social environment,
healthy people are pro-social, right?
Think about a psychopath in a tribe doesn't make it very well, right?
They're going to get killed or taken out of the tribe or they're going to get
better, but they don't actually get to be in a social, deep social environment
without pro-social behavior and work.
And so Neural Hacker started for me with a deep exploration into understanding
how we can affect human physiology in ways that decreases suffering,
increases capacity and positive disposition.
The first product we launched, Qualia, was one of many.
And this next year, a bunch of the additional ones are coming out in various categories.
Oh, cool. Oh, I'm excited.
And the reason...
I don't want to get into the Qualia thing because people,
I get a lot of inquiries about it and I'm so into it.
But we'll go into that so a little of the framework,
but I definitely want to cover that because it's exciting.
So in a world where we have so much distraction from all of the things
going off from social media and on the phone and et cetera,
with so much hyper-competitive pressure to try and produce,
almost everyone has a pretty strong sense of pressure to want to be able
to focus better and to be able to have more sustained attention and get
it done while having a pretty significant challenge doing that.
And not only the, you know, focus issues like from distraction,
but insufficient nutrients that are necessary,
certain kinds of toxic exposure that affects the brain, you know, et cetera.
So so we see this ramp in energy drinks, so more and more caffeine
and then smart drug usage.
And and so with smart drugs in particular,
which in contra distinction to brain nutrients are things
that you would just get from a normal healthy diet,
but we probably don't get enough because of depleted topsoil and whatever else.
Right. And those are just nutrients that in our evolutionary environment
were necessary for brain function.
Now, we also didn't try to do 12 hours of productive work
that was cognitive, pertinent and evolutionary environment.
So we're using nutrients differently.
So we might have increased nutrient need.
We've obviously got radically decreased topsoil density.
Interesting. Right.
So going out and collecting acorns for a couple of hours that day
or hunting for rabbits or whatever is quite different from sitting down
and solving the complex problems that we are in this technological age.
So we're interested, you know, deficiencies, pretty rampant,
different kinds of toxicity, like, you know, just volatile organic compounds
in this paint and this carpet are, you know, there's hundreds of VOC's
in the air that we're breathing, just normal stuff, right?
Let alone industrial pollution, the atmosphere and glyphosate
and agriculture and whatever else.
And they're almost all either carcinogens or neurotoxins
or endocrine disruptors and like it's a significant issue.
So we've basically, as tool builders, we built a world that we're not adapted for.
And so how do we deal with that?
We were looking at the cognitive issues, one of the first ones.
There are many we looked at, you know, issues related to anxiety and depression
and pain and addiction and sleep.
And those are all things we'll talk about.
But, you know, we saw this meteoric rise of energy drinks.
So they're doing $15 billion domestically per year of, you know,
300 milligrams of caffeine at a time.
And God knows what else, man.
Anytime I see someone drinking one of those things, I'm just like,
because you every once in a while in a 7-Eleven, I'll just pick something up.
Not like I'm going to buy it, but I just read the ingredients out of just morbid curiosity.
And I'm like, oh, my God, it's like so toxic, man.
So, you know, the artificial flavors, sweeteners, colors are not adding to brain health.
Dude, and just the thing when you go buy a drink is the water.
It's fluoridated tap water.
In most cases, that's really the bulk of what you're getting.
And when you buy a 12-ounce, whatever drink, you're drinking a bunch of tap water.
So you've got, you know, that kind of rise.
Then you see with smart drugs, obviously we have a lot of people on prescription,
Adderall, Wellbutrin, Vyvance, Mdaphanel, for psychiatric disorders, for cognitive disorders.
And there's a pretty big question about what percentage of those actual
prescription cases are good for people.
I'm stating that conservatively.
But then we have all the people on off-label use, which is not even prescribed.
They're just black market universities, midterm and final Adderall sales everywhere, right?
And even Wellbutrin, Daphanel, lots of different things.
And so estimate is something like $15 billion a year also in off-label smart drug sales,
something like $5 billion in Adderall.
And they work, right?
Like they work for a very narrow set of metrics.
So if I want to focus, get my midterm done or my tech start up or whatever it is,
the dopamine-ergic dynamics from the Adderall are going to make me focus better
and have more motivation and more drive.
Now, some of the interesting things that we find is because it's just modifying dopamine
and not looking at acetylcholine and how it's involved in memory, not looking at glutamate,
not looking at all of the rest of neurochemistry and not even looking at all of the dopamine
process, just typically one small part that one synthetic molecule is going to override,
you get certain effects and certain side effects and certain missing effects, right?
So we get increased focus, but we don't get increased memory.
We actually get decreased memory of certain kinds of Adderall, decreased creativity
and then decreased empathy, increased anxiety, aggressiveness,
sometimes depersonalization, derealization, decreased task switching, you know, et cetera.
These are really important things.
And so, and because even insofar as we're affecting dopamine,
we're just overriding a regulatory system, providing a whole bunch of an in-chain chemical,
not actually saying how does the system regulate its own dopamine and how can we support it to do that,
then we're going to create dependence and addiction.
And so these were the things that I saw was a scaling amount of dependence and addiction
and very narrow positives with a lot of the positives that were necessary, missing
and meaningful side effects.
So the question in that space, we worked with people in an integrative medical,
