clinical environment to when we had their genomics, we had their blood labs,
we had brain scans to customize chemistry that helped them tremendously.
So we knew we could do that.
And the question was, can we do that at scale without personalization?
Which I didn't know because personalization is a big deal and we're working towards
methods to build a personalize.
There are some things that I just won't do widely because they have to be personalized.
They're so different person to person.
So we don't have any type of folate or folic acid because whether someone should be
on a methylated or non-methylated folate makes such a really big difference that we just don't
fuck with that axis if we can't personalize it.
But there are a lot of axes that everyone who is self-selecting into a particular kind of thing
like something for cognitive enhancement do pretty well across the whole board.
So high success and well tolerated.
So what we wanted to do with quality was say, can we make an alternative so that people don't
have to go to just tremendous amounts of caffeine or off-label smart drugs or just suffer
without the ability to focus that will actually help them in what they're looking for with
enough subjective effect that they actually feel it and that will actually have a much
wider host of positive effects that we're getting focus and concentration and drive.
But also emotional resilience and task switching and creativity and analysis and synthesis.
And so we started by doing a kind of cognitive map of what are all of the states and all of
the capacities that people are looking for when they're really wanting to do productive work.
And then saying, what are the underlying physiologic pathways that mediate those that we
know about from the various neuroscientific and bioscience fields?
And then can we understand how those systems work?
So how does the body regulate dopamine?
So as you start to look at it, you say, all right, so protein comes in dietarily, gets broken
down to amino acids, phenylalanine converts into tyrosine, converts to emicidal tyrosine,
converts to L-dopa, crosses the blood-brain barrier, converts to dopamine in a presynaptic
neuron, transport a protein down an axon, crosses a synapse, has to get by synaptic enzymes
that will break it down in different ways, hydroxylase and MAOB and COMT and et cetera.
And then goes into one of a few dopamine receptors.
There's intercellular dynamics that are involved.
So you just start to look at that and say, how does the body do this thing on its own?
And are there deficiencies in any of those key nutrients or transform factors or things
that are oftentimes under-fully supported that we can support?
And that would be just looking at dopamine, right?
Then you do that with acetylcholine, then you look at glutamate, then you look at functions
like neurogenesis, bodies continuously developing new neurons are the things that actually
support increased neurogenesis or neurotophagy, killing old neurons better so you don't have
synapsic neurons.
So we looked at what are the host of things people are looking for that are healthy states
and capacities?
What is the underlying physiology involved?
How does that physiology naturally regulate and what might we be able to do to support
the natural regulatory systems so that people both have a more complete positive state and
that rather than create dependence, right, they're on it for a while, we overrode their
regulatory system and now there's addiction, that it actually is supporting the robustness
of the regulatory system so that when they get off it, there is elevation from baseline
that lasts, right, the exact opposite of side effect and the exact opposite of dependence.
So that was our goal and so we did hundreds of iterations, bunch of testing, you know,
after doing full literature review, database of 500 notropic chemicals and looking at the
pathways of them and then looking at positive synergies, negative synergies, delivery mechanisms
and we ended up getting to this formula, you know, that's there right now which over a
large enough number of people, over a large enough amount of time, tested well enough
that we were actually really happy with it and so that's that first product and the goal
there was to be able to support people having increased productive capacity, right, increased
cognitive clarity and the associated emotional states like resilience and drive that was
actually not bad for people and good for people. Now, I can't claim that we know that because
we haven't done long enough term trials with enough metrics with enough controls to claim
all of it but, you know, we've done preclinical trials with pre and post brain scans and biometrics
and seen, you know, really meaningful statistical correlation change and we've had, I don't
know, 40,000 people over three years where we're collecting data from what their experience
is and so we were very happy about that and that's the first product and, you know, what
it kind of is is a complex approach because our brain is a complex system, our body is
a complex system so rather than here's one molecule to override it, it's how does it
self-regulate and can we support it self-regulation across many related axes. Now, if we were
going to approach anxiety, we would do it the same way, if we were going to approach
pain rather than, you know, just some NSAID or opiate, we would do it the same way. How
does the body naturally produce its own opiates? How does it naturally deal with inflammation?
How does it, and can we support those dynamics? If we were going to work with sleep, we'd
do it the same way. So those are...
This is exciting.
I can't wait to see what you guys are coming up with next. So there's a couple of things
in there that I really like is that you guys really were very thoughtful about the synergy
between the different compounds. I think there's a lot of cowboys and Indians right now in
the new tropics phase as I'm sure you're aware where you see the same kind of formulations
on 10 different products and it's like one guy just looked at what the next guy's doing
on the label, oh yeah, I hear that's good for short-term memory, focus, cognition, whatever
blah blah and they just kind of throw those stacks out there without necessarily forethought
as to how those interact with one another, right? So you have one molecule and it does
one thing and let's just even say that that effect of that molecule is universal and you're
choosing ones that are kind of universally affecting people in the same way. But then
you combine that with other molecules and other ones and other ones and now you have
something totally different. You have a third party compound now, right? And so that can
go well or not based on self-experimentation. There's been times where I've taken too many
different things at the same time and too much of them and I'm having the opposite effect
where I can't focus and I'm actually, I feel like I'm freaking nuts because I took too
many smart drugs or whatever. I overdosed on Yo-Himby once, for example, just random,
like don't do that kids at home, you know, pay attention to the dosage and stuff. But
I think what's cool about qualia is that you really looked at how things relate to one
another, that you're not putting anything in there that's going to cause your body to
down-regulate its own production to the point where there's a dependency and oh my god,
now I can't make this neurotransmitter or whatever because it's been done for me for
so long. And then also that the whole basis of it is coming from what I like about the
company itself is that it's coming from this intention that we're trying to create people
with biology that runs better so there'll be better people. I mean, to me that makes
total sense. I had the flu a couple of months ago and I was in Colorado and I had to speak
at two events and they were pretty substantial for me and I was so sick, dude, and I could
not make myself be in a good mood. Like I literally just couldn't be happy, you know,
I was just depressed and even though my mind was right and I wasn't fighting it, I wasn't
like caught in some sort of negative spiral, I wasn't actually negative at all, I just
wasn't in a good mood. I didn't feel happy like I do right now because I wasn't firing
on all cylinders, you know, so I really think that you do have to approach your own development
from all sides. In other words, I can't be eating, you know, glyphosate and aspartame
and all this evil things that they put in food and just think I can meditate my way into
a higher consciousness while I'm destroying my biology. And in the same way I can't become
obsessed with herbs and superfoods and utropics and then be running around flipping people
off in traffic caught in my trauma issues, you know, it's like you have to kind of approach
it from all angles. So I like that you're not like, Hey, you guys, let's make a cool
vitamin that makes people better at computer work. It's like, no, we're have a larger scope
of vision, which is really cool. Now back to the qualia. It's been interesting to observe
the friends that I've turned on to it and you know, listeners of the show and stuff
like that is that I've, I've yet to have anyone say that they had a negative experience
as a result where with a lot of other new tropics, people say that it's too stimulating
or made them tired, made them like this, made them like that. So I've had no one report
back like, Oh my God, I felt horrible. And only a couple people that were like, man, I
didn't really notice anything. Yeah. So the majority of people that I've interacted with
that have tried are like, Oh my God, this is the best thing ever. Like where has this
been my whole life? Like an overwhelmingly positive experience. And that's what it's
been like for me too, which is one of the reasons I wanted to track you down. And I
found out there was so much more to your story than just being like, you know, a guy that
knows about new tropics. But for me, what's been interesting, speaking of especially the
the down regulation piece is that when I started, I took the full dose. I think it was three
of number one and six of number two. And I did that a lot. And it kind of just brought
me up to a nice base level. And then at a certain point, that became a little too stimulating.
And now I'm like, I take one number one, two number two, and I'm like, I feel great. There's
no need to even push it beyond that. So it actually has the opposite effect of building
up a tolerance say, right? That was intended. Yeah. So good job on that. Because with most
other things, you take it and you take it and you build up a tolerance, you need more
and more and then your body forgets how to make it and you end up in this imbalance.
But I think that there's just something really cool about what you've done. I'm going to
come back to the problems of capitalism for a minute. Yeah. Every MBA student learns one
of the first principles of business is maximize lifetime revenue of a customer. So you guys
are blowing it because now I'm like, I need to I was on auto ship of quality because I
was pounding so much. But now I'm like, actually, I'm getting too many shipments. I had to
stop that and just order when I run out because I'm going to run out. It's so you guys, your
business model is going against that theory. So you think about it from a, say I'm a pharma
company and there are MBAs that are looking at the financial instruments and making decisions,
right? I mean, at the financial metrics and spreadsheets and saying, okay, maximize lifetime
revenue of a customer, the things that treat symptoms forever. So we say depression is not
curable. You have a biochemical imbalance, which is like some magic term biochemical
balance with the fuck cause of it, right? Genetic, which is just a magic term for we
don't know or we haven't bothered to look at it in depth. And so we have to symptomatically
treat that forever. Heart disease always symptomatically treat that forever cholesterol. We're going to
treat the fucking all of them, right? So that's very good from a lifetime revenue point of
view. And if it creates side effects that need other drugs to resolve them, that's called a
cross seller and up perfect. And then if to maximize lifetime value, I want to start them as
young as possible. So we make up new diseases like ADD after we put into a little shitty desks.
And do they still make those desks like they had in the 70s? This little wooden prisons. So we
get them started as early as possible on an nitrogenic cycle, right? So pretty much everything
that happens in medicine, we want to do the opposite. If it causes addiction, we want to create
long term benefit of it causes side effects, we want the side effects to be comprehensively
positive. If the people have to stay on it, we want them to be able to get off of it, right?
Like that's the goal. And so really theory of market should not apply to medicine, because
people really can't choose to not participate with something that will make them better if they're
sick. And since they really can't choose not to do that theory of markets is a fucked up thing,
just like there shouldn't be for profit prisons, right? And so this was hard for us because and
is why we started with supplement as opposed to bigger things we could have done is because I
didn't want to take capital from any financial service places that would then bind us to doing
things that were unethical. So like our our cost of goods to make quality is more expensive than
most no tropics retail. And it's because if you want to use the right form, right, you use the
phosphorylated version of this and the methylated version of this and etc. And with the right
concentration of the dose, you notice you take nine fucking capsules. And that's not filler. It's
because it just takes that much of those things. It's just expensive. Now, and also the fact that
you guys aren't using excipients and binders and all that weird stuff, which I always notice right
away. I'm like, I go to the end of the label on a something like that. Yeah, there it is,
which means that you can't work with almost any manufacturers because that's what they need to
make it work in their machines. The magnesium, stearate and all this stuff, right? So all of that,
like doing the integrity thing is just a hard thing to make work fiscally. But like you have found
with your podcast, if you do, there will be people that are attracted to that thing and it can grow.
So that's what we're trying to do. That's cool. Yeah, the real deal. So in terms of the other
things that people typically use, I want to just run run a couple of these by you because I take
my qualia, I guess about five days a week. And as I said, it's been strange that my dosage has gone
down. It must be fixing me. That's the way I look at it. Like it's, it's connecting synapses or
something that were off and now they're, they're getting more in alignment. That's the way I look
at it. But there's other things too that depending on where I'm going, what I'm doing, I find to be
useful. So today, for example, I knew that I was going to have a very social day. I'm going to be
talking to you. I'm being interviewed on the way back home after this. So I did a number of
different things, one of them being a fennebot, for example, which I'll maybe do once a week or
something like that. And I just find it's just a really great social lubricant. And, and also took
some paracetam because I find that it really helps me with speech. So some of these other things
I'll do, but I could give Joe here paracetam and it'll give him anxiety. Or he won't notice anything.
Or I give someone else, I gave a girlfriend once fennebot and she probably took a little bit too
much, but she got deathly ill, you know, and on what I would take for this is like a sprinkle to me
to her. She was a bit smaller and just had this huge adverse reaction. Same thing. I'm a daphanel
is another one that I really like. And for me, I take an eighth, a dose of a daphanel for me is an
eighth of one tablet, right? So it's like a 200 milligram tablet. Once I took a half, I was like,
oh my God, I feel like I'm on crystal meth, not fun. A quarter, if I'm really, really tired, set me
straight. But if I just want to have a productive day and be relatively alert, just a tiny, tiny
little piece, which is about an eighth of a tablet does me, I've given it to friends. I say, man,
be careful. This is a, this is a drug. This is not an herb. Like go easy. They take a half. They're
like, I didn't feel anything. They take another half. They're like, man, I didn't notice anything.
Like, oh my God, if I took a whole midaphanel, I would be like, you know, scrubbing the freaking
bathroom floor with a toothbrush. I mean, I would be tweaking so hard. So what's up with some of
those, or you mentioned deprenel, I was on like low dose deprenel for a while. And I've tried a
lot of different things outside of the safe and more plant based stuff that you guys work with
in qualia. What are some of the other ones are even micro dosing on psilocybin, like that whole
other world of smart drugs and new tropics? What do you got to say about any of that? Sure.
Okay, so let's,
