So the fact that people are recognizing that and questioning is a very good thing.
Now, the fact that they try to find other things that didn't work as the answer is
just a basic, basically hopelessness and a lack of knowing how to go about
solving something so fucking hard.
So one of the core focuses of my life is what is the macro economy of the future?
What are the governance systems?
What are the civilization systems that can allow us to actually human together
well without needing to go to war and unrenovable use of resource and producing
ubiquitous mental and physical illness that's unnecessary and et cetera?
And it's not any system that has ever happened.
So we can get into that if you want to or we can go to other directions.
But also most of the young people who say communism, what they're really saying
is Denmark looks better than here.
Like that's a social kind of dynamic where better access to medicine
don't have a lot of homeless people.
Masters to PhD is average level of education, largely secular because of that.
Like the Nordic countries just look better.
They are just fucking better.
There's more socialized dynamics now.
Are they better on every metric?
No, if you look here, we have a tremendous amount of innovation here
because of certain types of freedoms and a tremendous amount of damage.
And our bell curve is very spread out.
And so for everyone who's not winning at this system to say nobody is losing
as bad in Denmark as they are here and there's a lot less of them
and they're not ruining the environment as fast and they're actually
figuring their trash problem out, maybe let's actually think about this.
And I'm actually not proposing Denmark as a solution.
I am saying there are a lot of things that are actually evidentially
better on meaningful metrics and things that are adequate to the scope
of what do we do with almost eight billion people and distributed exponential
technology don't yet exist.
Oh, my God, that was amazing.
That is a lot to unpack.
And it's funny because I've never actually talked about any of these issues
on the show.
It's always very much about meditation or mindfulness, spirituality
or just full on health stuff.
But I know that you have a systems approach.
So kind of zooming out and looking at like, whoa, what's even beyond
Hey, am I optimizing my sleep or taking, you know, how does my blood work look
this year?
I mean, this is stuff that goes way above and beyond that.
And where are we going from here?
Which is interesting.
I just think it, you know, I spurn the question because I knew that you'd be
someone that could answer it in a way that encourage more questioning.
But it's such an interesting time to be alive.
That's why sometimes it's hard for me not to deviate from my format and the basic
topics and get way off into this stuff because I'm watching things happen
that have never happened before as we all are, right?
It's just such a trippy time on earth.
And there's so many positive things going on.
And I feel that there's this massive awakening thanks to people like you
and shows like this and just the proliferation of information
through social media and through the internet.
But at the same time, it's so dark and we are on this, you know, as you said,
about to go over the waterfall.
I mean, we are at the precipice of absolute destruction.
Well, at the same time, there's this light that's really
I think we're in this sort of spiritual evolution at the same time.
It's just so interesting.
So let's just for a minute touch on the are we talking about
biohacking, meditation, spirituality, individual optimization?
Are we talking about interpersonal collective optimization?
Well, that's what I'm saying.
Normally on the show, it's more just subjective, each person optimizing
and then that rippling out into the community at large, right?
But we've sort of like zoomed out and are coming back in from the other
direction to see the systemic model.
Here's why we have to think about them together.
If we work on increasing our cognitive capacity and our energy and etc.
so that we can do more of what's killing the world, then we go extinct faster
because of it.
We're optimizing ourselves to like integrate into a system that is not working.
And that's most of it, right?
Like that's interesting.
We watched as we started, you know, Neurohacker, we were looking at
the amount of smart drug sales going up.
And smart drugs that increased hyper competing, increased
motivation and drive while decreasing empathy, decreasing creativity
and making hyper competing psychopaths like Madafino less like like Adderall.
Oh, Adderall, OK.
But Madafino can do things in that direction.
And it's different.
I just came to I don't do Adderall, but I do Madafino from time to time.
And when I'm on Madafino, I don't think I've become a bad person.
But I definitely I'm not interested in interfacing with other humans at all.
I'm like very task oriented and locked into whatever I'm doing,
which has its place, but it's definitely not like, hey, man,
I should go out and give some hugs right now.
It's like, get out of my way, don't interrupt me.
I'm focused.
So how do we this is the key thing is like, let's learn how to win
at the game that is killing the world.
No, let's not do that.
Right. Let's learn how to have the capacity to create a new game.
And that's I mean, like that's really the thing that I want to emphasize here.
And even the people who are winning at the current game are not.
Living happy, meaningful lives for the most part.
When we look at hypernormal stimuli, right, why it's so easy to get addicted
to sugar because in an evolutionary environment, we just didn't have sugar,
right? We had a little bit of fruit and the fruit was not hybridized.
So there was a major evolved dopamine reaction to get it because the caloric
density offered increased ability to survive a famine.
Now we have so much sugar, but we still have the same dopamine response.
That's a dangerous phenomenon, hypernormal stimuli.
And then we find that of course, social media is a hypernormal stimuli
because everybody's pictures are prettier than they actually are.
And everybody's liking you and you're liking them and you don't have to face
like real difficulties of interaction.
And it can be a huge number of people in a short amount of time.
And porn is a hypernormal stimuli.
And there's a whole generation of kids becoming adults who don't know how to
relate to women, who don't know how to have sex properly, who have issues
erectile and et cetera, because they have oversaturated a certain kind of stimuli
and normal stimuli are actually very insensitive to it, right?
And video games are hypernormal.
So we've had a world that's just all hypernormal stimuli, which is addiction,
which always corresponds with less fulfillment, right?
Because it's desensitizing you to actually getting pleasure from life.
And so you need the hypernormal stimuli to get the hit.
And so you need the whatever it is, however many likes that your thing gets.
And the hypernormal stimuli proliferates in the presence of hyponormal stimuli,
which is we don't live in a fucking tribe, which is our evolutionary environment,
where we actually have real authentic interactions with lots of humans regularly.
And so imagine in a tribe where you're dancing around the campfire regularly.
Most people find that when they go camping with friends,
they aren't checking their phone as much, right?
After the first day or two and the addiction kind of chills,
in the presence of more authentic fulfillment,
there is less emptiness pushing some hit.
And so the society we've optimized for is a hyponormal stimuli
to everything meaningful, where everybody's fucking lonely
and has some sense of meaninglessness and a lot of pressure together.
And so then in that place, addiction is going to run rampant.
And most people have 30 to 50 different addictive behaviors,
meaning compulsive shit they know isn't good for them, they keep doing.
Totally.
That's really interesting because in the model of the 12 steps,
which has been the most effective single thing in removing deadly addictions from my life,
the model there is what I think people from the outside of that model think is that,
oh, you go there and you quit drinking or you go there and you quit sex or overeating
or whatever it is, you go to some 12 step group.
And that that's what your problem is, but that you get there,
subjectively one gets there and you go, oh, shit, that was actually the symptom, right?
So I'm addicted to heroin.
Well, why?
Because of everything you just described.
So is this set of principles then going to just take that addiction away?
No, what it's going to do is it's going to give me a framework to live
by spiritual principles, ineffable laws, right, that I can apply to my life
to become more fulfilled.
And then the need for that thing that I was using goes away.
And it's the straight, I mean, I've experienced this again and again and again
using that model of getting the human connection and a spiritual connection and,
like, living by those principles that kind of keep your mind and emotions in check,
then the problem is removed.
And the principles represent a pretty small percent
and the human connection represents a pretty large percent.
Like the group dynamic and the group support.
I guess it's that tribe we're missing, right?
You walk into a room and there's 25 people in there that you might not know,
but you understand one another on a deep level because you've both suffered in the same way.
Think about it.
How many people get the blue book read on their own, apply the principles,
and quit their addiction?
Probably nobody.
Nobody.
That's funny.
Whether they join that group or they join the Christian group or they join whatever fucking,
it's mostly the fact that we are actually social primates,
right, involved in a tribal environment.
And so when in the 12 step thing, what's happening is the main thing happening in those rooms
is you have people having authentic sharing about things they don't normally get to share about.
So they feel seen, they see other people and there's real intimacy.
Right.
And most of the time, again, the world praised us for certain very narrow things
and we're optimizing for a lie all the time.
Now, just because this is adjacent to a topic I want to discuss,
this is one of the things that is most gruesome about social media.
And I'll say most gruesome about the topic of personal branding.
And I'm using the word gruesome, you know, acknowledging what a strong word it is.
I struggle with this a lot, so I'm looking forward to what you have to say.
When someone creates a brand as a business,
but even if not, they're just social media and there's a persona, right?
But let's take the brand as a very clear example.
They're now a life coach, they're a yoga teacher, they're an Instagram model,
they're whatever the fuck it is, right?
Which has become radically easier.
There used to be a few people did that with, based on the media tech,
now everybody gets to do some degree of this.
Then what happens is I have a feedback, I have an analytics mechanism
of how much people like my persona, which is how many likes the thing gets
and how many clicks and impressions and purchases, whatever, you know, thing.
And so I'm going to now split test optimize my persona based on what people are responding to
and they're going to respond to hypernormal stimuli.
And so the brand is going to get based on the financial driver,
based on the analytics, is going to evolve in the direction of what gets maximum engagement.
It's going to get further and further from who I actually am.
