mold. Oh my God, dude. So, but even things like, you know, the color and angle, right, all of these
end up affecting the psyche that's filled with environmental psych. So like, if you're in an
area where there's graffiti and trash on the ground in the walls, this kind of environmental
psych study has been done many times. If you just paint over the graffiti and clean up the trash,
violent crime drops like 30 to 50%. Wow. And it's because you think about what the environment's
transmitting when you're there is, one, this is a wasteland and I'm in survival mode. And two,
this is a place where law doesn't operate, right? Because laws have been broken and they're not
rectified. Right. And as soon as you fix those things, how violent human beings are is being
changed at the like 50% level by an environmental psych. Right. I've heard David Hawkins talk
about that. He called it the broken window theory, you know, you have a building in the ghetto and
it gets ignored and then someone breaks a window and then someone comes on breaks another window,
then comes the graffiti, then the drug dealers on the corner and never I never thought about the
kind of mechanics of it. That's very interesting. I guess it's like the level of consciousness
of anything. Could you say, would you bring it in that way? I would say that's a way of reducing
the complexity of it. Right. Which is kind of my thing. I interview people like you and go
squish that down into a bite-sized thought. But I mean, so if you go into a cathedral,
they're doing environmental psych. And so the sound and the smell and the visual and every
aspect of the sensory process is designed to uplift and exalt. But then specifically,
that it's narrow and very high has a certain effect that's different than if it was wide and high,
or if it was not high, right? Which is you're very focused on up. And so then you feel very small
and you can both have a sense of feeling, you know, and then the priest is halfway between you
and where Jesus is up there and where God is. And so both, I mean, if you want to look at the
cynical side of the, this is how you make a good authoritarian kind of dynamic where everybody
feels small with an authority up there, but also the beautiful, the mystical side of people feeling
a sense of awe and exaltation, right? The environmental psychology of how those buildings
are done in due state, right? Just like Burning Man induces state because of the environment,
periods. So what we are realizing is that we have built a world that we are not well adapted to,
right? And it's affecting us in a lot of ways that we didn't pay attention to that are mostly
not good for us. And so there is this task that you, and it's not good for the planet, right?
And it's not good for us. So there's this task of how do we rebuild the entire physical built world
in a way where the goal, the primary goal is not, you know, it being inexpensive or fast or
aesthetically beautiful. Those are all partial goals. The primary goal is that it is enlightening
the humans that are inhabiting it. How do you create a built world that makes the healthiest,
most enlightened, most pro-social human beings that are inhabiting it? And how do we rebuild
the entire world with that in mind? And in relationship to, you know, harmony with the
ecosystem. So that's the biohack that is most interesting to me.
That's amazing, dude. I love that. Really good way to sum it up.
All right. So closing question. Who have been three teachers or teachings that have
influenced your work where we might be able to go find more from them? Like who have you learned
from that we might go up and learn from as well? Specifically more related to individual health?
Just anything. Anything. Totally broad. Could be a book, teacher, philosophy, relative.
Preferably something that one could go look up or we can put in the show notes, you know,
Buckmeister Fuller, whatever, you know. Buckmeister Fuller would definitely be at the top of the list
and either operating manual for spaceship earth or critical path being the most approachable books on
understanding state of the world and how to think and how to design.
So that would be very high on the list. And then ordering three is impossible for me.
So I'll just say the ones that came to mind first. Yeah, yeah, that's the idea.
Finite and Infinite Games by James Kars is a great book that is,
it's a book that will help you understand both the future of economics, the future of worldview,
and very deep spiritual principles together from a game theoretic perspective.
And it's a small, easy read. Wow, cool. Is a great one. And then
the next one that came to mind was Anthony D'Amello, who's actually a Jesuit priest,
but was someone who studied all the world religions and traditions and spent most of his time in India.
A little book called The Way to Love. And it's a tiny little book and
principles of sovereignty. What does it mean to actually be whole and to be able to love from
a place of wholeness rather than this commodities exchange we usually call love of what do I have
to give someone to get the security and reassurance and validation I'm looking for and how will I
punish them if they don't do what I want. But because there is really no such thing as being
able to really love someone, which means to see them and want for them if you need them to be
something. Because you can't see them if you need them to be something else, right? And you
can't want for them if what's in their highest good isn't them meeting your needs. So loving from
a place of wholeness, it's a great little book. Damn, that sounds awesome. Those are good books.
All right, great. Thank you so much. Wow, fascinating. So much more research to do now.
Well, thank you so much for joining. Where would you like to send people in terms of
website, social media, any of that? Yeah, two things is if people are interested to learn
more about what Neurohacker is doing, easy, Neurohacker.com. If people are interested more in
some of the larger social topics, the economics, education, et cetera, I have a blog at
civilizationemerging.com and you can go check stuff out there. Awesome, great. We'll put those links
in the show notes. For those of you listening and you want the show notes for every episode,
please remember you can go to lukestory.com, forward slash newsletter, enter your email,
and we'll send them to you. So thank you so much for joining me. Do I look forward to doing it again?
