There'll be whole areas of who I am that I definitely don't share
because they will actually be anti-correlated to what gets the like hit.
And the more people are liking that thing now that I feel different
than the more depressed I feel, right?
The more addictive desire I have in that depression to go get a hit.
And put out another fucking thing that's going to get a few hundred likes.
And the more I feel like a fraud and a phony and that if anyone really saw me,
they wouldn't love me and I'm really unlovable and et cetera.
So in the 12 step room, the opposite of that's happening, right?
Someone is actually saying, I'm a fucking fuck up.
I just did all this dumb shit and they're like, I get it, me too.
Yeah.
Whoa.
A real human interaction just occurred.
Yeah.
And which is rare, which is really rare.
And this starts to be the basis.
It's not sufficient, right?
But it starts to be the basis of a human life that doesn't drive addiction
as a way to deal with the emptiness, right?
Remove the emptiness and then the need to run from it goes away.
It's interesting though, as you were talking about the social media persona
and the profile, because I've owned a company for nine years and it's a company.
It has its own identity and then myself and my partner were the drivers
or the face of that company at a certain point.
But then we've sort of phased out as we've gone in our own separate career
paths and things and mine's gone away from fashion.
So I really enjoy the process of building a brand and a personality and
coming up with your core values and the mission and it's a thing.
It's a living entity, which has been amazing.
But I really struggled when I started the podcast and decided to get out of
having this identity as a fashion stylist and a musician and all the things
that I was so identified with before that I just ran their course
or weren't my true heart's passion.
And so I decided to do this podcast and make this brand called Luke Story.
Have this thing the life stylist.
I really had a hard time with launching it.
It was about two years ago because I didn't know how real I wanted to be
or that I would have the courage to be and how forthcoming and just transparent
and authentic I wanted to be about my past and my struggles with addiction
and just current struggles and everything.
And so I kind of paused for a moment before I put anything out
until I really was sure that I was willing to accept a possible rejection
or other consequences of just being me.
And I've done this social experiment now for about a year and a half
where I've just pushed my own boundaries of transparency and authenticity
just to see what would happen if I am in fact disliked or rejected or abandoned
or ostracized by the world at large or what we call a following or a fan base
or listeners or whatever.
And it's been so bizarre.
I've been talking about this a lot.
It's the more goofy and real and just true I can be like treating social media
and my outward facing persona and brand like I'm in a 12 step meeting
and just like, hey, this is the shit I'm going through.
I'm at a certain degree of, you know, prudence, I guess.
You know, I don't you don't want to be lose your tact, you know what I mean?
But I'm finding this spiritual explosion of growth and just allowing myself
to finally be seen and to really accept myself and love myself.
And what's so weird about it, and this is just this cosmic joke
that I'm just constantly giggling at, is that I actually get more approval
from showing these aspects of myself that I've always hidden
because I was embarrassed about or, you know, my insecurities, my struggles.
It's like actually people like me more for the things that I've been afraid
for them to see my whole entire life.
It's like this strange paradox, which on the other side of it, I've lived
at the side you were describing is like, oh, I'm going to present things
in a certain way so that I'm like, and I'm sure that's there to some degree.
But I've kind of flipped that on its head and just like, all right,
how myself can I be and what point at which do people go, all right,
you're too much, we're abandoning you.
We actually don't like you, which is that sort of, you know, primal egoic fear.
And I'm just having such a great time like using social media actually
as a tool to make myself uncomfortably vulnerable and then to find that it was a boogeyman.
It's like a phantom fear who gives a shit if they like you or not.
It's like if you have that self worth, which I'm really starting to cultivate more actively,
then I don't know, even the response doesn't matter, but it's fascinating
when the response is positive to things that I would think like, oh God,
now people are really going to think I'm an idiot or whatever, you know,
just letting that be seen on a macro more public level.
And then it's giving me the ability to do that more as you mentioned,
the word intimacy, you know, just with my friends to be like, hey, I just want to be real.
I think it's one of my goals in life is to, you know, to someday pass on.
And if anyone could say anything, just be like, at least he wasn't fucking phony.
Yeah, you know, it's like just to be authentic and real,
despite whatever false one might have.
So so in the world where we have ubiquitous loneliness and ubiquitous depression
and without talking about it, everybody knows that there is a longing for authenticity,
right, and a longing for intimacy.
And so people will respond to that.
And so that's awesome, right?
And I love that you're having that experience with people and sharing that experience with people.
And anyone who wants to share themselves where there will be a personal brand,
that's the only way to go, that doesn't make their life suck
and actually propagate shit in the world.
Now there will still be times where there is something that is less authentic that sells better.
And this is where you have to say, OK, choosing between two masters,
where how do I make this choice?
Right, it's a tricky one sometimes.
But it's one to just have continuous awareness of and vigilance of, yeah.
So so at a certain point when I guess you hit a threshold,
perhaps where you really have to start looking at things from scalability
and from having a brand that's sustainable,
are you saying that at a certain point you are faced with a decision on editing the level of authenticity in order to...
Our analytics say this particular market will like this part of your message,
but not this part.
If you gear it like this, you'll scale significantly.
Right, right.
And this particular hypernormal stimuli will get a lot of people to respond
because addiction actually sells.
Right.
So now come back to capitalism for a minute, again, in the problem of it.
The more addicted people are, the better capitalism works.
GDP goes up with more addiction.
Right, because this is why there are not salad bars that have the scale of McDonald's,
is because if we make shit that is addictive as fuck,
because we just exploit the hypernormal stimuli button,
people will buy it and have to keep buying it.
And we do that with cigarettes, we do it.
And you know, with social media, this is like, you know,
when Tristan Harris left Google and started talking about this
and people started waking up to social media, Facebook, you know,
or platforms of any kind, Google, they get paid by how much time,
how many eyeballs spend how much time on site,
because the marketers are, you know, the advertisers are going to pay for that.
So the goal is keep you, have as many people spend as much time on site as possible.
Now, what's actually good for you in your life is to get the fuck off of the screen
and go interact with people.
Right, right.
But since we're going to get paid more by more time on site,
then we're going to figure out the most addictive things to do with the news feed
that will keep you clicking and, you know, paying attention as much as possible,
and then justify why it's a good thing, because we have to do that, right?
And so then if you look at...
You just described a rift in so many of my relationships, you know,
the woman classic, like, do you really have to be on Instagram all day?
I'm like, hey, this is my work, like, you know, that's always my excuse.
It's part of my job.
And, you know, it's an interesting thing,
because the studies keep rolling out of the more time people spend on screen,
the more depressed they are.
Oh, dude.
And for gazillion reasons, right, right?
Is there, for the most part, there isn't any real intimacy, authenticity,
et cetera, in those interactions.
If so, it's the tiniest fragment of the total time spent.
And even to the degree there is, the real kinesthetic feedback of intimacy
with another person is not happening.
It doesn't mean there aren't good sides.
Of course, the ability to have people talk with people in other parts of the world
and be able to have messages that are valuable be shared has value.
Those will be the parts that we solely focus on if we have a profit stream
associated with it, because we need to justify that.
Right.
So this is where it becomes important to really look at what is meaningful.
Now, come back for a moment to the individual optimization, right,
biohacking individual optimization.
We're interested in people optimizing as individuals so
that they have more capacity to actually do things that are meaningful.
Because when people look at climate change and they look at species extinction
and they look at refugee issues and et cetera, they're like, fuck,
I don't know what to do with that.
Let's go back on Facebook.
Let's go back to work.
But for the, and again, back to education, they're waiting for somebody to tell them
what to do and do a good job at it, as opposed to be able to self-assess
on a very complex scenario what might actually be effective.
Because if anybody knew it would be fucking happening, right, to self-assess
what needs to be done and then to actually start to initiate and do that
and self-author.
So individual optimization for that purpose is meaningful.
But it's interesting how the pursuit of happiness is core to the mission statement
of our country, right.
And the pursuit of happiness is an oxymoron.
It's a misnomer because when one is pursuing happiness,
they will definitely not be happy.
You're inherently dissatisfied if you're seeking, yeah.
They're affirming their emptiness, lack of happiness,
and they're in a fundamentally narcissistic pursuit.
And happiness occurs when you let the narcissism go and actually connect,
meaningfully to the world.
And happiness is mostly this direction, not this direction, right.
Mostly that feeds it.
And that also, that also impacts another piece of the addiction recovery,
is once one has enough stability, I mean, kind of the whole point of this,
then go help the next person that comes along that is struggling
and wasting what you have.
And then that's where the magic happens, right.
That's when the lights turn on, when you make a difference, right.
Yeah, it's not just because now you're affirming the principles to yourself
and so you want to live and it's that.
But it's also because now your life actually has a sense of meaning
exactly where it doesn't need a hit from something else as much.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. And I think I figured that out pretty early on into my recovery,
which is almost 21 years ago.
Like the first time I was even just together enough to have a car
and give some kid a ride and just be of service.
And that was like, God, I was experiencing the helpers high and I didn't even know it.
And now to have the ability to do that on a more broad scale of having a podcast
and making these videos and talking to people like you and getting feedback.
