Alright, so here we are with Daniel Schmockdenberger.
Good to see you, dude.
Good to see you, my friend.
Thanks for having us into your home.
I look forward to this conversation.
Thanks for coming.
Yeah, dude.
We're going to go deep here, my friend.
So I'm just going to jump right in.
A couple of things that I've learned about you from reading about you and listening to
you on other shows is that you were homeschooled.
That's true.
And at the same time, you're a really bright guy who is very knowledgeable and articulate.
I would consider you, and I don't throw this term around, but I would consider you to be
someone that's highly intelligent to the point where you could be called brilliant.
And I don't call everyone brilliant, you're a really smart guy.
So why did your parents elect homeschool you?
And what impact does that have on your mental acuity?
So it was an educational experiment my parents were interested in.
And my dad particularly spent his life thinking about educational philosophy and human potential
and how do we actually actualize human potential better.
And my mom had shared interests and different skills, and so they decided to take it on
together.
And the experiment was what happens if we give a kid no curriculum at all, no fixed curriculum.
So I didn't have English and social studies and mathematics.
But just expose them to everything possible, facilitate their interests, and see what happens.
And so that was the experiment.
And having gone through the whole experiment, we could do it much better now.
There were parts that got learned along the way, but the effective parts that I would
say were a successful experiment is every kid has profound fascination with life in
their own ways.
And we usually do a good job of breaking it.
And we also usually do a good job of training them not to think well.
So little kids ask, what is that, what is that, what is that at first, right?
It's the first question.
They're getting the anatomy of the universe down.
And then why, why, why?
And the depth of why run into philosophically and physically deep questions that we usually
don't know how to answer.
And so we give them, we just don't answer them or give them shit answers.
Or some less conscious parents would say, because I said so.
Yeah, or because it just is or God made it that way or whatever.
So when a kid asks, why is the sky blue?
And most adults realize they don't actually know something that is that fundamental to
our experience every day, right?
And all human experience, they either say, I don't know how do you spell cat, right?
Like they move it into the domain of the known, but they move it from something that was fundamental
about the nature of universe to something that wasn't.
And so if you really want to explain why the sky is blue, you have to understand that our
upper atmosphere is made of nitrogen and oxygen and the percentage of it and nitrogen specifically
as N2 and how molecules work and how light coming from the sun works and the speed of
light and diffraction and understanding what optics is.
And like there's a lot of deep things and then, but wait, that's why it is that specific
wavelength.
But why do I subjectively experience it as blue?
So now we're looking at the mind-brain interface, right?
And the relationship between consciousness and physics.
And kids want to know that, right?
They want to know why it's fire hot, which again is a fucking deep question.
And they're like, every kid asks these things.
And since we don't know, we don't facilitate what they're naturally fascinated in, that
fascinated by, and we force them to be interested in stuff that is totally not interesting.
And in doing so, we don't teach them the interesting things.
We don't teach them the things that are foundational about life that actually lead to the ability
to understand everything else.
And we actually break their interest in life, which is why then they just want to veg out
and watch TV or, you know, the whole welfare person phenomena, who is actually-
I was going to say, they become great taxpayers.
But see, those are broken people.
That's the key insight is that everyone is born fascinated, interested.
And if you facilitate that, then not only are you helping them learn a tremendous amount,
and they're going to be fascinating about different things, some more in the direction
of aesthetics or ethics or fundamental science or athletics.
But there will be a unique genius actualization if it's followed.
And so that was the experiment, and we could go on about educational philosophy.
But one of the key-like insights there is that we have an educational system in the
U.S. right now, and in most of the West, that was built in the Industrial Revolution to
make industrial bots.
And it was the-
Thank you.
No, I love going here.
I was hoping we could get into this, so carry on, please.
And so as we started to look at building industrial supply chains, then we wanted every assembly
line worker, before we had automated that task, to basically be an automata, right?
They would do the exact same thing.
And so anyone who had been trained into doing that could be replaceable.
They were fungible for anyone else.
And any MBA from a good business school was replaceable for any other MBA, any VP of marketing.
So we want to take unique humans and collapse them into fungible roles.
And so then we can just have an order chart and say, I'm looking for three of these and
four of these, totally replaceable.
In the process of doing that, when you collapse the uniqueness of a human to a fungible role,
there's, of course, the intrinsic motive to do that is gone.
Deep competition comparison, because we're competing on being the exact same role.
So we're competing on the same metrics rather than any uniqueness.
There's no way to compare Salvador Dali and MC Escher and Da Vinci, because how the fuck
would you do that, right?
You can't compare them on the same metrics.
And if Dali hadn't done what he did, some other artist wouldn't have done the same thing.
The universe would just have been less.
That was the uniqueness of that being, expressing in a totally fucking unique way, which is why
all the artists for history hadn't done that thing.
And so so much of the jealousy, envy, comparison, competition also comes from being collapsed
to categories.
And there were reasons why we did this, as we, you know, for all of human history until
not that long ago, until the beginning of what we call civilization 10,000 years ago
could give or take.
For 8 million years of hominid history, we never got more than 150 people.
And those 150-person tribes, everyone could be pretty unique and actually get along well,
because they knew everybody else and they could actually keep track of it.
And as soon as we wanted to go to start having very large numbers, we had to create some
homogeneity between everyone.
So we started making them a lot more like termites or ants, which are animals that can
do a lot of them working together.
But within a class, a worker ant or a drone ant, they're all fungible, right?
They're all replaceable for each other.
So this system is very much like that.
And education is the indoctrination into being, going from a unique human to a fungible
button.
Dude, you just described my whole, in a very deeply intellectual way, my whole experience
subjectively with education.
And the whole time we were talking, I'm thinking, this is why I have a podcast and this is why
I do what I do, because I'm so curious and so fascinated by the way things work and the
questions of why, right?
And so I was always seeking truth, even as a kid, like, how does this work?
Why does it work?
But the system that I was put into, and literally physically the desks I was put into were like
little torture chambers and my creativity was actually discouraged and was, you know,
almost forced to join the basketball team because I was having behavioral problems and
their solution was like, cool, make him conform to something that makes him even more insecure
and feel like even more of an outsider being the kid with long hair and refusing to wear
the right shoes.
So I wore my vans and slid around the core and got made fun of and, you know, harassed
and picked on and stuff like that.
It's like, once I turned, the day turned 18, I quit high school.
I was marking it off on my calendar like a prisoner, you know, putting notches on the
wall as like marking the calendar to October 29th, 1988, and that was the day of freedom.
And from that moment on, once I left school, then I became obsessed with learning.
And so it's so interesting to look from the standpoint of your perspective because it
wasn't that I didn't want to learn, it's that I didn't want to learn that way.
That those topics.
And that way.
Yeah.
And so now it's like, you know, here I am 47 and I'm like, I'm like the most curious child
like energy.
I think there is.
I mean, I don't know anyone that's as curious as me about the way things work.
And it's such a gift to be able to interview people and really learn about this stuff.
So, so that's how fortuitous that your parents, you know, you were so situated that your parents
got that, right?
You had an opportunity to take a different path.
Now, it's because you didn't actually identify, you didn't actually succeed at school in that
way, that you were able to actually do something else to the degree you succeed at it, then
you're trapped by the continuation of that curve forever.
So notice the smarter the kids are smart, meaning good at that particular definition
of smart, the earlier we push them into hyper specialization, right?
We want to get them in AP classes towards their specialty young.
And then the further we push them in specialization.
So by the time they do their dissertation, 10 people in the world know what the fuck
they're talking about.
So they know so much about such a narrow area.
So they're not thinking about big picture things or the interdisciplinary things at
all.
That means that the smartest people aren't actually questioning macroeconomics and
questioning culture and questioning governance, questioning the foundational axioms of how we
do academia or science, because they're they're just doing one tiny little thing.
So we're training them to be very sharp cogs in the industrial wheel.
That's so true.
And the only people who are usually left thinking about any big picture things are people
that didn't have those types of proclivities.
And that is actually a way of taking things that could be dangerous and making them not
only not dangerous, but very good tools of the continuation of a particular system.
And so because you didn't actually do that well at it, then you were able to say, fuck
it, I want to do something totally different.
Right. Well, that that is interesting.
It reminds me of something I've talked about on the show.
And there was this, I got to find this freaking, it was some study or evaluation or paper or
something that I came across at one point, and it was talking about entrepreneurship
and how the top 10 people with the highest IQs in the world all work for someone else.
And all the great inventors in the monumental colossal entrepreneurs in the world dropped
out of high school, didn't go to college.
I mean, it's this universal trend that the smartest people don't think outside of the box.
And it's the theory was that the people that you're describing that are highly specialized
and that rise to the top of their class intellectually, that they're so smart that
they're able to over calculate the risks involved in a venture of creativity.
Whereas if you have a more of a visionary creative type that doesn't fit within that box,
but also obviously still has a certain degree of intellectual prowess, that they're smart
enough to have the idea and creative enough to have the vision, but just dumb enough to
not be able to calculate the risk and be willing to go out and walk the plank and lose it all
for the sake of.
So saying dumb enough is one way of thinking of it.
Another way of thinking of it has to do with the way they're trained in relationship to risk aversion.
OK, OK, I like that because I think of myself as that and I tend to be self deprecating.
So I appreciate you seeing in an NLP way, seeing that word dumb enough.
So what is really happening?
Think about this.
If the kid who gets a 4.0, one of the keys of getting a 4.0 is making no mistakes, right?
Like that's how you that's how you write that is that you did everything right and everything perfect.
Now, everything right means you learned what had already been figured out was the Orthodox
truth and you were able to repeat it effectively, right?
