let's make some categories here. So we've got smart drugs as a category, which are pharmaceuticals
that are usually being used for an off label purpose. They're oftentimes psych meds, like
well butrin, or Adderall, or they are narcolepsy meds, like midaphanel, or they are sometimes
anti Parkinson's meds. Deprenel. Yeah, right. I remember when I was taking that stuff, someone's
like, what is that? There's no big deal. It's for Parkinson's. I'm just micro dosing it. Now,
all of those are dopamine urgics, right? So for different purposes, they're dopamine urgics.
You'll have some, like for Alzheimer's, don't have a cell that work with it. Does urgics mean
they raised dopamine? Okay. No wonder I like all of those. Yes. So you've got, you know, various
types of smart drugs is one category. Most of the time, those are going to have a pretty strong
effect and a pretty decent chance of side effect if used improperly. There's really nothing that
is going to be all that dangerous if used properly, but properly is the big thing, right? Like,
whether we're talking, I mean, you can use heroin not dangerously if you use it properly,
but that's like, not how people use heroin. And specifically, Adderall is amphetamine,
right? It's a D amphetamine. You add a methyl group to it and you have methamphetamine.
Methamphetamine used to be a pharmaceutical. And so, like, the distinction between pharmaceuticals
and illegal drugs is where the legal categorization of the minute happens to be based on lobbying,
not based on much else. So you've got smart drugs as a category. And in general, people should
explore there if they are well educated, if like, if they really educate themselves well
about the topic, and they're really paying attention in a quantified self kind of way
to the results, and they should not be looking at doing that super regularly. Now, there are
exceptions. So Deprenil, for instance, works through MAOB inhibition. So MAOB is an enzyme in
the synapse that breaks down certain neurotransmitters, like dopamine, like other catecholamines,
like phenylethlamine. So if you inhibit the MAOB, those neurotransmitters will get across the
synapse more into the postsynaptic neuron. This can be very dangerous because if you take that with
anything that is also increasing monoamines, those types of neurotransmitters going into
the synapse, specifically ones that should be broken down by MAOB, they can get to too high
level. So one wants to be careful with that. So what would be some things that you, with Deprenil,
for example, that you wouldn't want to combine with that? Adderall. Interesting. And that doesn't
mean nobody does it and has a good experience. What about Medaffinil? Same, right? So if you're,
now, they're different. Medaffinil, we don't know all the mechanisms of Medaffinil that well. It is
the least symptomatic dopamineergic for the most part for most people. It seems like it works
through transporter proteins largely, which is going to be a little bit less tricky than many
of the other mechanisms. But if you are flooding the synapse with dopamine and not breaking it down,
you can get to dangerously high levels, right? And not everyone has too high MAOB. Genetically,
some people's MAOB is too low. They actually feel anxious because they have too many of those
excitatory neurotransmitters. And Deprenil would make them feel terrible. But there are a lot of
people who are genetically overproducers of MAOB. And they will have certain kinds of
depression tendencies because their transmitters are just not getting across the synapse that well.
And if they take something that's just increasing their level of dopamine, they might feel better,
but it's actually not doing the right part of the mechanism, right? And the right part of the path
that was going on for them. If they actually break down the excessive levels of MAOB that
they're genetically producing, and there's other things that can cause MAOB to go up other than
just genetics, it's inducible. And so as people age, MAOB goes up, dopamine goes down, it's a part
of agent, which is why Deprenil is one of the few drugs that is actually correlated to be a life
extension agent. And there are people who, when they're young, wouldn't do well with it when
they're older. They would because their MAOB levels went from a healthy place where it would
imbalance them to being excessive and now balances them. So Deprenil can actually be therapeutic
for some people. For other people, it'll be an enhancement that they shouldn't do regularly.
So to the degree you're getting into stronger tools, you should have more education, just
like in any field, right? Like playing with the skill saw, rather than the hand saw, you kind of
need to learn a little bit more because there's more of a consequence, but you can also do cooler
stuff with it. So for us, empowered responsibility and self-education is a really key thing because
we want people to be empowered in their own health and not just feel like a victim and waiting for
someone to tell them what to do who has no way of knowing what their own experiences are spending
enough time, even if it's a well-educated doctor where their fiscal structure only allows them to
spend five minutes of time, like they just can't apply what they know that well. So smart drugs
is one category. Research chemicals is another category where you have a bunch of chemicals
that are not actually categorized as a drug. They're also not categorized as a nutraceutical.
They are for research purposes only and they live in that kind of regulatory barter and that's most
of the no tropics. Like the racitams and whatnot? The racitams are in that category and the ampikines.
Those are the kind of two primary categories that people get into, but then also the NSI-189,
the P-21, the cerebrolysin, the lots of the fenibut, right? They live in that research chemical
category. And some of those are basically smart drugs that just didn't go through approval,
but and then some of them are more what we call a formal no tropic, which is something that can
increase cognitive, some aspect of cognitive performance without meaningful side effect.
Most smart drugs will have some side effect unless it happens to be one that's therapeutic for you.
So and then we've also got brain nutrients, which are just the amino acids, fatty acids,
vitamins, minerals that the brain needs to function well that are often deficient.
And then you've got botanicals and you know plants that modulate different things and
different things. And botanicals can be very powerful, right? You can you can get L-dopa from
Makuna, which is a Parkinson's med in different dose, right? It's not the same kind of dose,
but you can get very potent botanicals. So all those categories of things to play with.
And of course, as people really get into biohacking and neural hacking and become well educated,
you've got different delivery mechanisms. People do them subcutaneous or IM or IV or
snort stuff, intranasal or you know, whatever, right? So there's a big interesting field and
some of them can also be not just cognitive enhancing for the normal well-being, but very
therapeutic. If someone is dealing with post, they're dealing with a post TBI situation,
something that is neurogenic that enhances development of new neurons after they had some
micro brain damage can be very helpful. There's a whole lot to learn. So one of the things we're
working on is really competent education and, you know, community space so that people can
learn as well. Right now, it's forums on Reddit and, you know, places like that where people
can really have to sort if the input is good or not. Yeah, it's funny now too with the algorithms
online. Search results are very skewed oftentimes. Like I was looking for something a couple days
ago that was something political and it was a little bit conspiratorial. I think I was researching
the number of times CNN has been busted for lying and producing fake news. And I googled like
how much, how many times has CNN been caught doing fake news in 2007? Something like that. And I
phrased it a few different ways and nothing came up. You know, you can't find an article if you use
Google to find that, for example. And it's the same way when you start looking for some of this
stuff, you'll read something on a forum and you're like, okay, this guy says this about
Madafino or Fentiment or whatever. And then literally you get to the next 10 sites and it's
the same exact copy, you know, that some other shmo has like copy and pasted into his blog or
some other forum or like, wait, they're all getting the same, you know, five talking points from the
same place. So even if you are a good researcher, sometimes it's hard to come up with original
valid data just because it doesn't exist. You know, like you said, some of these things that are in
that gray zone in terms of their categorization, it sometimes is difficult to even educate yourself
because you don't know what's true and false. So let me give you a classic example. We had a,
we had a, you know, scenario where people had questions about is Centrophonoxine safe? And
because even on some very good, you know, tropic sites, it says Centrophonoxine might cause birth
damage, birth defects. And because Centrophonoxine converts to DMAE, which is a choline urgic
choline donor, and there were some studies that showed DMAE causing birth defects in rats. Now,
people do their research and say, well, you should avoid that, you know, in that scenario.
Now to actually get into it, if we get out of, if we really look at the rat studies and we say,
what kind of dosage through what administration is it relevant to normal dosage? No, the,
it's nothing in a normal oral dosage range was there at all. It was, it was even close. DMAE
actually became approved as a drug without that being a concern in many different countries.
And then Centrophonoxine never had any birth defect studies. And so yet that's all over the
web. Centrophon, don't do it because of birth defects. Now, we pulled every single study ever
done on Centrophonoxine that we could find, 186 studies, most of which weren't online. We had
to go to medical libraries, find them in other countries and other languages, right? Because
they, they were, they started, the research started in the 50s, so they would just were never put
online, translate them all. And then we had a few PhDs in neurochemistry, neuroanatomy, etc, do a
structured literature review, meta analysis of all that for us to come up to it with our opinion on
Centro. Damn. This is not a trivial thing to do. Wow. But it matters if you really don't want to
know what's going on. So I like the wild west of the space because people are starting to take
more responsibility rather than just wait for the doctor to tell them what to do and then get
mad at the doctor when it doesn't work. Yeah. When the doctor couldn't possibly spend enough time with
them or keep up to date with all the research happening. But I really do long for higher quality
control. And it's one of the things we're working on. And we can only work on it as fast as we can
afford without moving into physical models that suck, which is the tricky part. But like
NeuroTech, you know, we were talking about different devices that we have around the house and PMF and
etc. It's pretty easy to say this seems compelling. Let's share it. What we're working to do right
now is with all the types of NeuroTech, whether we're talking about low level laser therapy and
transcranial intranasal lasers, or we're talking about PMF or TMS or, you know, whatever, right?
For us, it's a process of doing the full literature review on everything that's known
about this, what things does it affect, what things does it not affect safe, etc. And then
doing full research on the actual products and say, does this product have the specifications
that the literature shows are useful? And then curate those things. So we're building a platform
to do that. It's just a non-trivial process. And the same with just curating knowledge on
notropics is in the forum, you've got like some real gyms and then a bunch of shit. And it's not
necessarily obvious which ones are the gyms and the shit. Same like if you look in the
bodybuilder world and you go to the steroid forums, some of the smartest endocrinologists
anywhere are in there. And then there's just so much dumb bro science in there. And it's like,
but if you don't know the field well, they're all sand shit, you don't know. So this is something
that we're really working to do is to have a moderation process where everything that goes
there is better. That's cool, man. That's cool. That's a really valuable resource. Because that's
exciting. Another positive thing about right now is that I think more people are waking up to the
fact that they don't actually have to rely on the allopathic medical system. I have episodes and
I call them things like, learning to become your own doctor. It's like, you really can do a lot
on your own. And then if you are tied into someone good in functional medicine and they're able to
kind of be a step above you in terms of their body and knowledge. But like with my relationship
to medicine is I do a lot of my own research and footwork and order my own labs and geek out on
like which labs are the best and most updated because even my functional medicine doctor,
they're still in the labs that were the best GI test last year. I'm like, no, man, in the biohaggin
community, there's new labs with new parameters and things like that. And I really feel the sense
of power and autonomy because I know my limitations in terms of my body of knowledge and what I'm
capable of kind of understanding or care to take the time to learn when it comes to my biology.
But I know what I know. And then I go to the experts that are higher up the food chain in
their area of special specialization, right? So it's really cool that that you guys are
thinking that far ahead and enabling people to help themselves. One of the parts I'm most excited
about is a integrative medical functional medical program. So we've got a number of doctors who are
kind of the best integrative psychiatrists that I'm aware of. And psychiatrists or just functional
medicine that does psychoneuropharmacology. And so, you know, we're not allowed to provide medical
information, prescribe, diagnose, treat anything like that, right? So if people and if someone has
conditions or are on psych meds, we say don't use our stuff because there's real interactions that
need to be factored. But we don't want to just say go to your doctor if your doctor doesn't know
anything, we want to provide better resources. So go to your doctor and here are doctors that
actually know the field really well. They can run a QEG on you, they can run neural hormones,
they can run your Walsh metabolic labs, they can run your gut brain access, they can look at your
genomics, etc. and actually do the best of what functional brain chemistry optimization currently
looks like. And so that's something that we'll be rolling out in this next year and that we've
been already working with a number of clinics on this. That's amazing. That's amazing. Yeah,
because you do need that middleman, you know, unless you're just a freaking genius and you have the
time and energy to devote to yourself. But I think each one of us can only take it to a certain
level and we need, you know, we need that help. But it's like how do you find a good one? I always
get the question of who's the best functional medicine doctor and I'm just, I just made it
easy on myself after working with a number of them individually and I just joined Parsley Health,
which is like a, you know, sort of, I think of it as the Uber of functional medicine, just a
modern interface and a membership model rather than paying per visit. And I find it to be really
effective because they can deal with my insurance and the billing and they know how to code the
labs and stuff. But it's still very much self directed. Like I could just follow their program,
probably be healthy, but I'm always digging deeper. So I'll do, you know, three different
tests for metals where they might just order me the pre and post challenged urine test and like,
cool, that gives me a certain metric. But there's hair analysis, there's blood, there's other ways
you can dive into that. But it's helpful to have someone you trust that'll go along with what you're
doing. Because back in the Western medicine model, I go into the general practitioner and be like,
Hey, I have X, Y and Z wrong. They send me out to a number of specialists that are their cronies.
And it's like, you get stuck in that whole thing. And I'm going in there telling them about some
new supplement or technology. And the doctor's like, what? I don't even know about that. You
know, like I was having some problems with like vertigo and dizziness. And I, you know, went up
the ladder and LA medical system, which I think is probably a pretty good place to live if you want
some, you know, high level medical care. And I got sent to the, you know, the world's best EMT
that people travel from all over the world. I go sit down with this guy said, yeah, man, I don't
know, man, I have, you know, I have a little hearing loss over here. It's about 20%. I'm well aware
of that. But I have this thing where I'm getting dizzy all the time. And I always feel car sick.
And he ran some tests on me. I came in again, he goes, yeah, I think you probably should just
not drink coffee. I think it's the, the caffeine can do that. I'm like, really? This is what you
guys, this is the best you guys can do is that the caffeine is making me, you know, it was just
like, oh my God, I could have done a much better job of being my own doctor. And of course, I,
you know, finding finding the root of that, but it's a cool time to be alive where those of us
that are waking up and have access to information like you guys are providing can really take
responsibility and not become this dependent infant on the teeth of Western medicine and all
the inherent expenses and things that come along with that. And it's really important to keep the
Pareto principle in mind, which is it does get complex quickly. And to be able to synthesize
the complexity is a really deep topic. And the foundations are still 80% of it. And the foundations
are not that hard, right? I mean, they might be hard to do from a discipline point of view in
the life that is conditioned otherwise. But if someone is not sleeping enough, sleeping well
and sleeping enough, everything else they'll do is just tiny diminishing returns and comparison
sleeping enough. Right, right. And if someone is not exercising, and if they're not generally
eating well, and if they're not doing some kinds of stress management and mental processes, then
you know, biohacking is actually a way to support living shittily, right, trying to like symptom
