manage the fact that their life actually sucks. Right. And that's just not the way to go. Right.
And so if someone really just does the foundational stuff, it's amazing how much of it that addresses.
And even like, say we look at heavy metals. So I can do a pre and post provocation test,
and I can test with DMPS or DMSA or EDTA, and I'm going to get different specific bindings. And
I can look at hair labs, which will give me a different time scale of what's being excreted.
And I can look at, you know, metal antibody stands and then what I'm going to find is, okay,
there are specific chelation or binders that I'm going to use differentially if it's lead versus
mercury, right, or gadolinium or whatever it is. That's a lot to figure out. It's a lot of expense.
And if I just put the person in a sauna every day, and I gave him chlorella in the morning,
that would be 80% as good. Right, right, yeah. And so it's just kind of important, like one of the
things we want people to know is that there are foundational things, that if they don't have the
time, money, proclivity will really help them be radically healthier. And then optimization on top
of that is nice. Right, right. Yeah, that's well stated. Sometimes I'll find myself taking 50
pills in the morning trying to turn my brain on. And then I realize, maybe if I hadn't gone to bed at
2am and woken up at 730, you know, so that's very true. Some of those things are just basic
lifestyle choices. If you eat, if you think about it, if you're going to eat food that's measured in
pounds, and it's all nutrient, right, that's all toxin or nutrient, and then you're going to take
supplements that are measured in grams, the supplement, the word supplement means to supplement
that what you're getting from diet, right, like getting the pounds right is a big fucking deal.
Right. And similarly with sleep, like when you exercise, all that torn muscle that it needs
repair is going to be repairing during sleep, during delta sleep in particular, and all those
nutrients that need to go into new tissues are going to do that during sleep. And so if you're
not sleepy enough, like all those such things kind of doesn't matter that much. And so this is one
of the places where I want to empower people in the face of the complexity to know that there is
a simplicity that is most of it, which is if you live a life that is relatively closer to
an evolutionary environment, an evolutionary life, you'll just do a lot better. And then
all the other stuff, if you're sick, you definitely want to go find good functional
practitioners. And if you really want to optimize, you want to go. Yeah. Well said. Well said. I love
it, man. Well, I've got about one, not even a quarter through the questions that I had in mind
for you. But in the interest of time, we're right around the two hour mark, which is I try to cap
any conversation off, no matter how much more there is to do. But I have my notes for part two.
I'd love to sit down and have another talk with you. I mean, every time every like,
every time you have an answer to a question, 20 more questions populate. I'm just like a stifling
more that have come about. So we're definitely going to have to talk again. But I really appreciate
your perspective. I would love to talk again. This is fun. And yeah, it's just fascinating. Dude,
you're just you're so full of information. I mean, you really are just the fascinating guy was
all pumping people up on Instagram on the way down. But this guy's really smart, you guys. And
you know, you know, I'm not stroking your ego. It's just you are. It's the thing that you and
I were talking about is that people are are actually fascinated by life without being broken,
right? Right. And they can restore that if they were broken. And if you just spend your life
following things that you're fascinated about, you will tend to learn things. Right.
I want to know what's up next with neurohacker collective. You mentioned the functional medicine
kind of interface thing. Can you reveal yet what your next supplement or product is going to be?
We've got we've got about 10 products that have already tested well in the prototype phase
of different types that will be going through, you know, final refinement and trials and like that
before being released, we're actually, we're actually hiring right now for additional formulators
and VP of product and etc. and researchers to come help because as we're scaling, it needs more
work to be able to do it as the speed we want to. So things to we will not produce any product that
is to treat any medical condition cannot do that. Right. That's a medical thing. But things that support
sleep, things that support a healthy sensory process, meaning if there are sources of chronic
pain, the chronic pain is not loving people, things that help support. I'm looking forward to that one.
Things that help support natural calmness, which is not saying anti anxiety thing, but is yeah.
I think our audience is able to read between the lines. All of those. I find that I dance around
terminology so much on this show in the interest of protecting my guests that happen to produce
a different product or service. So those are things that will be coming soon. We have a new
version of qualia also that is just a single step, less total pills. Oh, wow. And right now is
testing as effectively. So we spent a year, we're finding out early this next year. So a handful
of new products in the nutraceutical mind brain health space, then curating neurotech across
those platforms. I mean, all types of neurotech with a proper scientific vet and curation platform.
And then the doctor program are the things that I'm really most excited about. Awesome. When you
say neurotech, are you talking about lasers and light devices and magnetism and all this kind
of stuff? Oh, cool. That's interesting. What are some, you know, as I've, those of you listening
that aren't seeing the videos, I walked into Daniel's home here. It's a beautiful home. It's
gigantic house. It's a lot of big rooms. It's lovely. But in every, everywhere I look, I see some
biohacking tool or something. There's big amethyst crystals everywhere. There's a semina bed right
in front of me and a bulletproof sleep induction mat and earth pulse, essential oils in the air.
I mean, it's like, it's just so in alignment with my lifestyle. What are some of the
neuro enhancing or just life enhancing technologies that you're digging right now personally?
Some of the ones that I appreciate a lot that are like consumer neurotech, they're not still in
R&D. I'm a big fan like everybody else's of red light. And so companies like
Juve and Violite and other ones that are working on intranasal transcranial whole body near
infrared and visible infrared. And we wouldn't need that if we just spent enough time in the sun.
But if you don't spend enough time in the sun, it is removed from normal indoor lighting because
it's the part that makes it expensive. It uses that more energy to make warm light, right?
So rather than do the whole house, you just do your body with your clothes off.
We photosynthesize molecules like plants do. Not as many as plants. Plants are all surface area
photosynthesis. We're not that much surface area, but it's a meaningful part. So we know that the
bluer and UV into the spectrum helps us with vitamin D. And the way that it does vitamin D
synthesis is different than only supplementing vitamin D. So there's meaningfulness there.
But nitric oxide is also photosynthesized from exposure to light. And ATP specifically
is up-regulated, mitochondrial output of ATP is up-regulated from the red end of the spectrum.
And so up-regulating ATP output is kind of just good for everything, right? This just means
increased cellular energy to do whatever the cells are doing. So that's a that's what I like. And I
do like transcranial and intranasal applications, especially where there is TBI or tinnitus or
things there where you don't quite know how to address it specifically. But interesting because
I do the V light, the 810 nanometers near infrared. It's invisible, right? I used that one. I used
to have the one that was six something. It was very red. It lit up the whole front of your face,
which I just like that for a fact. I don't know which one does what. And then I do the juve.
And I love both of those as well, like seriously. But here's the thing. I also get a lot of sun.
My vitamin D levels are off the chart. I still supplement with it. Here's one thing that I
want to get your opinion. And I always say, okay, it's the end of the interview and then it goes on
for another hour. But in all seriousness, with the spectrum of light, because I do sun gazing,
I've been doing that for years grounding, while I'm sun gazing when the sun rises or goes down,
I get full naked sun as much as possible. So I'm getting a lot of the natural spectrums. I limit
blue light at night like pretty hardcore in the home when it gets dark outside. It also gets amber
and red inside. Like I'm dialing that in my sleep's great circadian rhythm. But when it comes to the
spectrums of sunlight, you know, different people might have different opinions on this. But based
on being a 47 year old guy and knowing what the sky looks like normally with planes in it or planes
not in it, there is unequivocally some geoengineering going on on the planet. And I think anyone that
doesn't acknowledge that to some degree, like has serious psychological issues. Having, you know,
looked up in the sky and not seen weird clouds and the formations and stuff we have now, there's
definitely something going on, which is of course a different conversation. But with with the weather
manipulation, what's been going on in the sky, I often wonder because it does have apparently
something to do with reflecting the sun's, you know, radiation back out into space to
cool the planet, wherever the fuck's going on. But the temperature of the light and the spectrum
of light is being altered in an unnatural way from whatever's being done in our skies. Do you think
that that's having, you know, an effect on our biology just aside from whatever toxins we might
be breathing in with just the actual nature of light itself? Of course. Very short answer
to a long question. So geoengineering is an approach to us recognizing that we're very close
to positive feedback loops on certain climate change dynamics and people freak out and freak
out says, well, we need to actually get the temperature down because even before the acid
is killing the coral from ocean acidification from CO2 diffusing into the water as carbonic acid,
even before the trophic cascades are killing the coral from the large fish dying off from overfishing,
the temperature is the main thing driving them into bleaching and hypometabolism.
They can't stay in that place very long. Most of the photosynthesis of the world happens in the
oceans and a lot of it depends on the coral. So how do we get the and and the positive feedback
loop on the on the albedo cycle at the caps? Like so it's like, whoa, we need to get the temperature
down. So the idea of let's just reflect 20% sunlight by putting particles in an atmosphere
that will reflect 20% sunlight is the same exact approach as our cholesterol's high use of statin.
Right. It's addressing the symptom in a way that will then have effects that are negative for
other parts of it because we're scared of the symptom without understanding what caused it
and addressing it at a cause level. So of course, what we should be focused on is how do we just
increase photosynthesis for sequestration and decrease emissions and what has to happen to
be able to do that at what scale and time. But yeah, it's very interesting. Allopathic medicine
is looking at individual metrics that we've correlated to something and how do we exogenously
override that individual metric without looking at what brought it about to be that way. So complex
multifactorial dynamics we suck at, which is why we don't have a single cure for any chronic illness.
We can cut cancers out, radiate them out, poison them out. We can't make them stop growing.
And understand why they grow in terms of current medicine, same with psychiatric illnesses,
same with neurodegenerative, same with autoimmune, because they don't have a single cause.
We're actually awesome at acute cause issues, right? Right. If it's an acute injury or an acute
infection or an acute toxicity, that's really straightforward and we know how to treat that
thing. But if it is anything other than an acute single cause, then we kind of suck at it right
now because it requires a different approach to science, this complexity approach, which also
requires a different fiscal model and a different IP structure and a whole bunch of things. We
approach the world the same way. Our approach to climate change, to starvation, to whatever is
to tweak something to affect that thing here without addressing the underlying dynamics.
So geoengineering is like allopathic medicine. It is a statin to the environment.
Yeah, that's funny, man. And definitely it's affecting the light. Going back to your top
devices, a lot of the stuff that's coming out and I think that's really effective is ways to sort of
use technology to mimic nature, in a sense. And that's how I think about an infrared sauna or
cryotherapy, I mean any of the things that I do as quote-unquote biohacks or grounding,
using earthing technology, PMF, all this stuff. It's all really just trying to create that homeostatic
experience of being the sentient being on planet earth in its natural state. But we're not in a
natural state, including the light spectrum that's coming at us from the sun. You can't even get
what you would have gotten a hundred years ago. It's true. Our main biohacks are actually just
putting us back in something closer to an evolutionary environment. So our air filter
is not making special air, it's just making less fluid air. I saw that you have one over there too.
I have them in every room. And our water filters are also still not as good as spring water.
Do you have a pristine hydro filter? I don't have a pristine hydro filter.
Okay, they're in Laguna Beach, not far from here. But I've done a lot of research on the
filters and I'm going to interview that guy. But I think if I had to have a filter, he'd probably
be the guy. He vortexes the water, he puts magnesium, bicarbonate, silica back in it.
He's like making spring water out of municipal water. It's crazy. But anyway.
But whether we're changing our, whether we're pulling toxins out of the environment,
or like, you know, I was mentioning the VOC here, actually it's not releasing much because I used
the AFM safe coat. Oh, no way. And safe coats, another biohack that I think is awesome. If you
have a place that's new carpet or new paint, or you're going to paint or install things,
the non-toxic products that AFM makes are really good. No way. Cool. That is going in the show notes.
But yeah, I mean, so much of it is just recreating evolutionary environment, which is why so many
people who are ill go, like, move to or visit some more rural, natural place and they get better.
Right, right. And so that's a lot of it. And then there's of course advanced shed that is not just
doing that. Yeah. What other, what other kind of tricks you got up your sleeve that I haven't
observed walking by tech, tech-wise? Well, QEG based neurofeedback is awesome.
Yeah. And whether you're doing alpha-theta training or SMR training or delta training
should be based off your QEG and someone knows how, who knows how to do that well.
I don't know if you've ever went to peak brain since you've been there all the time. Yeah.
But Andrew's good. Yeah, Andrew is good. I interviewed him here on the show and I was on
his show too. Yeah, a brilliant guy. So that's a great therapy. Right now, I mean, TMS is actually
interesting. It's early, but it's interesting for many things. What's TMS? Transcranial
Magnetic Stimulation. Oh, okay. Transcranial ultrasound is profoundly interesting in the
early studies at University of Arizona and some Japanese universities in curing Alzheimer's
through a very novel proposed mechanism involving microtubules. So, but it's too early to really
know what it's doing. So there's a number of high-tech methods that are really cool and specifically
there's also some of the most high-tech ones are actually still evolutionary environment ones.
Like the cutting edge of microbiomics right now is mostly that the vaginal flora and the
breast milk of indigenous people who were never exposed to chlorinated water and antibiotics
and glyphosate have a whole bunch of bacteria that we just don't have in probiotics anywhere else
that are actually part of our evolutionary environment that are the most significant factors
for epigenetic modulation of our genome. So that's a very cutting edge. Right. Understanding
of epigenetics and microbiomics. Right. And it is also saying, oh, evolution actually kind of makes
sense. Right. Or fecal implants from a clean source, so to speak. So we have a chunk of work
in microbiomics we're working on right now that we're not that close yet because of what we want
to do but I'm excited about it. Cool. Awesome man. Okay, so yeah. So I will say obviously we didn't
get into psychedelics and entheogens. I have a whole section on that. Yeah. And we didn't get
into any of the psycho-emotional, psycho-spiritual work. Right. But on the just evolutionary
environment I will make a thought in closing is just like a statin is optimizing for one thing,
right. Lower your cholesterol without looking at, hey, is the cholesterol maybe protecting the
arterial system from oxidative damage and that's not a good idea or what's the whole rest of the
story going on. When we optimize for something that is affecting a lot of other things and we're
not paying attention, we get externality. Right. Which is also called side effect. We built the
entire world, the human built world for a few purposes in ways that affected a lot of other
things. So we build a house to protect us from the elements and give us a safe place to be
and then maybe for certain aspects of aesthetics but we didn't pay attention to, oh wow, there's
actually chemistry that's in the paint that is affecting us. And oh yeah, the fungicides that
are in there that are making fungicide resistant funguses that are why we have an issue with mold
we never did before. That actually is an important thing. It's like in the drywall?
Oh, in the paints. In the 70s started having fungicides added to resist mold.
And then the mold became super. Merce mold. Oh, God, that's insane. So the reason everyone has
mold issues when we lived with mold forever in an evolutionary environment is because it's a mutant
