And if you start having people who are like, unrationalist tumblr versus
slatesharkodex versus whatever else, um, the community starts to fragment, right?
Without having that central hub with, with whatever sort of cannon, um, posts are
present, but because what was once one community starts becoming a whole bunch
of communities and that could be good or that could be bad, depending on what
you're trying to do.
I think that I wouldn't want to give up the sub communities that have started,
but I think that there's something important about having a place that is
like the central place of discussing ideas among the people who, you know, share
the perspective on rationality and better thinking and cognitive bias and that
sort of thing.
And I would love to see a next version of less wrong succeed.
I'm kind of on the, uh, on the edge, 50, 50, about whether or not that will
work, but I'm definitely supportive of the people who are trying.
Okay.
Shall we hit the crystal society and mentality?
What do you, what are you calling the series, by the way?
So it's just the crystal trilogy.
The crystal trilogy.
Okay.
Yeah.
The final book is crystal eternity.
I guess we can decide what order we want to tackle this in.
I'm interested in talking about rational fiction as a whole.
And if we feel like that's a good segue into crystals or into the crystal
trilogy or crystal trilogies, it could segue into rational thick at large.
What would you guys prefer?
Uh, well, I'm assuming do you consider, um, crystal, the crystal
trilogy to be rational fiction?
Yes.
Uh, I do.
It's certainly not rational fan fiction, but not all rational fiction has to be
fan fiction.
Certainly not.
And the rational subreddit characterizes rational fiction as a story where nothing
happens solely because the plot requires it.
So like, essentially the world behaves according to rules and not, you know,
it's not just because it moves at the speed of plot or whatever.
Um, any factions are defined and driven into conflict because of their beliefs
and values, not just because they're good and evil.
Um, the characters solve problems through intelligent application of their
knowledge and resources.
I think that's very central.
And then the rules of the fictional world are sane and consistent.
So by those criterion, I definitely think that crystal counts as rational fiction.
Do you think those are good criterion for rational fiction?
Is there anything that leaves out?
Well, it's a little bit hard to say.
So it goes on to say in rationalist fiction, as well as the above, the main
character uses or tries to use, uh, rationalist and scientific methods to
demystify seemingly mysterious phenomena.
And this story shows rationalist techniques, which can then be applied to
by the readers and the story is like a puzzle in that the readers can reach
the same conclusion as the characters by using the same information.
So there's like this sort of classic question about Sherlock Holmes, right?
Sherlock Holmes is supposed to be, uh, like super intelligent, uh, detective,
but it's not the case that you as a reader, if you're as intelligent as
Sherlock Holmes can solve the mystery because Sherlock Holmes actually
relies on a bunch of information that you as a reader just don't have.
So, um, his intelligence isn't really displayed.
It's more like he has this black box out of which he pulls solutions to
whatever problem happens to be presented.
And I think that this is really at the core of what rational fiction is about.
It's, um, it's about taking intelligence and minds and opening them up to the
reader to say, Hey, this person is acting according to a set of heuristics
and rules and pressures.
Um, and we can understand what those are and we can understand all of the
information that they have available.
And if we're clever about it, we can think about like the mistakes they're
making or we can predict in advance what they're going to do.
And if the world behaves according to a same consistent set of rules, we
should be able to like random events, uh, excluded.
We should be able to like understand roughly how the characters are going to
behave at any given moment.
Well, like, like the, the, the final exam and Harry Potter methods of rationality.
That's a good example of that.
We knew everything that Harry knew about magic and we were explicitly told,
figure it out, or it's not going to end nicely.
And so with, with the, with the homework problem, the, the community was able to
solve, to solve the answer or solve the problem correctly by coming to the correct
answer. There's one other, I guess, sub bullet point that I add when I tell my
friends about rational fiction, which is, I guess implied by at least two of the
previous bullet points, but to me, at least we're making explicit, you know,
like contrasted to a show, I mean, anything I don't want to shit on a
particular show unless you guys want examples, but the shit wherever you want,
man, well, the characters action such a way that makes sense for what's actually
happening and you're not sitting there, you know, either staring at the page or
staring at the screen and saying, why the fuck aren't you doing this?
You know, why, what are you thinking?
You know, so like, like the walking dead, they walk around with revolvers and
shoot zombies point blank, attracting her, it's attracting, you know, other crazy
humans, which God, why are they not cooperating?
But that's, that could actually, you know, whatever that aside.
But, you know, I think there was, in fact, it was on the rational subreddit.
There was a very short story of a survivor woman in a zombie apocalypse and
she's doing exactly the appropriate thing.
She's wearing basically like thick motorcycle gear, a helmet using like what
a Tomahawk or a hatchet or something, some silent weapon and all of her clothing,
including her gloves and her boots are all like strapped together.
So you can't pull a glove off.
And so like that, that is the, and even in like the walking dead, they, they at
some point acquire police riot gear and then subsequently ditch it.
No, my God.
Like I would sleep in it, right?
I mean, your enemies aren't powerful, you know, unless you're surrounded and
they just, you know, tackle you, but they bite you.
And you're, you can, there are bite proof things in the world.
You're like in, in 28 days later, one of the guys wraps his arm in magazine,
like with a magazine and like rubber bands or something.
Like just to make it to where, you know, a human jaw can't bite to it.
The little things I, I, I, I'm picking, I'm railing on one example now.
But I suffered through one season of walking dead and I regret just sitting
through that many episodes.
I sat through five seasons.
I, I did, I did eventually fall off, but it just, it never gets better.
Okay.
There, there are little things like there are some cool things.
Like, yeah, there were a few little cool things.
And I kept coming back for those episodes because I kept thinking, maybe
they'll have more of these cool things unless of the dumb things.
Right.
But it just, it ended up not being worth it for the few cool things we got.
Well, like, I liked zombie movies as a kid.
And, uh, you know, I would think like my high school would be like a great
zombie apocalypse refuge because it's got thick brick walls, you know, solid
windows, my apartment, my current apartment building, another great example.
Right.
I mean, small, like small entrances, not easily scalable walls, like it would be,
it would be awesome.
And so in the walking dead, they eventually find a natural or an existing structure
like that they move into a prison for a season, which to me is like a great idea.
This is, this is specifically designed to be hard to get in and out of.
Right.
So like just the shambling debt or it could be able to walk in.
So there are fun little steps like that, but they just, they just literally stumble
upon it.
They don't like, they don't sit and like, we should think of a good place to move
to they, they just, they haven't defined it.
So no one thinks in that stuff, but, but, so to bring this back to rational fiction,
people do think and their thought processes are expressed to the reader.
So like, like, it's like one of the other points that the reader can follow what
they're saying and thinking and follow similar trends of thought.
Um, I think like one of the surest signs that some writer is definitely pushing
in the rational fist, rational fiction direction is if they avoid the idiot
ball in writing, there's this concept of like, you've got a problem of like how
to write this scene or like how to make something go wrong or how to increase
tension and the solution as the writer is like, oh, okay, the character was
stupid or made some error.
And so you give the character the idiot ball and they do something stupid.
That's very unsatisfying, especially if what you're interested in is like
understanding how competent people solve problems or how the mind works.
Well, just like if at any moment characters can just do stupid things
because it's useful for the story, then you can't get behind the feeling that
like when you are presented with information, you can use that information
in a way that makes sense, that like adds up to something useful in the world.
Yeah, you don't trust the author.
I think tied to that, there's also a sense that you said how a competent
person could solve problems.
There's the similar example that you can get examples of how almost
competent person can come so close to solving a problem, like the time
pressure chapters and methods of rationality.
You could argue he was stupid and didn't think of any of us 1000 solutions
that could have gotten there, but he wasn't stupid for that.
I mean, it was, it helped drive plot and stuff.
It was, there was, there were those reasons, but he wasn't stupid in a way
that was unforgivable for his circumstances, right?
Right.
I think it's, it's important to recognize that rational fiction doesn't
have to have the characters be like omniscient or perfect or whatever else.
It's more the case that when the character makes an error, you as a
reader should be able to understand why they made that error.
And I think that this is, this is a way in which rational fiction can
help us understand the human mind better.
Like why does Harry make the errors that he does?
Or why does, you know, any character in rational thick, they can make the errors
that they do is because usually they don't have the resources, the cognitive
resources, the time, the energy, the, whatever else to think things through.
And often their attention is locked to the wrong part of the solution space.
Right.
And that's, that's like a very useful insight to take away is to be like, ah,
when errors are made, it's often because the character didn't have the
ability to think it through enough and because they were looking in the wrong
direction.
So in my own life, if I want to make fewer errors, maybe I should do it more
time to just thinking things through more fully.
And how can I de anchor from the parts of like where my thoughts are drifting
that aren't going to be useful and put more attention to the space of solutions
that are going to be useful?
I, I like, I think it was Daystar Eld who said, this is one of my favorite
things to describe rational fiction because it's so simple and it kind of
gets it across.
He says it's thinky fiction.
It, there is a lot of emphasis about thinking things and thinking through
things.
And yeah, there is.
And I like that sort of thing in my fiction.
And I like what you just said just now about how you can use rational
fiction to like open up a mind and see what's going on inside it and how to
get through these processes because that is like literally what you do in
crystal society.
