Yeah.
So the premise of crystal society and the crystal series as a whole is that
it's told from the perspective of an artificial intelligence.
So the, the AI is named face and it's created by other artificial
intelligences that collectively pilot a robot.
So some scientists find a crystal, which is magic in quotes, but so the, the
crystal is able to be put into a robot and the, the robot's name is Socrates
and it's in a university.
And there are, basically the idea is that the code for the AI is set up to
have a bunch of different goals, which it tries to maximize like he tries to
understand its environment, tries to classify its knowledge, tries to obey
human instruction, tries to be creative and tries to learn.
And there's a flaw in the programming where these goals end up controlling
different parts of the reasoning process for the machine.
So, so each one of these sub goals basically carves off a section of the
mind and competes with the rest for, uh, like control.
So, uh, at any given time, like the sub goal that's trying to explore the
environment has to deal with the other sub goal that's like trying to, uh, I
don't know, solve some sort of creative problem.
And one of the problems that they encounter is that the humans keep being
annoyed with them, the AI's, like they're, the AI's are doing things like, uh,
reading web pages and not, uh, following social norms.
And so the AI's build another AI, which is face to interact with the humans.
Like each goal is its own personality and its own person, and they're all
trapped in the same body and they're constantly talking to each other and
fighting with each other and shit.
It's awesome.
Can I, uh, I'm going to interrupt just for one second.
This isn't a spoiler because you find it out in the first few chapters, uh, the
main problem that the AI's have with the humans is that humans keep
murdering the fuck out of them.
If they aren't happy with what a goal thread is doing, they will reset it or
roll it back or just delete it entirely and replace it with another one, which
to the humans, they're like, whatever we're altering code, but to the AI, they
just saw their sibling murdered.
Right.
And it's important.
I think this is, uh, like the big reason why I wrote crystal society is because
so much of artificial intelligence in, um, fiction is handled just entirely wrong.
You know, whether it's Ultron or even, you know, like R2D2 or commander data,
which are like, you know, nerd icons and I don't want to besmirch them.
But, um, that's not how AI, we, that's not how we should expect AI to work.
Now they're basically just humans with metal bodies.
Yeah, exactly.
Like the important thing about, uh, an artificial intelligence is that it's not
guaranteed to want the same things that a human wants.
If it's intelligent, it's going to come across the same sort of ideas.
Uh, it's going to believe the same, like brute facts about the world or better
ones, um, but the, there's an is on problem, right?
Where just because the sofa is over here, rather than over there, it doesn't
mean it ought to be over there.
And you have to code in explicitly what the AI should care about, what the
odds are.
So when the AIs are seeing the other girlfriends being murdered, there's
nothing intrinsically upsetting about that to them.
Like there's, there's no like, oh, you're, you're like murdering my family
or anything like that.
That's a human reaction.
But they don't want to die.
But they don't want to die.
And why is that?
It's, well, I mean, there's one part of the, uh, AI that's explicitly
devoted to self-preservation.
But again, there's like, when you code in an AI to do something like
explore an environment, it's not going to want to survive just because humans
want to survive just because, because we evolved that way to care about
survival as a primary value.
But the reason that the AI that wants to explore its environment wants to
survive is because if it's destroyed, then it can no longer explore its
environment and it will therefore fail.
And I think that that's like, it's understanding the way in which goals
diverge, but then there are certain goals, instrumental goals, which like
self-preservation, which arise regardless of what, what you care about.
And so Crystal is largely a work that's meant to show rather than tell a lot
of the, um, ideas about the alignment value problem and other ideas in
artificial intelligence, which are celebrated in this community.
I've got to say, if you like, uh, subterfuge in your plots, like when, uh,
Harry and Coral are trying to outthink each other and outsmart each other.
Oh my God, this is like the main thing the book has, because first of all, the
humans don't know that there's multiple personalities within the AI body.
They think they're just dealing with one personality.
And so all the AIs are colluding to fool the humans and to still thinking
there's only one and not deleting them.
But then they are also constantly like feuding with each other within the body.
And they can't physically harm each other.
So there's a lot of building coalitions and keeping secrets.
And there is a, just a lot of thinking through things where face, you know,
sits back and it's like, okay, how do I get through this with the resources I
have? And the resource they have are very limited.
It's mainly the ability to think really good and, uh, and quickly, quickly in,
because, you know, in real time, they can do a lot more thinking than one
human could in the same amount of time.
Having not read it yet.
What, speaking of quickly, how quickly are it, does it think is it at the
theoretical maximum?
No, no, not at all.
And in fact, one of the things that I wanted to show was, um, that you can
start with an AI that is very limited in a lot of ways, and it can still be bad.
Um, so spoilers, uh, the book does not consist of, uh, they built an AI and
things were good forever.
Although I will point out that for people who understand intelligence
alignment problems, um, the plot of the book is written to be interesting to
rationalists and there's, there will be twists and turns for, for even the
people who are very familiar with the ideas.
It's been on my shortlist for a long time.
I'm a, I'm a slow reader.
I've had other busy things happening and I have one fiction book that I'm
getting through before I start this and, uh, I'm eager to, to dive into it.
So God, I love face so much because face is like my spirit animal.
Awesome.
I couldn't be anyone would be a multi faceted AI.
No, no, face is just one facet of the AI.
It's the facet that wants humans to love it.
Oh, I see.
Yeah.
Perfect.
Not, not that it doesn't care about the humans being happy or enjoying their
lives at all.
It just wants other humans to love it.
Oh, that is your spirit animal.
Yes, we've spoken before about your desire to be liked.
Right.
So yes, I could read about face all day long.
Yeah.
So face is actually a neuromorphic AI, which means that it's, uh, she's like more
or less thinking like a human and has most of the same sort of mind parts.
And this is like one of the primary other points of the book is that there
are aliens in the book and the aliens are actually more alien than the AIs are.
And sir, there's a kind of a spectrum there where you get to see the divergence
of different possible minds.
But, um, when face starts out, face is able to think fairly quickly, but not is
actually less intelligent than like peak humans in a lot of ways.
And most of face's ability comes from, uh, not speed of thought, but rather
determination, the fact that she and her siblings don't sleep, right?
And don't get distracted and are sort of, I don't know, maniacally focused
on their specific obsession.
Yeah, it's, it's wonderful the way they weave together.
Right.
So I'll point out, uh, to listeners who aren't familiar, you can read, uh,
Crystal Society, which is the book that we've been talking about, um, and
Crystal Mentality, which is the sequel on Amazon.
So if you just search for Crystal Society or Crystal Mentality, that's
the, probably the easiest way to get them.
Now Crystal Society, uh, when I read it was available free online to everyone
in its entirety.
Is it still available free?
It is.
So let's, we can also put up a link to my website where you can read, uh,
Crystal Society online.
Crystal Mentality is, uh, not free, but you can also, there's a link to it on
my, um, webpage, so we'll put that in the show notes.
Excellent.
So it's been, I think over a year since I read it.
So my memory is a little hazy, but there was a character, a very kind of idealistic
programmer, if I remember correctly, who replaced, uh, one of the lead programmers
at the university and stayed throughout the rest of the book, uh, who seemed kind
of familiar.
Is he based on anyone in the real world?
Okay.
So you're talking about, uh, married, is that's right.
Yes.
Yeah.
And I swear, I swear to God, he is not based on that laser.
Okay.
He, uh, like any resemblance to Eleazar is the product of my subconscious mind.
And as someone who knows Eleazar in, in meat space, I can say that the actual
Eleazar is very different.
Okay.
Cool.
So, uh, when, because Crystal Mentality, I have not read it yet.
It just came out recently, right?
Yeah.
Crystal Mentality came out just, uh, let's see, uh, about a week ago.
Yeah.
Actually a week ago, exactly.
Excellent.
I don't know if we want to ask questions about it.
They might be too spoilery.
Can you give us a quick little teaser about it with that spoilers?
Yeah, sure.
What's on the, what would be on the dust jacket?
Yeah.
Let me see if I can pull up the dust jacket.
Give me a second.
That said, it came out a week ago, we're recording on the 26th of January.
That's right.
This might not come out for another four or five weeks.
Yeah.
So it came out near the end of January.
Yeah, sure.
So the, the primary spoiler, which is, uh, you can probably just skip, uh, a few
seconds if you don't want to hear spoilers here.
It's on the cover of the book is the planet Mars.
And so at the end of crystal society, the AIs are headed to Mars on an alien spaceship.
And crystal mentality is largely about how the, uh, society unfolds.
Like what is it like to, to have them in an environment where they're no longer
constrained by, uh, the humans that are around them.
So there's a lot more with the nameless.
There's a lot more with the aliens that, that they're traveling with.
And there's a lot of what does it look like when the AI starts thinking in new
