Yeah, sure.
I feel like, I don't know, since I'm here, it might be a good opportunity to like say
a few things, but if you're planning on having a full episode dedicated to that, maybe I
should hold my tongue.
If there's any, you know, points that you definitely think are worth reiterating, you
know, the chance that this doesn't come out for another six months, if there's anything.
Or if there's something you think that people should know, yeah, like right now to get started
before we get into the full in-depth episode.
No, I think the biggest point is kind of the most obvious, which is if you want to do a
rationality-based social thing, the biggest thing to know is that you should just go and
do it and not wait for anybody to give permission and invite a whole bunch of your friends and
tell them about rationality and don't try to make it just like you have to know all
the things in order to come.
Ours worked out in a really nice way in that I was relatively new to the Denver area.
I guess I'd been there for a little under a year and that March was the HP or the Harry
Potter methods of rationality wrap up and I guess around the world there were, you know,
wrap up parties and Inyash hosted that because he did the podcast and he had some notoriety
and what 20 people showed up.
Probably more than that.
Yeah.
Maybe 24.
It was this big party and it was funny because we got there and, you know, six hours before
you got there, you checked and Facebook was like, oh, there are three people, so you got
a table and they're taking an entire half of this restaurant.
So for me, I just, I enjoyed that so much.
I was like, we should do this again.
Let's make this a regular thing and we've had a pretty steady amount of, I guess, 15
on average, maybe every month.
So, but we were lucky to start off with that kernel of people who were already adjacent
enough to know whether or not they would like the community and some of those fell out.
Some more came in and we're, you know, it's a flux thing.
It was really handy to have that big shelling point, like just a large Clary on call, hey,
Harry Potter methods of rationality rap party.
And then everyone came to that and we all met each other and that sparked it.
It was awesome.
But if you don't have an event like that, then yeah, the, I mean, there are resources
to, you know, like meetup.org, you can make something there.
There is the less wrong meetup subsection on the less wrong website where sometimes there's
ones near you.
Sometimes they have like, you know, meetups listed there that no longer exist, but you
know, you can post on there.
Sometimes people show up.
We've had a few people show up from ours on less wrong.
So it's, it's a thing.
It's something I guess we can get more into later if we want.
So, so I want to pick your brain real quick on this whole immortalist thing because that
is something I'm also very interested.
I assume, first of all, you're signed up for cryo.
I have a member of the cryomics institute.
Excellent.
I am as well.
And I've given talks on the subject as well.
Oh, neat.
Can you send us a link after this?
No, put it in the show notes.
Fantastic.
Do you do anything else in your day to day life to try to help prolong your life if possible?
Yeah.
So like there's basic standard things like exercise and try to eat well.
I try to get enough sleep, someone and so forth.
I try to avoid being in cars when I can.
Although that's, you know, I don't take that to a super extreme.
It's just like if you have, if you have the chance to not do a regular commute, that's
probably a few micromorts at least.
There's all kinds of other perks to not commuting as well, like not wasting an hour
and a half a day in traffic.
But yeah, you also run your odds of longevity, but not risking your life to and from work
every day to how do you, how do you define a micromort?
Oh, that's one, one millionth.
Yeah, it's one, one millionth of a, try to remember if it's a millionth for percent
or just a millionth of, what should we, what, 10,000th of a percent chance of dying.
OK, so like there's some very scary statistics on motorcycles.
If you're trying to live forever, do not ride a motorcycle.
And I don't know, just like basic things, trying to be safety conscious.
Right now, I'm a guinea pigging myself with the basis supplement from Elysium.
Have you heard of that one at all?
I have not.
OK, it's one of the NAD plus ones, actually possibly the only one, but it was the one
that had a whole bunch of Nobel Prize laureates coming out and either working for them or
saying, yeah, this, this seems legit and obviously not FDA approved or anything like that.
But I figured, what the hell, I'll find out in 20 years if it's helping any and consider
myself a part of the research project.
Yeah, there are a whole bunch of exciting supplements.
I don't actually take any right now, but it's something that I sort of perennially
turned my attention to.
I think like most of the bang for your buck is just exercising it even well.
Yes.
And those have the added benefit of making you just feel better and be more productive
in life in general.
Absolutely.
So much of rationality, I feel, is like adds up to common sense.
It's really fantastic.
It's, I feel like it's one of the most primary lessons of rationality is when you ask
a question, most of the time you're going to get a very boring answer that looks
something like, eh, it depends.
It's kind of complicated.
So yeah, so since then you've been doing the rationality thing.
Yeah, so running meetups, running, I ran a rationality dojo, which met every other
week for a few years, lots of other stuff.
Yeah.
So right now I follow primarily Scott Alexander and I try to keep in touch with
Hansen's blog as well.
What, what are the, ever since the less wrong diasporas happened, what, what do you
usually use to keep track of where the rational, rational sphere is going?
Yeah.
So I think Slate Star Codex is something of the, the new hub for rationality at this
point.
There's less wrong renaissance, which is sort of underway and people are trying to
get less wrong happening again.
Yeah, I was going to ask you about that next.
Yeah, I'm probably not the person to talk to.
Some of my housemates are involved, but I myself am not.
And then there's, I don't know, just a variety of sources that I've been
fond of reading the blog, put a number on it.
And I don't know, there's, there's Sarah Constantine's blog.
There's your blog.
There's a whole bunch of good resources.
Did you say there's my blog?
Well, that is bad.
Yeah.
Another primary source is just Facebook and a lot of people are using Tumblr and
there's all sorts of like, you know, again, you mentioned the rationality diaspora.
There's rationality resources all over the place nowadays.
There's also a less wrong Slack channel that has some hundreds of people.
It's active all the time.
There's, you know, 40 different, uh, I forget what you call them, sub channels.
I forget what you call a sub channel and Slack.
I mean, there's everything from, you know, neuro enhancement to AI, to general
advice, uh, relationship or human relationships, whatever.
For me, that's exactly what I was looking for when, you know, so I've tried a
few things on Facebook to get little active groups going.
And the ones that I've gotten going basically can get, can reliably get a
post every five or six weeks.
And that's all people really want to get on.
Then three or four replies and that's it.
The Slack channel is pretty active.
So if anyone's looking for just, uh, something, you know, it's not the kind
of thing you have to follow and read every little thing either.
So it can just be there if you've got 20 minutes at work and you're bored.
So worth looking into.
Yeah.
And there's also, uh, rationalist subreddits.
Um, I enjoy Slat r slash rational, which is the rational fiction subreddit.
Um, there's also the Slate star codex subreddit, which is pretty good.
And then there's like podcasts like this one.
And I feel like a lot of most of my attention, I suppose, has just been in
my face-to-face experiences because I have been centrally involved in like
local rationality communities.
And now since moving up to the bay, uh, I've been working to build a lot more
of like personal connection with people who work at, uh, center for applied
rationality or, or Miri or any of the other organizations.
Yeah.
I would say that in general, face-to-face are the most emotionally satisfying.
But when you're right there in the hub, there's really no reason not to
just go with that.
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, I mean, there's, there's some reason it's emotionally satisfying.
And I, I wouldn't do without it.
But, uh, let's take, for example, the Les wrong study hall.
So there's a, um, I think it's Malcolm ocean.
I think runs the less wrong study hall.
I'm not sure whether or not it's part of compless or not, but it's a, it's an
online space you can go on and there's like a Pomodoro clock.
That everyone shares and you can write down what you're working on and you
can turn on your webcam if you want.
Uh, and there's a chat, but it's silent and you just work like being
watched with other people around you, um, who are, you know, like less wrongers.
And this is super useful.
Um, I've used it in the past and play.
There are some people for whom that just makes the difference between being
unproductive and watching a bunch of TV or, you know, doing something useful.
And like writing some blog posts or reading some material or whatever else
you're doing with your life.
Yeah.
For my, for my work, uh, schedule, I guess now that I'm working for myself in quotes,
uh, I generally go, I generally go down to Starbucks every day because just having
those people around like judging me, even though I know, but they're not really,
really helps.
Yeah.
And like the point of the less wrong study hall, I think you can include a link
to it in the show notes all sent you a, where that is, is to replicate that sort
of experience that like working at Starbucks experience, except that you know
the people around you because they're less wrongers who are part of that community.
And, um, you can just like share those break periods in between Pomodoro's,
uh, talking about whatever you want or, or not as answer need, maybe.
And like, that's the kind of online space that is better for having the community.
And which probably just wouldn't work on a local level.
I do co-working with people in the local community too, but you can't just set
up a persistent co-working space unless you have a lot of people around.
Uh, so one final question, if you don't mind, before we jump into crystal society
and feel free just to pass on this one.
If you want, since you said you were not the right person to talk to.
But do you think that the less wrong renaissance is plausible and or desirable?
That's a good question.
I think that first of all, again, I'm not the expert to talk to here, but there's,
there's a way in which we need a hub, we need some sort of central meeting point,
at least from the perspective of being one community.
If you don't have a hub and like less wrong kind of faded and died, what happens
is that you, a whole bunch of other things start moving into that space, into that,
I don't know, community shelling point.
