directions and has a whole planet, um, full of possibility for, for building.
And that sort of thing.
Fascinating.
I'm really like, I'm just still caring about this.
I used to read a lot and I, I slowed down a lot in the last few years,
especially fiction and I don't know what, what has gotten to me, but I, I need
to just dive into this again, especially this, this sounds like a lot of fun.
This is really great.
Or at least it was really right up, right up my alley.
I mean, it sounds like it's right up mine.
I was just wondering based on the name and also based on how the gold threads
work is, was crystal society based on, uh, the society of mind?
If there's some inspiration there, uh, I was definitely familiar with, for example,
Marvin Minsky's work.
And I think that there's something to be said about the way in which it
parallels human thinking as well.
I didn't want to, uh, clutter the story with like trying to talk about explicit
parallels with human thinking, but there's a lot of ways in which I think it
makes sense to model humans as not exactly different agents, but different
pressures, right?
Like there are genuinely different goals within us that are in a sense competing.
Right.
Like if I, if I'm hungry, but I also haven't seen other people in a while, I'm
in, there's a tension inside me and how I resolve that tension.
Whether or not I seek food or I seek companionship is an interesting question.
And I think that how are the various pressures and internal goals within
us, uh, interact is an interesting question for any aspiring rationalist.
And, um, I think that a lot of reason why people enjoy crystal society is it
gives something of a framework inside of which to, uh, to think about and talk
about the ways in which we might feel conflicted with ourselves.
This is fresh on my mind because we were just talking about this yesterday.
The, the one that really is getting to me right now is the conflicting desires
to have a society free of violence and what you do with, with people who espouse
violence verbally without actually doing it physically.
I'm talking, basically I'm talking about the Nazi punch thing and how a lot
of people I've seen them just being gleeful that Richard Spencer got decked.
And I'm, I'm, I just, it seems to me a very interesting line where people
think they're the people who fall on the side of it's okay to do violence.
And the people who fall inside of no, he shouldn't have been punched even,
even though he's saying some awful things.
Sure.
And this is an instance where, uh, I feel like just with many, uh, rationalist
ideas or many ideas that we reason about in the context of, uh, a rationality
framework, the answer is, yeah, it's complicated.
And it kind of depends, right?
Yeah.
Um, the, we need to be careful not to just stop at that point and say, you know,
oh, well, it kind of depends on walk away because that's, that's not an answer.
But, um, I think that, well, it's, it's the answer that you're okay with whatever
is happening is, is the way it is, I guess.
Well, not necessarily, right?
Like we can be upset about what's happening or we could be okay with it.
Um, I think what it is, is it's a reminder that the answers to most
questions aren't going to be simple, like rules or easy heuristics to follow.
I think that there was a time in my life when I was, uh, I was really into
pacifism and I'm like, well, it's, uh, it's not right to hurt other people.
And I'm not going to be part of this, like culture of violence or whatever,
but that's too simple.
What happens when important values are on the line and it's, and, and you
can't just weasel out of it by saying, like, Oh, but actually, uh, I'm going to
assume that it, like acting along this line solves my problem anyway.
Cause there are, there are cases like that where genuinely we have multiple goals.
And when those goals come into conflict, you know, where does that resolution
take place at what level do we decide, like it's more important to have peace
or it's more important to have tolerance or it's more important to have, I don't
know, open discourse.
I think that like a lot of, a lot of why rationality is important is because we
as humans are primed to give immediate polarized answers based on nothing more
than what side we happen to be on and any given instance without thinking about
like the underlying principles.
And so I guess in this instance, as with many, I would say that the correct
approach is to say, well, stepping back when there is a conflict between these
two values, what is the line that we, you know, myself as an individual or we
as a society wants to draw as to where, where those values trade off.
Well, and that, that's a, that's an important distinction to make too.
That the line for me to pick up a gun and get ready to go out and risk my life
and take others lives, that line is probably from, from my personal
levels, probably a lot higher than I just feel like me to say as a society, some
people should be prepared to do that, you know, whether it's a, uh, an
international conflict or, you know, some other circumstances, but I think it, it
is not inconsistent to say that your value, your personal level can be
different than what you would advocate at a societal level.
Yeah, absolutely.
I think like, again, we're, we're anchored by this, unfortunately, all too human
context where we try to like pretend like the larger groups that we're part of
are individuals or something like that.
We say some things like, Oh, but, you know, if the United States
government was a single household, this is the proportion of the income that
would be going to like paying off debt or something like that.
And, and that's, that's a, uh, an interesting metaphor to look at, right?
You can certainly make the comparison, but it's fundamentally wrong.
Like the United States government is not a single household and neither is
like a city, a single person.
It makes a lot more sense for like the human species as a whole to have weapons
that it does a single individual to have a weapon or, you know, like that's
very, we're getting a little bit too political here, but okay.
Well, I, we can, we can make it safely political again by saying that that was
the same, I think, false analogy that Plato used in the Republic.
The whole thing is this big analogy between the individual and, oh, by the way,
nation states are just like individuals and, you know, they have these,
these three main parts and they, they work like this.
And that the, I think the, some of the points survive when that, if you say,
I don't accept that analogy, but that's sort of the whole point.
That's the whole edifice of the book.
And like you said, it's, it's, it's a very limiting scope, right?
And there's, there's only so, so much use you can get out of analogy,
have an analogy that stretched.
So, uh, is it okay if we move away from politics then?
Please.
Alrighty.
So moving away from the politics and back to the, the books themselves,
I was wondering as a fellow aspiring writer, what's your writing process like?
Yeah.
So that's a good question.
I have a very strict regimen and I think that different writers,
writing styles are just different in, as I've talked to other writers,
I seems like everybody's got their own strategy.
But I found that what works for me is I wake up at 6 30 every morning.
I take a shower and I write for an hour and a half.
It's like the first thing I do every morning and it's right when my head is
like most clear and I have the most energy.
So you're like one in a million people who is most clear and has the most energy
first thing in the morning.
Yeah, right.
Exactly.
And so this is where, you know, like, unfortunately,
I don't think my advice generalizes, but for me, I tend to, uh, I write every day
and I have for years and I feel like it's just, uh, an anchor in my routine
that allows me to make incremental progress.
So one thing I would definitely not recommend if you are an aspiring writer
or a writer or whatever, don't write only when you feel inspired.
Oh, God, no.
That is the surest way to shoot yourself with writer's block.
Like learn the skill of being able to write on command.
Even if it's not good, you can go back and delete it later.
But what determines whether or not you write should not be whether or not,
like you are excited to write.
Which is pretty much true about anything worth doing in life, right?
Yeah.
I mean, people say do what you love.
And there's a way in which that's true.
Like you shouldn't try to be an author.
It certainly doesn't pay very well.
If you don't like writing and hopefully most of the times that you go to write
or do anything, you enjoy it at least at some fundamental level.
But if you can't, if you can't take it when it's bad,
you're just not going to be able to have it be good all the time.
And it will slip by when it stops being fun.
How long did it take you to write the two books?
So I started writing Crystal Society in March of 2014.
And I finished in December, I think.
That was the manuscript, first draft.
And then I did editing various edits throughout 2015.
And I published in January, 2016.
2015, I wrote Crystal Mentality, which just got published.
I did edits this last year.
So it takes me about two years to per book.
But that's doing editing and writing in parallel.
Yeah.
And also they're entirely reasonable
while you're holding down a day job at the same time.
That's right.
Yeah.
So I've got a full-time job doing software development.
And like I have social life and I do rationality events
and all that sort of stuff too.
So being able to time box it and say an hour and a half each day adds up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And eventually you get to the end.
Exactly.
Yeah.
But yeah, it's definitely a long process
when you have other things going on in your life.
And it's not like your full-time job.
One novel every two years is actually pretty good, in my opinion.
Well, it's a novel every year.
Because like I said, I'm doing editing and writing in parallel.
Oh, right.
Yeah, no.
Okay.
And a novel every year is fantastic
if you're holding down a day job too.
I could probably give it to be a novel every year
with writing and editing.
But I feel like that I have to give myself some space
after I finish the first draft
to be able to go back and be more impartial about what I'd written.
I think that the trick is to not get lost in all that remains.
On a day-by-day basis, and this applies to any sort of project,
just think about the next line, the next chapter,
the next feature, or whatever it is.
And set aside a regular amount of time
just to incrementally work on that problem
and it will get solved at some point.
This will be a question for both of you guys
because I don't have no creative impulse.
Like I had a blog where I kind of did what you did
is I made sure I wrote something every day
and it would typically take half an hour to an hour.
