I don't know, some, I don't know, on earth, there'd be maybe a few thousand people with superpowers,
max, and the the powers can range anything from, you know, standard Superman to like the protagonist,
she can control bugs within a few blocks of her rate of her location. And you would think like,
okay, so she's on a world with Superman, what does what does she do? Well, she gets creative.
And that's the main enjoyable part about the story for me is that people have some mundane powers
or some interesting powers, but use them in, you know, really creative ways. And you would think
this book was written by a team of people, or I mean, the author must just have been on creative
overdrive to think of not just like some really convoluted powers, but then really creative
implementations of them, you know, one person can it's like micro telekinesis, you know, like where
I'm thinking of a perian or parian, however you say her name, she basically she sews together
stuffed animals that she can then kind of keep inflated from the inside at the stitches and
use them as like decoys or, you know, vehicles. But her like the specifics of her power are really
confusing. And then there's the one guy clock blocker, he can he can stop time on what he touches
from anywhere I think between 30 seconds and 10 minutes and it's random when he touches it. But,
you know, so that would be great if you want to just run up and touch the bad guy. But he carries,
you know, in his utility belt, like loose leaf paper. So he can because the thing is when they're
stopped in time, they're all they're they're stopped in space, they're as immovable as Superman is,
I don't know what would happen if Superman crashed into one of these things. So he if he's under
bullet fire, he can throw up a piece of paper and pause it with his power and it stays there and
it's indestructible. Or you know, if there's some rampaging monster, he can do that to a piece of
fishing line. I'm listing off these examples because I found them really exhilarating whenever
new characters introduced, you would some of them have a somewhat standard power set, but they're
really creative with how they implement them. And I find that really satisfying. Worm is very cool.
I am when I read Harry Potter, the original Harry Potter, not the methods of rationality,
what I thought united the series was that it was is a set of books that are about bravery,
they're about showing what it means to be brave. And when I read worm, I feel like the same thing
is happening. But for creativity, it's really satisfying. I agree to watch, you know, okay,
so here is this character's powers. How do you, you know, creatively use those in the most efficient
way, again and again and again. I did want to ask, do you think God, I don't know if this is a bad
question to ask, because I don't want to like, make it sound like anyone's putting on errors or
anything. But do you think the book would would help with the drawing attention to the AI alignment
problem if people were to read it? I do. I think that while Crystal Society and the sequels are
written to be interesting, first and foremost, and entertaining, especially to people who have
rationality ideas, there are definitely accessible introductions to AI safety risk stuff that like
just random intelligent people can can get into and enjoy. So if you have someone in who
is intelligent, but like maybe is not very familiar with AI stuff, and you don't want to point them
towards, I don't know, like a nonfiction work, something like Nick Bostrom's Super Intelligence,
which is a fantastic book, but not everyone's cup of tea, telling them that they there's this
novel that they could go read for free online or something like that could be another way to get
them involved. Methods of rationality serve that double purpose too, right? It's true. This is a
good introduction to the general concepts of rationality. Exactly. So I mean, I think, you
know, it could be written for it was written for fun. And, you know, to for at least as far as my
understanding of what L.A. has eroded for, it was a fun practice forum. He enjoyed the process of
writing. And it had this sort of intended collateral damage of getting a lot of people or anyone who
read it a much higher probability of being interested in the kind of work he's doing,
which also happened to be very important to him. And if you're, if you agree with his premise,
he's very important to everybody. I think that that having that sort of that dual purpose for
a novel is is not just I think fiction when it's done well has often served that role in humanity
to get people thinking about things that they otherwise wouldn't but which are important for
the coming future, especially like sci fi and fantasy, speculative fiction in general has really
been good with that sort of thing. I agree. And you know, of course, it has to be entertaining
first because otherwise why would people read it? Right? Yeah, that's a good point. Is there
anything else you wanted to say or anything that we didn't ask you but we should have? I mean,
no rush. I mean, if you've if you've got time, we can, we can spend a few minutes talking about
whatever you want. I could talk about all sorts of things all night long. I think we didn't touch
on a lot of, I don't know, rationality community stuff that I'm interested in and involved with
and so on and so forth. But I guess just a last note on the topic of rationalist fiction. The
Machine Intelligence Research Institute, which is Mary is running a monthly prize. They just
started it up for authors that they feel are contributing to understanding the nature of
intelligence, artificial intelligence, or the AI alignment problem. They posted a link on
r slash rational a while back. And my guess is that this is going to get scaled up with time. So
this is a monthly prize. If you feel like you want to write stories that might help out like the AI
alignment sphere, there will be a link in the show notes, I think, probably where you can submit
those to Mary and maybe win some money. And I would like to point out that you, I mean, writing is
always good and I encourage it, but you don't have to write to contribute to this if you don't want
to. The the prize is for any piece of work that was published in the past two months that furthers
this goal. So if you just read something online or in a magazine that you think is a good contender,
you can submit it to Mary. And then if Mary judges it worthy, they will give the $100 to
that author if that is if I understood correctly. Yeah, I'm not sure where the $100 goes in that
case, but it's always a good idea to, I guess, direct people towards these sorts of stories and
make the best storytellers win, I guess. Yeah. Man, what a someone's job right now is to sit and
read some interesting fiction and fun essays. There's a lot of people whose job is that,
but a lot of the fiction they end up reading is not very interesting. That's true. I guess you
have to slog through some stuff. Yeah, you can be a slush reader for one of the magazines. Yeah,
I was going to say, I mean, that sounds fun, but then I think about doing that for a month and that
sounds exhausting. Yeah. All right, so I take that back. It doesn't sound as much fun as I initially
imagined. I think that's it then. Yeah, I think we covered a lot and thank you for coming on with
us. This was very enjoyable and I'm looking forward to reading mentality. Thank you so much
for having me on the show. Yeah, I'd love to have you back on to talk more about some of the topics
that we only touched on. Yeah, building community is really one that I want to touch on here in a
few months. All right, well, I look forward to my possible return. Awesome. Well, if you're open,
we're open. Thanks, Max. Thank you. Thank you. Bye.
