Welcome to Basional Conspiracy, my name is Stephen Zuber, and I'm Minyash Brotsky, and
we have with us today Max Harms.
Max, why don't you introduce yourself?
Oh my goodness.
So, I'm Max Harms, probably the thing that listeners will know me the best for is that
I wrote Crystal Society, and I just put out Crystal Mentality, which is the sequel, which
are science fiction novels about artificial intelligence and minds, and have a lot to
do with rationality.
I also was a leader in the Columbus, Ohio, or Central Ohio rationality scene for many
years, and I recently just moved to Berkeley, California.
Oh yeah, probably the most important thing that we should tell our listeners is that
Max Harms is actually your real name.
That's right, it's not a pseudonym, I actually intend to destroy the universe, but don't
tell anyone about it.
Awesome.
Your parents have a cool sense of humor.
Okay, so, we, I was thinking maybe for the first half or so we would start talking about
general rationality things, and then like for the second half, jump into Crystal Society
and Crystal Mentality.
Is that okay?
Yeah, that sounds fine.
Okay, great.
So the first question we usually ask when we get an aspiring rationalist on the phone
here, not really the phone, but on Skype, is what is your rationalist origin story?
Because most of us, you know, weren't born into it.
Yeah, so I feel like I was born a little bit closer to it than most people.
I was raised in a secular household.
I never had any sort of religious background or anything like that.
Some of my earliest encounters with religious stories and things like that were like reading
Greek myths or, you know, like occasionally breaking out a role-playing book.
So wait, how old were you when you discovered about Christianity?
You know, I don't know.
It's so much a background thing in culture that like I must, you know, I encountered
it slowly I think, and I just, there was never like a big point where I was like, whoa, this
is a thing.
It was after the age of reason enough or, you know, it was mixed in enough with things
like Greek myths that it never really occurred to me that it could be true.
It was never like a big deal.
Did you find it really weird that other people believed in this thing?
So Christianity, no.
I never really had any like seriously religious Christian friends, but when I was a teenager
growing up, I lived when I was homeschooled.
And one of my friends who was a homeschooler was Orthodox Jew.
And his family was like kept a Sabbath and it was very, very strict and he believed quite
a bit.
And so that was really interesting.
Like I got my first exposure to like a friend who was really into religion through Judaism.
And you know, we have lots of good philosophical conversations as teenagers are want to do.
But I feel like my rationality origin story really belongs with immortalism or immortality
based thinking because being raised in a secular household, I never really had a sense that
I was going to live forever.
Right.
Like there's no afterlife story to, I don't know, placate and I was bothered by my death
and I still am bothered by my death on a regular basis.
Right.
Like I was young and I was just like, well, but I'm going to die and how young were you
when you realized that you were going to die and start having this existential dread?
You know, I'm not sure it started early.
I remember being a young teenager and just feeling like the specter of death was looming
over me on a day to day basis or at least a week to week basis.
So I was convinced that I was going to die and I wouldn't say I made peace with it, but
it was just the sad state of affairs.
Like I didn't like it, but what was I going to do about it?
So I lived my day to day life, you know, just sort of dealing with that fact.
And when I was about 18, I think I started watching Ted Talks, which were super fantastic.
Right.
Ted Talks are just candy for the teenage mind, right, where you can just say, oh, the possibilities
are endless.
Oh, shit.
I'd say it's still candy for the 30 year old mind that too.
They're not Ted X, right?
Well, yes.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, like there's there's there are good Ted X talks and there are bad Ted
talks, but regardless, I saw Ted Talk by Aubrey de Grey and it blew my mind.
I did not have a conception.
So I had I had grown up in a culture which was like tangentially related to, I guess,
singularitarian culture or extropian culture.
And I had some exposure to this throughout my childhood, you know, like my parents talking
about things or whatever, but it always seemed like, I don't know, it never it never sunk
in or something like that.
And watching Aubrey de Grey and then later I read his book, Ending Aging, which is a
fantastic book.
I I felt like for the first time that there was actual hope that like death wasn't just
this inevitable thing which was going to occur.
And I started following anti-aging like blogs and things.
And that led me to watching like getting into singularitarian circles and transhumanists
circles and things like that.
And I got very, I guess, techno utopian for a while and just like, oh, the future is going
to be so fantastic.
And I still do believe that the future, at least some of the futures are going to be
really fantastic.
But at some point I watched a talk, I'm not sure when or where it was by Eliezer Yudkowski
way back in the day.
And I was just like, hmm, no, that's an interesting idea.
Like maybe if we build an artificial intelligence, it won't be nice to us.
And that got me thinking about like the importance of artificial intelligence.
And at the time I it didn't really, I was I was a little bit like half and half on the
AI safety thing.
I was like, yeah, this is probably important, but it's maybe not like the biggest most important
thing.
What's really important is that artificial intelligence could design artificial intelligence
better than humans.
And if that happens, then the world could transform way faster than I thought it would
even given things like, I don't know, life extension technologies or all sorts of super
cool Moore's law things.
And so at that point, I basically shifted my entire life plan to be pushing towards AI.
How long ago was that?
So that was in about, let's see, I would have been 21.
So that was seven years ago.
So 2010.
All right, you've been working on this for a while then.
Yeah.
Like I said, many years.
And so in the wake of 2008, my father lost his job.
And the family decided to move out to Ohio, we had been living in Oregon at the time.
And I decided to follow them instead of being in Oregon without much family around.
And when I moved out, I changed, I lost my normal social circle.
And so I started looking around for people in Ohio.
And I found a couple of rationalists on okay, Cupid, and there was one of the first meetups
was getting started.
It was a cross city meetup between Cincinnati and Columbus.
And I got invited to that and I enjoyed it a whole bunch.
In preparation, I had read a bunch of the less wrong sequences before.
But I basically read through them all in preparation.
Holy shit.
And how long did that take you?
I mean, not like all, like I said, I read a decent chunk of them.
But I read, I think I read at least half.
In what, a week's time?
I don't know.
A couple of weeks.
I didn't have much else to do at the time.
This actually might tie in that amount of free time.
Oh wait, you're past 20, never mind.
I was going to say this might tie into your flexible school schedule with being homeschooled.
I do approve of flexible school schedules, but now this was after.
Didn't mean to do it elsewhere.
I was between jobs.
Do you think that being homeschooled had an effect on how you pick up information and
read through it on your own time?
For sure.
Yeah.
I tend to think that there are a few good things that school does and there are a lot
of bad things that school does.
And one of the worst things that happens in most schools is because kids are forced into
them and they don't want to be there and they're confronted with this like antagonistic experience
day in, day out.
Schools are really good at making people hate learning.
Oh, okay.
That's, you know, that's the same reason I will never learn German.
My dad tried to drill that into me when I was, I don't know, nine or 10 and just months
of clashing and horror over that and I will never touch that language even though I think
it's kind of pretty.
Right.
It's just a question of like association, right?
If your association with learning and studying is this is awful, I'm being judged and the
teacher is like, I don't know, boring or going too fast or confusing or I'd rather be doing
other things, but they're forcing me to like, of course, you're going to not like it.
And, and I just have that experience growing up.
Yeah, I feel so, I feel so lucky now because I was almost always the teacher's pet and
I still kind of love learning and I think that may be part of why I think a lot of there
are some people for whom schools are a really good experience.
Some people are just sort of like naturally good fit for the institution or like naturally
bookish or happen to get good experiences, you know, some combination of the three and
for those people, right, school ends up being this fantastic thing and you go on to college
and you love it and maybe use, you know, go to grad school or something like that.
And a lot of the like modern schooling institution is built to cater to that kind of mind, right?
And so there are some of us, I really enjoyed the school experiences that I had.
So there are some of us where schools are set up in a nice way, but I think for a lot
of people, there's just like, there's some damage that's done and it's not, it's not
insurmountable, but it is definitely, I'm very glad that I didn't have to do that very
much.
Although I was the experiment kid, I was home school for most of my education, but there
were several years where I was in various larger institutions.
How do you think they compared the larger institutions to the homeschooling?
How did I compare them?
Yeah, I like person I know.
She was homeschooled for most of her life and when the, in the two years that she was
in public schooling, she said were some of the most horrible years of schooling ever
because she was constantly bored and she didn't get along with anyone and it just completely
turned her off to any sort of institutional systems.
Yeah, I think that that's pretty close to my experience.
Especially with like public schools and things, there were a few charter schools or alternative
schools which were set up in a pretty good way and I enjoyed those, but it's always hit
or miss and there's a reason why I was homeschooled most of my childhood because that was just
the better one and the experiment yielded positive data in that direction, right?
So I read a bunch of the sequences and that's when I actually got involved in rationality.
It was, I had gotten involved in the AI scene and I knew what at the time the Singularity
Institute was for artificial intelligence was doing, but it wasn't until I changed social
contexts and started going to meetups that I read through the sequences in depth and
I got very excited about community and the possibilities for having rational communities
and in the week of that, while I have spent a good amount of attention on artificial intelligence
and like I wrote some books about AI, I've also put a lot of my attention towards I guess
growing the rationality community as a whole and especially my local communities.
Huh, so Steven, you and me and Katrina, she's, oh, Katrina's not joining us today.
She has job stuff for the listeners out there who are wondering why Katrina's not here.
We were talking about doing an episode on building your own rationalist group.
Would you be willing to join us if we have one of those in the next couple months and
talk about that as well?
