But then I did exactly what also you said not to do,
but this was, I don't know, five years ago,
which was once I got bored with it,
I didn't force myself to do it.
So I had like a few lazy days over the year
where I was doing it and I would put something out.
But then I got bored and just gave it all up.
But that was all like short essays or something.
There was no, I don't have,
so when I say I don't have creativity or a creative outlet,
it's that I don't have, there's something in me
that like some people paint, some people draw,
some people write.
I have nothing in me trying to get out like that.
I might be trying to like articulate a thought or something,
but I guess I'm not sure if this is the kind of question
that's answerable, but where on earth do you guys,
where do these universes that you create and write,
where do they come from?
Psychological trauma.
Right ready for that one.
So deep childhood issues, are you?
Right.
So Max obviously is secretly a robot.
No comment.
Totally not robot.
I think that, I think that there are two things.
I think that on one hand there's probably something
that's just unlike storytelling and I have for my whole life.
And there's probably a way in which some people are drawn
to storytelling and some people aren't.
But I think that maybe the more interesting component is,
it seems, I've yet to meet someone who really doesn't feel
like they have an idea that they don't think is valuable
and that they wish more people knew about.
Stephen is raising his hand.
Stephen, do you not have an idea that you feel is valuable
and you wish more people knew about?
I mean, not an original idea.
Okay.
But what is an original idea?
I mean, let me put it this way.
If, so Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality,
okay, this is a fantastic story, loved by thousands.
What is the original idea in there?
Like what if Harry Potter had like science, right?
And thought about things in a clear and thoughtful way.
That's just a remix.
But it's a remix that depicts useful things, right?
Things which are important to see, not just like on a deliberate
or philosophical or abstract level, but see in a visceral
like moment-to-moment basis.
What does it actually look like to spend five minutes
thinking about a problem?
It doesn't have to be a novel idea for it to be a good idea for a novel.
Was that an accidental sentence or was that a cash quote?
Because that was...
I made it up on the fly, but...
That was awesome.
It just has to be something which when the reader reads it,
they go, huh, that's really cool, right?
That's all that's necessary.
There are hundreds of books that have fantastic ideas in them
that people don't read because they're not written in such a way
that the person reads them and says, huh, cool.
Instead, they say something like, this is boring.
And then they put it down.
Yeah, I've seen this a hundred times.
That's actually, I think, a good way to put it.
So I take back what I said.
When I said the original idea, I guess I meant I wouldn't be able
to create the Harry Potter universe from scratch,
but I could think of a fun spin to put on something existing.
And so when I would write blog posts, I would try and synthesize
ideas that I'd come across into something kind of fresh.
And so that wasn't me creating something new whole cloth
that was kind of just weaving two things together to make a new fabric.
I mean, if you read enough about creativity, that's what creativity is.
There's no such thing as making something new out of whole cloth.
I believe the term is everything is a remix.
And it's really true.
Everything builds and remixes on what came before.
Like you said, I couldn't make the Harry Potter universe up,
but neither could rolling.
I mean, it's based on a deep tradition of lots of fantasy that's been written
and based on her tradition of British boarding schools.
And I mean, there's, yes, there's some new and interesting elements
that she put in, but it builds like everything else.
It builds a lot on the society around you
and what's already out there in the zeitgeist.
Fair enough. I guess there's a lot when you said,
when you read a lot about creativity, it didn't even occur to me
that there was established writing on the subject of creativity.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sure there's creative ways to present ideas about creativity.
I believe it's been said that the secret to creativity is concealing your sources.
Yeah, exactly.
People will be like, wow, this is a fantastic new idea.
I can't believe you thought of it.
And then you like hide all your reference material.
And you're like, yes, I came up with all of those ideas.
The first story that I managed to get published was heavily inspired
by the evil overlords list.
And a number of people were like, this was the greatest thing.
I can't believe you did that.
And I'm like, it's it's number 17 on the list.
The button that kill the self-destruct button that actually just kills you.
Yeah, I really do think that like this remix culture mentality is a very healthy one.
It's one where you shouldn't be asking, like, is this a story which no one has ever told before?
Just ask, is this a story which you want to see more of in the world?
Right?
Is this like the kind of story that appeals to you or is interesting to you for some reason?
Because there's, you know, there's no reason why you can't just have another story.
I mean, goodness knows, Hollywood does this like to the millionth degree, right?
Just telling basically the same story over and over again.
My inner contrarian will will object to the idea that there's nothing new and that everything is
just mashing up two ideas.
Clearly, there's some generative process which is creating, but it couldn't.
No, I agree.
Obviously, because the the best things are things that are new and that you haven't seen done before,
but they need that mulch of prior work to to feed them and nurture them before they can.
99%, 99% is stuff that just came before in other forms and shapes.
And then you put in that, like, dash that seasoning of, you know, whatever
inkling came to you in a dream or something like that.
Right.
And it's kind of like when someone writes their thesis to get a doctorate,
they're supposed to expand the human body of knowledge in some tiny way.
And I feel like every creative work is kind of like that where you're using tons of what has
already known and been done before you and just expanding the sphere of originality a little bit
if you're doing it right and putting a little more original stuff out there.
That makes me feel better.
I did have one little foray into writing a creative story.
I did one of the submissions for the slash rational whatever.
I don't know what the prepper syntax is for naming a subreddit.
The rational subreddit does a monthly writing prompt contest.
And I think the winner gets a month of reddit gold and something else.
But the point is that everyone gets on and reads them.
And one of them was like a new take on a Disney story.
I think it was what it was.
And I remember as a kid, they didn't even they kind of waved away the idea of wishing for more
wishes in Aladdin.
Like it was just against the rules.
Yeah.
And for me, you know, so like what if you could wish like not just for more wishes explicitly,
what if you could wish for the powers of a genie?
Which which actually happens in 11 to if I remember correctly.
Oh, I didn't see that.
It doesn't have to be the end of Aladdin.
It's at the end of Aladdin.
Oh, Jafar becomes a genie.
Yeah.
It'd been a while.
I just remember I remember Robin, Robin Williams's songs.
But so the little the little nugget, I think that I don't think I read this anywhere.
I'm sure someone else independently came across it.
But Aladdin thinks about that actually thinks about the problem, considers the the genie path,
but then geniuses know that didn't work out with this last person.
So he's like, OK, there's there's a prohibition on wishing for more wishes.
I wish there wasn't a prohibition on wishing for more wishes.
So he wishes he wishes away that rule, then wishes more wishes, then has infinite wishes.
This is exactly what rational fiction is like, right?
It's like, no, imagine you actually got this power.
What would you how would you try to break it?
Munchkinery might be in parentheses in some of the bullet points of rational fiction.
The idea of figuring out the rules and then how to abuse them.
Yeah, I think that there's really two major sub branches of rationalist fiction.
And I was having a conversation about this the other day because we were talking about
rationalist animorphs. I'm reading Duncan Sabian's Animorphs Rational Fick.
Yeah, the what is it the reckoning?
Yeah, I think that's what it's called. It's fantastic.
Two thumbs up, at least if you're an animorph fan.
But the way in which that universe is turned into a rational universe is where like all the things
are changed so that they make sense and all of the characters are sort of like have their
wisdom and intelligence meters cranked way up,
which is a little bit different than like Harry Potter and the methods of rationality
and where mostly it's just Harry that is more intelligent and more rational.
And I feel like these are the two major branches where it's like,
is your entire universe more inconsistent and like just more of what we would expect something
logical? Or are we watching like a single rational character get inserted into the universe
and then exploit all the loopholes, which you know, the original author or whatever invented?
Yeah, that's a good dissection to make for the for the second category. I'll pitch Harry Potter
and the natural 20 is is a I think it sort of died off after book three and they're not
Harry Potter book length, but it covers each year. And the main character is Milo.
He was transported to the Harry Potter universe from a Dungeons and Dragons universe.
He operates on hit points, experience points. He and he can't do Harry Potter magic, but he
can do his magic, which he can cast, you know, a spell or each one of his learned spells every
once a day. Oh, my God. And it's a lot of fun. And it's exactly the months can read one. Well,
that's exactly his whole thing. And so there it was very enjoyable. I found myself laughing
out loud reading it more often than I did any other any other short story. So can't put that one
high enough. There's something else. Oh, if you guys wanted to, I'm not sure if you guys want to
dive into this or not. I thought worm was another good candidate for what I consider rational
fiction. And I think worm is a good example of something that's more like the crystal trilogy
in that it's entirely novel. It's not fan fiction. But it clearly is inspired by lots of the ideas
that are part of our specific subculture. And you can you can see the the characters doing very
intelligent things. And it's sort of satisfying to to have that as a relief from the day to day
like movies where no characters are thinking about anything really.
I still like the Marvel movies. But yeah, I mean, so I kept thinking of worm when we were talking
about like where the creative process comes from and how how it's about synthesizing new ideas
from existing ideas. So the author doesn't invent superheroes, you know, that idea has been around.
What he does do is really so I mean, without spoiling anything about the plot, you've got,
