But it depends on the article.
It does.
But and I'll find the study and link to it in the in the episode description.
But the there was a study done and Wikipedia as a whole some years ago and I can't remember any of the details, but it'll be there had less had fewer scientific errors.
I think in the mid 2000s, then encyclopedia Britannica.
I remember that.
Yeah.
Does encyclopedia Britannica still update?
I don't know.
But but the idea was that to anybody who says like, oh, it's it's it's all, you know, up for anyone who goes up and edits it.
But I think they have like a board of thousands of volunteers and some paid people to go through and monitor edits and stuff.
Yeah.
So it's not just anything.
Although Wikipedia is remarkably accurate.
But as long as you stay away from like hot topic political.
The more controversial and the more obscure the page, then yeah, then those will be way harder to get truth on.
I know somebody who added an entry for a Lovecraftian beast, right?
Lovecraftian elder God or old one or whatever and just watched as metal bands started naming their bands after it.
Nice.
And it was just added a completely false one.
That's about her.
And then of course, Stephen Colbert was all happy that he saved the elephants.
He increased the elephant population by having everyone who watches the show say that they were like their populations were skyrocketing.
It was a thing that he did to have all his fans going to Wikipedia and edit it up.
Elephant specifically.
Elephant specifically.
Yeah.
That due to Stephen Colbert's influence, elephant populations were rising on Wikipedia.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, obviously they reversed it.
Yeah, of course.
But for a little while.
And just giving us just letting us know that all of our information is unreliable.
And maybe it's not unreliable.
It's just it can be manipulated, which is true of any information.
It is.
It's a varying degrees of certainty.
That's why I said all not just Wikipedia.
Okay.
Sorry.
Yes.
But and I'm sure this is somewhere in the comments on that wiki page, but I haven't gone through them.
But I think that in a lot of ways, epistemic rationality is a necessary condition for instrumental rationality, at least in a lot of cases.
You can't manipulate reality if you don't know what is real.
Exactly.
I see.
So like, you know, again, using just a vague example of like, I want to lose 20 pounds or something.
You know, if your if your idea of how that works is like, well, if I only eat in the morning, then I should be fine.
Right.
But you want to know the truth behind that claim before you just go for it to help you better achieve your goals.
It's also why I don't think that you should, you know, tell people not the truth to manipulate them, because it's inherently a hostile act.
You're sabotaging their map of reality for your, you know, purposes.
And once they find that out, they are not going to be terribly happy with you.
I've taken away their power to alter reality by, you know, giving them a wrong idea of what it is.
I have everybody believes you.
No, because then reality still hasn't altered unless it's a social construct.
Yes.
A lot of things are social constructs.
Yeah.
We're going to run into a lot of that.
If everyone took Wikipedia's word for it, an elephant population should be a stop to worrying about it.
Well, the elephant population exists at its number no matter what Wikipedia says or what people believe.
Right.
I know.
Something else in the population is not a social construct.
Exactly.
But speaking of painting.
For me, lying is saying to yourself, I have a better grasp on what this person's view of reality should be than they do.
Yes.
And there are some cases I think where that could be true.
If somebody's not sound of mind or otherwise in some distress, you know, that that could help temporarily.
But I have in mind already an idea for somebody to bring on as a guest who will defend the position of lying.
Okay.
And I, I, we didn't get that far when we were talking about it, but I couldn't bring her around to the idea that like, no, I think that that would still be a mean thing to do.
And she.
Who is this person?
I don't know if she, well, Shelly.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Is she pro lying?
Yes.
Which is weird because.
She has a lot of very interesting positions, but I don't know if she would.
She might come on a defend lying for us.
We'll see.
Okay.
That would be very nice of her.
So there was another line.
I'm not sure if we're ready to move on.
And I guess we can take it in order.
I think the one I was thinking of was further to the end.
So next line of the question.
Okay.
So the next line is, for example, Harry Potter and the methods of rationality implies that a perfectly rational decision maker will do a better job than a very smart and informed ad hoc decision maker.
But I don't understand why this should be the case.
Do you want it?
I wanted to actually just jump in and summarize, I think the last section neatly, which is there's lots of anecdotal evidence supporting the idea that people who make the effort to train themselves rationally, more efficient at instrument, I guess that achieving their goals.
We didn't actually give any anecdotal examples though.
No.
It intuitively makes sense to me that if you know what reality is and how to manipulate it that you'll be better at doing that.
But we didn't actually demonstrate that.
And in summary, we don't have any research to, we don't have any large scale research to back that up.
In summary, we don't have any evidence to back up our position on this, but that we want some.
It seems almost crazy to think that the opposite would be the case though, that you can just do whatever you want without regards to the rules of the world.
Oh, that's not what they're saying.
They don't say whatever you want without regards to the...
They're saying, very smart and informed ad hoc decision maker.
A very smart, informed ad hoc decision maker, why would a rational, a perfectly rational in fact decision maker do a better job than that person?
I think a very smart and informed ad hoc decision maker is basically a rationalist.
Except when he throws in perfect?
Because then I'm thinking, well then that person wouldn't need to ad hoc justify anything because they'd get it right the first time, every time.
And then that'd be wonderful.
It's like the Bayseans versus Barbarians thing.
A perfect Bayesian would be able to, you know, self-modify to want to be crazy while on the battlefield, right?
But we can't because humans are very difficult to modify.
So we allow for a little bit of irrationality and violence in the population in general so that if we need to call up on that, we have it there.
You allow for some irrationality to exist so that you are more flexible overall.
Whoa.
That sounded like a bigger claim than the Barbarians versus the Bayes.
Do you not think that we accept more violence in society than we should necessarily?
I don't want to go into it.
Yeah, I think that's too big.
I think that's too big of a topic for right now.
I'm not sure what accept means.
Except that it exists and that there's nothing I can do about it because I'm just one person.
I think he's talking about who we send to war to fight our battles for us.
I live next to a fire department.
I see.
So if you guys can hear the siren, it makes me feel like actually rationally speaking records in downtown New York City.
So every single time they're recording, you can hear police sirens, which is great when you're driving.
Every time you hear that, you know that you are safe from fires.
That's right.
And there's EMTs literally right on the side of my balcony.
Oh, thank goodness.
Yeah, just in case.
Okay, because my arm just went numb.
Which one?
Because I think heart attacks present differently in females than in males.
Seriously?
Yeah, it's a little known.
I was going to say left because I thought it was left.
And I think in women, it's like, actually, I should know this because I was shocked to hear this when I first learned it.
But yeah, it turns out that the symptoms of a heart attack are taught male-centrically that it presents differently in females.
Now that I don't know how it presents differently, that knowledge is basically useless to me.
That's shocking.
I can't believe that the medicine is so sexist.
What I was thinking with regards to the ad hoc explainer versus the perfect, I guess.
The rationalist.
Is that the ad hoc explainer will have a better toolkit to understand what went wrong and hopefully be less likely to make those mistakes in the future.
So if you realize that you trusted this source because you liked them a lot or something, and for whatever reason then you found, oh no, they were radically wrong in all these things.
If you're realizing that ad hoc, you can try and update how much you'll trust somebody just because you like them in the future.
So you'll be forced to make less ad hoc justifications later on.
So are we assuming that the perfect rationalist actually has no previous knowledge or has a different amount of previous knowledge of what went into making a problem or an issue or an obstacle that needs to be overcome?
I think we could say the perfect rationalist discussion for our episode on Mary, the Machine Intelligence Research Institute, because I think the perfect rationalist would be a super AI.
Yeah, I think the perfect rationalist, first of all, would have a lot more prior knowledge than we have.
And processing power.
Empty, what?
And processing power.
And processing power, yeah.
But I think, you know, having a ton of foreign knowledge is part of what helps make you rational.
But I also think that this podcast is more for people who are not perfect rationalists, aspiring rationalists at best.
Yeah.
And so I don't think we need to optimize to that level on the podcast, but it's still, it's an interesting question.
Like, a lot of the ad hoc heuristics we come up with are pretty decent, and would devoting all those resources into making a perfectly rational decision maker really make that big of a difference?
Or would it just waste resources?
So maybe now is a good time to talk about a couple biases that there are rationality tools to kind of get us by.
Yeah, I want to do that too.
But the only thing I wanted to add to the last thing you said, which I've already slipped on the exact wording, but I'll find a way to put it together nicely.
That part of the aspiring to be, I guess, you know, perfect rationalist, whatever, but being more rational in general is I want to look back day to day, year to year, and think the thought,
Man, that was stupid of me less than I used to.
And to me, that marks improvement is if I'm not looking back and thinking, man, I was a fool.
For X period of time in the past.
Or like, you know, just less frequently rather, right?
So I mean, there'll be times, you know, if I'm encountering something new or I should have done this better, but I don't want to be constantly thinking that.
I see.
Okay.
I don't want you to have to edit out even more stuff by getting flat tracked.
Okay, so there's a couple, a couple of things that we wanted to go over.
And we mentioned this a little bit earlier, but the effect heuristic.
So this is kind of the bias that there are rationality tools in order to help us get by.
So effect heuristic is anytime that a subjective emotion about something acts as a mental shortcut.
We have a couple examples.
And one of those is the halo or horns effect.
Thinks less wrong.
And so in this case, the halo effect would be if you think that somebody is a great person, you really like them, then they can kind of do no wrong, right?
Like if you think someone is smart, you'll think they're more attractive.
If you find someone attractive, you'll often think they're smarter, they're better morally, just all good things tend to shine and make the other good things look even more good.
And all they say is true.
So you're more likely to believe them.
And a lot of those make sense, right?
Yeah, for sure.
And that's kind of the bummer, right?
But there's no reason that someone two inches taller than me should be more credible in any single area.
Or in general, just average sampling in every single area.
So attractive celebrities, people take their words on everything.
And even to use less obvious examples, like staying clear of Jenny McCarthy and anti-vaxxing, you can get the Nobel Prize in chemists.
People apparently ask these people, what's your thoughts on the Middle East conflict?
Yeah.
Why would I know anything about that?
How do you feel about the blacks?
