Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Bronsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, oh my god Stephen
Zuber, you sound so different, I'm just kidding, Stephen's in Cancun with his wife, so it's
just us, okay, but for people who are first-time listeners and may not know who you actually
are, did you already say you're just Dickie? Oh I didn't, this is just Dickie, I'm just
Dickie, yay welcome, I think I am anyway, oh that's true, you don't remember your birth,
someone could have just been telling you you're just Dickie this whole time, yeah, everyone
can be on on the conspiracy, right, that's what the Bayesian Conspiracy is actually named after,
oh no, it's you guys, yep, this is silly, so what are we talking about today? We are talking about
this article at Pladium Magazine written by, oh crap I forgot to get the name, Natalia Deshaun,
Natalia Deshaun, excellent, it is an article that at the less strong meetup I was talking with
friend of the show Matt Freeman who also has his own podcast which we will plug right now,
it is We've Got Ward and the Doofcast. Yeah, the Doof Media, so if you go to doofmedia.com you
can find all the stuff he works on and his other co-hosts, they have some great podcasts,
Tyler recommended, yeah, but we were just talking about you know elites in America and he recommended
this article said it's a really cool, I said okay I'll read it and then I read it and I was like
this is really cool, we should do an episode about it, so now that is what we are doing,
and the name of the article is the real problem at Yale is not free speech.
And it's by Natalia Deshaun on palladiummag.com. Yes, and I believe according to Matt Natalia Deshaun
was back in the day Nyan Cat over at less strong. Oh yeah, so old time contributor.
Before we got into that though I wanted to quickly mention this idea that I recently ran across which
helped put things a little bit into perspective. It gave me some background to go on and I'm just
sharing this background now. So I read Context Machine's Tumblr now and then and Context Machine
had this awesome post on Bruce Wayne Republicans. Okay wait, who's Context Machine? Context Machine?
Yeah, spelled with a K. I mean what do they post about? What's their thing? Oh, their thing is
basically posting about 90s culture. Okay. Yeah, and since you know I also grew up in the 90s,
I'm like oh yeah this is fun, so I enjoy reading that. And occasionally you know making interesting
snarky parallels to the modern day. I'm like cool, this is right up my alley. Sounds neat,
you should link to it. Okay, I will do that, and people who didn't live in that era weren't growing
up around that time probably won't be as interested, but maybe they will be. I think a lot of us
in this community probably grew up in the 90s too. That's true, and also he has a thing for
Taylor Swift. Is that the big singer? That's a big singer. Okay, then I got the name right,
like red lipstick blonde hair. That describes like mini pop stars. That's a good point, I'm sorry.
But yeah, also a fair bit of Taylor Swift stuff. But anyways, had this post about Bruce Wayne
Republicans, where he was saying that most people nowadays, and this included me, think of Republicans
as basically kind of evil environment destroying rich people who are racist and want to keep down
the pores. And he said that there used to be a concept of Republicans, which probably a
of specifically upper class Republicans, which a lot of Republicans still probably hold to,
being the Bruce Wayne Republican is what he termed it. Okay, what does that mean?
Bruce Wayne is the alter ego of Batman, as you probably know. Okay, and Bruce Wayne is also very
rich. But Bruce Wayne and his parents didn't, well, Bruce Wayne less so since he uses his money to
punch people, but his parents specifically used their money to help make Gotham better. They
found they felt they had a responsibility and they were, you know, keeping up a civilized
demeanor and always had proper manners. And they would spend money on helping to uplift the city
and fund programs for the poor and those sorts of things. They were yes, specifically elite and
rich. And they did, I don't want to use the term exploit the labor of the poor, because
they were trading money for labor. Yeah, exactly. They were the what a lot of people think of as
evil capitalists, except without the evil parts so much, they were they were like billionaire
philanthropists. Yeah. And and he said that's basically how a lot of people who vote for Republicans
and who are anti tax tax and that sort of thing, view them that way, that they're not these evil
people like in the Marxist class conflict, taking advantage of the proletariat, they are
trying to carry society forward in ways that they have the ability to and other people don't. So
anyways, that that was basically it. It was a short little thing, but it helped me think of
those sorts of people as not evil, which is always a good thing, I guess. Yeah.
I know a lot of Republicans that I like. And I don't agree with a lot of stuff that the Republican
party likes, but I don't hate all of it. And also, you know, the whole two party system,
I think is kind of screwed up for both sides. I do feel a little weird about the Bruce Wayne
Republican idea, because it's like, have you met rich people? I have not made rich people.
You haven't. Okay. Not that rich. I've met a few different kinds of rich people. And there are
billionaire philanthropists. And I think that they are in the minority, or except to the extent that
they're donating to receive tax cuts, or tax kickbacks, or to promote whatever their company
is, make it look better. And I can, I have no idea if they're the minority or majority or what.
Yeah, I don't actually know. My impression is that they're the minority, but I don't have
numbers on that. That would be interesting to look into. And I do have a lot of respect,
though, for the ones who are doing good stuff. I think there's this like Slate Star Codex post
that was against, against billionaire philanthropy or something like that. And I
agreed with a lot of the points from that too. I guess I needed that sort of background because
I came from a very much class warfare kind of background where I viewed all rich as evil and
the enemy. And it was just nice to have other perspective because this post that we're going
to be talking about is specifically about the elite and the rich and why they are important and why
things are a problem right now. And I mean, things are always a problem in society somewhere.
There's never a time where we don't have problems, but why there is this particular
problem that this article is talking about. Yep. Cool. The article starts out saying that the
campus free speech debate is just a side effect of the real problem, such as also as are the debates
about diversity and inclusion, and that the real problem is a lot deeper than this so-called free
speech debate that we're having. And I don't know if we need to touch on that. Probably everyone's
already aware of the culture wars and the free speech debates. I'm going to assume that everybody
is pretty familiar with the culture wars. I guess the TLGR version, if anyone isn't, it's the
pro-diversity, anti-sexism, social justice side of things versus people that are traditionalist
or against these things for various reasons. Yeah. And the various ways these
battles are happening on college campuses and throughout society. Yeah. I kind of want to bring
up the story that opens the article, because I think this summarizes kind of the next point that
you were about to make about what's this article about, what's this problem. Sure, do it. So this
starts out with a personal story. Natalia starts the story about Marcus, a fellow Yale student who
dressed and behaved like a poor writer. And one day she sees that he looks starved and he's sitting
there chain smoking cigarettes and she offers to buy him a sandwich. And he says, you know I'm
rich, right? It turns out he's super duper rich. He only acts poor because he likes the aesthetic.
Yeah. She pointed out that she was about to buy a sandwich with what little money she had left for
this guy who could buy and sell her entire family multiple times over. Yeah.
With his trust fund, not even with the rest of his family's money. It was his trust fund.
And she says that in terms of Yale, I was in the bottom 2%.
Yeah. That approximately 2% of students hail from the lowest income quintile,
while 69% come from the top 20%. And she also mentions that basically all of those
bottom quintile students are moved to the top quintile after graduating Yale.
That going to Yale is the fastest way to join the upper class.
Which is interesting. She didn't really go into why more people don't do it, did she?
Why what? Why more people don't do it.
Don't go to Yale? Yeah. I mean.
Yale only has a few slots. I guess that's it.
And they got to take most of them from the elite rich classes.
She did point out that Yale costs 50,000 a year. But if your family makes under 60,000 a year and
you're one of the very gifted and very lucky people to get in, it's free. So or basically
free. So it's actually cheaper than community college if you're poor and you can get in.
And if you can get in, yeah. Yeah.
I guess that's the hard part. Yeah.
Yeah. So she says the big universities like Yale can't stay out of the culture wars news.
Left versus right. Political correctness versus free speech.
Empathy and inclusion versus economic realities.
Students for fighting social and racial justice against morally bankrupt faculty and administrators.
But she says after attending Yale for some of the larger scandals in recent years,
these dichotomies ring hollow.
Okay. And yeah, this is her explanation of why the rest of this podcast and the rest of this article.
She did mention in the when you were talking about the the rich people pretending to be poor,
that basically everyone on campus was like that.
Yeah.
To the point that it was, you know, she wouldn't have known any of them were rich,
aside from the fact that there's some tells that, you know, pretending to be poor is not
a 100% accuracy thing.
Yeah. Well, she says while she was attending Yale that she realized that the others that
were in the bottom 2% would complain really vocally about how broke they were all the time.
Want to go out for brunch? Oh, I can. I'm so broke.
Wow. You took a taxi to the airport. I always have to take the subway because I'm so broke.
Yeah.
And she says real poor people don't talk that way.
Yeah.
She found out that they're not real poor people.
These are members of the upper middle and upper classes who compared to the real hyper rich people
maybe do seem poor, but they're not poor by anyone's standards besides that.
And then the question was like, why? The first question was why are they pretending to be so poor?
Yeah. Actually, could I get into the signaling thing that she said about after that?
Yes.
She says pretending to be poor is a lot easier than pretending to be rich,
but there's still some small quirks that you have to get right.
Social class doesn't just influence how you walk and talk.
It influences how you interact with others.
The stereotype is that poor people are improper, but sometimes it's the opposite.
They try to do things as they think they're meant to be done.
Spending 100 hours building bat wings for a Halloween costume,
renting a limo for their child's prom, but lying about anything's tricky.
You risk being found out.
So what are these people trying to accomplish by acting broke?
And this raises the broader question of why pretend to be part of a social class that you're not.
So she points out that the Saudi billionaires want to avoid being kidnapped,
so they keep a low profile.
And then the regular rich probably are following the common impulse of trying to emulate people
that are in a class above them.
But like you said, they don't actually know how the real poor live.
She said once she was shamed in front of a crowd for not donating to a society,
even when they had, even when she donated a different gift just a day ago.
And once she confided to a friend, he was like, so you're upper middle class?
And no, not not at all.
But the fact was that like no one at Yale really had any sort of context of poor people.
They hadn't met them.
They didn't know how they acted.
They had at best these kind of caricature stereotypes that they were trying to enact.
Yeah, they never met them.
There was this other instance where her class was comparing the cost and benefits of being on food
stamps.
And Natalia commented on her own experience with the program.
And her professor was shocked and said, you don't really mean your own welfare.
You just were supported by your parents, right?
Like you couldn't actually believe that somebody, that he met someone in real life who had really
been on welfare, which just shows how insulated they are.
The thesis of the article seems to be, which is where this is going now, that these are the
people with power who fail to comprehend the meaning of that power.
That they're abdicating their responsibility, the responsibility to be like the Bruce Wayne
Republicans I talked about before, and they don't even know it.
Yeah.
At first it seems like distorting your wealth signals is just this like funny signaling game
that upper class people do and that shouldn't really have any effect on anybody else.
But Natalia says, if you put on an act long enough, you end up forgetting that it's an act.
That just kind of super rich.
Forget that they have power and privileges that others don't.
Yeah.
And Natalia actually claims that this started happening before Yale and talked about an
incident from her high school where she thought that this rich friend of hers was being bullied
for being too rich because these kids were making fun of his high class accent.
Turns out the kids doing the bullying were even richer than the kid that they were bullying,
and they were actually making fun of his undisguised tells of class.
Like, oh, you're not faking being poor well enough.
She says that when these kids grow up, they end up at conferences where everyone lifts champagne
glasses to speech about how we need to tear down the man and usurp conventional power structures.
Apparently not realizing that they are the man and the conventional power structures.
So she says, this is a problem because we forget the extent of our own power and start
blaming an ephemeral elite beyond ourselves for the ills of society.
And when something does need to be changed in elite thought, we bail.
We forget our own position of strength and assume we cannot bear those risks.
We give up the fight before it even starts as if someone else can or will fight it.
Yeah, she brings up this thought experiment about what it would be like being the biggest
strongest person in a hunter-gatherer tribe and therefore needing more food than anybody else.
So what happens when you have this power but you don't take responsibility?
You'd be in trouble. Resentment would grow.
Why do you get to eat so much of our hard-won food? What makes you so special?
So if that person took on a leadership role, they could use their strength to protect the tribe
and then earn their extra share of food. But would you want to be the strongest
in the village right at the moment when you failed to use that strength properly and the
village is dying and the rivals are out for blood? Or would you rather be the average person just
eating the normal amount of food without being hated?
She says the rich and powerful are expected to take responsibility for things and blamed when
they go wrong. And she says that the check your privilege is a line which just about everyone
has heard. What it means is kind of evasive but there's some point to it. The rich have privileges
