and with great privileges come great responsibilities to quote another superhero.
So they therefore have responsibilities and the responsibilities are not always so fun.
So they say that the recent scandals at Yale had to do with race and social justice
but Natalia thinks there's something else going on that members of the ruling class aren't sure
what to do with themselves. They're not even sure they want to rule. They're expected to use their
power to help society and rule benevolently because what she says the reason they're expected
is that if they don't no one else can or will the middle and poor classes don't have the powers
and privileges they do and can't afford the necessary personal risks but the elite are
not stepping up anymore. Yeah and Yale in particular is different from other Ivy League schools.
It has this history that's rooted in public service. It started in 1701 when a few ministers
were disappointed by Harvard and left to start a more pure, more good, more proper university.
The reason that Harvard's motto is veritous whereas Yale's is lux at veritous,
light and truth. Truth without light is pointness. Knowledge without an aim is at best not useful
and at worst destructive. So they have this kind of high standard that they claim to stand for
but it's happening. This thing is happening at all the big elite universities and
and I didn't realize before I read this article just how influential Yale is.
Like I mean I knew it was a big college but like you know so big college rich people go there and
get good jobs right. That is in my middle class upbringing that is what I associated colleges
with. Colleges are where you go to learn how to get a good job and apparently not so much once
you're in the very high levels. Colleges are where you go to learn how to use your power and be
a good elite person and Yale was like the top of these. The list of presidents that came from
Yale and the list of people who went on to be on the Supreme Court or in other positions of high
power was just it was astounding. I was like holy crap and she points out that people who graduate
Yale go on to write the American Psychiatry Association book whatever that's called.
DSMV? No. Yeah. Diagnostic for whatever it is but they write that which decides which conditions
are covered by insurance right which is a huge amount of power. They go on to become presidents
of the National Art Society and decide what artists get funding which is also a huge amount of cultural
power. Most people who graduate from Yale go on to really make a difference in society through
that one point of their job going forward. I guess Yale is a bigger deal than I thought it was.
Yeah. I had always had this impression that the elite colleges kind of the reason that
you go there is to network with other elites. At least I know a lot of people say that about
business schools like you don't really learn there to learn how to run a business. You
go there to meet your future business partners or your competitors and I guess also it makes
sense that you would go there to be among your peers and kind of learn the social norms for
being rich which apparently are pretend you're not. Backtracking just a little bit about the
elite's responsibility to keep society running. She does point out that societies exist in a
pretty fragile balance. The Rwandan genocide only ended in 95. Syria was a flourishing nation
just one decade ago and is now in total war and Venezuela was stapled just six years ago.
And now you know has what the average wage is not enough to buy enough calories to live.
People are emigrating in mass to surrounding countries because the whole place is falling
apart. So yeah it's kind of important not to fuck your entire society over. The elites at least
the current generation that's coming up and I would say more than just that like this is starting
to spread everywhere are just kind of abdicating that responsibility. They aren't doing their thing.
Natalie says was it Natalie? Natalia says that something is wrong in elite circles
preventing clear examination and correction of ideological errors. And this creates an
atmosphere of impotence and guilt that contributes to rich young people pretending to be broke to
escape that responsibility. Yeah well this is dangerous. This is kind of she said replacing
the old type of class signaling which had to do with what designer handbag you wore,
what accent you had, what prep school you went to and now they've got this new class signaling
where they find any reverse privilege points they can. If they're cis white men they pose as allies.
On an institutional level the old ways of legitimizing powers are gone and the new motto is this
diversity is legitimacy. Can I mention the cool anecdote about the position of master at Yale?
Oh yeah that's important. Yeah which feeds into this. It was really an interesting position which
appears to be unique to Yale at very least Harvard and other colleges don't have it.
The role of a master of the school there's apparently like a dozen different schools
within Yale or colleges or whatever that are their own self-contained. They've got their own
gyms and libraries and dormitories and all that and each one has a master. And the master is kind
of like I don't even know what you would call the master. Well they renamed it to head of college
and it sounds like the person that you talk to when you have concerns about the way the college is
run. Yeah but not just that like the the master always has a tea time that they put on. They
welcome all the new students to the to the school. They teach them. They show them the ropes. They
like they're like I almost say like the live-in butler house master. I just looked it up. It says
the master is the person who memorizes students names, meets with the parents and is a welcoming
presence. Memorizes all the students names every year. I can't I can't even memorize the names of
my friends. I'd love to learn what their mnemonic techniques are. There's 12 of them. There's one
for each of the residential college. The dean of each of the residential colleges handles
administrative and academic concerns. The master is involved in all cultural matters. So they throw
the master's teas where they curate and welcome special guests. And the etymology stems from the
word magister. Yeah so they're this this awesome position that is like perpetuating the culture
and making everyone feel welcome which honestly sounds like an awesome job. I would love to just
make people feel welcome and happy and do things to make their lives better. Which I guess you
could only get in a really rich society that has the resources to spare for that kind of thing.
Yeah well apparently it's a unique because Natalia says that that's one of the reasons she
chose Yale over Harvard and Princeton. At Harvard the sense of culture was non-existent. A welcoming
party with the president. Wine. Forget about it. We picked up our welcome packet and we're
sent on our way. Exactly. Yeah so this is this is a cool position and there was apparently one of
the culture war war things battles broke out over the term master because that is also the term that
slaves had to call their owners in the American South. Yeah specifically African American slaves
in the South. Yeah and so instead of I mean I guess the administration pushed back for a couple
months and then completely folded and now it's called head of college or head of school.
Head of college. Now it's called head of college instead of master and I guess they still do the
same thing but why what was the point. The you've just destroyed a unique interesting piece of culture
a small part of it like the title but the title itself has culture to it right. It's it's
yeah it's been around for a while and it's a neat piece of flair and there was like something that
the author said that maybe it would have been better to have educated the students about their
academic heritage and the administration could have explained that the term has nothing to do
with slavery in America and actually derives from a rich history that makes Yale unique
but apparently they just caved in immediately. Yeah I said after a little bit of debate the
title was very quickly changed and she says that they weren't they didn't take any pulls of the
student body either right there was no authoritative process they just said no and then caved after a
bit and they could have pushed back but instead they folded to demands of a small number of students
willing to make noise. They also had this Halloween costumes incident. Yeah which they also made
national headlines because of course it did. I guess I didn't hear of it because I guess I try to
avoid these sorts of things but I guess there was there's so many of these things happening all the
time it's hard to keep up with who's offended by what but uh someone I I guess was like offended no
no no it wasn't even anybody offended it was the intercultural affairs council uh wrote an
authoritative email to the entire student body right before Halloween telling students to be
mindful about offensive costumes so a few students approached Erica Christakis uh Christakis a
professor child psychologist and the wife of Yale master Nicholas Christakis and told her uh it's
kind of weird that the council can just email the entire student body and tell it what to do
so Erica wrote her own email proposing Halloween costumes should be policed not from the top down
but from the bottom up with students having conversations with each other and of course
the entire internet attacked Erica and her family and they both resigned right uh they were calling
for them to be fired uh I'm not sure if they were it was apparently yeah no they they stopped
teaching both her and her husband stopped teaching yeah right and he really kind of fucked up uh on
the national scale I guess it did make some headlines uh but overall a pretty small news story
like went away after a few days like I said I missed it entirely but Natalie says that or Natalia
says that it changed the entire dynamic on campus that for the entire year the issue was debated
in dining halls it split apart friends and it formed a mist over everything else for the entire
year she then asks like why what was the point of all this happening right and in short the point
was that it was it was claimed to be to help poor people immigrants people whose parents are from
distant lands people of color uh changing master firing those professors all that was for this
except of course it did so little to actually help any of those people that it couldn't possibly
have been the motivation uh first of all there are almost none of those people at Yale to start with
and none of what happened is actually to the benefit of any of these poor people or people of color
the only people who really benefited are a few activists willing to invest time and energy into
that game this leads to her next point that this is a an ideological revolution that's that's coming
over Yale and the the elite sectors of our society in general she says that this is a small example
of that it's a small clique of agitators seizing more and more power perching their enemies by
virtue of their superior internal solidarity and a bold and demanding ideology with some lukewarm
popular moral support and no real organized opposition uh so that's that's just like any other
you know revolution right after a revolution a small circle of insiders have a bold ideology
some ambient support and no real opposition so they start perching yeah and so what's the result of
this um on Yale or I guess any of the other big institutions where this is happening well uh
the result is an institution increasingly unable to carry out its own mission as tuition rises to
pay for more administrators and ideological drama makes it harder and harder to actually teach
now we're back at the original question what was the point of Yale what was the point of going to
Yale what is the point of elite institutions uh Yale's currently having this as existential crisis
students are taught to break the system but Yale doesn't even want to teach them what the
original system was or what it was for or how to productively replace it the university itself is so
lacking in vision it doesn't even know what the ideal student looks like or what it wants to teach them
and then she says so what is the point of the new ideology uh it's not ideological rigor obviously
so it seems to be an elaborate containment system for the discontent generated by the failure of the
current system and an absolution from guilt for the elites and a new form of class signaling
shouting from the rooftops they aren't doing enough is much easier than following any traditional
system of elite social norms and duties let alone carefully re-engineering that system to
re-establish order in a time of growing crisis so yeah coming back to society is in crisis elites
are shirking their duties to do something about this because it's scary and and uh having responsibilities
is less convenient than not having responsibilities and so joining this ideology uh is one way to
absolve that guilt yeah i like this description of it when you live with this mindset what you
end up with is not an establishment where a woke upper-class rallies and advocates for the
rights of minorities the poor and underprivileged groups what you have is a blind and self-righteous
upper-class that becomes structurally unable to take coordinated responsibility you get stuck in
an ideological mode of coordination where no one can speak the truth to correct collective
mistakes and overreaches without losing position so this obviously is not ideal no again saying
Yale students if they weren't powerful when they came in and most were they gained power uh by
getting a Yale degree what do you do with this power you don't want to abuse it you're not
evil you want to do something different you want to be absolved of your power you are ashamed of
your power why should you have it and not somebody else maybe someone more deserving you never signed
up for this you would rather be somebody normal but not normal normal more like normal with options
and vacations and money so you want to be something even better than normal you want to
be the underdog which is kind of the whole ideology net right now right they're like you were saying
the um instead the oppression points or whatever what what it was yeah something like that i keep
being reminded of something my Philly lesser on group uh had as one of our readings talked about
fashion um in the same kind of sense uh how fashion trends change with uh striping or
or a stratification in class and uh so you imagine wealthy people own expensive brands
and then less wealthy people buy the same things because they want to look like those wealthy people
and then poorer classes by cheaper knockoffs of those things and it trickles down and it's not
cool anymore if like some poor kids wearing the same sneakers that you have so what the wealthy did
is they invented norm core which is a fashion style that is composed of blue jeans sneakers
and a gray hoodie over like a plain t-shirt or otherwise just uh dressing down if you're super
elite the thing is you don't have to dress like it actually people if you're wealthy enough people
know who you are they know everyone knows you mark zuckerberg is regardless of what he's wearing
and people can't copy that and yeah that's just weird interesting signaling stuff yeah she ends
with um saying that this isn't just Yale and this isn't just colleges this is reflective of the entire
american elite society and uh i think i agree it seems to be more and more in our political sphere
as well that people are very interested in woke signaling and less interested in coming to well
the lesson just didn't actually doing anything exactly about the causes that they claim to care
about yeah they want to use the power responsibly yeah i mean sadly the article is just here pointing
out a problem it doesn't offer any possible solutions which is always kind of a bummer but um
well it yells it yell though it sounds like what she's trying to say is yell needs to grow some
balls yeah actually like stand up for actually like the reason we use this word master and maybe
that's not the best example but like she's kind of saying like you know you used to stand for
something yellow used to be like this place that would teach you as someone who's elite and wealthy
and powerful how to behave well and how to use those powers correctly and responsibly and
why aren't you doing that anymore why are you just caving into all of these at like there were
more there was like a i think the dean somebody found all of the uh previous deans yelp reviews
there was the student newspaper yeah um they found all the worst reviews that she had ever
made and yelp collated them into a pdf and then published it in the student newspaper and it was
just a hit job and basically she seems to be yelling start being more like Bruce Wayne's parents
and stop being lame stop abdicating your responsibility start realizing you have a
lot of power and you have to use it for good or donate all your wealth to somebody who's doing
good stick it all into the top charities you know like there's other things you can do to be good
donate 10% of your income to like get small area foundation or whatever yeah so reaction time
how do you feel about this whole thing because i for one have always until recently hated the
elite and if i saw something like this i would be like good i hope they all fucking drown in their
own filth and we can wash them away um and uh i feel that less so nowadays and specifically be like
it feels really weird to say anything for me personally it feels really weird to say anything
in support of the elite and powerful so i just feel really weird reading this and being like yes
you should use your power and be good as opposed to just being wiped out so i don't know i'm very
conflicted i don't know uh communism's not really a viable strategy right or like we haven't found a
way to make it a viable strategy um and so there's human society is always going to structurally
turn into a system where there's elites and where there's middle class maybe and and then
lower classes um we're a hierarchical species and that's going to be hard to break out of
and uh i don't hate rich people because you can't paint with a broad brush like that i'd
my cousins are ultra rich and i kind of watched their lives be ruined like uh
i was jealous of them because of all the stuff they owned and their nice clothes and their expensive
schools they went to and then i actually like spent some time living with them and i was like
oh i don't i wouldn't want to live like this it was very uh awkward in the sense that they were
really being taught how to present themselves at all times they weren't allowed to be kids
