I want to bring up one of the things that I think is possibly more controversial, but which
I really like and get behind. The idea that the only, there's this sense in our society
that there should be no such thing as a thought crime. And you brought up once that the only
sorts of crimes are thought crimes. That what makes something a crime is specifically the
thoughts that were going through someone's head as they were taking partaking the action,
which is how it is that all crimes reduced to just thought crimes. Do you elaborate on that at all?
Well, in the field of criminal law, one of the things that the prosecution has to prove
is what's called man's rare or guilty mind. You have to prove that the person
had a particular mindset at the time that they committed the crime. And to illustrate the issue,
the fact that every crime is in fact a crime, the question about what a person was thinking is,
how do you distinguish between murder and self-defense? I mean, in both cases, a person
aimed a gun at somebody, they pulled a trigger and shot and killed somebody. All of the facts
that distinguish self-defense from murder have to do with what is going on in the mind
of the person when he pulled the trigger. That's what you're punishing him for,
is what his mental states were when he pulled the trigger. Or take a person who at the airport
grabs a piece of luggage and walks off with it, and it happens to be your luggage,
but your suitcase looks the same as them. Did they commit an act of theft or was it an accident?
Again, the only distinction between an accident and theft is what was in the mind of the person
at the time they performed the actions. So every time we judge a crime, we judge something as being
wrong, we are necessarily judging what is going on in their head. That's just a fact of the matter
of when we make moral judgments. That makes sense. That's why we punish whatever accidental
manslaughter less than murder. If you're texting while driving and running somebody over, you
probably won't be charged with life in prison because you didn't try to murder somebody. You
might say that's the best example. No, that's a good example. You were negligent and you should
be punished for that, but that's different from planning someone's murder. The lack of concern
for the well-being of others that is evidence in texting or drunk driving,
that's something we have less reason to punish as severely as the person who actually
wants to kill another person. That's something we definitely need to get rid of,
so that's something we need to come down harshly on is the actual desire to kill,
or even killing knowingly. That is, the only way you can get to your end is to kill a person,
so you do have to get to an end. Those are much more severe. There are things that we have more
reason to condemn than negligence, although we do have reason to condemn negligence.
We are at about an hour since we first called you. We did have a few minutes there that we
lost connection, though. Was there anything that you wanted to speak about in terms of
desirism and what you would like people to know about it? Any good questions we didn't ask?
Actually, yes, some pretty good questions. I don't have anything in mind at the time. It
sounds like it seems to me like you covered a lot of the hard stuff. I remember back when I was
reading, Luke Mulhauser was reading too, and you guys started up a podcast and a joint project
until he went off to join the less wrong community. Have you touched with him at all?
A bit, not a lot.
Do you have any idea how his views have been modified? Aside from my parents who helped
instill my initial social conditioning and my most basic desires and aversions,
I think your writing was probably one of the biggest influences on my ethical thinking. Has he
been affected the same way? Do you know anything about his current things that are happening?
Last I talked to him, he continued to accept a desirism. One of the things, and this is actually
the thing that ended our podcast, is when you discuss moral philosophy, one of the things that
a lot of people seem to be interested in is you're expected to come up with the one right and true
definition of morality. If they think that you haven't done that, then they think that that's
a criticism of your view and a reason to reject it. Luke and I both came to the realization
that that is a ridiculous requirement for a theory because all words are invented. There is no one
right and true definition of any term. We can change the definitions of terms at any time.
For example, the definition of Adam. Adam once meant an indivisible particle, something that
can't be divided. But then chemists took these things that they thought were atoms and they
found out that they had parts, electrons and neutrons and protons. So they simply changed the
definition of the word. They did the same thing with planet. And the same thing is true of
morality. The correct theory of morality isn't the theory that comes up with the one right and
true definition. Luke took that and developed what he called a type of moral pluralism.
And he argued that people actually have different definitions for the term morality.
They mean different things by the word according to their background where they raised religious.
If they were, then they might have an idea that morality is that which obeys God's law.
They might have an idea that morality is something with intrinsic value. And the way to get away
from disputes about morality when we have that type of situation is simply to cast the word aside.
Don't talk about morality. Simply talk about the facts of the matter that you can agree on
and don't get bogged down in terms. I like the dodging of terms as well. Not even dodging,
just saying, look, it's going to be pointless if you're going to debate about what the word
morality means. We're going to debate about what we should do in this circumstance. Or we're going
to be able to solve this problem. And you save a lot of time by skipping that first conversation
if you can't get any headway. Even just using a different phrasing. I tend to use the phrase
make the world a better place. I'm talking about the right action. But then you've got to define
better place. Yeah, but more or less, it means you've got no people's intuitions as it means.
Well, a desire is, I would say, a world that is a better place is one where there are more
harmonious desires. Oh, yeah, for sure. But I guess, yeah, so then rather than get bogged down
on, well, why would you define morality that way? Then you can kind of smooth past that and say,
well, this is what I'm talking about. Are we on board? All right, now let's go.
What I've learned from Luke with respect to that is I can write and discuss
desirism without ever mentioning the morality. Just talking about the relationships between
states of affairs and desires. And desires provide the motivational force to realize a
state of affairs. And so I can skip all of that. And if somebody starts bringing up definitions of
morality, I simply say, tell me whatever definition of morality you want to use. And I'll tell you
what desirism says is true with respect to that definition. And we can go from there.
But one of the worst things to do is to get into what is a false idea that there is one
true and correct definition of a term. Because there isn't. It's just a matter of convention.
I remember some people complaining when they first come to realize that
a desire is judged based on how many other desires it tends to fulfill or thwart. Complaining that,
well, then it's just all desires all the way down. It's just desires that fulfill desires
that fulfill desires. And where do you base anything aside from a big web of desires?
In the answer, don't. Right. Yeah. I think that's right. It's got to be proximate.
Right. You go with a big web of desires. But the same view exists with respect to beliefs.
How do you justify a belief? One view is foundationalism, that you take a belief and
you justify it by another belief until you get to these self-evident foundational beliefs.
But try to identify what those are and you have all sorts of difficulties.
The alternative view with respect to belief is called coherentism. Each belief is justified
according to the number and the strength of its connections to other beliefs. So you look at it,
you justify a belief by justifying it by looking at its connections to other beliefs and then you
look at those connections. And the job is to create a big, complex web of beliefs that all
fit together. And desirism says you do about the same thing with desires. Your goal is to create
this big web of mutually supporting desires. I like that desirism has stated, at least last I
read, it's been actually a couple of years or so, maybe a bit longer, that there is no point in trying
to change desires that are not malleable, that you should not try to punish and condemn or praise
an award. For example, don't punish a gay person for being attracted to people of the same gender
because that is a fixed desire and it cannot be changed by punishment. All you're doing is making
their lives worse by punishing them for that desire that can't change. I was wondering, first
of all, if you still believe that, but also how do you view the coming future if we are to create,
if we have the ability to change those desires that used to be fixed desires to really make it so
that you can change what you're attracted to or some core things like how people feel in relationship
to pain or their relatives or basically anything could potentially be at some point,
what do we do once we get to the point where any desire can be changed by a few hours with a really
good surgeon? You've got at least three different questions there. One is, yes, it's still the case
that praise and condemnation, reward and punishment are tools to be used and to use a tool on something
where it doesn't work is simply irrationally. You have no reason to do that. Using a hammer
to pound in screws is a waste of time. You can't have bad desires which can't be
affected by praise and condemnation, but then you go through to some other method if necessary.
You confine them so that they can't hurt other people or try some other ways of altering those
bad desires, but praise and condemnation are only used on desires that can be molded by praise
and condemnation, only where it's useful. Now some desires are moved out of morality
and into the realm of medicine, but then you're right, then the question comes,
are medical ability to understand the mind is improving and we may have the ability to
alter desires? That's actually one of the questions I asked with respect to homosexuality.
One of the arguments that a lot of people gave is homosexuality isn't a choice,
therefore it should not be condemned, but that's really not the way you want to go because what
happens when they come up with a pill and it is a choice. The real question to be asking isn't
whether homosexuality is a choice, but does homosexuality, is it something that causes harm
to others? Is it something that affects others in some negative way? The answer to that question
is no, and that's the reason why it's legitimate, why there's no reason to condemn it, not because
it isn't a choice. I think that's a solid way of coming about that problem, because otherwise
other things, I guess that's a good example personally that currently isn't a choice,
but then it could be. Then that brings the question, well, how would you wait your desire
to make everyone straight versus their desire to not be modified?
I think the more interesting question is, I mean, there's asexuals out there who are perfectly
happy with their lives and they don't have all this possible sexual frustration and all the
other complications that come with having relationships. There's a lot of great things
that happen with relationships too, but would it potentially be desirable to modify all humanity
so that no one has romantic desires at all anymore if we come to the conclusion that they are more
costly emotionally and economically and what other ways you can think of than to have those?
I don't see any reason to force it on people against their will. Once you start forcing
things on people against their will, you're automatically talking about thwarting a desire,
otherwise you wouldn't need to force it on them, but it is something that I think people
may want to choose in the future. Now, with respect to the desire that there be no homosexuals,
which is in conflict with homosexuality, the question to ask with respect, remember that
what we're evaluating here are desires. We're not evaluating actions. We're not looking for the
action that fulfills the most desires. We're looking at the desire, for example, that there be no
homosexuals. Now, the question is, why have that desire? What good does that desire do?
I've never heard a good reason for that desire. That's right. Religious ones. In a society where
the population is dangerously low, there might be a good reason. It wouldn't even necessarily be an
argument in favor of heterosexuality. That's been an argument in favor of just buckle down and
reproduce. That goes back to your question about conflicting desires earlier. What happens if
desires conflict? What a desirism would look at is, which of those desires can be modified?
Can they be modified easily? What are the reasons for the desire? You're not looking
to evaluate an action according to whether the action fulfills the most desires.
You're looking at the desires themselves and you're looking at what are the reasons to keep
and to promote that desire across the whole population, as opposed to get rid of that desire.
Or in some cases, there are desires that you want some people to have, but not everybody.
That's the realm of morality that we call non-obligatory permissions.
Like desires to be an architect?
Yeah. Desires for your profession. You don't want everybody to be a teacher. You don't want
everybody to be an architect. You need some teachers and some architects. Desirism says
that's one of those areas where there's no moral requirement. There's no moral prohibition.
It's a non-obligatory permission. You can choose one or the other, depending on whatever other
interests you have. I think I am out of questions. I think that's why I'm full of
eagerness to read through your blog. We just heard about, you know, I was reaching out to you,
had to get a chance to go through it too much, but I'm very eager to. Like you, I started my
interest in moral philosophy and philosophy in general when I was a teenager. And it's always
been interesting for me. I love reading about really most things, but ethics especially,
because there's a definite immediate connection to real life. Whereas, you know, considering
something esoteric and boring, or I guess, just something esoteric is more just like for fun,
but asking what is the good life? How would I live? Those are the questions that you really
ought to have at least answer to before you go out and do stuff. So yeah, that's really interesting.
I can't wait to get more into it. What's a good place to or a good way to learn about
desirism if someone doesn't want to wade through years of back blog posts?
Well, I did start a Wiki site on desirism, so that exists out there. But other than that,
at the moment, the blog site is the best option, I'm afraid.
I remember when I first started reading your blog, it was within a couple months of when you
first started blogging. I actually went back to the beginning and was able to read all of it. So
for a while there, I had read literally everything you'd published.
If I remember correctly, you were inspired to start the blog based on the results of Hurricane
Katrina. Is that right? Yeah, that's when I started it. There were some arguments going,
or some claims being made with respect to Hurricane Katrina.
Can you refresh me on those? What was it that sparked you to start the blog?
Actually, at this point, I have to say I don't remember. I do remember that it had to do with
Katrina and that I was frustrated with certain arguments that were being uttered, but I don't
remember the arguments at the time, the arguments that actually inspired that.
Excellent. I'll get to go dig them up. I know they're near the top or near the bottom.
And now it's led to all this. That's right. Well, I think it's here.
Yeah. Thank you very much for coming on and speaking with us. It was a pleasure.
And if you want to send us any links of anything that you'd like us to link to on the post once
this goes live, please do so. You have my contacts and once it goes online, I will send you a link
as well if you'd like to hear it. Okay. Sure. Thank you.
Well, thanks again. I really enjoyed this conversation. And I just learned
about this conversation here at Denver Local. If you want to get bored and you want to get a drink,
let's do it. Sure. Yeah. I live up in Lafayette and I work in downtown Denver and Loto.
Awesome. We'll be in touch. Oh, what a real quick question before we go. This is a thing that I've
been kind of curious about. How do you feel about use of intoxicants, like alcohol?
Other than the fact I don't do it. Yeah. Generally, I think it's a weak, bad idea.
Prohibition obviously doesn't work. So that's not something that I would support because it
creates a great deal of criminal activity for no good reason.
I don't like the idea of a person impairing their judgment because when people impair their
judgment, they put themselves and others at risk of making bad decisions. That being said,
there are also studies that suggest that there are certain health risks. It turns out that people
who don't drink are as likely to die early as people who drink excessively. And it's only the
moderate drinkers who extend their lives in that way. The people who don't drink are so depressed
