There's always context, there's always history, there's always detail that matters, and if
you look at all the problems we face, whether it's economics or AI or geopolitics, a lot
of it boils down to the fact that our modern world is so complex, it has exceeded the ability
of our governments, it's exceeded the ability of our political structures to handle them.
Greetings. As many of you are aware, there is a growing situation in the Middle East
between Israel, Palestine, and beyond to Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, the broader Middle East, and
the wider world. I'm not an expert on this area, other than to obviously know the importance
of this region to the rest of the world. Half to two-thirds of the world's remaining oil
reserves are within 1,000 miles of Israel, and there are increasingly countries choosing
sides. I don't know enough about this to speak intelligently to it, so I invited my colleague
Chuck Watson for a special episode to discuss what's going on and what it means. Chuck has
been on this show three times before to talk about nuclear war, nuclear weapons, the outcome
of a nuclear exchange, and the broader perspective of a future using a military lens. Chuck has
a long career in military and intelligence work. His specialty is natural and human-made
disaster modeling. He worked for the US Air Force and was a special attaché to US ambassadors
to the Middle East, Robert McFarland, and later secretary of defense, Donald Rumsfeld,
as a Soviet expert. Chuck has worked in the military or as an advisor to the military
for over four decades with a particular emphasis on big data, open-source intelligence, with
an emphasis on the Soviet Union and Russia. Chuck joins me today to integrate what's going
on in the Middle East into a broader global risk assessment. I'll caution that our conversation
is not uplifting, but it's one that I feel is important for more people to understand
and integrate into their thinking and their planning. Ultimately, Chuck concludes that
we're going to need different modes of problem-solving and governance in order to successfully navigate
this spiraling global political situation, and I agree. This was a clear but intense overview
of the challenges the world faces with respect to Israel and Palestine, Ukraine, and the
broader economic implications of the financial system interest rates, global trade, etc.
Please welcome Chuck Watson. Good morning, Chuck. Great to see you.
Hey, good morning. At least it's cooled off a little bit here.
Cooled off temperature-wise, not geopolitics-wise.
Well, no.
Are you feeling better? I thank you for doing this impromptu. I know you're just getting
over COVID. Yeah, it was mostly COVID-hypersensitivity. I think I was over COVID in about 24 hours,
the virus itself. I think we've reached a stage now where the immune system reactions
about as bad as the actual virus itself for most people.
Just to timestamp this, since world events are quite dynamic, this is Wednesday, October
18th at 8 in the morning, my time. You and I talk quite often. You were one of my very
first podcast guests. Our first conversation was almost two years ago, recorded in December
2021, before the Russia-Ukraine NATO incursion. I asked you on that podcast, what was the
biggest risk facing humanity? You immediately mentioned nuclear war possibilities in the
next 24 months, and you said, and I quote, I think the biggest thing is we've got to
reduce the level of geopolitical tensions. At the time, this was not something on my
radar. Looking through the transcript of that podcast, we talked about Ukraine, Taiwan,
Africa, and the Middle East. Two months later, the war in Ukraine broke out, and there have
been revolutions in Africa. War is now broken out between Israel and Hamas, with the risk
of spreading through the region and possibly going nuclear. Tensions with China are high.
It feels like we're on the verge of a tectonic shift and perhaps World War III. Are things
really falling apart, and why? Can you give us a big picture update?
I think the big picture is that things are falling apart, and part of the reason is that
the international order, the systems where countries deal with each other, talk with
each other, have just pretty well broken down. That's a tough place to be, because once
you start breaking up into these different camps that not only don't talk to each other,
but fundamentally don't share values. By values, that don't mean moral ethical values.
You look at how BRICS solves problems, look at the US, the West solves problems.
They're radically different approaches to international problem solving. The UN systems
completely broken down. Yeah, it does feel like things are worse.
How does Israel complicate this situation?
Gosh, in the Israeli situation, Nate, on my background, I basically lived in Israel for
two years. I ran secure satellite communications for the US Middle East diplomatic missions,
guys like McFarland and Rumsfeld and Habib. That's an area I know something about.
I can give you just one little maybe snapshot to put it in context. Everyone is subset with the
Russia-Ukraine about civilian casualties. Well, there have been more civilian casualties
in 10 days of the war between Hamas and Israel than there have been in two years of high-intensity
conventional warfare between Ukraine and Russia. Think about that. The level of brutality in the
Middle East is really phenomenal. The question is why? Here in the West, we tend to not like to
talk about it that much because we tend to think of things in more secular terms. We tend to think
that religion and these kinds of things are something you do on Sunday. It's a way of life
in most of the world. I think that's one of the areas that in US foreign policy, we don't fully
appreciate the depth of feeling, of hatred, of animosity, and of resentment and of history
that is involved in this conflict. You can easily eat that whole concept and I won't bore you with
the details, but periodization. You think of where do you start history? Well, okay, if you're going
to start it on October 7th, then your sympathies will be with Israel. But if you started two days
earlier, even on October 5th, then you go, wow, the Israelis were encouraging rabbis to do prayers
within the Muslim compound on Temple Mount. That was a trigger maybe for promos. You start going
back more and more in time until eventually you realize this is just a lot of complex history with
a lot of blood. The level of brutality, I think, is something that people don't really appreciate
in the West so much. Well, you know the focus of this podcast is systems and I often say that
we're energy blind and between half and two-thirds of the world's remaining oil reserves are in
roughly 800 miles of Israel. We're also ecology blind on our impact on the oceans and other
species, but even at an almost deeper level than that is we're geopolitics blind because
we've assumed this complex six-continent supply chain and global peace and collaboration and
the upslope of the carbon pulse will continue. Boy, this morning I saw that President Biden
gave the green light to Israel to do whatever they see fit and the Arab leaders of the Gulf
nations refused to meet with him and his delegation. It just seems to me that there's a further
isolation of the West because of this and I'm kind of surprised so far that the markets haven't
discounted this into the future. I mean, these are tectonic shifts that are potentially happening.
Well, what are your thoughts on that? I agree completely then and again that lack of realization
of the fundamental shifts. It used to be the U.S. president goes to the Middle East or any region
and says, I want to meet with leaders X, Y and Z. Well, they're going to do it. You know, you would
just the level of influence that the U.S. has and I'll be blunt, the level of fear. A lot of the
reason that various countries meet with us is intimidation and fear because of the U.S.,
particularly the last 30, 40 years, primarily has exercised its power through military means.
It's been an astonishing reversal for me growing up, you know, coming of age professionally within
State Department and Defense Department to see the really almost reversal of roles and that our
State Department is often now much more militaristic than our own Defense Department. So you're right,
you look at what's going on for the president to go to the region and to have at the last minute
key leaders, the leader of Jordan to have King Abdullah to withdraw from and cancel a meeting
with the president. That's just astonishing and it shows the tremendous decline of American
diplomacy and influence through the region. We are at severe risk of isolation. The Russia-Ukraine
thing started our road to isolation and with Israel in particular because of the strong emotional
connections there and the whole situation now with the fairly obvious extreme response of and
again you look at Israeli a bit of a rabbit hole, try to avoid but I do think it's worth mentioning
that Israel's security has largely rested on the brutality of its response. The being a smaller
population they've always said we need to kill at least 10 or 20 times as many of our adversaries
as they kill of us and okay that works for a certain level of intimidation but after a certain
point that becomes self-destructive and I think we passed that point. So is it kind of a bluff
intimidation that's been built up over years and decades or yeah that's an interesting question.
Israeli security has rested really on four pillars and what we're seeing with the current
Hamas wars there's at least three of those pillars that have started to collapse. The first one is
the myth of Israeli invincibility. Now that had some merit to it. You look at the early wars 48,
67, 73 Israel had a definite quantitative qualitative advantage over the over its
air of neighbors particularly the education level of NCOs and officers and you know let's vary the
details on that but they did have a significant superiority in that sense but over time that's
gone away. Once they've moved into more of a police action population control instead of
a peer-on-peer military they lost that edge so that's pillar one. The second pillar is of course
US support. The US having their back well are countries afraid of the US anymore you know you
look at the devil of Afghanistan you look at how our weakness militarily has been shown through
our support to Ukraine hasn't worked out that's become more in question. Now US remains a very
dangerous adversary but that pillar has some holes in it. Third pillar brutality and again
people don't like to say this but this I'm using Israeli terminology here a brutal response to any
action again kill 10 or 20 to one that's been the signature of Israeli response that you kill one
of our people we're going to kill 10 of yours and again that's very understandable they're isolated
you know they're outnumbered you almost have to go that way but that only gets you so far.
The only pillar remaining is the nuclear deterrent the so-called temple weapons or
samson options it's sometimes called and so that gets us to a question that you raised earlier
that we've always discussed in our conversations risk of nuclear war well that was always considered
more of a last resort option but when all of your other means of deterrence start to fall apart
and your survival is at stake then you start to look at those nuclear weapons and start to
think well maybe we need to use them and so that's what I'm afraid will happen if Israel
goes into Gaza if it goes badly if Hesba Law starts a second front third front even with
Jordan and West Bank is a possibility once desperation sets in then you face that choice well
are you willing to lose or are you going to go the route of nuclear weapons and I cannot see the
Israelis ever picking the option of submission they will use the Masada option they will go with
nuclear weapons so that's why I think this particular scenario is of such extreme risk.
Okay so I want to dive into that obviously but let me take another step back first boy it sure
seems that this is all happening at the same time that there's this global growing anti-imperialist
anti-colonialist bricks expanding and people are kind of rising up to a global response to
limits and poverty and other things kind of against the West and now it seems like
even with the brutal attacks from Hamas that a lot of the international community seems to be
siding with or against Israel and I'm not paying super close attention to this and I don't have a
lot of background in it but it really seems potent the anti-western sentiment that is different
from when you worked in this region when the US was highly respected and admired is that also
changing or what are your thoughts on that? Yeah Nate it's interesting because there's a couple
of complex phenomenon work and I apologize I keep using the word complex but that's
I'm very aware that every question I ask you you could talk for 90 minutes on which is the
challenge of doing a short podcast but go on. So let's take one piece of that which is the US
reputation. Back during the Soviet era the US was that shining city on the hill sure people
realized we had our flaws but the good intent of the US was never really questioned. I remember
during the Persian missile crisis in Europe or even traveling in the Middle East people would say
you know we don't like some of your policies but we don't think you're being evil we don't think
you're trying to just gain for your own benefit you do care about the world. I don't hear that
anymore. I very much hear that America is being very selfish that America is if you look at things
like the deals we do with dictatorships and you look at how we have sponsored various regimes
where we're friends with dictators when really we should have been pushing maybe for more liberalization
you look at what happened in Syria. Assad Bashar Assad was trying to liberalize but we took advantage
of that to try to overthrow his government rather than work for an evolutionary improvement and we
ended up destabilizing the country. We did the same thing effectively in Egypt many of the Arab
spring countries went down look at Libya where now there's open air slave markets and you know we've
had a secretary of state who was laughing about it well that's just you know you might have gotten
away with that 30 or 40 years ago and but now with social media with networks with widespread
independent journalism in the developing world we can't get away with that people see the U.S.
and see our actions so that kind of hits the second point of social media and networks and how
governments don't control the media the way they used to and of course we've discussed that and I
mean your excellent podcasts with Daniel and others about the role of how media has changed the
landscape politically here in the U.S. well it's radically changed the landscape in the Middle East
in that you can't have this control of information now a lot of people will say a lot of it's
misinformation and there's some fairness to that but this just a landscape where you could control
the narrative is is gone and so what you now have is multiple narratives and people choose the ones
they feel most comfortable with or they feel is most realistic and the narrative in the Middle
East right now is that the U.S. Israel are in it for their own good and keeping the rest of us down
this is something I learned first hand with the Ukraine Russia situation is that there are two
wars there's the kinetic war military versus military and then there's the information war
the propaganda on both sides and like you just said with AI and social media and all that it
becomes increasingly difficult to really know what's going on last night soon after it happened
there was a a missile that apparently hit a hospital in in Palestine in Gaza and it was
immediately said 500 were dead and now it turns out that it might have been a failed rocket from
Palestinians themselves and it didn't actually hit the hospital it hit the front courtyard of the
hospital I mean I don't know what to believe but increasingly there's going to be people on both
sides of all these engagements highlighting things on social media to generate empathy
with citizens around the world paying attention to this and it seems like the information war is
almost as important as the real war because it builds up support for a certain plan of action
yeah and it's funny you say that about the it was probably a gbu-31 jdam exploding as an air burst
just based on the the video that was available immediately at the time before people had a
chance to start screwing with it and it probably was an Israeli strike I mean if you look at
at it but of course that in a sense that almost doesn't matter after about 24 hours because the
most of the world is going to believe it was an Israeli strike an intentional Israeli strike
um you know Israel has gone and flooded social media with a variety of uh honestly I'm surprised
at the amateurish nature of some of their counter narrative uh attempts but I think well it would
be good enough to fool me that's for sure I mean people don't have the your ability to
suss what's really going on most people well and that's an interesting point too because
what passes for journalism these days is and having expertise in those areas the problem
is how do you find an independent analyst who is going to look at that and give you a neutral
opinion that you trust you know if you pull somebody from the u.s military and well chances
are they're going to follow the whatever the u.s narrative is likewise if you are you going to
ask an Israeli spokesperson yeah probably that's not going to give you a neutral viewpoint you're
going to ask somebody from Gaza or from one of the NGOs yeah again there there's so many agendas
and finding someone who does not have an agenda or a group trusted group there's
there's just no trusted space for information and that's catastrophic from the standpoint of
the average person trying to sort out what's going on so setting aside the the nuclear war risk
for the moment which is in reality of course impossible to set aside but just focusing on the
information how does someone make sense of Ukraine and Russia and Israel Hamas going forward for the
