I was too young to sort out really what they were saying,
but they indicate that they're fans
of antagonistic pleiotropy, right?
So what happened was George Williams having heard
that it got rejected, contacted some friends of his
and was like, you should really take a look at this.
So I begin the process of revising it.
I've shown it to Carol.
She's panned it.
I send the revised version to experimental gerontology.
They send it out for review.
As you know, review is blind.
You don't know who your reviewers are,
but you can often tell who they are.
It's not as obscure depending.
If it's a small field.
Yeah.
So they read the acknowledgement of my paper,
which are now on alert about Carol.
I have to thank her in the paper for the work she did,
but I'm now on alert that she's gone strange
on the subject matter of this paper.
And so I've broken her out separately in the acknowledgements.
I don't wanna be as gracious to her
because she's being hostile to me,
but I don't wanna not acknowledge her.
So I acknowledge her separately.
Experimental gerontology,
then I am 99% sure it sends the paper to her as the reviewer.
She pans it.
Absolutely brutal critiques,
just pages and pages and pages of them.
They are not high quality critiques.
I could go through every single one of them.
Don't bother, this is a podcast.
No, I can't do it here, but I could have then.
No.
But I didn't know what to do
because she was in line for a Nobel Prize.
That was well understood.
I didn't wanna accuse a leading light of the field of not...
Okay, this is exactly why I got angry
at you at the beginning of the podcast, you moron.
No, no offense.
You were in line for a Nobel Prize.
You didn't, I mean, I'm sorry.
There is an aspect of this,
about giving away your power before you've even accused me.
You don't even have a PhD at this point.
I'm just saying, at the time, if you mentioned her name,
people would say, oh yeah,
her Nobel Prize is one of these years, right?
So my point was I was in the awkward position.
I didn't understand what I was supposed to do.
I didn't wanna send back a review that said,
I don't know who the person is who reviewed this,
but they don't understand the material
and all of their critiques suck
because I didn't wanna accuse somebody
who was that powerful of not getting it.
I mean, here's the problem.
What do you do?
You don't actually have evidence in the hard form
where you have got videotape,
but on the other hand, these are small worlds.
All of this is preposterous.
Right.
So I sit on the review for too long,
not knowing what-
Well, you don't know how to-
I don't know how to handle it.
I'm sorry, I have no advisor.
Your advisor was not equipped for the modern era.
He wasn't equipped for the modern era.
He wasn't equipped for molecular biology.
That's true.
I finally settle on a strategy that I can live with
and I send back a note.
I send back the review and my note says,
I don't know why,
but this entire list of critiques is not high quality.
If you would like to point me to any of the critiques
in this list that you would like me to address,
I am more than happy to do it,
but I don't think it makes sense to address the entire list.
And as I recall it, I hit send on the email
and within minutes, maybe it was an hour,
I got back a response.
Your paper has been accepted for publication,
which blew me away because I-
Makes no sense according to regular protocols.
Right, it makes no sense because clearly
they're supposed to send it out for review.
The reviewer's supposed to say
whether it's supposed to get published.
The reviewer said it shouldn't be published.
I said I refuse to address these critiques
unless you ask me to.
The editors have overridden the reviewer.
They understood the reviews were cruddy.
They needed me to say that in order to justify
the move that they wanted to make.
They knew the paper was good
and the review was crap.
So they effectively overrode normal peer review.
Was my paper peer reviewed?
Well, it was by the editors who were experts.
Let me jump in.
Peer review is a cancer from outer space.
It came from the biomedical community.
It invaded science.
The old system, because I have to say this
because many people who are now professional scientists
have an idea that peer review
has always been in our literature
and it absolutely, motherfucking has not, okay?
Used to be that the editor of a journal
took responsibility for the quality of the journal
which is why we had things like nature crop up
in the first place because they had courageous,
knowledgeable, forward thinking editors.
And so I just want to be very clear
because there is a mind virus out there
that says peer review is the sine qua non
of scientific excellence, yada, yada, yada,
bullshit, bullshit, bullshit.
And if you don't believe me, go back and learn
that this is a recent invasive problem in the sciences.
Recent invasive problem that has no justification
for existing in light of the fact.
Well, not only does it have no justification for existing.
When Watson and Crick did the double helix
and this is the cleanest example we have,
the paper was agreed should not be sent out for review
because anyone who was competent
would understand immediately what its implications were.
There are reasons that great work cannot be peer reviewed.
Furthermore, you have entire fields
that are existing now with electronic archives
that are not peer reviewed.
Peer review is not peer review.
It sounds like peer review, it is peer injunction.
It is the ability for your peers
to keep the world from learning about your work.
Keep the world from learning about your work
because peer review is what happens,
real peer review is what happens after
you've passed the bullshit thing called peer review.
Yes.
Okay, so the paper was accepted
by experimental gerontology.
They went on to publish it.
This is called Life Slow Fuse?
No, Life Slow Fuse was the title as sent to nature
and I changed the title because I did not want
to compromise the story.
I didn't want to confuse the story.
The original submission was called Life Slow Fuse.
We probably have a copy of that somewhere.
Of course.
All right.
Then the experimental gerontology paper, what is it called?
The Reserve Capacity Hypothesis.
That's right.
Okay, which is a much less catchy title, but nonetheless.
The paper, I'm very proud of how it's written.
People read it who were not expert could understand it.
The abstract is extremely clear and it ends
with the clear point that because we have unearthed,
we have predicted and Carol Greider has shown
that wild mice telomeres are short
and that telomeres have been elongated by captivity,
that there is a clear danger that the mice we are using
for drug safety testing are biased in an egregious way
and the bias would look like this.
A mouse that has very long telomeres has
an indefinitely large capacity to replace damaged tissue
and it has a vulnerability to cancer
that is preternaturally high.
So we may be overrating, if we use these mice,
we may be overrating the danger of causing cancer
and vastly underrating the danger of toxicity.
And in fact, one of the things, so the point was
you give a mouse who's got an effectively infinite
capacity to replace its tissues, a toxin
and either the toxin is so deadly that it dies right away
but if it doesn't die right away,
it just eats up the insult.
So those animals would lead us to release drugs.
By insult, what you mean is cellular necrosis?
Damage, yeah.
What this would cause us to do is release drugs
onto the market for human use that are highly toxic
across the body and.
Wait a second, if the mouse standard was the last standard.
Well, no, even if it's not the last standard.
Well, it's important to say this.
The problem is, I mean, you can imagine how hard it is
to test on large, slowly reproducing animals.
Well, and the ethics of testing on humans is very.
