Like, oh, isn't it delightful
that they have long telomeres?
It's like, what the hell are you doing?
There is so much writing on correcting this,
and you're presenting it like it's just a bonus.
And she, in her presentation,
she's got several experiments
that I did not know she had run that I had suggested to her.
I said, things like, Carol, do you have any idea
if a cell has many different telomere lengths?
Is it the shortest telomere
that controls how many reproductions a cell can do?
She's run that experiment.
Interesting, lo and behold, it's the shortest telomere.
It's a good guess, but anyway.
So she goes through this.
There's no mention of me.
There's no mention of the actual implications
of the long telomeres for things like science
and safety testing and all of that.
And I can't seem to raise the issue
of the safety question with anybody, right?
At best, I get journalists who are interested
until they call somebody,
and the somebody's on the other end, I know what they say.
They say, everybody knows that mice aren't great models.
In fact, there's a paper out there
that says something like the mice lie.
It's not about this issue.
It's just about the fact that mice aren't a perfect match.
The issue in question could be solved.
It could be addressed thoroughly.
And for all I know,
once the Jack's lab figured out what they were doing,
for all I know, they quietly have fixed this.
And there was a, you know,
I've heard that there was a private meeting
in which they decided.
Look, this is the thing.
Yep.
You see something like this in statistics.
Everybody knows that most distributions
that are bell shaped are not normal, right?
Yep.
And on the other hand, we all use normal distributions.
And as a result, there are lots of things
that at one level, everybody knows.
Yep.
But don't percolate down to the important layers
in which we test things.
And I don't know where, like you and I have never
been able to fully put together,
because we're not molecular researchers,
and I'm not even a biologist.
How important are these results?
How robust are they?
Has there been a change?
This is a quiet world at some level.
It's a quiet world, but I think what I have concluded,
working backwards from the phenomenology of the field
and how it reacts to this problem,
is that there's a tremendous amount resting
on failing to acknowledge the error,
even though the error was obviously an honest error
to begin with, they would rather sweep it under the rug.
I mean, imagine you've got all these knockout mice, right?
These knockout mice, there's a major investment in them.
It takes a lot of work to knock out a particular thing.
Dude, you've got a single point of failure
whose projections are tendrils into everything.
Right, and you've got how many careers built on papers
that are now suspect?
This is like a centralized irreproducibility crisis.
Yes, it's that bad or worse.
Okay.
And what happens, let's say somebody hears this podcast
and they check into it and they find out,
lo and behold, this story is true.
Well, now the FDA has a problem.
Wait, wait, wait a second.
I don't want to get too far out over our skis.
We have enough listeners that people will get a chance
to hear an unbelievable story.
And if there are things in the story that are not true
or misremembered or unkind or there've been changes
or maybe we don't really fully understand
how the drug testing works, I'm open
and I want to be very clear
and I want this in the podcast.
I'm open to the idea that the most straightforward
implications of the story are subject to adjustment.
However, having lived the story,
I can say that this was an egregious story
at multiple points with conflicts
between the evolutionary community,
the biomedical community,
the professional publishing community.
This is a terrible story.
And it's also an amazing and beautiful and wonderful story.
And, you know, I felt really lousy at the beginning
of this podcast, goading you and prodding you,
but I am so bored of you.
No offense, as the guy who stood up
to the funny kids at Evergreen.
And, you know, we know what's in the heads of these people.
If you're at Evergreen, you're not that good, right?
And that was like, this is the,
I just want to be open about it.
No, look, I appreciate it.
And I'm glad to have this story out.
The story has many different layers of meaning.
I know, I remember where I was
when I finally sat down
to watch Carol Greider's Nobel lecture.
And I had one of the oddest experiences of my life.
I was actually in a hammock watching her lecture,
watching her present my hypothesis
without my name anywhere on it.
And then she projects this image
from her paper with Mike Heeman.
And I was flooded with two simultaneous emotions
that are just completely incompatible, right?
I've never felt anything like it.
I was absolutely elated to see my work projected
on a Nobel stage, right?
That changed me.
You know what I call the horse and rider problem?
No.
The point of the official complex of science
is to knock the rider and take the horse,
where the horse is the theory
and the rider is the attribution.
Well, this was it.
I was elated and livid simultaneously.
And I can still almost feel what it was,
almost like my body was trying to figure out
if it's one half supposed to feel one thing
and the other feels the other.
But this story has many levels of importance.
Personally, it gave me the ability,
I was already, as you are, very good
at not being persuaded by the fact
that everybody else disagrees with you,
that that has an implication.
Every great idea starts with a minority of one.
And you have to be able to endure being alone
with a great idea in order to advance the ball significantly.
This story was so extreme and so clear in the end
that it just left no doubt.
And I must say, I don't know how young students
can arrange to confront material
so that if they're really good,
they get a clear demonstration like this,
that they're really good so they know to keep going.
I think you're selfish
and I don't mean to be horrible about it.
I think that this story is an inspiration.
I've lived the story with you.
I have my own version of the story
where instead of it being the slide
from the paper of Greider and Heeman,
it's equations that are known as the cyber-witten equations.
And you see what you did with somebody else putting it up
on a board and it starts to change the field
and you suddenly say, you mean I'm not an idiot, right?
And what I'm claiming is that the next layer of this
is, well, why don't you just submit a paper?
If you have ideas, submit a paper,
submit a paper, submit a paper.
Who is this fucking supposed to fool?
Well, right, and this, I mean, I just,
I think the idea is that if you have a seat on the exchange,
you know that by submitting a paper,
your paper will get reviewed
because you present a credible threat.
It doesn't occur to you
that what you're saying is effectively like,
let them eat cake to somebody
whose paper is going to be reviewed
by the person who's like holding them back.
No, this is exactly when Jerry Coyne came at me
with, you know, Brett doesn't understand his Explorer mode
stuff is nonsense.
And then Richard Dawkins echoed it.
Brett doesn't understand natural selection.
And, you know, if he did, he'd submit a paper.
My feeling is I lived this story
and you're going to pretend that there is even a mechanism
Look, here's my proposal.
To get a proper hearing.
Here's my proposal, all right?
Yeah.
I think that you, Pia and myself
are indicative of an entire layer
of Gen X academicians
and now probably millennial academicians
whose work was suppressed
and where don't feel comfortable saying these words,
which is that the purpose of the university system
in the time that we were there
