made perfect sense, but the reason it struck me
like a bolt of lightning was that I was well aware
of the existence of tumors and their implication
in something entirely different.
What they had been implicated in as far as I was aware
was something called Hayflick limits,
which were the tendency of perfectly healthy happy cells
to grow and grow and grow and grow in a Petri dish
until they hit some number of divisions
and then to stop without apparent dysfunction.
So this was the theory of Leonard Hayflick.
Yep.
It was the discovery of Leonard Hayflick
who basically overturned the prior wisdom about cells,
which was that they would grow indefinitely
as long as you kept feeding them
and making an environment that was conducive to division.
So I don't exactly know why that result
had been misunderstood at first.
Maybe somebody had a cancerous cell line
and so they got the wrong idea and it just spread,
but Hayflick checked it and it turned out to be false.
Turned out there was a number of cell divisions
that healthy cells would go through
and then they'd stop.
The mechanism was not obvious to Hayflick,
but later it became clearer and clearer
that the mechanism was these sequences
at the ends of chromosomes,
which shorten each time the cell divides.
And the implication was that potentially
this was a cause of what we call senescence,
what in common parlance would often be called aging,
the tendency to grow feeble and inefficient with age.
If your cells are each in a cell line
and that line has a fixed number of times
that it can replace itself before it has to stop,
then at some point your repair program starts to fail
and that repair program failing across the body
looks like what you would expect aging,
follows the pattern you would expect
if cell lines one by one stopped
being able to replace themself.
So we know that there's a special sort of,
I don't want to call it cell line
because you keep correcting me
for every tiny mistake I make in speech,
but if we divide our body into two kinds of cells,
soma and germ, where germ lines are that
which has a hope of immortality through reproduction,
then it's the somatic cells that have finite limits
on their ability to undergo mitosis
and cellular repair and what not.
And the germ line can't because if it did,
your lineage would go extinct as a result of-
Small addendum.
Small addendum, so it's the soma,
the parts of your body that don't go on
to produce babies that have this effect.
The reason it struck me like a bolt of lightning
was that I was aware of another very elegant piece
of research done by a guy named George Williams.
George Williams had finally-
One of the greatest of modern evolutionary.
One of the greatest modern evolutionary biologists,
I actually knew him a bit too.
He's also now gone unfortunately,
but George Williams had laid out in a beautifully
elegant paper, the evolutionary theory of senescence.
It is an absolutely elegant argument that says
that in a lifetime, there are, well,
let's start somewhere else.
A creature is built of parts and traits.
It has a relatively small genome
and a relatively high complexity.
At the time it was thought there might be
100,000 genes or something and you have maybe
30 trillion cells with a ton of complexity.
In order to get that small number of genes
to dictate how to produce a creature that complex,
the genes are doing multiple things.
Williams' point was when a gene has multiple effects,
what we call a pliotropy, those effects may be good or bad.
If effects are good early in life-
By good we mean contributing to fitness.
Fitness enhancing traits at some cost late in life,
then they will tend to be accumulated by selection.
The reason for that is because,
well, there are two ways to think of it really.
If a negative trait occurs very late in life,
then a large number of individuals who have the gene
for that trait will not live long enough
to experience the harm.
So if it came bound to a positive thing early in life
and you're dead before the late life harm accrues,
you got away with it, right?
So Williams' point was he was building on
earlier work of metawar, but let's skip that for the moment.
His point was because of trade-offs,
you will have lots of traits
that are good early and bad late.
Selection sees the early traits much more clearly
than it sees the late traits,
and it prioritizes them because of the discounting
that arises because so many individuals
aren't around to experience the late life harm,
and if they are around to experience the late life harm,
a lot of their reproduction is behind them anyway.
So they count less.
Selection counts more early in life,
and this timer starts at the moment of first reproduction,
the usual moment of first reproduction.
For its viability.
For your species.
So this is a beautiful hypothesis,
and it was beautifully articulated
with many predictions,
which is the way really good work is done.
And we knew at the point that I was entering graduate school,
we knew that the hypothesis was right.
It was a theory, and the reason that we knew it was right.
The hypothesis is the antagonistic
Pliotropy Hypothesis.
Antagonistic Pliotropy Hypothesis for senescence.
We knew that it was right because it predicted
so many phenomena in nature that we could readily
go out and measure, and this is again,
where the phenomenology versus mechanism comes in.
We know that creatures that are poisonous
or have a shell that protects them
or can fly away from danger
are disproportionately long-lived for their size.
Small creatures tend to live shorter lives
than large creatures, but if you can fly,
then you're off the line of the other creatures
of your size.
So for example, they're small bats
who have been recovered after 30 years in the wild.
So creatures that have special protections
have disproportionate longevity.
This matches William's hypothesis
because it is their ability to fly away from danger
that makes the likelihood
of their experiencing late life costs go up.
So selection sees their late life
more easily than it sees a small creature.
I just wanna say something.
This is a podcast.
It's an unusual podcast and we can talk science
and I'm thrilled, but we always have our colleagues
in our minds when we're talking to a general audience
and the colleagues are always in a gotcha mode.
Well, you forgot about this, you didn't mention that.
I'm even interjecting little bits
because I wanna make sure that you're immunized
from all the bullshit that the act is.
So I just wanna make a general statement,
which is we can come back and get into any level
of specificity that somebody wants to
if they wanna take you down.
I don't care.
What I'd love to do is to tell the story with enough punch
that people understand what happened.
So we're about to jump into the meat of the matter.
The theory of antagonistic pleiotropy was well-established,
but in four decades of research on the genome,
nobody had found a gene that matched it
so that we knew that this explanation was right,
but we couldn't find the genes that caused it.
The mechanism was missing.
So anyway.
Does that mean to be a gene
that has to be protein coding?
Yeah.
Anyway, I knew this as sort of,
I was well familiar with Williams paper
at the point that I saw this talk on cancer
and I knew already about the question of senescence,
everything came together.
This was obviously the answer,
where the missing pleiotropy was.
Well, the missing pleiotropy had to do with a telomere,
which wasn't exactly a gene.
It was genetic, it was DNA, but it wasn't a gene,
but it was perfectly capable of producing
exactly the effects that we see in senescence
across the body.
So a counter and not a protein could be the answer.
Right.
Now, I saw this instantly at the point I heard this talk.
I raised my hand and I tried to articulate
what was so obvious in that moment
and I couldn't compel a single person in the room.
They couldn't even understand what I was trying to say.
Which is bizarre.
It was bizarre, I mean, Dick was in the room
and Dick was very broad-minded
and I just couldn't make it clear.
Let me just interject something,
you can correct me if I'm wrong,
