they remain young.
Well, so there's one aspect of aging
but that there's a far darker interpretation
of what you've just said.
If I'm understanding it correctly,
never taken a class in biology
but I have lived this adventure with you.
Those tissue have at a histological level,
at the level of how cells are organized,
the possibility of radical histological repair.
Yes, radical, effectively indefinite capacity to repair,
which is gonna come back in the story
in the worst possible way.
Dude, this is like, I mean, I just forget how great of a...
Me too, I go years sometimes
without telling the story deeply about it.
Yeah, okay, so the story now gets kind of ugly.
I recognize I've got all the pieces
of the puzzle necessary to tell the story correctly.
I have taken on a co-author,
we've found the literature necessary
to do it in proper scientific form.
This came from you,
but I wanna mention your co-authors name.
Yeah, Debbie Cizek.
Okay.
And Debbie was an excellent co-author,
strong contributor to the paper.
Anyway, we put together over the course of a year,
I took a break from effectively my real dissertation work
and wrote a paper.
Dick thought it was a fantastic paper.
He was blown away by it.
Well, I remember the revisions and I remember,
this was like, I mean, if I think about what's on the line,
like this combines one of these freak situations
where you're using evolutionary theory to predict something.
And in this case, it's at the level of molecular biology.
So with Darwin's Orchid, it's a tongue
and with Dick's thing, it's behavior in naked mole rats.
This thing is actually at a molecular level
and it couldn't be more important
if mice are going to be the major system
in which we are going to test drugs,
which are highly sensitive to what?
Histological repair.
Yep.
It's so profound on several different levels
that I'm super energized about getting this into the world.
It's transformative.
Dick looks at the paper, he says, this is fantastic.
He puts me through the ringer to get it really tight.
We get it tight.
We send it to George Williams.
The number one guy in the world.
The number one senescence guy at the evolutionary level
in the world.
And he writes a beautiful recommendation letter
for this piece.
We're going to send it to nature.
George Williams tells nature,
you need to take this piece very seriously.
We send it to nature
and they send it back with one of their absurd form letters
that says that the nature of the article
is such that it's probably not of interest to their readers.
And we're, I mean, we had a good laugh about that.
It's cancer, it's senescence.
Dude, it's so bad.
This is a response that indicates either malfeasance
or an Eliza program or the janitor ended up responding,
who didn't know any biologists.
It's the craziest thing.
And, you know, the cherry on top
is that they're turning down George Williams recommendation.
Like, how great, do they know who he is?
Like, what, where is-
On what planet?
On what planet do you turn down his recommendation
to look at something about senescence?
So anyway, I get back this rejection
and I have purposefully not shown Carol Greider
the paper in preparation,
which I am afraid she might have read some way.
The reason I didn't show it to her
was because I wanted to preserve her independence
as a reviewer for the paper.
I was hoping because I still thought
she was an ally of mine.
I was hoping that nature would send it to her to review
and that she would look favorably on it,
especially since it was, you know, very clear
that she had done-
She wasn't sure it was her lab?
Right, it was-
It made the confirmation?
Yeah, and I, oh, another thing I forgot.
I asked her at some point,
something that now rings in my ears.
I asked her, Carol, you've now got this result
about, no, actually lab mice have long telomeres,
but wild mice have short telomeres.
That's a big result.
The hell of adulthood.
Where are you gonna publish it
so that I can cite it in my paper,
which is the natural thing to do.
And she says, we're not going to publish it.
We're going to keep the information in house.
That was her phrase.
I was too young to understand
what the hell she was talking about.
I'll be honest, I'm 54
and I don't quite understand it myself.
Well, it's so heartbreaking.
What she has effectively done is decided
I could publish this result.
And then everyone would have it.
Huge, but then I'm on a level playing field
with everybody else.
If I don't publish this result.
I have a stream of papers I can get at.
Then I can start predicting other results.
Nobody will know how I am doing that thing.
I will look like a super genius.
And so holding it in house is a mechanism
for a whole slew of paper.
To be 100, you can afford to bend over backwards
and not make inferences.
Let's say the following.
Holding it in house is a seemingly inexplicable decision
in science, but for the fact that it fits
at least one story of this kind,
which is that it is consistent with wishing
to publish a stream rather than the source
of the information that would allow you.
So you can either do one discovery
or you can do a stream of predictions.
And that makes a certain amount of sense
given the ruthlessly competitive
grant winning environment.
And we don't know exactly what happened,
but there is no world that I know of
in which you're allowed to hold back
that kind of information
because in part of what's on the line.
Right.
So, I mean, this is not just a question
of academic interest.
Because these mice are used for medical testing purpose.
Not even that.
It's medical testing, but it's also all of the science
relative, at least to cancer,
senescence, wound healing, all of the science
that is stacked on these mice that is contingent
on their function relative to their tears
is all compromised.
You're letting year after year of this stuff accumulate.
It's malpractice at an incredible level.
So I don't know that she has turned on me,
but I call her up and I say, Carol,
we are stunned to find that our paper was turned away
without review from nature.
Without review.
Without review.
We need your help.
Can I send you the paper and have you look at it?
And she says, yes.
And I send her the paper
and she sends back the paper with an unbelievable number
of intense criticisms that are not sensible.
She pans the paper, does not believe a word.
You still have the card.
I have that paper.
I have that paper with her handwriting.
I believe I also have the FedEx envelope
in which she sent it to me.
But she hates the paper
and I have now forgotten a bit of the sequence.
But as I am attempting to fix this up for another journal.
Oh, here's, sorry, I hate to tangle this story,
but it's important to get it right.
You haven't told this enough.
I haven't told it in a very long time.
After the rejection from nature,
after Carol has seen the paper and said it's cruddy,
I get a letter I don't expect from a journal.
I don't, I know it exists,
but I'm not super familiar with it.
Experimental gerontology, experimental gerontology says,
we are the editors of experimental gerontology.
We have heard a rumor of your work.
We're very interested.
Would you be willing to submit a version to our journal?
And oh, this is happening prior to Carol
looking at my paper and panning.
So the only way they would have known about this
would have been from nature or from Dick or,
we don't even know.
I'm pretty sure I know based on what they, again,
