Absolutely.
Restricted, so mice is the last cheap place.
It's the last cheap place.
Large N data.
Not only large N, but it's the one place
that you can make the following move.
You can imagine that in many circumstances,
the accelerated lifespan, the accelerated life cycle
of mice allows you to see long-term damage
as it would accrue in humans on a very short time scale.
That doesn't work with monkeys.
It doesn't work with human patients.
It works with mice, maybe.
But in the case of mice with ultralong telomeres,
those insults will be invisible.
Well, let's just, I wanna back up
because I think this is a really important part
of the story.
What you're saying is, if you take an organism
that has an expected, let's say 40 year lifetime,
it's very expensive time-wise to say we ran this experiment
and found that there was no immediate damage
that was visible, but towards the very end of their lives,
we saw a market increase in morbidity or...
Yeah, I mean, if you took a drug
and it knocked 15 years off your life on average,
that might not show up in any notable way
in a short-term study.
If there was pressure to...
Right, and nobody is gonna wanna let drugs,
you don't wanna wait 40, 50 years
to find out what happens to these patients.
So what we do is we make the assumption
that if we give large amounts of a drug to an animal
that lives a very short life, we will see those effects early.
And if the animal happens to have ultralong telomeres,
you won't see those effects early.
So it's a perfect storm for causing us to release drugs
that should never have been released into public.
Can you think of one?
Oh, I sure can.
Vioxx, for example.
So Vioxx was discovered to do heart damage, right?
Heart damage, why do we know that it's heart damage?
Well, the thing about hearts, A,
hearts for reasons we can get into maybe another time,
hearts have a very low capacity for self-repair, right?
That's why they're vulnerable to heart damage.
Not much turnover.
Not much capacity for repair, not much turnover.
Now, there's an adaptive reason for that,
but hearts don't repair themselves very well
in a healthy person, and when they fail,
it's hard to ignore, right?
If somebody who's 30 has their heart fail,
there's questions asked, right?
So anyway, Vioxx was released into the public
having past drug safety testing.
This isn't the only system that doesn't have
a lot of mitosis, like for example, neurons.
Neurons don't have a lot, cartilage doesn't have a lot.
Your eye cells don't.
Now note, all of the tissues I've just mentioned,
when was the last time you heard about anybody
having, you know, cancer of the cartilage
of their knee, cancer of the heart.
No, if they get brain cancer, it tends to be glial.
It's glial cells, exactly.
So the tissues that have very low capacity
for self-repair do tend to wear out,
and they don't tend to get cancer,
which is exactly one of the predictions of my paper.
Right.
Okay, so Vioxx is known to do heart damage.
That created a big scandal,
because how the hell did it get through
drug safety testing?
Turns out a lot of drugs have done this.
You've seen it in Gleevec, Fenfen, Erythromycin,
your doctor probably still doesn't know that Erythromycin
does heart damage.
Right, there's all of these cases of drugs
that were released, and then later understood
to do heart damage.
Now my claim is they don't actually do heart damage.
They do cellular damage, and the heart damage
can speak to it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Geez, this is like another layer of this thing.
It's like a huge fucking nightmare, right?
Well, but it's this thing about perseverance
and the disagreeability.
You've got all sorts of things that sound
like something that invalidates the theory,
and then it's sort of theories upon theories
that allow you to see the original simplicity of the idea.
I see the original idea is very simple,
but if you know a lot of weird facts
about what you think are just mice
or something about hearts,
you can't put together what is going on.
The idea that ambient damage is only manifest in the heart
because that's the one system or the neural system
that really doesn't have a lot of mitosis.
So, well, piece of advice to anybody
who finds themselves in remotely similar waters.
The signal that you are on the right track
is that stuff starts canceling.
Complexity in the story, which has accumulated
because something was missing,
starts disappearing in the story.
You begin to take on a model anyway.
So yes, we've got a situation
where we've got a bunch of drugs mysteriously producing
heart damage.
So now you've got a paper that's out.
You've got a real world application.
You've got a theory coming out of evolutionary theory.
It's making a molecular prediction.
Yep.
Successfully predicts mouse telomeres.
One of the world's leading labs has confirmed the prediction.
Yep.
Where are we now?
What year is this?
God, well, let's see.
The paper came out.
And my recollection, and just to be horrible about this,
is that your fucking department at the University of Michigan,
which has some great people, is also holding you back
and innervating you year after year by not allowing,
because this is groundbreaking stuff.
This is Nobel quality work at least one or two times over,
in my opinion.
Now, I could be wrong.
I'm biased because of your brother.
I'm your brother.
But what concerns me here is that you
are not comfortable with what this story really might be.
No, look, it's not mine to judge.
I'm very proud of this work and the work.
But the problem, Brett, is, is that Jerry Coyne and Richard Dawkins
did not know that Dick Alexander, Leonard Hayflick, and George
Williams were all on this thing because that community had broken down.
The irony is, I sent a letter to Dawkins
when this was going on asking for his help.
And he sent back a letter saying, this is very interesting.
It's not my area of specialty.
You should talk to Bill Hamilton.
And I was in the process of writing a letter to Bill
Hamilton on Dawkins' suggestion at the point
that Bill Hamilton came back from Africa having,
he was pursuing a remote hypothesis about humans having
accidentally unleashed AIDS into the world with polio vaccine.
But anyway.
So Bill Hamilton, I'm sorry, not everybody's going to know.
This is the guy who came up with inclusive fitness.
Yes, he was one of the great geniuses
of evolutionary biology in the late 20th century.
He was held back by John Maynard, right?
I don't know that story.
I think Maynard is interviewed on Web of Stories.
Maynard Smith, yeah.
Sorry.
Yeah, Maynard Smith, right?
Yeah.
And Maynard Smith talks about, it was very unfortunate.
I didn't really understand who he was.
You should check it out.
It's pretty amazing.
Well, as long as we're doing this, years
after this story had cooled, I ran across a paper
from John Maynard Smith that I now
don't remember exactly what its nature was,
but it appeared to predict my whole story, right?
And John Maynard Smith was dead.
I couldn't contact him.
I really wanted to say, oh, my god, you nailed it, right?
But anyway, so I was in the process of writing
to Bill Hamilton to get his help.
He was sort of on a par with George Williams,
and he went into a coma on his trip back from Africa,
having contracted malaria.
And then there was, I think, complication with aspirin
that he took or something.
And he never woke from his coma, and he died tragically.
So he never got the letter.
And who knows what he would have done.
OK, but look, that's a tragic and interesting story.
But Hayflick was positive towards you.
Williams was positive towards you.
And Dick Alexander, those were the three that blew me away.
That's a huge amount of firepower.
That's a lot of firepower, and it wasn't enough.
But here's the punchline to the story, effectively.
At the point that my paper is out,
and it very directly alleges the danger
with these drugs being released when they're not safe,
and the drugs have started emerging and turning out
not to be safe, and the government is now really
