because you made people very uncomfortable.
What he's saying in that letter of recommendation
is that you wrote four different theses
so far as I can remember.
And they were on widely different topics.
Furthermore, here's an interesting one.
No one that I know of,
despite the amount of discussion that's been spilled
in ink over evergreen has put you together
with the hero of a book called The Taper's Morning Bath
that appeared years earlier.
It's odd that it never shows up.
Right, it never shows up.
And then you're also the recipient
of the Golden Gazelle Award,
I think of the National Organization of Women
for standing up to ZBT at the University of Pennsylvania.
And it got ejected effectively from an Ivy League school
due to threats of physical violence
for standing up for black women being exploited
by white men.
I mean, like, then you're like the field assistant
and main student as an undergraduate
of another legendary evolutionary theorist, Bob Trivers.
And somehow, you know, Richard Dawkins is treating you
as a guy who isn't really his equal.
He's, you're not really a major theorist.
You're very confused and you need to learn more
about the extended phenotype and all this kind of nonsense.
And you're so polite that you're not even just,
I don't know, I think you're out to lunch.
No offense.
I get it, I get it.
And, you know, like I said, you may be right.
Okay.
I wanna talk about the subjects
that you're most associated with starting with your thesis.
And I wanna get into the science of it
using the portal podcast.
If people get left behind, they get left behind.
Okay.
Okay.
Now, Dick Alexander is a legend in evolutionary theory
because it's very hard to use evolutionary theory
to make predictions that can be verified in the world.
It's sort of like this loose amorphous collection
of techniques and viewpoints.
And people sometimes think it's not even a theory
because it doesn't seem to be predictive.
And then there are a few predictions.
So am I right?
Darwin started this game off by predicting
that there would be a moth with a really long tongue
because there was a flower that had a really long distance
to go before you could get the nectar out of it.
Yeah, he had been sent an orchid by Bateson maybe
with a foot-long corolla tube.
And he reasoned very straightforwardly
that it would make no sense for this plant
to have invested in this very long structure
if there were not a tongue that could reach down
to gather the nectar.
And I believe he did not live
to see the discovery of that animal.
I didn't know that.
But he was absolutely correct.
There is a moth that has this beautifully long tongue.
It's a sphingid hawk moth,
one of these sort of hummingbird-esque moths.
And anyway, yeah, it's one of the major predictions,
demonstrations of evolutionary theory
actually can be used to predict phenomena
that you haven't been able to observe.
Okay.
And Darwin famously couldn't, for example,
like I don't know how much I've talked about this in the open,
but my favorite Darwin book
is the one he wrote after Origin of Species,
which is on the various contrivances
by which British and foreign orchids
are fertilized by insects.
It makes absolutely no sense as a title
because I think that's what's so funny about it.
And because orchids are so highly speciated,
it turned out to be the perfect place
to explore the consequences of evolution.
And he couldn't figure out my favorite,
I don't know whether it's clade or group of-
Clade's pretty safe.
Yeah, clade of orchids, the ophry's system,
which is just unbelievable
because it mimics the pollinators,
the female of the pollinator species,
using pheromones and some sort of replica,
good enough to fool males into copulating
with the lower petal level of an orchid.
It's a step-
3D replica of the female that smells like her.
And it just so happens that when the male lands on it
to copulate, he gets these pollen packets glued to him
and then he screws up and makes the same mistake
at another flower and delivers.
Well, he may, he may or may not.
Let's put it this way.
But only the ones that screw up twice get to fertilize.
The reason that it gets glued to him
is that it has worked enough times
for this strategy to have been so beautifully refined.
Right, so Darwin saw that there was this mimicry going on,
but he couldn't put it together.
He spent pages and pages not getting it.
So I think it's very funny.
So he predicts some things,
but he can't predict something else
in a very closely related system.
Okay, fast forward.
Dick Alexander comes out with a crazy prediction,
which I still don't fully,
I mean, it's just amazing that he made it,
where he says, I bet that you will find
the kind of behavior we associate with wasps and bees,
which is in this clade called hymenoptera and ants,
of you social breeding patterns and organization.
But in mammals that will live underground.
So I think the way this story actually worked,
he didn't say you will find it.
Or you could find it.
What he said is, in principle,
there's no reason that a used social animal
has to be an insect.
That in fact, you could get such a thing in a mammal.
And then he predicted,
I forget how many characteristics there were,
but he named some large.
There's something funny about the system of ants, bees,
wasps, which is that they've got this very strange
haplodiploid chromosomal characteristic.
Do you want to say a word about that?
Cause that makes the prediction more.
Sure.
So it has long been understood that the hymenoptera
behave in this incredibly cooperative fashion,
which effectively all of the workers of the colony
forego reproduction in order to advance
the reproductive interests of the queen.
And it was late discovered
that actually their genetic system
is unlike our genetic system
and that males have basically
half a full complement of genes.
They have enough genes to function,
but they have half the female complement of genes.
And for reasons that are mathematically
slightly complicated and require a chalkboard,
the females are more closely related
to the daughters produced by their mother
than they would be to their own offspring.
They're three quarters relatives to her offspring
and they would be 50% relatives to their own offspring.
Spot on.
So they are actually evolutionarily favored
by very standard mechanisms.
Once you understand the crazy genetics underlying the thing,
they are favored to engage in behavior
where they forego reproducing and foster them.
Once you understand the chromosomal difference
of this system, it is far less surprising
that it would behave as a loosely coupled,
in some way, don't overreact unified organism,
which is distributed, that there's a way in which,
and there are ways in which the hive behaves
as a super organism and there are ways in which it does not.
Yeah.
Well, all I wanna say is,
I'm not sure how clear we have the story
with respect to what precedes what.
It's completely plausible that the behavior precedes
the evolution of the genetic system.
And I actually frankly just don't know
where that research stands at the moment.
We have found many other insect systems
that have various versions of this.
Interestingly though, the termites are not hymenoptera.
Right.
And the termites engage in this behavior.
The termites are you social, but they're not haplodyploid.
They're you socially behave very much like ants.
Okay.
But they don't have the strange genetic system,
proving that the behavior can evolve
even in the absence of this genetic system.
Well, the reason I bring this up is that if you look
at, for example, Prince Peter Kropotkin,
the great anarchist theorist,
he was obsessed by finding analogs in nature
of preferred human structures.
And so it's very simple to say,
why can't we work together the way an ant colony
all works together?
And then there's a counter to that,
