So for example, I ended up on Joe Rogan's program,
which is the place I'm probably most recognized from.
And my first appearance there,
we talked about the Evergreen situation.
And anyway, that's the bulk of how people know me.
All right, so you were a biologist teaching
at a relatively obscure college
that had previously been known for social activism.
And I didn't love your introduction
because when you say, well, the students accused me of racism,
that leaves sort of a weird question.
Why was he accused of racism?
Let me solve the puzzle just immediately.
Maybe you can't do this
because that was the closest we'd seen
to a Maoist takeover inside of the United States
of America ever.
Like it was a case of mass insanity
and the videos showed it to be mass insanity.
And unless you had been indoctrinated to believe
that Maoism of some form, Maoist reeducation was normal,
the rest of the world said OMG,
what the heck is going on at this completely insane?
And it wasn't just like one of these college craziness pieces.
This is really an episode of broad institutional madness
that was localized there.
And I just, I want to take it to be self-evident
because it is self-evident, the video exists.
And if you took the people who were trying to pretend
that you were a racist in their own terms,
that was sufficient to, it was like the unreliable narrator.
They were debunking themselves in the eyes of everyone
who hadn't come under the spell
of this particular kind of madness.
Well, there's a little more to it
in the sense that they were entirely unprepared
for a white guy willing to say,
no, I'm simply not a racist.
And it just didn't occur to them that that was going to happen.
And it didn't occur to them that my own students
weren't going to flee to their side
at the point that they leveled their accusation
because those things would have been normal
in this environment.
But in my case, I grew up in a home,
there were plenty of flaws in that home as you know,
but one of the places I don't think it was flawed
was that it was very clearheaded about issues
of inequality, race, justice.
And so I really have the sense
that these issues were really not new to me.
And I had a long history at the college,
lots of students of color.
You know, you're explaining too much.
I don't mean to be rude about it,
but they were just crazy.
They were crazy, but my point is
the accusation is in and of itself
so powerful in modern circumstances
that people, the idea of standing up to it
doesn't occur to most people.
And the fact is, I was not well enough positioned,
the thing descended into madness.
It descended into literal anarchy
with armed students roving the campus.
The same mob was looking for me, searching car to car.
For example, it was a very dangerous situation.
With baseball bats.
With baseball bats.
But what I'm getting at is I checked with myself
and did not feel vulnerable to this accusation.
I felt most people could not endure it,
but I was in a position to.
And in an odd way.
You've been effectively driven out of your own university
as an undergraduate standing up against racism.
Indeed.
These people had flipped the script
and said, if you don't sign up for our racism,
you're a racist.
Yeah.
They didn't.
I don't, you know, here's the thing.
I have two documents that I've studied
that have a lot of longevity to them.
One begins with, we hold these truths to be self-evident.
And the other one begins with in the beginning.
And I think we've made a huge mistake
taking this as an argument.
It's a non serious position held by morons and idiots
or people who've been indoctrinated and infected
with an idea that there is something left wing
about being a racist.
I'm not interested in that.
And I also think that it's really important
to stop giving these people their due.
Like it's really important to exclude them
from the conversation because if you have to have
a three day symposium as to whether or not racism
can be redefined in a way that makes it impossible
for certain people to be racist,
but impossible for other people not to be racist.
There's just no point.
It just needs to be thrown in the garbage
because it's a suicide idea that wastes everyone's time
and plunges the world into stupidity, madness and hatred.
Well, you and I are in total agreement about the necessity
to shut the bad actors out of the conversation.
I do have some concern about a large number of people
who fall into one or two camps.
They're either confused or they suffer from so much cowardice
that they will sign up for ideas
that they ought to know are wrong.
Yeah, but I think you're not getting the message.
We've made a huge mistake and I refuse to spend time
because these people have decided that this is a tax
that we should pay that they have a serious point.
It's a non-serious point.
It's a terrifying, moronic, non-serious point
that you can redefine racism to be anti-racism
and anti-racism to be racism.
Nobody knows this better than me.
Great.
Okay, are we done?
We are.
With that aside, my concern, you know that I play this game
which is called what is the least interesting,
interesting thing about X where I take a person
and I take their top characteristic.
So for example, the least interesting, interesting thing
about Dolly Parton is that she's busty.
The most interesting things is that she's a genius level
songwriter and a fantastic singer and entertainer
and a great business woman.
It doesn't matter, but the key point is we get hung up
on some stupid superficial characteristic
and we don't see the actual interest or majesty in a person
and I feel like that has happened to you.
I feel like at some level, having known you
for a very long time, you are an incredibly interesting
person for totally different reasons than the reasons
for which you have become famous.
And I would like to use this episode and you're,
by the way, you're welcome back anytime.
Love to do a series with you.
Love to make this a regular part of our lives
if people like it.
Cool, I think you and I both hear a lot of curiosity
about what our relationship is like
and what our discussion sounds like
and so I think there's lots of room for that.
What I'd like to do is to try to be the foil for you
that I don't think anybody else can be
because I've actually, I was tracking this story
very early and by the way, when I originally tried
to get you help and allies, I think almost the only person
who could get what was happening at Evergreen State
was our mutual friend, Sam Harris,
who was willing to amplify and retweet this
because it was so confusing that most of the rest of the world
just never seen these kinds of arguments.
Now it's much more common for people to be aware
of these problems, but when it started happening,
we didn't even have any framework
for how to think about these.
Yeah, and in fact, Sam, I remember even the content
of his tweet where he entered this discussion,
where he suggested that what was necessary
was a deep programming for these people
and from living inside of this very confusing scenario
to hear a message of reason from the outside
that it was visible how insane this was meant a lot to me.
Really, it changed things.
It was like a reality check.
Sam is a real hero in that regard.
It's just amazing that he got there early
and he got there correct and more power to him.
Yeah.
Okay, as you know, I was not happy about you
being at Evergreen State College
long before this problem was occurring.
I viewed you as sort of retreating
into this very obscure college
and using the undergraduates
as if they were graduate students,
teaching very advanced concepts
and running kind of a weird Harvard-style program
with very adventurous material
with no recognition that this kind of
unusual educational environment was even occurring.
Fair or unfair?
Well, it's mostly fair.
It was not really an appropriate place.
I don't regret it.
I think for the last year or two,
Heather and I were living on borrowed time
that this could have come for us in a worse way
and it could have come for us at any moment.
But the thing about the job I had
was that it was the upside
