of a crazy experiment in education.
The founders of the college had broken
every rule of a normal university
and half of what they did in breaking it was crazy
and half of what they did was brilliant.
Nobody ever bothered to separate the two
from the prototype and fix the broken part.
Didn't happen.
But the administrators had no power
and very little knowledge
about what was going on in the classroom
which meant that I could create a learning environment
that worked both from the point of view of students
and worked from the point of view of me
and my objectives to keep advancing a research program
that frankly I would have had no way
to keep on at a normal college.
I would have been so burdened by teaching
that I couldn't have combined the two things.
So anyway, I do think one has to figure out
how to make their way in the world financially.
One has to figure out where to raise their kids
and from many perspectives as much of a mismatch
as Evergreen was for me in some ways.
In some other ways, it was not a bad place to be part.
It gave me, I was anonymous from the point of the world
and I could make progress on biology.
So I have fewer regrets than I might.
Okay, this is so uncomfortable
but it is also the real substance of our relationship.
I always resented the fact that you really excelled at
and enjoyed teaching as much as you did
and you saw this in terms of a place to play with ideas,
to teach students, to have a pleasant and enjoyable life,
healthy as it was in the great outdoors, et cetera,
blah, blah, blah.
And I still see these characteristics in you
and it drives me nuts
because you're your own worst enemy in some ways to me.
What you really are to me is an unbelievable
thinker and researcher
and beneath this kind of very nice friendly pedagogue
is a thinker that the world doesn't know
and I've watched recently your interactions
with Richard Dawkins and it was absolutely infuriating.
I mean, he's very clear, he's like,
well, Brett is a real hero so far as free speech
and standing up for free inquiry goes
but he's very confused.
Well, no, I don't think that that's right.
I think that you guys had a really substantive interaction
about biology, which I wish he would spend more time on
because he's phenomenal at it when he's focused on it.
And you're phenomenal
and that was supposed to be a really different conversation
but because we got to know you the wrong way,
in my opinion, you're always the guy who is strong enough
to stand up to students at an obscure place
and this completely masks who you've always been
and you're not willing to take up the yoke
which is the more important role for you.
Well, I don't know that I'm not willing.
I think you and I have a different approach to this
and it may be birth order stuff or whatever
but I also have the benefit of you in the world
doing what you do which I do wonder sometimes
what would have happened to me at Evergreen had,
I only had my own tools at my disposal.
It's quite possible I would have been effectively
snuffed out in private
and I don't know what I would be doing at the moment.
As it happens, the Evergreen story turned into rocket fuel
that propelled me into a strata
where there's lots of interesting things to do
that may not be exactly what you're talking about
but they make sense.
Yeah, it's frustrating.
I'm trying, I don't think you understand
what it is that I'm trying to do here.
I believe that you're miscategorized
and you're really not grasping that this is my opportunity.
No, I am grasping.
What I think distinguishes us is that we have
very different styles with respect to approaching things.
I, for example, take a certain perverse pleasure
in watching Dawkins slowly move in my direction
which I believe is happening.
Now, I would like him to move faster.
He's not a young man and I think it's actually
quite important that he recognize
where the errors in his own thinking are
and to be honest, I believe I know
where at least several major ones live
and I know what he would see if he could be
brought to understand the nature of those errors
and to confront the, frankly, the portal that opens
if you walk through a slightly different door
than he's been walking through.
But it didn't work in one evening.
I always wondered if it would.
But there is still the possibility
that he will have the epiphany that I hope he will have.
I really don't understand
even where we are in this conversation.
Okay. Okay.
You're not getting it.
You were found at Evergreen State College.
That is a communication to the world
that you weren't very good.
Yep.
And every time I try to say, this is completely wrong,
you don't catch the ball that's being thrown to you,
which is you're not understanding what you're up against.
He doesn't take you seriously
because you don't have a list of publications
that speaks to who it is that you actually are
or what you've done or where you've been.
And as a result, you continue to be the good guy
who's very well-spoken, very thoughtful,
says very interesting things
and constantly gives away power to other people.
I don't think so.
There's a question about how to confront the opportunities
that you've got at the hand you've been dealt.
And I think you and I share a certain delight
when we do our homework
and we discover something interesting
and absolutely nobody else gets it,
that would feel bad to most people
because they would feel like, what am I doing wrong?
Why does nobody else understand this point?
So you and me, that feels good.
It is to know that you have achieved something,
you have discovered something,
and that nobody else can even recognize.
It gives you some sort of sense
of how far ahead you might be.
The question is what to do with those things.
And there, I think the question is,
if I went through something with,
I said something intemperate to the new atheists
and suddenly Steven Pinker, Jerry Coyne,
Michael Shermer, Richard Dawkins,
and Neil Shubin came at me all at once.
Not on the topic that I had caused a fence,
on a totally different topic.
They had picked something off my YouTube channel.
Jerry Coyne had claimed to have debunked it.
He was wrong, but nonetheless,
it provided fodder for them to attack.
Their point was that I didn't understand natural selection
and that to the extent I might believe
I knew something that other people didn't know,
the right thing to do was to submit it to a journal
and go through peer review.
I pointed out to them that peer review
was not Richard Dawkins' style
and that he in fact advanced the ball
for the field substantially,
but has barely published a paper.
That backed them off that course
and their tune changed to,
well, how about a book then?
That's what Dawkins did.
And to me, that's a win.
The idea, I'm not against peer review.
I want peers to review my work,
but I don't want it snuffed out in private.
And so to the extent that that little battle
was the result of them underestimating me
and not knowing that something was going to come back
that was cogent and responsive
to the world as it actually is
and having them back off their position
and say, yes, actually, a book would be a fine thing.
That was positive movement from my perspective.
They underestimated me and they had to back down.
So I can't regret that too much.
To me, on a different time scale,
I believe I'm making progress toward a goal
that you and I agree is the right one,
but I'm not sure that coming at it guns blazing
is the way to go.
Well, I'm happy to stop the interview
right here and right now
because that's adorable and it's sweet
and it's incredibly patient
and it's a beautiful sentiment.
But I also feel like I sat through all of the wars
and battles to get your ideas into the world.
And I'm not funding that program.
Does it sound to you like I'm surrendering?
No, it sounds to me like you're boring me.
Like this is really uninteresting.
If I think about what actually happened.
Yep.
This is a mis-telling, this is not even honest.
Okay.
Floor is yours.
Okay.
