but my impression of it is that it was a very simple idea
attended to by an outrageous amount
of irrelevant complexity
that had to be very carefully pried off of the central idea.
Yeah, I think that's well said.
So anyway, I left the room feeling like
I had just glimpsed something so important,
and I wondered, could it be right?
And I started to just do the first bit of library research
to figure out whether somebody else knew what I knew or...
So I'm not even sure that you fully said it.
I wanna make sure that I'm even clear on it
and I'm gonna, I think I'm right,
correct me if I'm wrong.
What you're saying is,
what if the hay-flick limit is a protection
against dying from immortality at a cytological level
that some cell gets a dream of immortality
that it shouldn't have because let's say it's a somatic cell
and it says, okay, I just wanna keep dividing
and dividing and dividing.
Nature knows how to do this
and that immortality, which sounds good at first,
is actually called cancer.
And so in computer science, we would say, okay,
you've introduced a recursion limit into a while loop
or a for loop to make sure that you don't have
a resource leak, which is what a tumor is.
Yeah, so let me say it this way.
If you have a damage to a tissue cut on your arm
or something, the cells on both sides of that cut
suddenly become aware that there is a problem, a gap,
because they can't hear a neighbor on one side of them
and their natural reaction is to start growing
into the gap until they can hear a neighbor,
which is the sign to stop.
If you imagine that something like that
is occurring in every tissue or almost every tissue,
the problem is that that means that every tissue
in your body for which that story is about right
is in danger of having damage from radiation or whatever,
turn it deaf to its neighbors.
A single cell that has turned deaf to its neighbors
will suddenly start replicating.
And if it is deaf to its neighbors,
then there's no message that it's gonna hear
that's gonna tell it to stop.
So that thing, imagine any cell in your body
just taking off and growing and growing and growing.
Okay, this is terrifying.
What you're saying to me is that if I'm comprised
of let's say 30 trillion cells and I view them
as each let's say subroutines,
any subroutine that is not denucleated, right?
Like this wouldn't happen in the lens of your eye
because the nucleus has been removed.
But any other reasonable cell is potentially your assassin
because its mitosis process might completely go rogue.
It can run away.
And so the rather elegant and very simple idea
is that there would be a hard limit
so that any cell that had become damaged,
so it started down this path would just simply run
into the number of cell divisions
it was allowed in a lifetime and it would stop.
So like the moles on my face that some of my less coof
commenters love to talk about
are effectively attempts to kill me that may have stopped
and that the perimeter where they stop
is where the Haiflich limit took over and said,
this cell line must die so that the patient will live.
The name I gave them was prototumor.
And the idea is a prototumor is a patch of cells
arrested at their Haiflich limit
because they had become unregulated.
If you go to the dermatologist and you say,
what do I look for?
They tell you certain things to look for.
So a round patch of cells
that suddenly becomes irregular in shape,
well that's what would happen if you took one of those cells
and gave it a second mutation and it started growing again.
Got it.
So anyway, the idea that a limit on cellular reproduction
is adaptive to protect you from cancer.
There's a little bit of a mind bender
because what you're telling me is that I've got
to avoid immortality which can kill me
and that the solution to not dying is death.
Yes and that what selection does is it balances
these two competing forces to give you as much vigor
and longevity as it can.
So all of the other diseases and insults
and things that I can die from sort of start to fade away
and at the complete core of biology in this theory,
there are two things that I can't get away from.
One of which is death by immortality
and the other one is death by recursion limit.
That's it.
It's a very elegant thing and now the problem is
is that there's all this weird attended complexity
that you had to deal with.
So it's like stem cells versus germ versus.
So when I went into the literature,
what I found was that people had played around
in the neighborhood but that there was a particular fact
which blocked every attempt to make sense
of what was going on and the fact was
that rodents were understood to have
ultra long hyper variable telomeres.
And I didn't know what that meant at first
but the more I looked into this possibility,
the more I realized that dozens of long standing problems
would be solved if my hypothesis was true
but that my hypothesis couldn't be true
because basically mice have long telomeres in short lives.
Why is that?
And I banged my head on the table for a couple weeks
trying to figure out what was going on.
Yes, maybe even literally on occasion.
But the question was, I began to wonder
if there was something wrong with the idea
that mice had long telomeres.
Sometimes like in Hayflick's case,
it turned out that a bunch of people were copying
some wrong result in it.
So it seemed like a lot of people had seen it
but only one had not checked.
Was it true that there was something,
everybody was parroting one study
that said mice had long telomeres?
And it turns out lots of people had tested it,
mice have long telomeres,
like 10 times the length of human telomeres.
It just didn't fit.
So finally, it occurred to me that it was possible
that what was going on, I discovered something
in trying to figure out what they meant by mice, right?
There's a lot of species of mice
but all the mice that we use in the lab
with rare exception are from one genus
and often from a particular target species.
You were focused, if I recall correctly,
on muspreetus, musculus?
Mus musculus, which is the common one.
What shocked me was that it turned out
all the mus musculus that were being used
in labs across the country
and in many cases farther afield than that
were coming from one place, which I had no idea.
There was one.
I remember getting a phone call when you said,
what do you know about the Jack's Lab?
The Jack's Lab in Bar Harbor, Maine, right?
They seem to be the source of everybody's mice.
And so it began to be, it was a possibility
I could not shut down in my mind
that there was something about what was going on
at the Jack's Lab that had resulted
in the mice that were being sent out
to all these other laboratories.
As if they were representative animals.
Right, these are model organisms.
People were just using mice
because mice were a convenient mammal
but they're all coming from one place.
And it began to occur to me that that one place
was not just a source of mice
in the sense that we might think it,
it was actually a selective environment
that was impacting those mice.
And when I dug deeper, it turned out
that the mice had all, they were descendants
of a long lineage that had lived in captivity
under conditions at the Jack's Lab.
And at some point, I realized that the most likely thing
going on was that there was something
about this environment that had wildly elongated
the telomeres of these mice.
And that was simultaneously an unbelievable idea
but the only one I could think of
that made sense of everything I had seen.
And so-
Well, it's unbelievable because the consequence of it,
I mean, look, I have not even heard
whether anyone has said, yeah, we did that,
we screwed that up.
But it is like your favorite model organism
for mammalian trials being screwed up
by a central facility because also there's this weird thing
where medical people very often stop taking
into account evolutionary theory
because they treat that as, well, that's that class
I took in college or the beginning of graduate school.
Right, so I began to focus on this question
and I did something that was the right thing to do
but I did it in a way I will forever regret.
I found somebody who was represented in the literature
who I regarded as very well-versed.
They made sense to me, their papers.
