interested in what's going on.
The government puts together a FDA commission
to study the question of the book that they put out,
and literally a book that they put out at the end of their study
is called The Future of Drug Safety.
I hope it's a blue ribbon panel.
It's not exactly clear what it was.
What is clear is that you can search the manuscript
of this book.
Nowhere does it mention mouse.
Antagonistic plyotropy.
It doesn't mention antagonistic plyotropy.
It doesn't mention the genus Mus.
It doesn't mention telomeres.
It's not in there.
It's alleged in the literature in broad daylight
that this is what is causing the problem.
And now you're, see, this is the vampire effect
where you don't exist if nobody reacts.
Right.
And so I start going to members of the press.
I think this is a huge goddamn story.
Somebody is going to make a career on it.
And I call it members of the press,
and it's always the same, right?
Always the same.
It's always the same.
They're very excited about this story.
You know, they're initially, the reporter.
The reporter is excited.
And then the reporter.
Talks to someone.
They talk to someone, and then either they stop
returning a call, or they say,
I'm sorry, the story doesn't hang together.
It's again and again and again.
And there's just nothing you can do.
You remember what I said about the distributed idea
suppression complex?
Yeah.
And the people who man it don't even know
what they are for most of them.
They don't know what role they're playing.
Look, you see the same thing with like string theory
because none of the reporters are actually string theorists.
So they're dependent upon this.
You saw this with this woman alleging
that she had the Epstein story three years earlier
but that the editors said, well, we might lose access
to the baby pictures of the royal grandchildren.
Like, you know, you're seeing this with catch and kill.
There's this, I mean, I want you to take this seriously.
You're just showing a part of what I'm calling the disc,
the distributed idea suppression complex.
We have 50 years of such stories.
Yep.
And it happens that in our family,
three out of four of us created such a story
trying to get a PhD.
And the idea for me is that every time you have to go
into some closed system, like there's a committee meeting
or there's a blue ribbon commission
or there's a peer review process
or there's a, what do they call them?
The panel's study groups for grants.
That's where the disc lives.
We know that it's localized to the things
that protect the integrity of science.
It's an autoimmune disease where what we have
is an ability to stop highly disruptive ideas
from getting a hearing in the general population
of experts by virtue of the fact
that a carefully chosen group of experts
can stop publication.
Because look, if you're wrong about this stuff,
there's a cost.
It's not cheap.
No, I mean, in fact, it would have been career ending.
I'm pretty sure had I been.
I don't know that it would be career ending
if it was done in good faith,
but you know, this is my problem with this
is that you're sitting on one of the great scientific stories.
I would say that I've ever heard,
but you know, I'm sort of kind of saying,
well, Brent, what happens next?
You know, obviously I know a lot of this stuff.
I've forgotten it, but I live this with you.
And this is, I can vouch that this is more or less
the order of events as it was taking place,
as we didn't understand what was happening.
Yep.
So I have to go through the final Carol Greider chapter
in order for this story to fully make sense.
Where the Nobel Prize is given?
That's the very tail end.
Make sure you include that.
Okay, so at the point that my relationship with Carol
is changing its tenor and she is becoming hostile
and I'm not clear on what's going on,
I contact her and I discover through talking to her
that she and Mike are about to publish their paper
on the long telomeres of laboratory mice.
So this is the delta between a wild type
and laboratory mice.
Yeah.
And I'm shocked because she's told me
they're keeping it in house.
And instead they've got a paper that they're,
she says in final revisions, they are that day
submitting their final revisions
to nucleic acid research with their paper.
And I say, Carol, can I see the paper?
And she says yes.
And she sends me a manuscript,
not the preprint of the paper.
She sends me a manuscript of the paper,
no acknowledgments, no figures.
And I contact her and I say,
can I see the acknowledgments and the figures?
She sends them to me.
And I contact her and I say, Carol, I'm disturbed.
This was my hypothesis that you were testing.
I should probably be an author on this paper,
but at the very least I need to be an acknowledgement
in this paper so that I can go back and point to it
and say that was-
It was everything that it was a prediction.
It wasn't just something that was stumbled upon.
Absolutely.
And her response is, I have been through my email
and I see no evidence of the communications
you are talking about.
Now, when I said at the beginning-
You called her.
I had called her.
That was my error.
This is such fucked up.
I mean, I don't swear a lot on this program.
Yeah.
Such fucking academic, petty, stupid ass bullshit.
This is one of the great stories of all time.
It's one of the great stories of all time maybe
and human life hangs in the balance on this.
Nope, sitting.
Right?
Okay, so Carol does get awarded the Nobel Prize.
Carol Greider, Elizabeth Blackburn and Shostak.
Shostak, who mentions at the point
that the Nobel Prize is awarded,
that he was shocked as all hell to get a Nobel Prize
because his work was so deep in the history of telomeres
that we just didn't expect it and suddenly-
No, I should say, I want to be very clear, right?
All of these people have made fantastic,
Nobel-worthy discoveries. Totally.
There's zero allegation that these people weren't deserving.
No. Absolutely.
No, and they, you know, Carol and Elizabeth
got their Nobel Prize for the discovery of telomerase,
which is a huge, huge progress.
So anyway, I don't deny that they were worthy of this prize,
but what Carol Greider does with her Nobel lecture, right?
Nobel lecture being the biggest lecture
a scientist will ever give.
The lecture that- And filmed.
And filmed is she delivers a paper
in which she very oddly has now embraced
my entire set of hypotheses about the effect.
She has come over from the comparison
between the paper of mine that she panned
and said didn't make any sense.
She is now a total convert to the idea
that senescence across the body is being caused
by Haiflich limits that are telomere-based.
Okay, and this is the first public incident
that we know of in which the delta
between the negative comments on your paper,
which is not an anonymous peer review.
We have that- No, we have it, you know, envelope from her.
Got it.
And it's immediately after the Nobel Prize
that the wisdom of that line of thinking is embraced.
Right, but there's more to the Nobel lecture.
So she spends her Nobel lecture
on what is admittedly a very beautiful presentation
of the connection between telomeres and senescence.
She goes through tissue after tissue.
So cirrhosis of the liver is what happens
when you have short telomeres in your liver, et cetera.
She goes through tissue after tissue.
She projects the data, the blot actually,
from the paper with Mike Heeman,
the paper that I should have been a co-author on.
She projects it on the screen,
but she does some weird freaking dance
where she, instead of describing the long telomeres
of laboratory mice as a major bug in the system,
she describes it as a happy accident, effectively,
because it allows us to test certain things.
