was in large measure to make sure
that big disruptive new ideas did not upset the apple cart
because there was the ability to deny.
I mean, this is what you guys call interference competition,
which is that you keep people from sitting down
in the chairs in a game of musical chairs.
And then the idea is we have lovely parting gifts
for our contestants.
Doug Prasher, who did green fluorescent protein
ends up driving a shuttle bus in Huntsville, Alabama
features in the front page of the science times.
A year later, he's still driving a fucking shuttle bus
in Huntsville, Alabama.
Meanwhile, we're being told
that Americans don't care about STEM.
We're not really good at science,
but thank God, thank God our friends in Asia
are amazing at science
because as bad as our children are
at thinking for themselves,
we've got huge numbers of people who wanna come
from China, South Korea, India and Taiwan
in order to do the study in the labs,
which is actually work.
And I'm the guy who found the secret study in 1986,
which says, hey, we're gonna have to pay
these American academicians over six figures very soon
because of the supply-demand relationships.
And then they took away the demand curves
and they only showed the supply curves.
They said it was a demographic
rather than an economic analysis.
So price and wage certainly didn't enter into it.
Our problem is that the American Scientific Enterprise
headquartered in the National Science Foundation,
National Academy of Sciences
and our university systems is fraudulent
and it serves to suppress radical new ideas.
And I'm not saying that everything
is guaranteed to be right about your story,
but this is a story that you and Carol
should have ward out in public
without your submitting into a system
where you don't know who reviewed this,
you don't know how to respond to the comments,
you can't measure the delta where somebody
in one year says this is crap
and the next year they say, this is my theory, right?
And what I want, I would love to invite Carol Greider
onto this program because I think she deserves
the right to rebut what you're saying.
Yep, that'd be cool.
And Elizabeth Blackburn is fantastic.
I'd love to have, and these are great scientists.
Frankly, you're gonna say this is me being too nice.
I'd even like Carol to come clean
and just put this behind us.
I'm not, you know, at this point.
It's not a question of that, Brett.
There is, you have the right to offer somebody a hand up.
Yep.
But you're skipping the step of, let me be blunt,
how many universities offered you a position
after you were run out of this crappy
Evergreen State College by a weak president
who refused to stand up for academic freedom,
freedom of speech and anti-racism, which you exemplify.
Professorship, zero.
How many biology lectures were you invited to give
at top tier AAU universities,
American Association of Universities?
No.
Association of America.
Okay, what the fuck is that?
I mean, let's just say the word fuck a lot,
because I had Andrew Yang in that chair.
I don't say fuck a lot.
Yeah.
Okay, so the idea is you can have a Maoist insurgency
against a student of Dick Alexander
who's supported by George Williams
with support from Leonard Hayflick.
He's predicting something from evolutionary theory.
It registers in molecular biology.
It may have drug testing implications.
And like nothing, silence.
And you're terrified to talk about this.
I don't think I'm terrified to talk about it.
Well, I'm sorry, can you tell me something?
Where have you told, you have a podcast.
Where is the story written up?
Where is the story lodged?
You and I have the ability to lodge it.
I'm forcing you to do this on my podcast.
I haven't heard you do a podcast about this.
I hear you talking about free speech.
I hear you doing things with the Heterodox Academy.
I hear you doing things in the Intellectual Dark Web,
something with Andy No, something with Antifa.
Okay, the whole purpose of the Intellectual Dark Web
is to keep the channel open based on merit
because if we do something like the diversity of ideas,
for all I know, the people who are suppressing you
are more diverse than you are, you know?
Okay, these are ideas that needed to come out.
There are health implications potentially of these ideas.
This is not ethical to suppress.
And in fact, it's not ethical for you not to talk about it,
not to be rude.
No, no, look, I get this.
I tried for a decade to get this story to come out.
Now, I'm sure I would have been less aggressive
on the social front.
I would have let Carol go in order to get the story out
and get the drug safety issue addressed.
I don't know, I don't know what you regard that as.
It's not a question of this.
Look, there is a Carol Greider and Elizabeth Blackburn
and everybody else in like Senescence land,
Judith Campese, who knows?
Everybody's got a problem,
which is there's way too much transparency
and there's too little funding
and there's not enough autonomy
and there's too much peer review.
And for whatever reason, a new game is cropped up
where everybody says we need more transparency,
more diversity.
We need to make sure that we're not wasting taxpayer dollars.
We have ever more oversight.
All of this is denaturing our society.
We have to compete with China now.
We're gonna have issues with Iran and Russia.
And we are losing our minds
because we are serving a baby boom group.
Almost like you pick a leading university,
it is headed currently by a baby boomer.
It's almost true without even telling me.
If I ask you, hey, Brett, pick a university,
don't tell me which one it is.
I will tell you that the number of administrators
at that university has soared above the levels of admissions.
The tuition has soared above medical inflation,
which is above regular inflation.
If I ask you about the grant structure,
older professors have winning more grants
and younger people are winning fewer grants.
This is a giant complex.
I am going to have somebody from Sugar Baby University,
which is a subset of seeking arrangement
because the baby boomers made student debt
non-dischargeable in bankruptcy.
And now this group is offering older men
the ability to date younger women with an allowance.
So we're starting to get into gray area sex work,
where the baby boomers to keep this lifestyle
to which they've become accustomed
are effectively enslaving.
Well, they're hoarding well-being on every front,
including the sexual, which is no surprise at all.
Here's my claim.
We are in a holding pattern.
I'm in my 50s, you're in your 50s.
I've done work that has never seen the light of day.
You've done work that's never seen the light of day.
Pia's done work that's never seen the light of day.
I don't know about Heather.
My claim is it's time to crash land the planes
into the control tower.
It's enough.
Wholeheartedly agree.
Okay.
Brett?
It's been an absolute pleasure having you on the portal
come back anytime.
I wanna say that anybody who is mis-portrayed
by this podcast is welcome.
We are not claiming to have absolute and universal knowledge.
You are more than welcome to correct the story
if you have knowledge about this that checks out.
And, but the problem is,
is that this is a story that needs to be told.
It's like the story of Margot O'Toole
and David Baltimore that played out at MIT
when I believe that she found
that she couldn't reproduce the work
of Dr. Imanishi Kikari.
And of course the system turned on the person
who is trying to say,
hey, I'm seeing irregularities.
I'm seeing problems.
We have a biomedical complex that needs whistleblowers.
It needs iconoclasts.
It needs challengers.
The food pyramid has been off for years.
Our health recommendations are completely off.
I think that this is an essential story.
You need to move out of intellectual dark web stuff,
which was about keeping the pipe open.
Let somebody else do that.
