Hello, this is Eric Weinstein.
I'm gonna be recording a short introduction
to this episode because I think it's probably
the most important episode of the portal to date.
That said, under normal circumstances,
I probably would have either edited this heavily
or not released it at all.
It starts off quite slow and it gets quite awkward
before finding its pace.
Now, what's going on is that the interview subject
is none other than my brother, Brett Weinstein.
In Brett's case, you probably know him
if you know him at all, as the heroic professor
who stood up against what can only be described,
and I swear I'm not making this up,
as a Maoist insurrection at an American college
in the Pacific Northwest, the Evergreen State College.
It was a very strange situation because somehow
the national media that we would normally have thought
would have covered such a story, for example,
the media that covered the takeover of Straight Hall
at Cornell in the 60s.
That media was almost absent completely.
At least they were absent for a very long time
before they entered late in the game.
And why is that?
Because the story ran counter-narrative.
That is, the students at the Evergreen State College
who were behaving in a racist fashion
were actually students of color.
And this was an exactly counter-narrative story.
And Brett, who stood up to this racist insurrection,
was in fact somebody with a history
of standing up against racism.
He had in fact been a student
at the University of Pennsylvania,
my alma mater and Ivy League school,
and had had to leave because of death threats
when he stood up for women of color
who were being abused for the amusement
and the sexual amusement of white fraternity students.
So Brett was supposed to be familiar to many of you
from that, from an old national news story.
And he was also the hero of a book
called The Taper's Morning Bath.
But somehow the news media who chose not to report
on the Evergreen story was not very interested either
in figuring out who Brett was
because the stories showed that there was
a contradictory problem with the main narrative.
In some sense, that's going to be recapitulated
in this episode.
There is an official narrative
about what happened in the scientific episode.
And there is a narrative which I think
is much closer to the truth,
which I happen to be one of a very small number
of witnesses to this alternate story.
Now the key question is whether to tell the story or not.
And you're gonna see that both of us
have a certain amount of trepidation and energy
around the question of whether or not
to break a long-standing public silence.
When Brett found himself as professor in exile
along with his wife, Heather Hying,
I had thought that the American biology establishment
would realize that one of their own
had been thrown overboard as Jetsom.
And that he would have been invited
to many universities to give seminars in biology.
And it took a while for me to understand
that because he was found at the Evergreen State College,
the people who taught at highly ranked research universities
thought that Brett was something more like a teacher
rather than a researcher.
In fact, he'd been the top student
of one of the most important evolutionary theorists
in the United States, Richard Alexander
at the University of Michigan,
as well as a student of Bob Trivers, formerly of Harvard,
arguably one of the greatest living evolutionary theorists,
I think presently at Rutgers.
Brett was somebody who had actually done
really interesting work in his thesis.
And for some reason, the system found it very disturbing
to consider the full implications of his work.
I think in this episode,
we're going to do something interesting.
I see Brett in two separate ways.
On the one hand, I view him as a very heroic figure
and he's an absolutely brilliant person.
It's been a pleasure sparring with him throughout my life.
However, I'm also his older brother
and you're gonna hear me at sort of my overbearing best,
brow beating him a bit.
Now the point isn't to push him down
but quite the contrary.
I'm rather competitive as Brett's older brother
and I don't wanna compete with the weakest version of Brett,
the professor in exile.
Instead, I want him seated again inside of the institution
where he always belonged.
And in order to do that,
I want him to tell the tale not with embellishment,
but as it actually happened
because I think it's one of the most fascinating episodes
in modern biology that I've ever heard.
So I hope that you like it.
We're gonna put it in front of you as an experiment
and we're gonna test to see whether or not I'm correct
that the portal can be used to augment the usual channels.
I believe that a lot of us are sitting on intellectual gold.
I don't think that the story that somebody's work
didn't say the light of day
or got attributed to somebody else is as exotic
as the institutions would have you believe.
In fact, I think it's quite common.
I think many of us find that we don't have careers
inside of science because something goes wrong
quite early when we're quite vulnerable.
And my hope is that some of you listening
who I know are struggling as graduate students
or as postdocs or as undergraduates will listen to this
and find some courage to stand up for yourself
because quite frankly,
if you choose not to do it
in order to make nice with your fields,
the chances are you will probably won't have a career
in the long term.
You might as well swing for the fences
and you might as well clear your throat
and tell your story as it actually happened without fear.
I don't know that this is going to succeed,
but we're going to run an experiment.
And I think both Brett and I are up for it
to find out wherever it goes.
The one thing I would say is that if anyone else
in the story wants to tell their version of events,
it would be an honor to have you on the portal.
There are no bad people in the story, in my opinion.
There are a lot of bad incentives.
And if we're going to actually fix the system,
we're going to have to look past the interpersonal.
But the point of this, in my opinion,
is that I think it's sufficient to open the case again
and to seat Brett Weinstein inside of the university system
that is the research university system
where he has always belonged.
So have a listen and I hope you like it.
Hello, you found the portal.
I'm your host, Eric Weinstein,
and I'm joined today by none other than my own brother,
Dr. Brett Weinstein.
Brett, welcome.
Thanks for having me.
Okay, well, what should we do?
What do you think?
Wow.
Well, I don't know.
I would imagine a certain fraction of your audience
is going through the usual sort of...
They randomly call us either Brett or Eric.
Yes.
So far as I can tell.
Which our parents also did while we were growing up.
I suppose that's true.
Including the pets' names were also sometimes thrown in
if I recall correctly.
That's true.
Okay, so if you don't mind,
I was trying to think about the fact
that we have an opportunity to do something
that might be slightly different
because you and I share a lot.
And what I thought is that we should begin
to really focus on areas of your expertise
with respect to biology,
rather than the way in which many people have come to know you.
So can I ask you to just quickly dispense with in 30 seconds
how the world has come to recognize you
if they recognize you at all?
Sure.
To the extent that I am recognized,
it is typically as a result of the meltdown at Evergreen
and my stance...
It's Evergreen State College.
Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington
where I taught for 14 years,
along with my wife, Heather Hying,
who taught there for 15 years.
We faced a mob of people who accused me of racism
and these were students.
They were students I had never met.
And the event was so colorful
and eventually when the world caught on
to the fact that the protesters who became rioters
had uploaded footage to the net.
And so the whole event could effectively be seen
from their perspective.
It raised interest in some other quadrants.
