I wanna talk about something I'm calling the disc,
the distributed idea suppression complex.
And it has nothing to do with Richard Dawkins
and peer review and Jerry Coyne
and a bunch of other things that almost nobody cares about.
It has to do with about a 50 year period
in which great ideas got buried
no matter where they occurred
because great ideas were very likely
to be highly disruptive to an institutional order.
And between you and your wife and me and my wife,
three of our four theses
ran into incredible problems
because they were trying to break really new ground.
And the amount of delay that you suffered,
I mean, you're now 50 years old.
This is a very late start in a career.
You're coming from a very inauspicious place.
You've been fitted with a story
which is he's a sweet guy who stood up to a mob
and that's his claim to fame.
And you're not really understanding
that you're not being taken fully seriously as a biologist.
In part, what Jerry Coyne is saying to you is,
hey, you're really unknown to us.
I'm at Chicago, Richard Dawkins was at Oxford.
You know, he was the Simone professor for the...
Public understanding, sure.
Science.
Right.
And the point is you're not part of the super club.
Don't get confused.
You're just some guy who stood up.
Oh, I understand that's what's being said.
Okay, so my point is I don't have time
for your fairytale about a healthy and kind and sweet.
Who said anything about healthy?
Look, I'm interested in winning for a couple of reasons.
One, the payload, the insight that opens the portal
to the part of biology we don't know
because we've had bad Darwinian tools.
And for those who heard that as an attack on Darwinism,
it is not Darwinism needs fixing
and there's nothing wrong with what Darwin contributed.
It's what happened after.
Will you do me a favor?
Yeah.
I really, you've got your own podcast.
It's called The Dark Horse, right?
The Dark Horse podcast.
I think this is a great place for you
to explore gradual change, incremental progression,
turning minds around, opening hearts, all this stuff.
This isn't your podcast.
This is my podcast.
Right, but we're talking about my life.
Am I right?
We are talking about your life,
but if that's what you wanna do,
I don't know that I'm that interested
in doing what I was going to do,
which was to try to get your ideas
out into the world curated by somebody who isn't you.
You know, one of the things,
and by the way, I've had this issue with you.
Do I take it we are not in a podcast at the moment?
We are in a podcast.
Oh, believe me, I'm gonna put the hurt on you
because you are backing out of your role in history
and I'm sick of it.
Look, one of the things, look, I love you
like you were my own brother.
Amazing.
It is the case that you have always done this
and it means that you're not taking your place properly.
And I had to go to the extraordinary length
of tricking your advisor, Richard Alexander,
one of the great evolutionary theorists of our times.
Absolutely.
Right, one of the absolute tops,
member of the National Academy of Sciences,
chaired professor at University of Michigan.
I had to trick him into writing a letter of recommendation
for you so that we would have some record
as he was getting on in years of who you actually were
because I knew that Evergreen was not going to be,
it's not part of the game.
That's true.
Okay, here's what he had to say about you.
Brett Weinstein may well be the brightest graduate student
I have ever known.
His thesis defense involved only one
of his four thesis chapters.
And it alone was far more than sufficient as a thesis.
I don't know anyone who knows more than Brett
about not only a wide variety of topics
in biological evolution,
but the problems and possibilities of cultural change
and the means of bringing people together
and solving difficult problems.
For 40 years, I held frequent,
sometimes almost daily seminars with my doctoral students
in evolutionary biology.
While he was a student,
Brett was a major element in all of those seminars.
When he spoke, there was almost always respectful silence.
Even when he was junior to most of the people involved,
Brett's thesis topics are so significant and timely
and so well-treated on the lifetime patterns of humans
and other species, the function and importance of telomeres
and explaining lifetimes as hedges against cancer
and several other important topics
such as species diversity and sexual selection
that he dramatically converted on the spot to reluctant.
And by the way, reluctant is British understatement here.
I will say mildly and skeptically evolutionist,
members of the committee.
I think that despite his youthfulness
in terms of the characteristics I listed earlier,
Brett is the best candidate.
You were the number one student of Richard Alexander
who ended up at the Evergreen State College,
which was a giant mistake and it was always a mistake.
You should never have been there.
I was completely right.
I'm sorry to be overbearing about it,
but like how many years did I tell you
you gotta get out of that place?
Well, look, first of all,
Dick was very clear with me about the fact
that were he trying to compete in the modern academy,
he did not believe he would have succeeded.
And he was clear about the fact
that there was no good solution to the problem.
So, you know, I can't say that I've ever heard that letter.
I can't say that I've ever heard that letter.
I believe you have quoted parts of it to me before.
Yeah, because you're gonna do this thing
where you downplay your gift and I'm sick of it,
I'm tired of it, I just have had it.
And part of it, what happened is
that you are now distorting the history of science.
You have a place in the history of science
that you are not taking up, you are not advocating for.
There's something that you don't like about this.
No, no, I don't think this is true.
I just think I'm pursuing it,
maybe I'm pursuing it in a way
that it doesn't work out in the end,
or maybe I'm pursuing it in a way that it would,
maybe there's more than one path.
I've been through too much helping you,
trying to make this happen,
where people become aware of the complex of ideas
that you've been pushing out.
And my feeling about this is that you maintain
this very beautiful, very calm position.
And it's enough already.
Like you have a story,
and that story is an explosive story.
I mean, I'm happy to bury this podcast
so that nobody ever hears it.
But I wanna actually explore the truth
rather than this extremely good for you, high fiber,
you know, low sugar bowl of granola.
I just don't think that's where we are.
I've been very clear and very public about the fact
that I think my entire field is spinning its wheels
that they've gotten caught by a few bad assumptions
and that they are spending decades in the weeds
for no good reason.
That there is a way out
that I didn't know what it was for a long time.
I did figure out what it was
and getting their attention
on the question of what they're doing wrong
is a Herculean task.
I've made that clear.
The question is,
what is the best use of the opportunity that I've got,
the cards that I hold,
and we have a difference of opinion
about what that might be.
And you may be right.
I'm not saying you're not right,
but I am saying that there's at least a discussion
to be had about what the best way to play the role is.
Why don't we have that on your podcast?
I accept your invitation to come on.
This is my podcast.
We're gonna do it my way.
Let's do it your way.
All right, I'm the older brother.
I've noticed.
I have the ultimate martial, martial, martial problem.
All right.
Brett, this is not the story of your career and your life.
What happened is is that you got stuck
at the University of Michigan
for a very long period of time
