which is, well, they have different chromosomal structures.
And then you say, well, but yes,
but that's a kind of a cheap way of achieving you sociality.
There are other ways of,
so we through this crazy kind of investigation,
we get to Dick Alexander who,
and I think you're quite correct,
says there is nothing prohibiting us from finding
a mammalian species that exhibits ant and wasp like behavior.
And it would be likely to have these characteristics.
It would live underground in a...
Yeah, underground, I believe eating tubers was on the thing.
It was a crazy list.
Crazy things.
And you know, my understanding from Dick,
Dick is now unfortunately dead.
He died a couple of years ago.
But my understanding from him
was that he didn't actually expect to find such an animal.
He was speaking very abstractly,
just completely theoretically.
And at the point that he unleashed this idea,
it may even have been in a talk rather than a paper,
the information made it back to him.
Actually, what about naked mole rats?
They match your characteristics.
And study reveals then that actually they are you social.
They behave very much like ants, bees, wasps, termites, et cetera.
And...
This is like one of the great moments in modern science.
I really think it is.
It's certainly the moment that people who know
who Dick Alexander was references sort of the high watermark,
because it's comprehensible.
You know, Dick did a lot of things.
He was very interested in people and other things.
But this particular demonstration was so,
it would be impossible to have predicted such a thing
and have gotten lucky.
He had to have understood some things
that were extremely deep in order for that to have worked out.
And so, yeah, it's really, I don't know of another example
in evolutionary theory of a prediction
that clean of something that obscure.
I know one.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I once heard a story about a graduate student
who predicted that the breeding protocols
of laboratory rodents would compromise the laboratory system
in terms of its relationship to so-called wild type versions
of the same species.
So you have the bred rodents
and you have the wild rodents
and that they would be distinguished by virtue of the fact
that the non-coding nucleotide sequence
at the end of the chromosome, known as telomeres,
would be wildly different in length
if the prediction were true from pure evolutionary theory.
Wild.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, that story, it didn't happen exactly the way
you said it, but you know, it's been a lot of years
and takes a second to get back there.
Yeah, I mean, you did that.
Yeah, I did that.
And that story, unfortunately, has not really been told
and it is in some sense your central origin story
as a biologist.
It's a pretty good one and it definitely changed
the way I saw myself in a way that has been very productive.
Okay.
I want you to talk to me about that story
and because I lived it with you,
I know that it happened
and I know that it got buried.
And I know that it's part of what I'm calling
the distributed idea suppression complex
because quite frankly, you were not the only person
who was a part of the story and the story had to die
because it said something,
which is that the power of your theory was sufficient
to predict from first principles,
a manifestly observed and surprising result
within molecular biology from pure evolutionary principle.
Yep, all right.
I'll try to do a short version of it.
You know, this is long form podcasting
and you tell however long the story is,
I guarantee you when people finally figure out
that it may be that the rodents that we've used
to test drugs on, let's say, might be compromised
and compromised in a way that would be potentially
extra permitting of potential toxins.
In the form of pharmaceuticals,
I think that it's gonna be fascinating.
It's gonna be repaid, it's gonna repay the study
that it will take to understand the story.
The floor is yours.
All right, so let me just set the stage a little bit.
Evolutionary biology has-
Give me a favor.
You can get into a very patient, careful,
pedagogical mode.
This is an exciting story.
Tell it the way it actually occurred.
I'm gonna tell it the way it actually occurred
and I'm gonna be careful.
I'm gonna try not to be,
there are parts of it that were for a very long time
kind of emotionally fraught, but anyway,
I think I remember it well enough
to do a sparse but complete version.
Evolutionary biology has long been biased
in the direction of abstraction
rather than thinking about mechanism.
That is to say, we deal in the phenomenology of things.
We talk about gross patterns that we see in nature
rather than talking about the fine detail
of what drives them.
That has been changing in recent decades,
but it has a long history
and it comes from a very mundane place.
That mundane place is that we just haven't had the tools
to look, for example, inside of cells
and we haven't been able to read genomes.
We could have been able to read a gene here and there
at great expense, but the ability
to peer into genomes is pretty new.
The ability to peer into these molecular pathways
is pretty new.
So anyway, there's a historical bias
in evolutionary biology against mechanism
and in the direction of phenomenology.
I have never been particularly fond of that bias.
I've always been interested in mechanism.
I'm interested in the phenomenology too,
but I've always kept my foot in the door
with respect to mechanism.
And as an undergraduate, I took lots of mechanism classes.
I took a development class
at the time developmental biology was,
in my opinion, a bit stuck.
It is now unstuck in a very dramatic way.
But anyway, I took a developmental biology class.
I took some immunology or immunobiology.
And anyway, I was armed with these things
in an environment in evolutionary biology
where most people were not.
Most people were in the phenomenology.
And one day I happened to be in a seminar.
Dick Alexander was running a seminar for graduate students
and a student was there who was very out of place.
He was studying cancer and he on a lark
decided to take an evolution seminar
that looked good to him in the catalog.
And it wasn't right for him.
And he gave a talk at some point.
And his talk was on his work with cancer.
And frankly, because all the other people in the room
were evolutionarily oriented,
nobody was really tracking what he was saying.
But what he said struck me like a bolt of lightning.
He said that in the realm of cancer research,
people were looking at telomeres,
which are these repetitive sequences
at the ends of chromosomes.
And they were toying with the possibility
that the fact that these telomeres shorten
every time a cell divides,
that that is providing a resistance to tumor formation.
Very straightforward.
Counter counts down and that would prevent.
So let's just, for the audience
that maybe needs a tiny refresher.
We are taught in general that DNA is a string of letters
called nucleotides, A, C, T, and G.
And that in general, three of those that are adjacent
to each other form words called codons.
And for every word, there is an amino acid
or an instruction to stop coding for amino acid.
So this is the instruction tape that tells us
how to string together amino acids into proteins
to make machines, molecular machines.
This is some weird different thing
where the region of DNA could be interpreted
as coding for a protein, but in fact,
might be instead just counting how many nucleotides
are at the end, it comes across as a counter.
It's a little better.
It was known not to be a coding sequence.
It wasn't a useful sequence.
So what you had is a bunch of DNA
at the ends of chromosomes that's just repetitive
and the number of repeats varies
and the number of repeats correlates
with basically how many times the cell
can divide before it refuses.
This being interpreted as a cancer prevention thing
