My name was Carol Greider.
Carol Greider is now a Nobel Laureate.
She was not at the time.
She was the co-discoverer of the enzyme telomerase
which is the enzyme that elongates telomeres
when that occurs.
With the famous and co-nobel recipient
that she was the student of Elizabeth Blackburn.
Elizabeth Blackburn, exactly.
She was her student and they shared the Nobel Prize
with Shostak.
In any case, her work seemed good to me.
I called her up cold.
I went into the insect division office
and I sat down at the phone and I called her.
I said, Carol, you don't know me.
I'm a graduate student at Michigan.
I'm an evolutionary biologist.
I'm racking my brains trying to understand something.
Can you tell me, is it possible that mice
don't have ultra-long telomeres,
that it's only laboratory mice that do?
And she said, huh, that's really interesting.
I'm pretty sure that mice have long telomeres universally
but it is odd that if you order musk spritus
instead of musk musculus and you order from European suppliers,
the lengths are very different than what you get
if you order musk musculus from the jack shop.
Next slide.
And I said, whoa.
And she said, yeah, that's really interesting.
And then she said, I can't remember if it was
the same phone call or if we had a second phone call
but she said she was gonna put her student,
her graduate student, Mike Heeman,
who I think is now at MIT, on the project
and he was gonna do a little work to figure out
whether there was anything to this.
And Mike did some work.
They sourced some different strains of mice
that were actually not wild mice.
Wild mice would have been the right test
but she couldn't get wild mice for obvious reasons.
She sniffs by the woods.
Right, exactly.
And so she got several different strains of mice
that had just been in captivity much less time.
She actually got one strain of mice
that was treated very differently in captivity
but never mind.
She put her graduate student on it
and he measured their telomere lengths
and I get this excited email.
Mike Heeman sends me an email that says effectively,
whoa, the hypothesis is true.
Mice have short telomeres, right?
Now.
I'm sorry, this is like as close to a who done it discovery,
jacuz, the mice, you know,
I remember you were over the moon.
I still am.
I still can look at this email
and it is the moment at which I realize, A,
there's no way I'm kidding myself
about how well I understand this, right?
That prediction was. How old are you?
No, no, no, no, no, when you get this email.
When I got that email, I was, it was 1999, 1998,
something like that.
Okay, so over 20 years ago.
Yeah, so I get this email and.
By the way, that puts you at about 30.
You're at the beginning of your career
and you, in this story, you've just predicted that.
It's a stunning coup for a graduate student
and it wasn't in my advisor's wheelhouse.
So it was clearly my own work
and my dick was great about not.
Okay, you are a dirty dog liar.
And I was there at the time.
Yeah, or.
Or, so we're both dirty dog liars
about this particular story or,
or one of the great moments in evolutionary theory,
which is, and let me just curate this
because I'm not a biologist,
but I think I can more or less get this
because it's a breeding protocol that is the alteration
in the evolutionary landscape for these laboratory mice.
And because it's acting on a non-protein coding region,
the adaptation to a change in the breeding protocol
can be extremely rapid.
It doesn't have to undergo
some sort of completely crazy typical Darwinian story
about random mutation and some of them being retained
and others being rejected.
It's, it's even better than that.
The creatures are presumably,
so we haven't gotten to what the breeding protocol
has to do with this, but the creatures are built
in some sense to detect how dangerous their environment is.
And to the extent that the level of extrinsic danger
changes, their telomeres respond quickly
so that they are better adapted to the environment.
So they're built to detect the environment
and then what is actually a strict matter of market forces.
Okay, so there are no predators in this environment.
There are no predators in this environment.
And we, we're not killing them particularly early
based on their skills.
So environmental insult is sort of absent.
Environmental insult is more or less absent.
What we are doing is imposing an economic rule
on breeding so that we can maximize the rate
at which we turn mouse chow into mice,
which is obviously economically the right thing to do
if you're selling mice to all these labs.
You want to produce as many mice as cheaply as possible.
So producing as many mice as cheaply-
You're the genius of the market.
It's the genius of the market.
There you go.
So in order to produce as many mice as cheaply as possible,
what you do is you don't breed animals past eight months.
They breed faster when they're younger because of senescence.
And so you don't breed older mice,
you throw them out and you replace them with younger mice
who breed faster.
What that effectively did was it eliminated
the selection against cancer
and it turbocharged the selection
in favor of youthful vigor.
Well, let me see if I get this.
In general, almost all cancer,
like cancer of the germline happens early in life,
but all the other cancer in general
is much more common later in life.
I got a pause.
I realized I forgot to tell you one thing Carol told me
in my first phone call with her, that's vital.
In addition to telling me that there was something funny
about Muspiritus, she told me that consistent
with the hypothesis that I was conveying to her,
that all mice die of cancer.
She said, if you let them live long enough
and then you do the necropsy,
you find cancer of one kind or another.
And that was perfectly consistent
because they had these wildly long telomeres
and no cancer protection.
That would be the prediction.
That's an extrapolation.
It's not really all mice.
It's all mice that we see in the lab,
which happens to be the mice that are ordered.
Right, she was still speaking from the mindset
of somebody who thought that the mice
she was getting in the mail were representative
of mice in the wild.
Got it.
Okay, so let me clear up why the breeding protocol.
And I should say that it is the breeding protocol
that is causing this.
That part, I would say, is still a hypothesis.
It has not been directly tested by anybody.
But what I would say is many hypotheses were tested
in the aftermath of the discovery
that lab mice have bizarrely long telomeres
and wild mice don't.
And no other hypothesis has stood up to scrutiny.
So it is the last hypothesis standing
and I'm all but certain that it will turn out to be true.
Yeah.
The reason that the breeding protocol
has this weird effect is that when you throw out the mice
at eight months of age,
you eliminate selection against cancer,
you turbocharge selection in favor of.
So when you throw out the mice
for breeding purposes at eight months of age.
Right.
When you throw them out for breeding purposes
at eight months of age,
you are increasing the importance
of their early life breeding
and you are discounting anything related
to their ability to fend off cancer
because they don't live long enough
in that period of time to get cancers that kill them.
And so what has happened according to this hypothesis
is that the mice that have longer telomeres
have driven out the other animals from the colony.
The trait of having long telomeres
has swept through the colony
and the telomeres have been elongated to an absurd degree
creating animals that do all die of cancer.
And interestingly enough,
another thing that's evident from the literature
is that if you look at their tissues,
do not age in the way that a normal mammal's tissues age,
