This is an ancient tradition. It's again an example of how, you know, we don't need to
look only to technology and to science in order to advance the cause of humanity and indeed,
of the planet as a whole. I think that for every, you know, every dollar and every minute
that we invest in developing artificial intelligence, we should also invest at least
a dollar and a minute developing the good qualities of our own minds like compassion.
Hi, welcome to the 100th episode of Endgame and also the 2022 Ubud Writers and Readers Festival.
I'm Gita Waryawan. I'm the host of Endgame. I'm currently a visiting scholar at Stanford University.
Today's episode is very special, not only because we're collaborating with Southeast Asia's
largest literary festival, but also because we're joined by two absolutely fascinating thinkers,
Professor Yuval Noah Harari and Professor Mark Solms. As you all know, Yuval is a public
intellectual and historian who studies the past, the present, and the future. He's written books
inclusive of sapiens, homodias, 21 lessons for the 21st century, and has recently published
a book entitled The Unstoppable Us. And Mark Solms, as you all know, has written quite a number of
books, but most recently has published a book entitled The Hidden Spring. It reveals the theory
of consciousness and also the role of emotions in our mental life. I hope you enjoy this conversation.
Gentlemen, thank you so much for coming on to our show. Thank you for inviting us.
Great pleasure to be here. I want to just start off with a question for Mark. Mark,
if you don't mind, please explain the difference between how the mind works and how
the brain works before I ask further a question and more questions with the both of you going forward.
Well, they are actually the same thing looked at from two different points of view. So when you
wake up in the morning with your eyes closed, you experiencing your mind, this is me, I'm alive,
thank heavens. Then you stagger over to the bathroom and you look at yourself in the mirror
and you see this body, which is also you. So they're just two different perspectives upon the
same thing. What's interesting about the mind is that we assume that not everything in the universe
has this perspective, the capacity to be able to register its own states. So the really interesting
thing is why does this part of nature, the brain, why does it also have this capacity to
subjectively register its own states? That's the essence of what we mean by a mind.
I want to ask the both of you. First to you, Mark, how do you think the mind would have evolved
over time? And I want to try to put this in the context of evolutionary processes throughout
history, which Yuval always talks about. And how you think that would have differed from the
evolutionary process of the brain. Well, I think that they're part of the same evolutionary process.
I think that one of the fundamental tasks of the brain is to register the state of the body
for its to represent in some central way how we're doing in terms of all of our basic physiological
needs. So that's one of the things the nervous system does. The other thing it does is represents
the outside world and enables us to act upon the outside world. So it's a sort of intermediary
between the internal states of the organism and the external world, which is where all the things
are that we need in order to maintain our internal states. So the evolution of consciousness, which
ties to the point that I made a minute ago, the evolution of consciousness or the dawn of consciousness
was when the first creatures with nervous systems became able to register with conscious feeling
things like I'm getting too hot. I'm getting too thirsty. I'm running short of energy supplies.
What that enables a creature to do is to act voluntarily. It can now monitor whether what
it's doing is improving or the opposite, making things better or worse for it in terms of its
needs. Otherwise, all you have is reflexes. You can't deal with unexpected developments.
The evolution of the mind, the dawn of consciousness, which by the way, I think long precedes the
evolution of primates and hominids. The dawn of consciousness is in its simplest form is just
a creature being able to know, to being able to feel how well it's doing in terms of meeting its
organismic needs. Wow. Yuval, I'm curious of your views on this.
But I think what's special about human minds and human evolution and human history
is that our minds can create entirely new entities in the universe, in reality. As far as we know,
before us, there are just two types of reality. You have objective reality, things that exist,
no matter whether we believe in them or not, no matter whether we are aware of them or not.
For instance, viruses are objective entities. Even if you don't believe in viruses, even if you
don't know there are viruses, they can still kill you. That's objective. Then we have subjective
entities like pain or like dreams. They exist only in our mind, only in our awareness. If I have
pain, if I feel pain and nobody else in the universe feels it, it's still real, because it depends
only on my own mind. That's also of animal minds. Cows feel pain, chickens feel pain.
What's really unique for humans as far as we know, and this is the basis for human history,
is the ability of humans to create new types of entities, not objective and not subjective,
but intersubjective. Entities that exist between many minds. For instance, money. Money is not
a subjective thing. It's not my personal dream or my personal pain. If I stop believing in the
American dollar, it's still there. Billions of other people still use it, but it's not objective
either. Money is not an objective entity. It's not pieces of paper or coins of gold. Most money
today in the world is basically just information passed between people, and even gold coins,
they have no objective value. People can't eat them. People can't drink them. They are completely
useless, but together we imagine that this thing has value, and as long as everybody believes in
the same story, it works. I can go to the market, meet a person that is a total stranger. I've never
met them before. I give them some worthless money, which again, nobody can eat or drink or do anything
with, and in exchange, they may give me a banana that I can actually eat, which has real value.
Money is something that exists not in my mind, but not in the outside world,
but in the connection between all our minds, and most of the important things in history
are like that. Gods exist in our collective imagination. Nations exist in our collective
imagination. No animal in the world knows that there are nations, that there is Russia, and
Ukraine, and Indonesia, and Israel. It's just a story that exists in our collective imagination.
I want to, you know, Yuval, you always brought up the notion that money is just a story,
right? And what took us apart from primates or animals was our sheer ability to imagine,
and as a result of our imaginative capabilities or abilities, we started developing these social
skills that would allow us to attain any kind of leadership in any dimension, right? Was this
something that would have evolved in a certain way that made us different from animals to the
extent that the evolutionary process of the mind or our ability to imagine
was taking place in a different manner from the way the brain was functioning or evolving?
It's based on the brain. I mean, we got this ability to create imagined reality to tell fictional
stories. We got it through an evolutionary process. Sometime around 70,000 years ago, more or less,
humans of our species, because of changes in their brains, got this amazing ability to tell
fictional stories and imagine things together. But then, what you see since then is relatively
little further evolutionary change. Our bodies, our brains are more or less the same as they were
20,000 or 50,000 years ago. But what really took off is an extremely fast cultural evolution,
which is based on this capacity to create things by just imagining them. Again, whether it's nations
or gods or money, they are extremely powerful things because they enable unlimited numbers of
strangers to cooperate. Chimpanzees can cooperate in very small numbers. Maybe 50 chimpanzees can
cooperate on something. Humans can cooperate in unlimited numbers, hundreds of millions of people
in the same nation, billions of people in the same trade network. And we can do that because of our
shared stories that like this shirt that I'm now wearing, somebody on the other side of the world,
maybe in Indonesia, produced it and gave it to me. Why? Because I gave them this imaginary thing,
money. And they are willing to accept it because they can take it and buy other things from other
people who believe in this money. And this is why we control the world and not the chimpanzees.
On an individual level, I'm not significantly stronger or smarter than a chimpanzee.
But when you are in a competition between millions of people and a handful of chimpanzees,
it's obvious who is going to win. Mark, what do you think?
Well, first of all, I agree. I have to agree. We are a symbolic species. We deal with the sorts of
currency and the broader sense of the word that Yuval's talking about. And the adaptation in the
brain, the evolutionary anatomical physiological difference between our brains and chimpanzee
brains, brains of other primates, is really not that big. It's a small adjustment in the connectivity
of what's called prefrontal cortex, which seems to have given rise to this ability to
think abstractly. It's like a re-representation, removing ourselves one further step from the
concrete here and now. And that in turn gave rise to the development of language, which is an
entirely abstract symbolic system, which then enables all of this communication in the broadest
sense that Yuval's talking about. What I would like to add to what he's saying is that, of course,
we rightly are very preoccupied by what makes us unique. And we do have every reason to be very
proud as a species of these remarkable capacities that Yuval's been talking about. But we mustn't
forget that with the evolution of this extra little bit of prefrontal cortical connectivity,
that didn't remove everything that's under the cortex. So the subcortical and in particular the
limbic and brainstem arousal systems, which underpin our emotional life, which underpin both our
best and our worst emotional tendencies, that those are not that different from our primate
cousins. So while we celebrate our uniquely human intellectual capacities, we have to remember that
they float on top of this sort of ocean of animalistic tendencies. And it's best that we take
account of those, that we remember those at the same time as we celebrate our humaneness.
Mark, you talk a lot about rage, right? And we're witnessing a pretty high degree of
rage right now that's happening in Ukraine. Would you argue that the rage within humanity
hasn't really evolved that much in the last few thousand years?
Well, I think that's a very good case in point. Clearly, you look at some
human behaviors and they are absolutely indistinguishable from the affective attacks,
the rage attacks that you see in other primates and indeed in many other mammal species. And
we have to control this inclination when we're living in, as Yuval said earlier, we're living in
an entirely different kind of social organizations. So when you're a little band of chimpanzees,
rage of that kind plays a very different role in the survival of the group and of the individual
than it does in the kinds of rule-based and large, civilized societies that we live in now.
But I want to point out, which is an example of what I mean when I say that we do well to
understand or to remember and better understand these emotional things that lie beneath our
intellectual surface, that not all aggression is rage. So, for example, we distinguish between
rage or hot aggression and what's called predatory aggression or cold aggression. Like,
for example, if a lion is running off to a spring buck and sinks its claws into it and eats it,
that doesn't mean it's in a rage, it's just looking for lunch. And that kind of cold predatory
aggression is very different from the hot aggression which is triggered by somebody's
frustrating me, something's getting in my way, something's standing between me and what I want.
And there are two different brain systems involved there. And then there's a third type of aggression
which I think is very pertinent to the current situation in Ukraine and Russia,
which is called territorial aggression or dominance behavior, which has to do with
claiming a territory, defending that territory, trying to position yourself as high as possible
in the hierarchy of the group that governs the territory. And I'm not using the word govern
in the political sense, I mean, even in other mammal societies. They always form hierarchies
in order, the higher you are in the pecking order, the greater access you have to the
resources of the territory. So this sort of aggression, territorial and dominance aggression,
again, is quite different from rage and it's quite different from predatory aggression.
There's a lot more I could say about it, but the point I want to make is just that
us understanding these different types of aggression, what sorts of things trigger them,
how they work, I think it's not going to perform miracles, but I think it can contribute to us
better understanding these very unpleasant aspects of our nature. And that's the first step
toward being able to better control them. What's your view, Yuval? Go ahead.
I think that historically, the worst crimes in human history are not so much related
to these animalistic types of aggression. It's a completely new type of aggression,
which again, rooted in imaginary stories, the things like world wars and Holocausts and genocides,
you rarely see anything like that in small groups of social animals. We are in a class of our own
in the types of crimes we are committing, because something like the Russian invasion of Ukraine
doesn't, I don't think that it really comes from some kind of animalistic rage or territoriality,
when people sometimes use it as an excuse, that you excuse Putin and you excuse the Russian
leadership, which cold-heartedly decided on this criminal invasion, because you say, well,
you know, it's not just human nature, it's in our gene, it's in our evolution, and it's not.
These types of wars, they are a new thing in the world. They are not so much dictated by
irresistible urges. We should hold political leaders responsible for such decisions.
And from my view as a historian is that humans rarely fight about the same things as animals.
Animals fight about territory, yes, because they need the territory in order to survive.
If you have two chimpanzee groups and there is, I don't know, a grove of nut tree,
of fruit trees in the middle, they fight over possession of these fruit trees,
because if they don't have them, they might starve to death. In the case of humans, humans,
at least today or in recent centuries, they almost never fight about things they really
need to survive. In almost all cases, they fight about imaginary stories in their minds.
If I take the case of my own country of Israel, and I look at the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,
so it's not really about territory. It's not true that there isn't enough territory and resources
between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River, so there is no option but for Israelis and
Palestinians to fight over the territory. They don't really need Jerusalem in order to survive.
There aren't many fruit trees there. They are fighting because they have incompatible
imaginary stories in their minds, and they cannot find a common story that they can both agree on.
There is enough land between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River to build houses and hospitals
and schools for everybody. What they lack is a story they can agree on, and if you look, for
instance, at the history of Europe over the last century, so a hundred years ago, Europeans ruled
most of the world, like Indonesia was a colony of the Netherlands, most of Africa were colonies of
the British, the French. Even though they ruled almost all the world, they still fought each other,
the Europeans. Why? Not because they lacked territory, but because they lacked a story
they can agree on. You look at recent decades at the European Union, and Europe mostly has become
extremely peaceful, even though it lost almost all the territory it controlled. Why? Because the
Dutch and the Germans and the French, they found a common story they can agree on.
I'm with you in that there hasn't been that much of an evolution in terms of the animalistic
tendencies of a human being, but the capacity of a human being to imagine seems to have
changed for the worse. Fictions are being created in a much more extreme manner, stories are being
created, and I want to put this in the context of what the both of you have been working on,
more particularly by Mark, in the context of consciousness. Mark, you have been talking about
how consciousness is producible or engineerable. Is there hope that we can manage the ability of
human being to create stories or imagine in such a way that we can shape humanity in a much more
judicious manner? Well, let me link my answer to what you've all just said, which incidentally I
agree with. The fact that we can imagine these ideas and agree or disagree about policies,
that is on top of these base instincts which are still there. So we now have a responsibility to
be able to find ways of managing with each other, which incorporates an understanding that we have
these base inclinations. So although those inclinations are there, it doesn't absolve us,
us humans all the more so, are not absolved of responsibility for how we conduct ourselves.
And our ability to imagine abstract organizing principles enables us to imagine good ones,
and also enables us to imagine terrible ones. So these sort of industrial scale
wars over ideas that you've all been talking about comes from the very same evolutionary
advances as the best of our achievements come from. Now the same applies to the question that
you're asking me about artificial consciousness, which is what you're alluding to. When I say
that I believe that consciousness, at least in its most basic forms, and I'm sorry if I sound
