on a national scale, or on an international scale, about the thing that we were talking about on a
personal scale earlier, which is once more simply facing the facts, looking inwards,
facing up to unwelcome facts. This is all we need to do, to learn from our own past,
from our own histories, and not to repeat the mistakes of the past. This contemplative,
introspective attitude, I think, is in very short supply. And again, I think that's the answer.
Yvon? Yeah, I definitely agree. And I would add to that that people need to understand what
democracy is. Democracy is not elections. Elections are just one mechanism for democracy.
At worst, they can become like a ritual. There are many dictatorships in the world right now
that hold elections as a kind of ritual, which is devoid of all meaning. So what is really democracy?
Democracy is a conversation. It's an ongoing conversation. It must start long before the
elections, and it must continue after the election. And what conversation is all about
is really the ability to listen to other people, also to look inside you, and correct your mistakes.
Democracy is about self-correcting mechanisms. Election, again, is one self-correcting mechanism.
We voted for the wrong party four years ago. We can now make a different vote. That's a self-correcting
mechanism. It's a bit like the homeostasis that Mark was talking about, that you put your hand
in boiling water, you take it out, you put it in cold water, you take it out, you put it in like
medium temperature water. Okay, that's what I was looking for. So you do the same thing with
political parties. And then you have other self-correcting mechanisms, like a free press,
or like academia. The government does some crime and tries to hide it, so there is a free press
that can expose it. There are academics that can give a different viewpoint. You have independent
courts, so you can take the government to court and say this new law that you're passing,
it's unconstitutional. Democracy needs a lot of these self-correcting mechanisms, so if one fails,
the others still are intact and allow the conversation to continue. Dictatorships usually
have no self-correcting mechanisms. Dictatorships, they put their hand in hot water, in boiling water,
they don't take it out. They put it even deeper. They blame it on somebody else.
This is what, again, Putin is doing in Ukraine. He made a terrible mistake,
initially with the invasion, and he is incapable of admitting that he made a mistake and correcting
it, and there is no institution in Russia that is able to point out the mistake, not the parliament,
the Duma, there is no free press, there is no free academic sphere, there are no independent courts,
so they just double down on the mistake. And as in the body of a human being, so also in a
political body in a country, I think it's really all about the ability to admit mistakes and correct
them. A dictator can make again and again good decisions. It's still not a good enough argument
in favor of dictatorship, because sooner or later, everybody makes mistakes. For 10 years,
he made the right decisions. Some new situation comes, he makes the wrong decision. What do you
do now? You can't get rid of him. He will just double down on it. So I think it's essential
for the health of our democracy that people remember what democracy is. It's not elections,
it's not the dictatorship of the majority. It's an ongoing conversation which is made possible
by maintaining strong self-correcting mechanisms. Wow. Thank you so much. Thank you so much to
the both of you, Yuval and Mark, for attending our session today. Thank you, and I hope that next
time we can do it in person. In person, and I hope in Bali. Yeah. Would love to meet up. Or in Cape
Town, Mark, wherever you are. Yes. I remember very well the old days when we used to meet in person.
Yes. Okay, guys. Thank you so much. Thank you. Stay healthy. Bye-bye. Thanks very, very much. Bye-bye.
Thanks. Bye-bye. That was the 100th episode of Endgame. I want to take this opportunity to thank
you for the unwavering support for Endgame in the last couple of years. If you have time, take a look
at the links in the box below as to try to find out how you can participate in the discovery of
Southeast Asia's future narrators. I also want to take this opportunity to thank our friends
at the Ubud Writers and Readers Festival in this discussion, a very rich discussion
and a reality. And if you have a chance, come and join the many extraordinary thinkers and writers.
We're going to be in Bali on October 27 until 30, 2022, so you can figure out how to unleash
thoughts in words. Take care.
