If you say something that makes a lot of people angry or makes a lot of people
extremely fearful, it grabs their attention. If somebody says something far more moderate,
it's less important. So there is this arms race of saying more and more outrageous and frightening
and hateful things. And this destroys the ability to have a conversation. So that's kind of one
one thing about what's happening with social media. The other thing is really just a destruction
that it's so, again, it became so good in grabbing our attention that it doesn't allow us to pay
attention to almost anything else. And this goes back again to what we talked about, meditation
and psychoanalysis, know thyself. If you're constantly just on your smartphone or just on
the screen, this is not knowing yourself. This you're flooding yourself with more and more information
from outside. And in the end, like going very, very at a very deep level,
you can never be happy if you don't know who you are. It's just impossible. The deep source
of happiness in the world is not control over the world. People think, in order to be happy,
I need to control the world and arrange it to my liking, whether on a personal level
or on a global level. And it is impossible. You cannot do that. The real source of happiness is
knowing who you really are, knowing the truth about yourself, about your feelings. And you can't
do that unless you look inside. And if you look inside, I think ultimately the truth about human
beings is not so complicated actually. When you look inside, you see a very simple mechanism at work.
In the body, there are basically just two types of sensations or feelings. There are pleasant
sensations and there are unpleasant sensations. And the mind reacts to these two types of sensations
in one of two ways. If it's a pleasant sensation, it wants more. If it's an unpleasant sensation,
it wants less. It hates it. It wants to get rid of it. And that's the whole thing. This is what
is happening all the time. And when we do manage to get something we want and we have a pleasant
sensation, we don't react with satisfaction. We react with wanting more. We crave for more of that.
And this is endless. No matter what you achieve, if you don't understand this mechanism,
no matter what you achieve, the reaction will simply be wanting more. And you see the whole
of human history, it's just that. You think about all the amazing things we have achieved,
all the enormous power we have achieved over the last 50,000 years from the Stone Age to today.
We are thousands and thousands of times more powerful. We control the world to an amazing
degree. Yet we are not significantly happier than we were in the Stone Age. Because again,
no matter what we achieve, we just want more. You know, I'm in a camp that sort of believes that
the real cancer was when the like button was created, as to create this unnecessary notion
of virality, which people would argue is correlated with rising cases of anxiety,
depression, and all that. But let me just interrupt you. The like button is exactly
this mechanism, externalized. We have a like button in our mind. Anything that happens in life at
any moment, it's, I like this, I don't like this, I like this, I don't like this. This is what has
been happening, you know, also with animals for millions of years. We go around the world with
a like button in our mind. And the kind of amazing or terrible thing of the like button,
it externalized it. In this sense, it amplified it, that instead of just observing what's happening,
people are constantly in this mode, I like it, I don't like it, I like it, I don't like it.
And what we need more in life is to step back and just observe what's happening. I mean,
forget about whether I like it or not. Just try to understand what's happening.
So this is such an important, if I may interrupt you, sorry. I think that what you're all saying
is so important, I really want to underscore it. You know, when he said that basically what goes on
in the mind is not that complicated. There's quite a simple principle at work. And then he speaks about
likes and dislikes, you know, pleasures and unpleasures. And the simple law of effect that
lies behind that, which is anything that causes me pleasure, I want to do it some more, anything that
causes me displeasure, I want to avoid it. That is really the most basic mechanism upon which the
mind is based. But the behind that mechanism is something that we call homeostasis. Homeostasis
is a basic biological mechanism, which is not only a mental mechanism, it's the thing that
underpins all living, all life forms are homeostatic. And how homeostasis works is that there's somewhere
where you need to be a certain temperature range, a certain blood pressure, a certain oxygen level,
and so on. Deviations from that are bad. They're bad for your survival. And moving back towards
your viable range is good. And so the feelings that you were talking about are built upon this
homeostatic mechanism. So moving away from your viable bounds is what a bad feeling is. This is
not where I need to be. And a good feeling shows you heading in the right direction. But the point
that I'm wanting to lead up to, which links back to what we were saying about meditative
practices and so on, is that actually pleasurable feelings are not an end in themselves. This is
the mistake that we make, is to think that I need more and more and more of this pleasure.
Because actually once you're in your viable bounds, you're no longer feeling pleasure. You now feel
satiation. In other words, now the need is met. And that's a kind of nirvana. It's a state of
no perturbation, no demand for work, no distressing feelings. Feelings, both of a pleasurable and an
unpleasurable kind, mean you're not in nirvana. So I think that this idea of it's enough, which
you've always was alluding to. We must remember that this is based upon also probably the most
fundamental mechanism in all biology. In some respects, recognizing these simple stark facts
is all we need to do. There is a viable range within which we need to be,
and that's enough. You can't do better than that. I've said the thing I wanted to.
Mark, let me follow up on this. Are you suggesting that our homeostasis has shifted for the worse?
No, I think that we sort of short, I think I'm saying the same thing as you've all,
but he'll tell me if in fact I'm putting words into his mouth. But I think that we sort of
short circuited the mechanism. We're tricking ourselves. So to just use one example, I was
talking about attachment earlier. In the mammal brain, there's circuitry, which is evolved for
encouraging us to stay close to our caregivers. This is because we mammals need to be fed. We
can't look after ourselves when we're little. So we attach to a caregiver, and when we're separated
from that caregiver, we then feel separation distress, a kind of panicky anxiety, and we cry
and we search for the caregiver. That mechanism is mediated by a brain chemical called mu opioids.
And the word opioid, I hope it will bring to people's minds, opium and opiates.
They are opiates or artificial forms of this brain chemical. So now if you're in a state of
separation distress, in other words, you're longing for somebody's care and love, there are two things
you can do. In order to meet that need, either you can do the work that's necessary in the world,
in reality, in relationships of finding out how do I get people to stay with me, to love me,
to want to be with me, to care about me. That's the great task of life, is learning how to meet
our emotional needs. Or you can do something else. You can just shoot up heroin. And then you'll
have the feeling, the mu opioids will be replenished. But you've tricked this, you've cheated.
Whenever you try to cheat reality, reality wins. So these are ultimately very, very self-destructive
ways of behaving, of tricking the system. And you'll note the role that feeling plays there. So
you get an artificial feeling of life's a beach. I'm chilled out. This is great. All my needs are
met. But in fact, you haven't met your need. You haven't got somebody's love and care and attention.
And that path is deathly. Yeah, I'll just add to that. Again, from the historian's perspective,
this happens on the level of an individual who becomes a drug addict. It also happens on the
level of entire countries and wars who become power addicts. Again, we go back to the Russian
invasion of Ukraine. And the Russians justify it with their need for security. Now, they are the
biggest country in the world. And they still feel insecure. They still feel that they must have this
territory in order to feel secure. And if they had this territory, it would not end there.
They would want more and more. And again, it's all something that happens inside. Because again,
if you look at the international situation in 2022, which country was about to invade Russia?
No country. I mean, they talk about the security needs. But can they name a country which was
actually about to invade them in 2022? Were the Germans massing their armies to invade Russia?
Were the French did Napoleon get out of his grave in order to again march on Moscow? No.
They had, again, the Russian elite in their mind, they felt very insecure. They built this fantasy
and threw their insecurity on NATO, on the West, on all kinds of bogeymen. And felt that we must
invade Ukraine in order to feel secure. And, you know, this is very much like the heroin addict.
They are not looking inside to really see where the insecurity is coming from. It's not really
coming from the Germans about to invade them. It's coming from within their own worldview,
from within their own minds and fantasies.
You know, it sounds like we need a lot more compassion going forward. And I want to seek
your wisdom on how do we science compassion more into humanity, be it from a psychoanalytical
standpoint or any other point of view?
Well, I think that building on what we've discussed already, the need to look inwards and to see
what's motivating you to recognize, especially unwelcome facts about yourself. You know, it's,
we don't want to face up to facts. We especially don't want to face up to unwelcome facts.
But they are facts. They're there. And if you don't face up to them, they're still there.
You just have less chance of being able to take account of them and therefore less chance of
being able to do the wise and realistic thing. This introspective imperative that we've been
talking about, knowing ourselves, seeing the subjective state of things, all that's needed
is a further step to recognize that just as much as my inner world, my inner life is the
center of everything for me, so too is everybody else's for them. We all of us are subjects. We
all of us have feelings. We all of us have inner world. We're all the same. So the more that you
recognize the importance and the nature of your own inner mental life, I think the better opportunity
you have, the better possibility you have for being able to recognize other people are not
objects. They're subjects. Other people have feelings. Other people have needs just like mine.
So although it might sound kind of contradictory, I think that exactly what you've always
saying earlier in terms of knowing ourselves, I think that and properly recognizing the reality
of ourselves, of our own inner selves. Paradoxically, I think that is the route to being able to
take more seriously and take more account of the inner world of our
conspecifics as we call them in biology. In other words, the other members of our species.
I completely agree and I think that the key thing to understand is that not just compassion, but the
whole of morality is about suffering. That you know, you have people who believe that morality is
about obeying certain outside laws, whether the laws of a country or the laws of religion,
that there is a certain set of laws coming from outside and I'm a moral person if I obey
these laws. And these people also, they sometimes wonder if you reject my religion or if you reject
I don't know, my culture or my nation, how can there be morality? People will just kill and rob
and whatever. And we know from history that this isn't true, that you don't really need
any religion, you don't really need any government in order to have morality, because morality is
not about obeying a certain set of laws that is coming from outside. Morality is about suffering,
it's about reducing suffering. And moral action is an action that doesn't cause suffering or ideally
even reduces suffering, helps people, helps myself and helps other people be liberated
from suffering. And a very important insight is that when you cause suffering to others,
very often you're also causing suffering to yourself. When you for instance, if you want to
kill somebody else, you don't do that unless you first develop an enormous amount of hatred
or rage or greed within yourself. You don't just go around killing people for nothing.
And when you observe yourself, you will find out that it's extremely unpleasant, it's extremely
miserable to feel a lot of rage. Rage is not a nice feeling. If you think about what happiness is,
happiness is a state free of rage. So when I develop rage against somebody else, I may kill
this person, maybe I never kill them, maybe I hate my boss and I constantly fume against my boss,
but I can't kill him. So I'm not harming him, but I'm harming myself every moment that I keep
feeding this raging flame of rage. So it's not just in order to help him, it's first and foremost
to help me to be more happy to dampen down this level of rage inside myself. And I think this
is what morality and compassion is all about. And very often people think about morality in terms
of a kind of, you give up something, you make yourself miserable so that somebody else will
be better off. You're doing it for them. But no, very, very often it's a win-win situation.
When you're nicer to other people, most of the time you also feel better yourself. You're not
giving up anything, you're gaining something. You've all, as a historian, you would probably
reckon that the degree of rage, the lack of morality that we're witnessing in humanity today,
probably would not have evolved for the worse from the past. But your concern is driven a lot
more by the fact that technological innovation has gone in a much more exponential manner to the
point where you seem to believe that the margin of error has gotten much smaller nowadays.
Is that the right way to think about it? It's obvious. When you have somebody in rage
and they have a spear knife, that's very different than when you have somebody in rage and they have
their finger on the button of nuclear weapons. In enough rage and they can destroy the whole of
humankind. And if now we develop even more ways to destroy our humanity with artificial
intelligence, with bioengineering, with so forth, though the danger just grows and grows.
You know, you think about a figure like Hitler, so he inflicted so much misery and suffering
on hundreds of millions of people, but ultimately he couldn't change humanity itself.
He didn't have the tools to change the human body or the human mind. So you can say it's like
it's like a computer game that we failed collectively, but then we got another chance.
Like at the end of the war, we are back to ground, to level ground. We are back to the
first stage. We can try again. Maybe this time we can build a better world. But you think about
the Hitler's of the 21st century and it's different. The Hitler's of the 21st century,
they will have the ability not just to wage destructive wars. With tools like AI and bioengineering,
they will actually be able to re-engineer the human body and mind, which is something the Nazis
dreamt about. They always talked about creating the superhumans, the new humans. They couldn't do
it. They didn't have the technology. Now imagine a new Nazi regime in the 21st century that uses
technology to re-engineer new humans. Now even if this regime eventually falls, the new humans,
the new human bodies and minds would be there. They can permanently alter the cause of human
evolution in a way that the Nazis couldn't, the Soviets couldn't, no previous regime could.
And this is a very, very frightening scenario.
A friend of mine was asked recently what their view was about future prospects.
And his answer was, I think very apt to what you've all just been saying. His answer was,
I'm cautiously pessimistic.
Look, we're getting to the end of our session here. I want to ask the both of you a question on
democracy. We're sort of like witnessing how democracies are not functioning the way they ought
to, right? And I want to seek your wisdom on how you think democracy could be reshaped
for the better, be it from a psychoanalytical point of view or any other point of view. I'll
start with you, Marc. Well, you're starting with the wrong person, because again, I think this is
really Yvon's department here. He has... I know, but we got to make it interesting.
Yes. Give us some hope.
Yes. I think that, just to say perhaps the obvious, with all of these intellectual
and symbolic capacities that we started this conversation discussing, this has enabled us to
record historically, record information about what we have done in the past,
and what the consequences have been. And so because we have this capacity, this scholarship,
and increasingly so, the capacity to store and analyze the events of the past, we have
simply put a better opportunity to not be condemned to repeating history. The terribly
historical events that Yvon was talking about of the previous century, they are better documented,
better remembered, better recorded than all the prior genocides that they've been throughout
the history of our species. And so please, God, let us learn from that. The current events
when Yvon spoke of the Hitler's of the 21st century, then he said, they are going to be.
And I thought, well, they are being. Of course, they already are Hitler's of the 21st century
among us right now. And all we can hope for, all I can hope for is that we remember, we know,
we now know what the potentials are, what awful things we can do and how it ends.
So I just hope we learn from those lessons. But please note that here we are talking again
