states. So if I prepare it, I effectively put it in one of those states. Well, let's say we had the
carpet at a 45 degree angle. Mathematically, we could describe that as a mixed state. And it may
not be the most effective for measuring the movement of people across the carpet. But yeah, you could
define it, or comb it that way. It doesn't necessarily, if it were only a binary, it wouldn't
be a qubit. Then it would be a classical bit. Yeah, under go for it, and then Dean.
Yeah, with, with, with, you know, I, I, you know, recall lecture, couple of slides more.
We briefly talked about it like 10 minutes ago, by preparing your war, choosing an axis,
and whatever you put up or down in that axis. Now, that doesn't mean that the environment gets to do
its own thing, right? And a superposition of outcomes, but at least you're measuring in that
axis. Right. So it's going to be either up or down in that act, you can add it to picture. And
I have, I just want to see if you worked on
graphic screens and define my diagrams, and maybe clarify the question a little more.
Dean?
From this really, really interesting, I don't know how metaphorically you could explain the carpet
as a wave. But I think once you get away from the, it's up or down, that possibility enters the
conversation. And the only reason I, I wonder whether or not metaphorically the wave aspect
of that can be included in how you're describing the carpet is that Chris spent quite a bit of
time on the all possible paths argument. And in particular, and I love this, when Alice isn't
looking. Well, in that, in that wave equation, how could Alice not be looking?
That's what gets real. I mean, Alice could not be looking if it's, if it's binary, if it's or,
up or down. But if it's wave, it's on a, it's on a, it's a unitary propagator. I'm not sure how
she takes her eyes off of this preparation measure thing that's going off all the time.
So this is, this is actually an, what I consider to be a feature or an opportunity or an opening
in the sense that from a strictly information transfer piece, not a mechanical piece, now not a
physical thing, from an information transfer piece, maybe the carpet can be metaphorically
understood as a wave, that the eyes of Alice or whoever's doing the preparing and the measuring
bob Alice, I don't care beaches, that there is actually a difference then between something that
is exchanged and something that is informationally transferred. And again, I don't think that the
four of us here sitting right now are going to resolve that. But I wonder if part of our,
part of the difficulty in this is finding the physical metaphor that explains the
theoretical transfer in such a way that it doesn't, it both breaks the symmetry and
holds it. Because again, we're back to gripper and grip, we're back to
figuring it out and outing the physical figures in the state that we're in. And we have to do
both at once. So again, Daniel, you're the creative guy, how do you turn your carpet
metaphor into a wave equation? Maybe there's a subwoofer in the room, or maybe somebody is
waving the carpet. But what you said about the, what is exchanged and what is transferred,
um, maybe the transfer is the classical components. I don't know which will be
exchange or transfer, but one of them is the classical inscription. That's how many gigabytes
were written or read to the hard drive. But what's exchanged, let's just say,
are the semantics of meaning. And given an appropriate co-preparation,
maybe only one bit needs to be transferred for the exchange of a message that was already
triggered to be set off. And then also this entire discussion, it kind of strikes me as like the,
uh, Cartesian duality of our time. But rather than mind and body, it's the physicality of
information syntax, and the metaphysicality of information semantics. And that's these kind of
two worlds with their own physics and metaphysics that we're trying to connect. And it's like
similarly, well, is the information, how does the information world cause something physical?
How does the physical cause something informational? And I think that the entire journey that the
course and everyone is on is, uh, physics as information processing. That those as a qualified
and distinguished but minimum of two set. Alexi? Yeah. Thank you so much. Uh, can you hear me?
Yeah. I am, yeah, thinking out loud, maybe, but I think the way to get closer to understanding in
my head is to let go of the metaphor of asking a question, right? So, if Alexi is talking to
Daniel through Zoom, and I pose even a closed question up or down, so I, you know, uh, formulated
the question and, you know, released it into Zoom space, and then I'm silent and I opened
my listening to your answer. But you, Daniel, have agency to say up or down. I did not, I do not
have any effect on whether you will say up or down, right? That's the difference. So, me asking
you a question does not modify, uh, the answer. You decide. Ellis talking to Bob. Bob has the
agency to answer the question, not Ellis. And that's where I'm stuck. So I don't know if asking a
question continues to be a good metaphor. Preparing the instrument for measurement is,
is maybe better. And, and so, but, but actually Ellis is not asking Bob. Ellis is acting on a
qubit, right? And qubit is a simple thing that, you know, can, can literally physically be up or
down, I guess. And so that's, that's maybe, maybe that's the answer that Ellis is not asking Bob.
Ellis does something to the qubit. And because qubit can be up or down, then that's no longer
asking a question. Asking a question implies your, your correspondent can, can, can tell you anything.
When we're dealing with the very sophisticated process of natural language question asking,
I think we're dealing, we're, we're dealing with something that, that's orders, um,
of composition above the kind, the kind of binary ask. So I, I, I agree with that. Um,
it's almost like, um, Ellis prepares the photo receptor. So it's slate is refreshed. And then
it's the photon or the light emitting object that has the agency to send the photon or not.
I mean, maybe the measure, the preparation occurs and then no one comes back to check
whether or not agency was even exerted. And I think when we really focus on like the nano probe,
like atomic force microscopy, really tracing with a super fine tip over the surface of something
or scattering x-rays, when we really think about the, the, the, um, moment of information transfer,
we've realized like nothing comes for free. And I think that this question asking framework,
other than really conveniently re deriving quantum mechanics in one hour, incredibly,
helps us understand that we don't get to ask it for free in terms of time. We don't get to ask
it for free in terms of energy. And we don't get to ask free floating questions where the question
and or agentic responder are not involved already in a semantics. So I think it's calling attention
to, um, the components of an experiment or a question or an opening, but agree that it's not
always as simple as a binary question. But in the special simple basal case,
it does start there.
Under, do you want to look, you want to look at any of the, um, the, uh, participant submitted
questions? If there was any that struck your, uh, let me finish real quick. I have like,
maybe five minutes to wrap this up. Uh, so, and, and this I think is going to,
at least in part answer one of Dean's concerns. So the next thing we should, uh,
favorably cover. So let's talk a little bit about, you know, holographic screens. And also,
this is the paper on the, you know, physical media, holographic principle. So let's take a
look at also this picture from that paper. This is the holographic battery and, you know,
land hours principle and all these thermodynamic constraints on information processing
necessitate, uh, the breakdown of this boundary in terms of, you know, free energy extraction
sectors, memory sectors, and so on. And by the way, if you, if you read, um, the paragraphs around
this picture, there's more details on how the time QRF is induced, but we'll leave that as it is for
now. Uh, Dean, what I meant by this answering your, your, your concern, your concern was that
you don't see how Alice can take off her eyes from the picture. Uh, but that's precisely what's
going on here, right? There's, there's a sector that's being observed, which is a subset of these
qubits that are being observed, but presumably she has the freedom to, you know, say, hey, this
sector, now I declare as my observation sector, this I declare as my memory sector, this I declare as
my thermo, uh, free energy extraction sector. So it is because of these fundamental limits
on the amount of information processing, it is not true that she can, she doesn't have
an idealized, you know, you know, Laplacian, if you wish, um, access to all the degrees of freedom.
She can only observe finally, uh, a finite amount of stuff. So, so she, she is forced to
take her eyes off at least part of the system, at least for a while, right? Because otherwise,
you know, all those energy and time constraints that Daniel was just mentioning, you know,
they're not, we, you have to abide by those. So, um, so a few things that Chris mentioned in
the last lecture when he came to this holographic screen is, well, number one, uh, that all the
information exchange is mediated by bits, uh, here at the whole, the qubits at this holographic
screen. This, in turn, enforces, um, the finiteness in the information transfer, if you wish. There is
not infinitely, uh, an infinite amount of information in finite space, even if you were to
pack it at Planckian density, which is presumably the limit that black holes achieve. It's still a
finite amount of information in a finite amount of, okay. So, if you have finite ones, you are taking
a, uh, the other is the following. Um, and again, uh, Chris will deal with this at greater detail
in perhaps lecture five, I think, maybe four, but it's the notion of emergent space time,
which is that A and B separately. So you think of, you know, these are presumably the internal
degrees of freedom, what's going on inside of A Alice at an abstract level. There may not be a notion
of a space, but, you know, the notion of space emerges at the boundary. And, uh, that's, uh,
not easy to explain, I think, presumably has to do with and stuff like that. Um, and I don't know
the fully tells myself, but, but for now that's, that's, that's one of the key things that, that,
that Chris mentioned, which is that an agent, you know, may not have
a space, but it may emerge. And the last thing, and I'm glad that to see that this was mentioned
already. So it saves us time. I don't have to say it again. Take us a minute. This
five minutes. And this again answers your, can you just turn off your video under just so you
don't have lag? Yeah. Thank you. One second.
Yes. Yeah.
This notion of, uh, the Feynman diagrams, right? So what is this whole thing about
unitary evolution or preparation? The scattering picture as Alice preparing a chapter of her
boundary, right? And writing it into her memory and then measuring it at some point in the future,
right? It requires that you consider the possible that happened to that preparation.
Okay. So if there's some amount of time passes, you prepared, you know, your state at time t,
you look at it again at time t plus d t, you have to take into account all the possible
histories, clearly out of the system, or at least that part of the system, right?
It's just saying I prepared it here. Now it's up to be what happens until the next time I look at it
up to the environment. So I have to, in that unitary evolution, I consider all the possibilities,
right? And that's, that's exactly, you know, the Feynman, you know, I think it's helpful.
So let's just look at the concluding slide and we'll leave it there for now.
Now we can open up the discussion. So there's two things that are now, well, where was this?
Yeah. Yes. So go ahead. Yeah. So all I was, I understand, or I think I understand.
I think I understand that if I'm looking at on, or if I'm attending to on, I'm not looking at off.
What I saw in that wave thing with Feynman was I could also be looking at the switch
where the two different places of on and off exist. And when I'm looking at the entire switch,
I'm not looking at one or the other. I'm looking at the, at that basal, as Daniel described,
that basal opportunity of both. And I think that on that, I don't know how that ties in
with reference frames, but on that level that says, I'm now looking at all possible.
In that moment, I don't think, at least from that perspective, that reference frame,
I'm zooming into a on or off binary choice decision branch. I'm, I'm still at that place
where the preparation allows for, for both. I'm not, I'm literally not taking my eyes off
at that place. So again, I'm not arguing with you because I, what you described,
and the, and the, and the image that you brought up, all that is is bringing it down to a granular
level and saying, if I'm paying attention to this, I can't be paying attention to that.
But if I physically, from a transfer perspective, back up, so that I can see both,
both possibilities at once, I don't know that I'm taking my eye off of either. That's, that's
only thing that I was bringing up. Now, of course, first we'll probably hear this and go,
Dean, you got to go and rethink this whole thing through, which is great because I'm here to learn.
But that's, again, if I, if I miss, if I miss, spoke about what I was trying to say,
it wasn't because I, I don't see those moments when I'm directing my, my preparation over here.
And that's going to give me one kind of measurement versus if I'm taking in a larger time frame
and now or larger space for frame or larger holographic screen, like, I don't even know
how to describe it because I just don't have the words for it yet. But there you go. That
just want to be clear that I'm not, I don't think I'm confused. I just want to know the difference
between when I'm looking at on or off and when I'm looking at the entire switch. That's all.
I'll add one point on this slide. It goes back to some of the earliest points that Chris made
about the ontological primacy of communication. Space and time arise from communicating agents.
Communicating agents are not something that we have to squeeze into an a priori spatial
temple framework. So quantum mechanics saying here on the slide is about measurement, not
mechanical motion. So we don't need to wait around or speculate as to how from the quote
mechanical or physical hard drive measurement arises or happens. We start with the measurement
occurring and then different kinds of sophisticated agents can conceptualize
of movement through spaces and times. And this also relates to Bayesian mechanics as a mechanics
and a physics of movement on information geometric spaces. And so the physics can be projected by
appropriately prepared agents. But we don't necessarily need to wonder about how that agent
fits within a mechanical setting. And I guess this is where humans are with the I am a strange loop
girdle Escherbach gripper and gripped mystery of being able to see it multiple ways.
Andrew, do you want to go to the questions? Yeah, let me just say closing remarks here.
I think what Chris is a punch in line of the paper free energy principle for quantum systems,
which is, you know, more or less speaking, it's similar to relaxation to thermo dynamical
equilibrium, which is that if you have an isolated bipartite quantum system,
a and b are going to turn are going to tend towards reference frame alignment, and therefore
entanglement. And these two things are are basically very intimately related by aligning
the reference frames you'll get a and b will be driven towards maximal entanglement.
So should I take a look at the questions and open this up? So so if you guys have access to the Q&A,
there's been more questions in the last, you know, bringing you guys's attention to a few of them.
This is where Chris links to the papers of Probelli, which I mentioned earlier in passing when
we were talking about the preparation measurement cycle and the notion of formal time or, you know,
subjective time if you wish. Somebody brought up this remark that, you know, performing some
calculations here, you can relate t time to a change in a change in the volume of phase space or,
you know, more precisely, the amount of available states in the state space, you know,
with the log and whatever, with respect to the energy, right? And, you know,
so this, you know, restates the idea that we're talking about earlier, right, like your intrinsic
subjective time being this DS, the iterative, a thermal time, basically speaking, that is
observer dependent. So that's a good question to take a look at.
There's another one. What is what is meant by local free of choice?
This is a very good answer to local here means that some boundary, right? Isolated
systems are idealized by, you know, definition, there's always going to be an observer
interacting with an environment. So a purely isolated system is an idealization.
So a local free choice means here is exactly what we said earlier, right, that you get to choose
the spin axis at the boundary qubits.
And there were some nice questions relating
in Markov blankets to the scattering picture. So this one, for instance, is also worth a look.
So somebody, you know, brought up this, you know, very good point about the scattering
matrix, the scattering matrix is, by the way, you know, let's not think about it mathematically,
just let's think about the picture, right? You imagine two particles that are interacting
and far away, they are free, right? They are specially separated and interacting free particles.
