And somehow at some point they come to interact, right? And then you have to write all the final
diagrams for all the exchange of both zones or whatever the interaction is. And that's how you
would compute the amplitudes for the scattering process, right? How those two particles that were,
you know, separated, came to interact. And then they go off to infinity again.
Chris here brings up the point that in the sense how you define a Markov blanket is,
you know, in the opposite direction, right? Markov blanket in at least in the graph theory
sense, you start with a node, and a Markov blanket is just the set of nodes that
separate in terms of conditional probability, that node from everyone else, right? And then you can
have edges, which are going to be directly coastal networks. So acyclic, no, no cycles,
directed edges. That's that's how the graph looks. And you build up essentially, you're taking the
opposite picture, right? You start with a node, which in this case would be the interaction,
and then you build up to infinity, as opposed to in the scattering picture,
which is like you start with particles, not interacting at infinity. Let me see how they
go off to infinity again. And then interaction is in the middle. So obviously, the answer is a
bit more precise, but it's worth taking a look at. And this is an interesting one, too.
I have a symmetrical input output bandwidth. So again, if you think of it as a graph,
nothing is constraining you to say that you're going to have more incoming errors than
upcoming errors into the boundary, right? That that's just the way it is. You know,
if you think of it a graph, there is no symmetry imposed. The only natural sense of symmetry would
be energy conservation. And that's exactly what Chris says here, right? Which is that
and I'm not sure myself how you related to a conservation of not not quite information, but
I wouldn't know how to phrase it myself. I would just take a look at the question,
but basically, no, there's a priori nothing that necessitates symmetry input output in
market blankets. But if you were to talk about any sort of symmetry, the natural language would
not be in terms of incoming versus incoming errors, but rather energy conservation, which
we saw is a close cousin of information transfer, right? Because of the minimal
requirements for action to rewrite a qubit. And the last question that I would like to bring
you guys's attention to, I mean, all of them are great. But we have finite resources and finite
and it would be would be this one. Okay. And I'm not going to go into too much detail.
But this is again about the local. Wait, one second.
So you turn on my camera, by the way, Daniel, go for it.
And also, people people can see all the questions on the website,
right, and submit their own as well. Yes, for sure. So now I lost track of the question
that I wanted to show you guys. I think it's this one over here. Yes. Yes, exactly. So
by the way, all of them are good. Even this one, the holographic principle, does it make
it easier to compute any physics problems? Well, please take a look at Chris's answer,
but all I can say is that this ideas of holography, I'm not an expert, I'm not a condensed matter
physicist, but they're they're used all over physics nowadays, not necessarily just in high energy.
I know that condensed matter theories to use them all the time. So the answer to this is
an emphatic yes, the holographic, at least ADHD is used all over. But again, I'm not a physicist
myself. So this is the last question I wanted to bring your attention to.
And here, Chris, this may be the one worth taking a look at in terms of in order to answer
all, you know, the earlier speculation that we had about time, internal clock here, somebody asks
about synchrony. And, you know, just the perception of time with respect to external
clocks, I suppose. And Chris here answers that at the end of the day, any even if you're using an
external clock, everything that you perceive outside at the end of the day has to be in terms of an
internal clock. Any information incoming, you're going to have to, you know, make causal sense of
it, you're going to have to write it into a memory in terms of an internal clock. So
so you're never going to be able to use. So to speak, increase your precision of the passage
of time by taking an external clock, even if you think it's more precise than anything you have
inside. I think that's basically what his answer amounts to. And this is more related to, you know,
all this frame holding problem stuff where because I'm never as a system, you're never going to give
an infinitely precise, you know, I'm speaking very loosely here, an infinitely precise description
or yourself, you're never going to, morally speaking, again, that's that's what it amounts to,
you're never going to be able to outdo your internal clock by by trying to leverage something
external, like, like, you know, an atomic clock that even if you think it's more precise,
at the end of the day, your own subjective perception of information will depend on internal
clocks. So we can open up things and conclude remarks and any other Alexi or Dean or anyone
else who may have joined. I don't have anything else to say at this point.
I mean, where where or when are we? We had session one with a real big historical
overview. Section two, we focused on the measurability question, which is answered with a
question. And we talked about some of the constraints of question asking, namely that
it takes time, it takes energy, you have to ask it to somebody or something on an interface,
and it has to have a semantic quantum reference frame. And this is
dovetailing with a free energy principle, of course, because the free energy principle,
as it says in the syllables, to what does the free energy principle apply? And Chris says,
everything measurable. That's why it's a theory of everything that we choose to measure model,
not ontological statements about what is. And then where are we heading into in session three?
Have you looked ahead, under or do you want me to read what's in the syllabus?
Please do. Yeah, yeah, I think basically, my short answer to that, and possibly my full answer
also is that it's just going to take care of the loose hands in this lecture two. So this lecture
two is a warm up to the to the real thing, which we need to talk more seriously about reference
frames to in order to get the precise picture of this quantum measurement process. Yeah. Yeah,
it says that session three will introduce the idea of quantum reference frames, and the representation
using hierarchies of binary classifiers. These formal structures provide a semantics for measurement
and hence provide the basis for a theory of meaning for interacting agents. The language of QRFs
allows a particularly straightforward and intuitive definition of variational free energy.
And so allows a fully general quantum formulation of the FEP.
We will see that the FEP is a classical limit on the principle of unitarity,
the fundamental principle of quantum theory.
By the way, Daniel, I'm not sure if you're busy, but I just got an email from Chris.
I think he may be watching us. And I think he's just confused about the link. So Chris,
I don't know if you're there still, but do you think it's worth it? We send him the link real
quick if you can come for a few minutes. Yeah, I'll send Chris the Zoom link now. So hold on to
your qubit, Chris. We're coming. Yeah. So let's give him a few minutes. Maybe he's still watching
and he'll answer the questions better than I could. Well, Daniel is sending him a
lifeline. Just from the rookie perspective on this. Session one seemed like there was a big
time window, like the historical piece, using an external clock and a timeline.
This one felt like the parabola and the upper down and the entanglement was
almost instantaneous in terms of that plank length that we were really holding up as
comparative to that timeline, that chronological timeline. And so I'm guessing that now that we've
established those two as different. Where does that go? But again, that's just the rookie's view of
things. Hey, Chris, welcome. Yeah, hi. This is a very interesting discussion. And it's given me
some pointers as to what to emphasize at the beginning of session three. But I can say in
response to Dean's question that the time when Alice isn't looking is the time during which Bob is
making his measurement and then his next preparation step. So if you consider again that slide that
shows sort of the Feynman representation of what's happening as this unitary flow,
that's what Bob is doing. And I think Andrew said that from Alice's point of view,
Bob is just some quantum system. And she's banged on that system by asking a question.
And now that system is doing something or other that she can't see until it,
it, i.e. Bob, bangs on his side of the screen and she gets some information by making a measurement.
So she may be not looking for a very short period of time.
Oh, right. I mean, according to her internal clock, she's not looking for just the time it
takes for one of her internal ticks to take place. But in general, we're not saying anything about
how long that time is. Right. If you think of this in a scattering theory way,
then we're talking about the time between two protons leaving the rings on the
Large Hadron Collider to the time that all the stuff that comes out of their collision is measured
by the detectors, which is a nanosecond or something like that, some very short period of time.
And so just think of that interval as the measure of the intrinsic
time dependence, external time dependence, of the interaction. Someone has to do something
and then someone else has to do something. And there's a gap between what the first person
does and what they see in response. Oh, let's see. What's the other question? Oh, the other
central question that came up today was the question of why observing something requires
action. And of course, in the classical picture observing something doesn't require any action at
all. The event just happens. And this is the fundamental, if you will, distinction between
classical and quantum theory is that making an observation in quantum theory is taking an
action on the world. And there's a lovely metaphor that's not correct in detail,
but it's very useful, I think, conceptually, which Heisenberg came up with to try to explain
his uncertainty principle to his classical colleagues. He said, look, suppose I'm trying to
see a very small particle and measure its motion. I have to have a microscope to see this particle.
And to measure its motion, I need to light it up and you shine some light on it. And those photons
of light are actually impacting the thing I'm trying to see. So the act of observation itself
requires banging something into an object. And when we're just looking out at the world,
it's the sun that's banging the light into the object, not us. But we can sort of merge those
two systems together because it's the sun that's taking the action that lets us get some information
that the sun is perturbing the things that we're looking at by banging photons into them.
And I think that picture of Heisenberg's is what he used to actually derive the
uncertainty principle in terms of momentum and position because banging something into something
is transferring momentum to it, photons transfer some momentum to the tiny particle in the microscope.
And that perturbs its position on the microscope stage, which is precisely what Heisenberg is
trying to measure. So that's his point in that analogy. Observation itself always takes action.
And that's why observation and preparation are duals and quantum theory because they each
require a minimum one unit of action. And I think, Andrew, you said the duality can be thought of
in terms of time and variance, and that's exactly correct. Preparation is just measurement run
backwards and vice versa. And if you let me say a few words, I think this also answers
my own confusion and the one that Alexi, the question that Alexi posed earlier,
which is this duality between preparation and measurement. In your picture that you're bringing
up with Heisenberg by shining photons on a particle that I'm trying to observe,
these pictures of preparation and measurement are dual because in doing so, I'm constraining
the system, in trying to measure it, I'm constraining it. So in me trying to gather
information by shining photons on it, what I'm really doing is I'm constraining it. I'm just saying
you can only take this moment or position. Would that be correct?
Yeah. In fact, you're in the microscope example, it's particularly clear. You're bouncing a photon
off of the object, and then it's that photon that you're detecting.
Right. Oh, there was one other question that can be answered quickly. It was the question about
what's the reference frame that Alice is using when she's measuring up or down,
measuring her spin up or down. And of course, there are several reference frames involved here.
So let's work inwards in a real system. Alice is sitting here, she's got a Stern-Gerlach
apparatus, which is a vertical magnet apparatus. And she's measuring the spin of an electron
that's traveling through this Stern-Gerlach device. And what the Stern-Gerlach device does is
orient the spin with a magnetic field that's not homogeneous. So it ends up pointing physically
up as it comes through the apparatus. So how is that apparatus oriented? I mean,
what defines the up direction for that apparatus? Well, in the practical setting, what defines that
apparatus orientation is the Earth's gravitational field. We're sitting here in the laboratory,
and the Earth's gravitational field tells us what direction is down. It's toward the center of the
Earth. And so up is away from the center of the Earth, and that's what defines the axis for the
apparatus, which is a great big piece of metal. So it's very responsive to the gravitational field.
So now we can ask about Alice, right? Alice is also embedded in this gravitational field,
and she also can detect the gravitational field. She can tell which way is down toward the center
of the Earth by the force acting on her feet. And that measurement is taking place in Alice's
brain. So in Alice's brain, there's a representation of which way is up. And that's the internal
reference frame of Alice that lets her do the experiment. You know, if she was freely floating
in space, but the apparatus was anchored to the gravitational field, she wouldn't be able to tell
that it was anchored to the gravitational field. That's Einstein's, the point that Einstein makes
in all of those experiments where he has observers flying around in spacecraft,
that they have to have their own reference frame. What Einstein didn't emphasize was that
reference frame is in their head. It's encoded by their nervous system. So I think it was Daniel
who said this exactly correctly, that the physical object in her head, the actual neural network
that tells her which way the gravitational field is, is itself a semantic object. I mean,
that's what gives the word up and down meaning for Alice. And what do I mean when I say the word
meaning? I mean, it lets her take some action. Semantics boils down to action ability if it
gives things significance. And this was the point that Bateson was making when he said differences
that make a difference. For an organism, something is meaningful if it actually makes a difference
for what I can do in this world that I'm trying to survive in. So I'll leave it at that. But
this is very, very useful for leading off the next session. So thank you very much for all
that discussion. Awesome. Thank you. I guess if I could say one thing here is that let me scroll
back up to the three points early in the slides. Differences that make a difference
would tell you that you require action to perturb a system and measure. And then the semantics or
the contextuality that may be encoded in the nervous system would tell you what is the difference
that is being made. Would that be correct? Yeah. Right. What tells you that there's a difference
there? It's what you're able to detect and represent internally. It's almost like step one,
do differently. Step two, you have to ask it to a different thing. And then three, you need the
semantic frame that makes A and B different. Differences all the way down. Well, we will
transcribe this and fix the few patchy moments. Ender will work together on updating the transcript
so that everybody who wants to be well prepared for the measurement of the third lecture will be
absolutely in place. Thank you, Chris, for joining. That's a fun, fun cap to this discussion.
So, all right. Thank you. See you all next time. Bye.
