Hello. It's July 1st, 2023. We're in physics as information processing in the second discussion.
So thanks all for joining and we'll see who else comes in. If you're watching live, feel
free to write questions in the live chat and I'll relay them onwards. So under thanks
and it would be awesome to begin with a little bit of some overview and some points that you
wanted to get to. Yeah, thank you, Daniel. So good morning, everyone. So if you're with
start, but not the big goal with Chris spoke last time, I have a few slides that I singled
with stuff. So now we're getting to reform a reformulation of quantum theory in terms of
right reformulation of so opposed to the dynamical theory. And as we've taught in previous sessions,
we need to get a little bit philosophically on the ontology of measurement entails. So Chris,
last lecture started with these three basic ingredients. So an action. That's number one,
a thing to ask you about. This is the qubit, the physical degrees of freedom that we need to
perturb in some way to ask a question. And then finally, a semantics, a language that makes sense,
a context that makes sense of that information that we got. So I should say number one,
I came up in the first question when I can't exactly remember, but at some point we talked
about what is information. And we came up with, or we brought up a definition that goes something
like this is a nice adage, it's differences that make a difference. This is Chris told me,
I can't remember who first coined this dash, but I think it's quite old, at least early 70s.
Anyway, so number one, basically, it's curve that part, right? If I want to gather some
information, I need to perturb a system somehow, so I need to act. And this is in nearly any
units of actions, right? So units of energy times time. And he provided the example of
prodobsing, which is apparently near optimal from a quantum perspective. This is mechanically what
goes on in your eyes as light comes in. And this is literally the difference that makes a difference
in your brain. The second part where the physical degrees of freedom. So recall that
we had a boundary. So this theory of quantum mechanics measurement necessarily breaks down
the system into a bipartite system with a boundary, which are a lot smaller than the degrees of freedom
of A and B, at least in terms of the dimension of the Hilbert space.
And above midi change, right? Sorry, can you repeat, Andre? I repeat what? Just last 30 seconds.
Yeah, so the second ingredient is the physical medium in which this information exchange occurs.
Where the physical degrees of freedom, the qubits are arranged. And these are physically perturbed
in order to mediate that difference that makes a difference. So we can think of this
as either preparing those qubits or decoding those qubits. And then finally, there was the notion of
the reference frame. So this theory necessitates a free choice of the agent of a reference frame.
And physically, what this amounts to is a free choice of a measurement axis for those qubits.
So we can think of measuring these being in those qubits on the boundary. So that requires
a free choice of that axis. And this, you know, amounts to your reference frame, the context
in which those measurements are performed. On one extreme case, we have that if those references
are perfectly aligned, then the exchange of information is noiseless. There was it somewhere
over here, I think. I can quite recall. But generically, these two reference frames of Alice
and Bob A and B are not exactly the same. They get to choose the reference frames. I think it's
all the way on the bottom, actually. Right? So they can be aligned. If they're aligned, they are
exchanging noiseless information. Right? There is no randomness. If they are not
superpositioned onto states, and that's when you're going to get, you know, probabilities
in the outcomes, trivial probabilities. So are so good? Yes. Okay. So I have a few more comments
of the main things. Okay. It'll take me a few minutes and then we can chat back and forth.
Perhaps this slide is interesting and important. I remember this is where I asked the question
myself, because I still, you know, it's not easy to wrap your head around what's going on here.
So we said that measurement and preparation are completely dual pictures.
So this is going to be expanded on in the next lecture. But a direct corollary of that is that
if you prepare a crystal in similar terms, if you prepare something in a certain state, and then you
measure it right away, you should expect that it's still in that state. Right? So
intuitively speaking, this induces a cycle. Right? And where you have preparation and
measurement, and you're back to square one, so to speak. And in generating that cycle,
obviously, there has to be some notion of time. Right? So that's where we're going to have to
make sense of the distinction between internal and external time. If we take this measurement
operator and here perform some operations, we can write it as a unitary propagator from quantum
mechanics, which again preserves information. It just leaves the state as it is. But with this
little trick of the weak rotation, you can write it as e to the measurement up to a constant.
And that, you know, precisely encodes, at least morally speaking, what we just said, right? That
this preparation measurement thing is a cycle. And more importantly, it gets rid of this t
external time. And presumably, in here, it's going to be replaced by some notion of internal time.
We're going to have an internal time, qrf, that is, quote unquote, the true
local time as the observer perceives. I'm not entirely sure of the details, but now looking
at it here, the beta, which presumably there's a, you know, beta and inverse temperature here.
I think this is going to be intimately related to notions of thermal time.
This has been explored in papers by Revelli.
How, you know, internal time curves and thermal time is the way in which the observer
observes the passage of time. Those papers will probably are linked in the Q&A, by the way. So
I can also provide links later. I think there might have been a question. Should I stop?
Dean, go for it. I was curious about this, because what I heard Chris start this session with was
that he was going to try to help us understand when we are looking at something through a mechanical
lens, so quantum mechanics. And to me, this slide was the way of addressing, as he said,
his words were characterized information transfer in a quantum theoretic way. That the
translation from H to M took the mechanics aspect out of the change or time piece. It was the
purification, the most theoretical form of transfer of information as opposed to
holding up just the one ordered or sequenced or mechanical lens. I heard you ask the question
and I kind of smiled because I thought to myself, no, I understand why Anders is asking this question.
Can something be both gripper in the conceptual meaning sense ontologically
and gripped a physical object? And I think what I thought, maybe I was misinterpreting,
I'd like what your perspective on this is, that ability to go from H to M
is what allows us to have both the mechanical and the theoretical, the transference in its
purest sense. Is that being able to have both? Both can be true? Is that, what did you say?
I think the answer is yes, for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I, much else to say here. It is true that
you can think of the information transfer picture as an enlargement or an addition to the mechanical
picture and that I don't think that the mechanical picture has to be just thrown out completely.
I think it's interesting to keep it to see how it can be recovered from the information
processing picture. This reminds me actually there is an Italian physicist, I think his name
is Curie Bella and Dean, if you want, I can, I can link you the papers later,
who is very fond of the information theoretical approach to quantum mechanics and
deducing quantum mechanics from first principles. And he has a paper,
I think the title is Physics Without Physics or something like that, where, you know, he treats
this whole thing as a cellular automaton. And by taking appropriate scaling limits, he derives
QFT, non-interacting QFT. So he says, okay, let me start with some axioms, how
information should be, information processing.
I mean, I'm very loose here, then get a cellular automaton out of this
and then take scaling and recover QFT, non-interacting QFT at least. So, you know,
start with a few axioms of information processing, recover mechanics from that.
Does that add to your question a little bit?
Yeah. So, all I'm trying to do is tie this back into some of the live streams that we've
done in the past. And I know I use different language. I am not a scientist and I've not
studied quantum other than sort of in passing ways. But I do think that what this spoke to me
about was something that I've always tried to include, which is that there's the figure it out
piece, which to me is the conceptual and the meaning part that Chris talked about very clearly
here. And then there's the outing of the figure, there's the sort of physical edge and boundary that
if you don't have an awareness of both things happening concurrently, the preparation and the
measure are a unitary sort of minimum of two state, then all bets are off in terms of being able to
think of these propagators and operators and all of the ways that we're trying to explain
the situation, they're off. So, we have to have both. We have to have that sense that
there is a transfer, but there are and there is the mechanics. We have to keep both juggling all
the time. So, that's where this one particular slide was really quite both bias confirming for
me. But I think it also, as you say, is going to open up a lot that July. Yeah, I agree. I think
this is the most important or mysterious situation slide. Yeah, and it turns the pyramid, the
conventional approach, here's a pyramid into a top that can be spun essentially with a rick
rotation and it validates how information transfer probably gets short shrift in most of this
quantum conversation, but it's probably at least an equal to the mechanical part. What order are
we delivering this information in? At that point, I'll stop. Thanks. Thanks, Alexi.
All right, can you hear me? Yep. So, I mean, I'm an, you know, my mathematics teacher in
high school used to say, this is beautiful, but I don't quite understand it. So, I wanted to,
maybe I have two questions, but I'll start with the simpler one. So, when Chris talked about the
reference frame and said common language, you know, I think in Shannon common language is the
alphabet. There's a receiver and Sandra and the alphabet that they share. And then Chris said,
this reference frame is a physical thing like neurons or hands or mouth. And then I got lost
because, you know, if when I encode, I modify something in the on the hard drive, then the
physical components of the hard drive is the reference frame. But, you know, this is not the
shared language, you know, so that's my first question. Maybe I'll stop here to really, I
understand we're dealing in metaphors, but I want to understand that, you know, the reference frame
up or down, if Bob and Alice understand it similarly, then is that really physical?
I think Chris would give a better answer. Start from the beginning.
Is that both are true at the same time? I think Chris would give you a better answer, but
the semantics or the sorry, the shared language reference frame has to have physical embodiment.
And that's a hardware, a piece of hardware, it's a neuron or something. In this case, it's the
your free choice of the spin axis. And that's your reference frame. But at the same time, it's
a physical, it's a physical piece of hardware. So reference frames are both the piece of hardware,
but also a piece of semantics. So if I take it from the language, I don't quite understand
to computer science. So if Alice and Bob communicate through a piece of memory,
whether it's random access memory hard drive, then Alice encodes something on that hard drive,
and Bob reads from the hard drive. So in that sense, they understand how to encode and decode,
but they use the same physical piece. That's the reference frame. Would that be correct?
I might just add one again, continuing with the computer science. Let's just end the Shannon
alphabet. Let's just say that these are plain text character encodings. And so they share the same
set of character A through Z encodings that is reflected somewhere physically.
And so if a message were sent from another letter, it wouldn't render properly. It's like outside,
they couldn't differentiate Omega from Zeta, because they only have the A through Z software pack.
And so there's an informational distinguishments that's facilitated by the information
that's classically inscribed on the screen, the memory. And there is an embodied physical
as well as a semantic aspect to that situation.
All right. I think I'm getting closer to understanding. So to move away from computer
science, if Alice is a painter, she took a brush dipped it in red paint and painted on the canvas
red. And Bob has the same understanding of red as Alice. And then he looked at the canvas and red
red, that it is both the physical, you know, a mark on the canvas and the symbol of red, right?
Yes. And if somebody had red, green color blindness, that physical apparatus was not able to
to informationally distinguish, then they couldn't make this wick rotation into the quantum cognitive
space, they wouldn't be able to detect that there was a red figure painted on a green background.
Yeah. The key component here is that the reference frame is inside of the edge. It's, you know, if
you are color blind, there is something physical inside of your head or your eyes or whatever
that does not allow you to see the difference. So your semantics are affected ultimately by
a physical piece of hardware.
Well, yeah, maybe I use the bad example, because color actually is computed in the brain and
color blindness is not necessarily physical. So, okay, but I think I get it closer. But, you know,
if we, if I may ask another question, I get lost with saying that preparation and measurement are,
they have to happen both, and that when you prepare or when you read, you modify. So I'm okay
with the act of writing, the act of encoding. So when I encode something, such as I, you know,
mark red on the canvas, or I write to the hard drive A, I modify the hard drive. That is true.
But if I, if I am asking a question, right, I'm not modifying anything on the canvas. So in what
way the act of asking the question or preparation is modifying the qubit. This is where I'm lost.
You know, if I, does that make sense? Yeah, I think this is exactly a question I asked
to Chris in the stream. So I can't quite remember his answer, but I think it was basically that
they're completely dual pictures. In the sense of, you know, they're both two ways of looking at the
same thing. This guy, you know, evolving towards the future or the path you have time symmetry,
you know, you can, you can do either. Yeah, so I myself, I'm slightly confused by
but I think the answer is that they are anything at the same.
The picture of, or am I preparing are just completely dual. That's, I think, well,
do you remember that, Daniel? Yeah, okay, I'll give a different angle than the formal duality
relationship. So let's think about our measuring device is going to be a carpet. And we're interested
in whether somebody has walked on the carpet. So to prepare the carpet, we comb it very nicely in
one direction. And I'm sure there's analogies there with the preparation of qubits in a quantum
computer. But we're going to comb the carpet as an act of preparation. And then something is going
to happen. Maybe it's a split second later. And so we're very confident that it should be still
nicely combed. Or maybe it's going to be a whole working day later. But now we're going to take
that probe, the tip, whatever it may be, and we're going to run it along the carpet. And we're going
to measure the state of the direction of the fibers of the carpet. So if we didn't prepare
the measurements, we wouldn't have a calibrated reference point to know how things had even changed.
And so there's there's a cycle of preparing the apparatus through something like a calibration
or at least like an emptying of memory to be able to then make an observation
and to have that observation have the kind of meaning that we would have expected, like
purge the photo detector, make the measurement. Now you have to purge it again. That's the
preparation. What do you think, Alexi? That is a beautiful metaphor. And I dig that, except
I think I heard Chris say that when you prepare, you may cube it into up or down. And this is what
I'm lost because when you comb the carpet, you don't do that. You don't put the footstep on it.
In fact, there may not be any footstep, right? And this is this is where I'm missing, you know,
I think in quantum physics as well. If you measure, there's the cause and effect relationships are
broken here for me. You know, if in my act of preparation, I'm opening my canvas to to read
the message, but I do not know what the message will be, I'm game. But if he's saying that when
I prepare, I modify the carpet such that it becomes either up or down, actually, not blank,
but up or down, then I'm lost. You have to comb the carpet up or down. There's no blank carpet.
So you, you know, you have a slate, you have an etch a sketch, you could either make all the pixels
white, and then you'd be able to measure a message in the dark, or you can make all the
message dark, or the slate dark, and then you could be able to measure something that was light.
But you pick a direction of polarization in your preparation or calibration step,
so that deviations from that can be the measurements.
So you're saying carpet is binary, carpet doesn't have multiple states, carpet can only have two
