Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy. I'm Inyash Brotsky. I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have a guest, Matt Freeman.
Hello, Matt Freeman. We are here to talk about a, well, what I consider an interesting economics thing that's been going around in the rational sphere lately.
It started with when seeing like a state became a big thing.
Is seeing like a state a book? Is it a series of blog posts? Is it a manifesto?
So seeing like a state is a book. I guess you could call it a manifesto, possibly.
That says the state has an interest in making the people that it rules legible to the state.
And that this destroys a lot of value for the people that are being ruled in order to make that rule possible.
It gave a lot of examples, but one of the examples it gave was that a lot of people didn't have last names in medieval Europe.
And the states imposed that on people and started demanding that everyone in a village have a last name so that they knew who was living there and how many people were there that they could tax.
And you used the word legible.
Yeah, well, there was a distinct problem with the rulers knowing what they are ruling over.
That's a good way to put it.
If you're a mayor of a village, you know everyone in your village. They're within your monkey sphere, more or less. You know what's happening there.
But once it gets up higher beyond that, you're sending in strangers to come into the town and assess taxes.
And they may not speak the same language as the people. They may not use the same measurements as the people there.
And it is very hard for the people to assess taxes and recruit troops and just rule efficiently because they don't know what's there.
They don't know who's living there. They don't know how much money they make.
And the state tries to impose order in a way that the state can read those things and it makes life very difficult for people on the ground.
It gets confusing really fast.
Yes.
And it gets hard really fast.
I think my, so the example I actually like is not from seeing like a state itself.
It is from a blog post on Sam Z. That is the name of the site.
I forget the guy's name. I'll look it up and insert it here after we're done talking.
Lou Keep.
The example he gave was, let's say like a inner city slum somewhere, maybe Detroit or something, where the streets don't really have names anymore.
They've been torn off. No one keeps track of where they are.
People just sort of live and get by in a semi-anarchic state.
And the state comes in and says, you know what, we're going to start giving you guys healthcare.
We want to be able to get ambulances in here when there's an emergency.
And that is a problem for the people driving the ambulances if they get a call saying, hey, so and so is having a heart attack over at this address because there's no street signs anywhere.
The streets aren't named.
They have to stop, get out the ambulance, ask someone, where does Greg live?
And they're like, oh, Greg lives over there beyond John's house, take a right, go past what used to be the rec center until it flooded.
And John's house will be on the left up on the second floor.
This is an issue for the state.
So the state comes in and imposes rules, puts names on all the streets, has them categorized, puts numbers on all the houses.
And that at first doesn't seem too bad, but it's a confusing mess down there in the slums.
A lot of the streets are torn up.
They wind in weird ways.
So they go through whatever.
We're going to come in here, bulldoze a few things, make it a nice, even grid.
We know where everything is.
And while we're here, what is it with this chaos you people got?
We're going to make a residential district and a commercial district.
So you can go to where you need to do all your shopping at once if you have to during the day.
And at this point, they can now assess where all the businesses are.
So they can start asking the businesses to track how much they're making, start taxing those businesses.
On paper, this looks great because before what was a slum is now a nice ordered place with street names.
It's got a grid.
It's got the wealth accounted for.
So before where it was just like kind of a mess of people living, you know how much money is being made there.
The tracked wealth has increased from zero to some positive number.
But the people living there aren't quite so happy.
The old man who lived up on the second floor in a tenement and just walked down to his local store can't do that anymore because now he's in the residential district.
The stores in the commercial district.
He needs help to get to the commercial district.
His neighbors perhaps moved so that they could work where the store is now.
And he doesn't know the people that he works with anymore before since residential and commercial was all mixed up.
There would be teenagers loitering on street corners.
The shop owner could pay them a few bucks to help carry in some boxes or whatever they need.
Now that's gone.
All employment has to be official with forms and W-2s and all that.
So the teenagers can't get as much work.
The old man doesn't get as much help.
Social bonds are broken.
And after a while, people start getting angry and rioting and acting poorly.
So the police come in and suddenly these well ordered streets with the names and everything are really useful for the police state too.
So the police can help impose their order.
And for the people on the ground, everything is terrible because that local knowledge and seeing like a state, he used the term metis as a term, a type of local knowledge that allows people to work it within their surroundings in a very efficient way.
But in a way that is hard for the state to read.
Did any of that make sense?
Yeah, I mean, I'm glad you brought up that specific example because I wanted to.
I'm the self declared devil's advocate in this conversation actually.
And I read that example and I had some issues with it actually.
So I want to bring forth my issues and then you guys can tell me why I'm wrong.
Sure.
So I thought it was constructed slightly disingenuously.
Like for example, bringing out the details like it's an old man and the only line in the whole thing that even admits to any positive outcome from the whole, what would the verb form of legibility be?
Legibilization of the of the area is that maybe he lives a little bit longer because the ambulance can get to him.
And I would say, okay, let's go to his next door neighbor who has a baby and the baby suddenly comes down with a terrible fever.
First of all, maybe the fever wouldn't have happened if they hadn't been living in squalor, if they'd been living in a nice planned out modernized community.
And then because they live on the street that's across from the rec center that was flooded instead of living on first street, the ambulance can't get to them or whatever the scenario is.
You see where I'm going with this, their baby dies and they essentially lose far more value than they would have ever gained by living in their nice community that they had before.
So really the thrust of what I'm getting at in a more abstract way is that the scenario like the one you just pointed out definitely has a lot of truth.
And there are actually real places like Brasilia in real life that are apparently literally that thing happening where it was like a planned community that ended up becoming a planned city actually that ended up becoming a brutalist nightmare.
But in this scenario it's like, okay, in our modern western society we have extremely low infant and child mortality.
And I think people don't realize that they would trade a lot of the opportunity to live in a nice community for not having their children die, for example.
That's just one example.
So in other words, there's no admission of the completely legitimate trade-offs that are being made in order to have this system that's being discussed.
Does that make any sense?
It does make sense.
When that post was written, he actually stated near the end that he did his best to make as ambiguous a scenario as possible for exactly the reason that you brought up to point out both the good parts and the bad parts that happens when the state comes in and interferes.
I would say that there used to be a time before the state came in that the young mom could have maybe taken the baby to the local, not doctor per se, but the guy with medical knowledge and he could help her out possibly in some small way.
Whereas after the state comes in, he needs licensing, he needs to go through six years of school and four years of residency, and he cannot provide medicine to her anymore and she cannot afford the medicine that is available through the state.
Unless the state comes in and gives her money in the form of Medicaid or just straight cash payments, in which case now you've basically taken a community that used to be self-reliant, if imperfect, and made them now reliant on a cold, impersonal state apparatus.
And people in general are not happy in that sort of environment where every interaction is monetized as opposed to the guy you know who's good at medical stuff.
Well, can't you still go to that guy if like they don't want money anyway and they don't have any training, then you could like, across from the hospital as born in, there's still a sign in the yard that says, you know, Reiki, the person there offers Reiki treatments.
So that's all this witch doctor had to offer that sick baby anyway, they can still do that.
The doctor himself probably either was forced into retirement by licensing or went and got all that education and now can't afford to pay his student bills if he isn't charging a lot of money.
I guess I wasn't sure what you were getting at when you said possibly trained doctor.
Yeah, I was picturing some knowledge who worked under another guy with medical knowledge as a kid, not someone with a degree, you know.
I was picturing some charlatan. Okay, so I see where confusion came from.
I feel like there's an empirical fact that the more legible the society, the lower the infant mortality, like that's an empirical claim that I'm making.
And I agree.
I may be wrong about it.
No, because the medicine would be objectively worse if she went to that guy rather than going to the high price doctor.
But quality of life in general is not, it's not often what people want because social ties seem to be a very important thing.
Okay, crap, I don't want to take all this podcast talking personally, but can I go back to a previous podcast when I was accused of wanting to damn the entire human race so I can be a hero?
Yes, yes.
Okay, so I was accused and I will say with some merit of saying that the entire human race should die if humans can't, you know, get it together and be heroic because I want to be able to contribute something.
And that got me thinking a whole lot.
And afterwards I went back and talked to Shelly about this.
I think a large part of the problem, not necessarily a problem, I think humans have a psychology where we generally need to be needed by others.
Like we want to be valuable in some way.
The way I was always taught to do that was like reading The Last Psychiatrist or talking to my parents.
Because they were also, this opinion was that, look, you want people to care about you, give them a reason to care.
Go out, do something, build a house, write a novel, do some good in the world, become president, you know.
No one will care about you just because you're there, do something of value, and then they will care.
And that's all well and good.
But as more and more things get taken by the machines, you no longer are the guy who's the best at hunting the meat.
Because that is something I was taken away.
And then you're no longer the guy who's best at laying bricks because that was taken away.
And then you're no longer the guy who's best at doing accounting because that was taken away.
And as more and more things get taken by machines, there's no longer a reason to be valued in that way.
I think I've come to the inclusion that I shouldn't put myself worth, shouldn't tie that to economic output anymore.
Like I can be valued for other reasons.
But I think if the state comes in and breaks all of people's social ties so that they can't be valuable to each other in any way except through economic transactions,
that brings us back to the whole feeling of meaninglessness where what we do doesn't matter anymore.
When I was renovating a bathroom, my dad came over and helped me with that because he does that for a living.
And afterwards I offered to pay him money because at the time I had recently read Rand and I was very much into all value should be exchanged.
And he laughed at this very uncomfortable laugh and was like, are you fucking kidding me?
You're my son. No, we just do this for each other.
And it took me a while to internalize that, but it seems that like once contributions are reduced to I give you this amount of money for what you do.
And then if you want something done, you give someone else X amount of money, it feels cold and sterile and people aren't happy with that anymore.
And I think the imposing of legibility turns all interactions with other humans into that because the government wants to know how much economic value is in any particular thing
for their own measurements, you know, partly so they can say this is our GDP and also partially so they can tax it.
But I think that's a problem. There used to be a time where God and where a guy went to work, right?
And his wife stayed home and took care of everything. The wife's work was never valued in number terms.
And every now and then you see articles saying, hey, if you had to replace your wife by paying for things, here's how much the housekeeper would cost and here's how much the childcare would cost and here's how much the cook would cost, etc.
But we seem to be getting to the point where nowadays both parents work and they do pay for childcare and cooking and cleaning and that doesn't feel like a better thing necessarily.
And I don't want to go back to the 50s because it's better when everyone can work and do their pursue their life goals in their own way.
But on the other hand, it also it also feels like so much has been monetized and you have to now have both parents working.
Unless one person is really rich. And I'm going to stop talking now because that's been too long.
No, you're fine. I wanted to get on just a couple of quick things.
One, I feel like your outlook that your updated outlook that you no longer need to like keep in mind economic value.
By the way, if you hear construction noises in the background, it's happening outside. Sorry.
Yeah, sorry about that.
I feel like your perspective that you no longer need to focus on the economic output of your being a person as like how you quantify yourself.
I feel like that's healthier not to do it that way because you're right. Stuff's going away.
The other thing I was going to say is that we haven't fully moved into the like the high modernity, which might be the like the verb for or high modernization,
which won't be the verb for legibilityization in that your dad is still able to come over to help build the bathroom, right?
Like those types of transactions still exist.
So maybe we're at the sweet spot where you can pay for goods and services if you want them.
You don't, you know, and it is regulated in such a way that or maybe it is regulated by the state on some level and by like competition on another level to where there's, you know,
you're not completely fucked if you need a new bathroom.
And you're like, well, the only person within 100 miles who does it, you know, charges this insane amount because they're the only person within 100 miles.
So I can't get a new bathroom.
So the regulation and the amount of, I guess, infrastructure there maybe is in one way good.
And it's not like you can't do it on a I doing this because I like you basis as well, right?
Yeah, my my thought on that is that I don't disagree at all that that value is being destroyed through this process of legibility.
It's more that I feel like as creatures, we are extremely driven by loss aversion.
And what tends to happen is without necessarily explicitly making this contract, we as a society and even as a planetary society have been trending toward increasingly making contracts that sacrifice,
call it freedom, call it the way that you would prefer to live in exchange for safety and security.
So you have you have those those gridded streets.
That means the ambulance can get to your house.
That means the cops can get to your house or can get to can get to wherever you are if you're having a problem.
It also means that like this is the thing I was thinking when you said Detroit, like with the whole street names not existing.
Like it means the pizza delivery guy can get to your house too, right?
It's not just for like state imposed services like the police.
It's also for like things you want like Uber or food, right?
Yeah.
Or friends visiting.
Yeah.
So like we again, loss aversion, we're much more terrified of being injured or losing even just losing money.
We've structured our whole society where it's very hard to have money stolen from you, actually.
And that's not a physical thing we've done so much as a social and technological thing.
And the cost of this has, yeah, so I'm not even thinking the position that we haven't lost anything.
We haven't.
We've actually lost some of our humanity, I think.
But the things we've gained are actually not something that I just want to turn my nose at because I like safety and security.
And yeah, I definitely, you know, I think everyone can identify with that alienation of living in your isolated house or whatever.
And just the alienation of modern society.
You know, it's a, I think that's a common topic in the rational sphere these days, actually.
But as the devil's advocate, I have to say it's better than being shanked by a bandit on the highway.
Yes.
Yeah.
I feel like Hobbes' Leviathan comes into play here.
The state of nature that before state imposition, life was nasty, brutish and short, right?
Like you said, any highwayman could come by with a knife and take all your stuff.
And unless you're physically stronger, they just win.
You know, you could have a recourse, but the recourse is like this mob who doesn't work for free.
And, or I guess you could say like, I don't know, I'm not sure historically what it actually was.
I'm thinking like fantasy games, like the fighter's guild, like, hey, I'm being harangued.
Can I hire you guys to come escort me to this place?
I'm actually in this great boat where you're apparently taking, I'm not sure what side of you're taking one.
If you're just laying out the, seeing like a state position and you're taking the devil's advocate.
I'm really kind of in the middle.
I also am just in this weird position where I'm like, eh, here's where I am.
If it could be another way, that's fine.
