I will try and find out who it was.
Had this bullshit thing where they wanted the softest bed imaginable,
they wanted it exactly 1,000 meters above sea level,
and it turns out the softest down comes from the chin of a sparrow,
so they ended up just destroying the sparrow population,
ripping all their chin feathers out to make mattresses for this person.
That's not the person that is going to also be the best
at implementing their new statewide infrastructure, right?
I think those two things are orthogonal.
Maybe you can be the best and want chin down mattresses.
Let me rephrase that. I feel like that is not indicative
of an all-around rationally-encompassed mind, right?
Maybe his terminal value is ultimate sleeping comfort.
Because he slept so well he could make all the best decisions.
Right.
And didn't it cause a famine because the sparrows were spreading seeds?
Probably.
Yeah, I think I heard part of this story.
It resulted in a famine?
Oh, shit.
Clearly, not seeing all the implications of these stupid desires.
I guess what I'm getting at.
That's the conservative slash Chesterton's fence position,
that you can never see all of the implications,
and so things will always go horribly wrong.
Well, but they just charged through Chesterton's fence without looking at it first,
because they were like, fuck these birds, they're not doing anything.
Let's use their chin feathers for beds.
Every now and then we say fuck mosquitoes,
let's do anything except malaria, let's kill them all.
I feel like we're pretty sure about that.
I agree, and I'm on board with killing all mosquitoes,
but if the sparrows' story is any indication...
But we watch sparrows and watch them do stuff,
and we also watch mosquitoes and watch them do stuff,
and they don't do anything good.
That's what they thought about the sparrows.
I don't know if anyone actually did that investigation into the sparrows.
Oh, wow.
And it seems to me that you could wipe out mosquitoes,
and then if everything goes to shit immediately,
then you just release a bunch of mosquitoes.
You can't release them once they've been wiped out.
Well, you can have some in boxes somewhere, I presume.
Someone's job is to have the mosquito box
after the mosquito apocalypse.
Put a big M on it so they know it's full of mosquitoes.
And the mosquitoes are trying to convince you to open the box.
Someone has to feed them, obviously, so you gotta stick your arm in there.
You don't only feed male mosquitoes like blood?
I think I did.
Yeah, male mosquitoes eat pollen.
Really?
Yeah.
Oh, so there probably is a huge downside to killing them all.
Other things probably do whatever the male mosquitoes do.
I'm assuming they fill a niche, though.
That's actually, like, that put me way off the fence.
Everything fills a niche, but I don't really care
about the living in my intestines and sucking my blood niche.
Well, I do care about the pollenizing niche.
Right.
So, yeah, I mean, I should have, I guess, been clearer on that.
I care about the niches that are good for things,
and not good just for the thing that's eating my intestines or whatever, right?
The larvae also provide a food source for fish,
but my understanding is that they've calculated it,
and even if those larvae weren't there, the fish would be fine.
Probably some other insect would increase in population
to make up the difference.
And even if, yeah, even if the solution was to, like,
throw some fish food in all the ponds of the Sub-Saharan Africa
where malaria is rampant for five years
until the other insects had a chance to flourish there,
that sounds like a solvable problem.
I think that's a lot harder than you're making that to be.
Throwing some fish food into every single waterway in Africa
every day is...
Not every waterway.
Okay, some of them, you're okay with the fish dying out in.
I didn't think this through, but I'm willing to die on this hill.
So, you could then channel all the efforts that are going,
like, you know, for malaria vaccines and bed nets and stuff,
and just put that towards fish food for the next couple of years.
So, like, even if you just keep the fish population
from dropping below a certain critical point,
so you just have enough feeding them.
Or you could figure out what insects were going to fill that niche anyway
and just throw a bunch of their larvae in the waters one year,
and then they would explode the population and probably cause some huge mess.
I need to think this through.
I need a pen and paper.
Look, if we wipe out mosquitoes, it would give me personally infinity utility.
And so, there's really, like, no matter what else happens after that,
it's a positive outcome.
Right, because you can't be infinity.
Right, because I'm a utility monster, obviously,
and I mean that I just solve the problem for everyone.
You're welcome.
You may have to kill Matt.
Well, that would be literally the worst thing we could do.
Yeah.
Then you couldn't get infinity utility.
I believe that it says somewhere in Genesis,
thou shalt not suffer a utility monster to live.
Damn.
I feel like that was a mistranslation.
Translated to witch, right?
Yeah.
They meant utility monster, but they didn't have the concept back then.
God was trying.
I think this is an interesting topic to talk about
because I don't have any sort of answers or conclusions.
I'm just confused and vaguely disheartened
by how not awesome we are at optimizing everything.
I guess I have two intuitions slash takeaways.
One is that we're getting better at optimization.
It doesn't happen overnight.
And if there were some huge missteps, well, that sucks,
but then you get back on course and you keep going
for the right ways of doing things.
I'm not saying, like, individual nation states
get to make gigantic mistakes.
I'm like, oh, you know what?
We'll try again this way instead.
Like, history gets humanity back on course,
not, you know, individuals who kept fucking things up.
But the other thing is that I guess I would need a good argument
that either A, we wouldn't return to some grotesque,
Hobbesian state of nature if we got rid of high modernization
slash legibility enforcement.
Or if we, if you're okay with, you know, just biting the bullet
and say, yeah, that we would turn back into that,
you ought to explain why that's better than what we're at now.
Right?
And the problem with small communities,
tight-knit communities is that they will never be able to create
space shuttles and colonize other planets
because you just don't have enough resources in a small community
to do that.
And there was also one other thing that I meant to hit on,
which was, at least in this, let's just start codex summary,
there wasn't really a discussion of the impact on nonhumans
during all of this business.
And that seems at least worth mentioning that wipe out a jungle
to make a nicely orchard-styled tree farming field
for lumber production.
A, it doesn't work out for lumber production,
but E, or B, for those of you keeping count at home,
it also doesn't work out well for all the wildlife you killed
to make way for that tree farm.
I mean, it's at least some people care about this sort of thing.
It's at least worth mentioning.
So I certainly think that's a cost-worth considering.
I don't know, like, that's sort of my thing,
it's not worth not doing it.
We were sure it was gonna work,
but we had to be really damn sure.
So are we moving on?
Let's move on,
because it has been a little bit over an hour.
And now, as promised, last episode's discussion
of the story Utopia Lol.
If you want to read it, now is your last chance to skip or pause.
All right, so I was sad to find out
that the AI had been constrained
from expanding beyond the solar system.
I was more bummed that, like, the AI manipulated people on purpose,
but I also found that kind of awesome,
because then the guy's like,
yeah, I totally got there manipulating me,
and I'm fine with it,
which is the sign of a great manipulation.
But for me, I was gonna say,
and I guess whatever goes on the air,
then people know I'm a wimp.
I cried for, like, a minute.
Like, I couldn't keep reading
when Keet was at the Met Kip.
Oh, Keet?
Keet?
Wasn't it Keet or Keet?
Whatever, whatever the tour guide.
Yeah.
Realized that, like,
all you're gonna send them off to the stars,
do you want us to go be birds again?
Like, that was, like, oh, my God.
That was the saddest thing I've ever heard.
So, like, that was, I don't know,
I'm not sure if that was written to pack that punch
or if it just hit me hard for some reason.
It wasn't even the fact that it was birds.
It was just, like, you know,
do you want to just throw this away
and we can go keep having fun again?
Like, yeah, like, I'm gonna lose you forever.
Like, let's not do that.
That was super intense.
Dude, that is, if you get a chance,
