I would totally go and comment on the story
and say that or track down the author
and, like, send them an email
because as an author, the few times I've been told
I made someone cry have been some of the happiest moments
in my professional career.
Sadest.
Yes.
That is what you want as an author,
that you have emotionally touched someone that deeply.
And very rarely I do people ever let you know
that sort of thing, even when it does happen.
Cool.
Yeah, let him know you will make his fucking week
unless he's had, like, just an enormous week.
Yeah, you bet.
I'll find it.
Why were you sad that the AI was prevented
from leaving the solar system?
Well, like, it's the best tool humans have
and then they're like,
well, no, you can't use this tool
outside of the special zone.
You have to go be weak and primitive out there.
I think, I think I kind of liked that
because it seems to address my major concern
that it allows the humans to have a place
where they will be safe and protected forever
in the solar system,
but it also gives them place where they can go out
and still have risk and explore
and be the deciders and the important people,
even though that's risky out there,
they have taken, they have made the decision
to take that risk and put their lives on the line.
And condemn their children to it.
You know, I mean, yeah, but what can you do, right?
Were you upset because...
What can you do?
Yeah, sometimes...
I'll tell you what you can do.
You can not do what they did.
You can ship your children back to the solar system
until they turn 18 and can make their own decisions.
Even in the archipelago created by Alexander,
children have the option to leave their communities.
Yeah, but they didn't have the option
to be not born into the community.
Yeah.
So the children, I assume,
once they get to other solar systems,
well, no, I mean, eventually,
they'd have the technology to get back to Seoul,
but not for a while,
not for a number of generations, probably.
Were you upset because of the lost potential
of having an AI that was constrained that way?
Or were you sad from the perspective of the AI
who wanted to help beyond this narrow area,
but then couldn't?
I guess not from...
I'm not sad for, like, the AI feeling sad.
I'm sad for the AI feeling sad.
I think I've got a problem with, like,
my empathy's turned up too high,
but it's not where I can't turn it down.
Yeah, I don't think the AI did feel sad
because it was programmed to be happy
with the things the way they were.
Or maybe it wasn't programmed...
Maybe it wasn't sentient.
I got the impression that it was.
It talked as though it was, but that doesn't mean anything.
It means more than nothing.
Okay, more than nothing.
I think the AI was happy to have, keep the solar system
a safe, happy, wonderful place
and to allow humans to have their danger zone, too,
if they want to.
That's true, I was typically minding it, too.
Like, it could be happy with these weird constraints
and it could be as happy as it could possibly be.
Alright, fair enough.
We have listener feedback.
First thing I want to do is
a new segment that we shall do every week.
Whenever we have a Patreon supporter
supporting at $4 or more, I think it was,
we will read one of their names
and say a special thank you to them on an episode.
So, this week we have
Wukasz Stafanyak.
I should, I should ask my parents
because this looks like a Eastern European name
quite possibly Polish.
It has the L with the line through it
and the SZ for the sh sound.
So, Wukasz Stafanyak is
a Patreon supporter
and actually supporting at the level
where he gets to choose,
either chat with one of us for an hour
or choose a topic for us to talk about
on one of these episodes.
So, thank you very much for your support.
Going on to actual questions.
Zeke Aaron, when we had Patrick on,
Patrick mentioned superluminal faster-than-light communications
and Zeke Aaron writes,
regarding superluminal communication
I'm going to need a source.
Quantum entanglement is a commonly used science fiction trope
but the real science behind it is pretty unusable
even for transmitting a single bit.
It is entirely hypothetical
until I read contradictory evidence
and I didn't want to contradict Patrick on the air
because it had been at least 10 years
since I had read anything about that.
I thought maybe he knows more about it than me
but yes, also as far as I know,
quantum entanglement,
it only works for a few hundred bits
out of every several million that they try it with
so not a very high rate
and depending on your interpretation
of quantum mechanics,
it isn't really even all that useful
for sending information.
From what I've read,
you can't really use it to communicate faster
than light because you still need
some traditional communication method
telling people to check their bits now.
I happen to know it's Zeke Aran
as in Samus Aran
not Aaron, just for whatever that's worth.
But yeah, that was my takeaway
and I feel like one of us pushed back a bit.
I can't remember who it was.
Are you sure that's not just quantum entanglement
and Patrick insisted that it was something new and cool
and so I was with you.
I was like, well, it's been 10 years
or some years since I've read a popular science
like Hawking Physics book or something
so maybe there's some cool new thing that somehow didn't hit my news feeds.
Did we ever ask him to send us stuff?
We did get a link and I'll post the link to it.
Most recently the
headlines also said it was teleportation
of managing to entangle
photons which I
I don't consider it
teleportation although technically
in a way it is.
But it's transforming matter that's already there.
Well, I mean
teleportation of an individual
photons sounds like
there's no way to tell photon A from photon B.
Right, so if you make photon A identical to photon B
it's basically like you teleported it.
But on the other hand
if I had a massive matter
in outer space and it became identical
to the table I have in my house
I wouldn't necessarily say my table got teleported.
Yeah, I don't know.
I thought even entanglement teleportation
only propagated at the speed of light
but I don't know what I'm talking about
I'll have to ask my brother about this.
Your brother knows more about this stuff.
He's getting a PhD in physics.
Fantastic.
I know he should be able to answer any of my questions.
This is my interpretation.
And if not he can maybe at least point us to a source.
Yeah, cool.
Deadly Claymore.
When we had our podcast
talking about deafness and cochlear implants
and whether parents should be forced
well not forced
whether parents should put cochlear implants
into their deaf children
and that some deaf parents have chosen not to
Dead Claymore writes
mostly deaf fan of the podcast here
I would consider it child abuse for a parent
to passively block their children
from getting a cochlear implant
I'm assuming parents are responsible for their children
they do not own them
based on that assumption a parent cannot claim
bodily autonomy for someone else
their responsibility is to provide
the objectively best possible outcome for their child
which leads me to
