But since I'm here, I'm not going to burn a lot of fuel thinking about it.
So I might take a side by the end of this.
I don't know.
Okay.
Well, maybe you guys can clarify something for me because this is a legitimate question, I suppose.
Do you guys ever talk about a DPD on this podcast?
I believe we've mentioned it at least once.
Okay.
So DPD, I believe, coined by Daniel Dennett, the philosopher, is this idea of a statement where one reading of the statement is true but trivial.
And the other reading is profound but false.
I have a feeling that maybe this whole seeing like a state thing has a little bit of a DPD at its core.
And here's what I mean by that.
The true but trivial reading of this material seems to be that when an organizing entity makes plans to improve a thing without considering the details of that thing,
the efforts fail and or there are at least some terrible unforeseen side effects.
True, but not as shaking to me.
The profound but false reading is that all attempts at planning on an organizational level fail to achieve their aim and or have horrible unforeseen side effects.
So clearly, clearly that's not true because clearly we make efforts to make things more legible and we reap enormous rewards in some scenarios.
In other scenarios, we get Brasilia, the hellscape.
And it's like, well, okay, then if that's the case, then what is your rubric for determining what is an appropriate domain for making something more legible, more scientific, more technocratic, more technological?
And what is not?
What should be left to the the rural farmers to figure out?
Can I make a horrific confession?
Please.
I think I found myself becoming more conservative over the past years and I don't know what to do about that.
I feel like it's a bummer that that's a horrific confession.
Well, it's partly horrific because I always viewed myself as like very liberal to the point of being in my college days like radical liberals like burn it all down and start over, you know.
God, I don't know if it's because I'm getting older and people just like are resistant to change when they're older or because now I have assets that if people were to riot could get burned down.
It feels like there's something within me that has changed, but I'm more to the point where due to the fact that you can't know all the details.
I believe another example in seeing like a state was some scientific committee or something came into this agricultural town and saw that they were burning a portion of their crops every year.
They said, why the hell are you doing this?
And the people were like, because it's part of our religion that God demands it, etc.
It's not that exact thing, but along those lines.
And they said, well, stop doing that. That's stupid.
And your religion is dumb.
And now we will do things the more efficient way where you don't burn your crops.
And it turns out that there was a very good reason for the burning of the crops.
It helped to replace some of the nitrogen in the soil.
They just, they didn't know that.
They didn't know the reason why it worked.
They just knew that it worked.
The scientists or whoever came to do this analysis just saw that the reason why that they gave was stupid.
So they told them to stop and things kind of deteriorated and went to hell as the soil was stripped of its nutrients.
And since everything has such a high level of detail, which is ungraspable,
I am more of the sort of Chesterton's fence point of view now where, well, it seems to be working.
So let's not change it because there's more ways for it to go bad than there are for it to go good.
Or at least let's fully understand what's happening before we decide to change it.
Yeah, but whenever someone says they fully understand it, it always turns out that they don't.
Well, like the first thing I thought of when you said they were burning crops is like, oh, they're nurturing the soil.
I didn't think that, and then you said they're doing it for religious purposes.
But then I just feel bad for like the old scientists or the old agriculturists to explain this to their co-farmers.
Like, no, look, if you burn some and bury it, it actually helps the next year's crops.
And they're like, fuck you, you're crazy. We're going to eat or sell this.
And they're like, okay, fine, God will smite you if you don't do it.
So like they had to just fall back on convincing them through a bad means.
So is it MEDIS or MEDIS?
I don't know.
Yeah, well, anyway, I'm going to say MEDIS.
Okay.
So that being, that is the mode of knowing that the natives are using to solve their problem.
And I guess the question, and maybe this is just, maybe I'm just like really missing something,
but I'm like, you can't build a space telescope with MEDIS.
No, you cannot.
So clearly there's domains where MEDIS is appropriate and domains where MEDIS is not appropriate.
And I really am not even being devil's advocate.
I don't know that I could just like walk upon a situation and say like, oh, clearly there's deep ancestral knowledge here that I shouldn't mess with.
Versus like, oh, it looks like these people don't know what they're doing.
I'm going to help them using my scientific rationalistic worldview.
And that's why I say I feel like I am becoming more conservative because even five years ago,
I would have said they're being stupid, make them not be stupid.
It's more efficient to not burn your foods.
Whereas nowadays I'm like, maybe the human sacrifice helps something.
We'll just keep doing that.
That's interesting because a few years ago we had a conversation where you're talking about like you're burning it down in philosophy.
And then I was like, I feel like I could get hurt if people started throwing Molotovs through windows and stuff.
And that was my only aversion.
It was like just purely like, I don't want to get killed.
I don't want my parents and friends to get killed.
Maybe an example.
I'm not sure if this is a good one.
You guys can tell me and we can unpack it if it is.
Maybe Western culture coming, not like it happened like this way historically,
but kind of currently coming upon traditional Chinese medicine or something.
You know, one way to approach it would be like, well, maybe they're onto something or another would be, you know what?
There's no such thing as Chi or Meridians or whatever.
So they're all clearly idiots or rather, let's be more charitable.
They're all clearly wrong.
We should give them our medicine that works.
Did you guys read the witch doctors without borders article?
No.
No.
Okay.
Very briefly, there's certain parts in God, I hate to say in Africa because Africa is a massive continent and varies greatly from one end to the other.
So there's a specific country in Africa that is undergoing civil war.
Bad things are happening.
Warlords and arm games are taking gangs are taking over villages.
And there has been a counter meme, I guess, in the original sense of the word that has sprung up that has helped people fight.
Turns out that the armed gangs aren't really all that good at fighting.
They just have AKs that they spray at people and the people don't want to get shot.
So they submit to their will.
But there's a lot of villagers and if all of them just together stood up and like attacked at once and was like, okay, some of us will die.
But no big deal.
It's good.
It's fine for the greater good.
They could chase them out.
But they don't because no one really wants to die.
So there is this witch doctor that a few years ago came up with a bullet proofing potion where...
Oh shit.
Yeah.
Geez.
You take this potion and you become bullet proof for a few hours.
And the problem with the potion is that it's, you know, very expensive and complicated to make.
It doesn't work if you have committed a range of sins in the past year.
So if it ever fails, you can always say, well, that person obviously committed one of these sins that was not allowed.
He just didn't want to tell anyone about it.
And also it's very costly in that it may involve human sacrifice.
I'm not sure about that.
So you don't want to do it too often.
But people have been using it and after they take the bullet proofing potion, everyone's like, let's fucking get these warlords and they chase them out.
And so it's been spreading to more and more villages and has been working as an effective counter to the warlords taking over.
And that's right.
That is an example of Metis.
I believe in that it is something that works even though the given reason is incorrect.
But if you had the true why, nobody would join in.
So they'd be like, I don't want to get shot.
It's the false belief that makes it possible.
So which doctor is selling this bullet proof potion?
Was this a game theorist who thought this is how we can take back our nation?
Or was this just some...
It's a dude that had a vision.
And by dude, I mean like an elderly respected priest man.
Okay.
So it wasn't just some charlatan selling like anthrax homeopathic pills or homeopathic vaccines or whatever.
But even if it were, it would still have the positive outcome that it's had, which is the amazing thing.
True.
But I'm just wondering if this is the kind of...
I guess idly, I'm curious about the motivations of this person.
Because selling bullet proof potions in an area where people are being shot all the time sounds like a great way to make money.
And then if you can just lampshade away or hand wave away all the people who get shot anyway.
Oh, they must have sinned or something.
The potion's not perfect.
That's interesting.
I believe what I was commenting on was that it sometimes doesn't work to have the actual scientific knowledge.
You can't replace it.
So maybe this is an issue, right?
An approach that's discussed in seeing like a state.
But if you're understanding on some level, for example, why this witch doctor is selling this bullet proof potion or why these people are burning their crops.
And you're like, oh, you know what's better than burnt crops for fertilizer?
Fertilizer.
I'll bring you guys some fertilizer and trade you for all the food you're burning.
And then that way, you know, everybody wins.
You guys get more food and this food gets to get eaten.
And then what helps stop warlords is like a powerful state with guns and a militia that can conjump it and shoot them.
I guess there seems to be other approaches than just letting the medists do its thing.
And I think medicine, in other words, another definition that I heard was like practical wisdom.
Yeah, so it seems like there's other ways to deal with it as long as you're solving the same problem that they're trying to solve and you're aware that you're doing that.
I guess the whole point of seeing like a state is that that's a lot easier said than done.
Okay.
Well, I think we have a very good example of it being easier said than done in our own personal lives because the rationalist community is quite aware of the powerful effects of religious community and ritual.
And we've been trying to harness stuff like that for a while.
We've got the meetups going and we've got like some small community stuff and there's even attempts to do rituals like for the solstice ritual stuff to help bind us together.
But they don't ever quite seem to take off or haven't yet anyway.
I would like to do a podcast about building community at some point, whereas the churches seem to work very well.
Like rural America, the church, I don't know if it was in the article that you read.
It was an article you read, right?
That how the church is a basically the economic unit of the rural America.
Right.
And as people lose their faith there, I mean, among other reasons, the community fractures the economic output of an area drastically reduces life outcomes get much worse.
And it doesn't seem like there's a way to replace that yet without the crazy belief in God means tying it together.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, like church works both as a fallback net that, yes, welfare tries to take the place, but welfare is so impersonal and doesn't really do it as well as people contributing their money to the church.
And then the church passing it out to people who are very poor or have sudden shocks.
It has serves as a labor pool for the old people that can't afford to hire people.
Or if someone's house burns down, everyone goes and helps them rebuild or something.
It works as that social safety net that everybody needs and that is trying to be replaced by the state with welfare and other programs and which just doesn't work as well.
The problem might just be like the level of removal from the situation.
You know, your churches are local on the ground and your state is this abstract thing in Washington D.C. or wherever, right?
That is, I think, a large part of the argument of seeing like a state.
Yeah.
So the idea is like what?
Smaller local governments?
I believe that is one of the thrusts of the book, yes, is that smaller local communities are better.
Communities specifically not governments because the author is an anarchist, right?
I don't know if he's an anarchist, is he?
Scott Alexander said he was.
Okay.
So I don't know if he was being hyperbolic or if he was saying yes.
He says something about how his anarchist sort of shown through in the book and that he wasn't at all like he would sort of just like hand wave away like all the amazing benefits of modernization like less dead babies.
Yeah.
And be like, yeah, but look at how bad it was when we made everything on grids.
Which I mean, it's a real, I liked, I didn't read seeing like a state, but I read Scott Alexander's summary because it was shorter and.
I haven't read the book either.
Oh, okay.
So, but you probably read parts that are you sent me that link of blog posts that was about it or something, right?
So you have more into it than I do anyway.
Yeah.
Alexander's essay was, I thought it was good and comprehensive for what I was trying to get out of it.
What's this book about?
And he went about it in this really fun way where he talks about that level of distraction from the top of the rulership down to the bottom makes it really hard to make anything straight because this community over here uses this size basket and this one uses this size.
Okay.
