You know, I was thinking about putting some specific dam on there.
And that one just was really...
I probably should have put it on actually because the reason I left it off is I was like, this is too ambiguous,
but that's actually a great reason to include it because a dam creates value and provides electricity
usually helps control the floodplain and stabilizes things for humans, at least.
It helps with farmland and irrigation.
But then, of course, you have all kinds of negative effects on whatever river it is you're damming
or whatever the ecosystem is in that area.
It's always a trade-off and I imagine people wouldn't be building dams if it weren't a trade-off
that ended up tipping in favor of humans.
Can we discuss briefly why things tend to tend toward more and more legibility and stronger governments?
I'm struck by the fact that Scott, not Scott Alexander, but the Scott who wrote, Seen Like a State,
makes a fairly strong argument for smaller communities are better.
They're more desirable to humans.
It is what we feel better with and our lives are happier, for the most part, more psychologically fulfilling.
And yet, that is not what has taken over the world.
I think it's sort of an...
I don't want to say an arms race or a race to the bottom or what,
but a society that is better at making itself legible to the state
will be better at taxing, better at conscripting troops,
better at doing all the things that are valuable for warfare and for expansion.
And so, a happy society is one that is going to get taken over by societies
that are better at turning people into units of production and units of warfare
rather than happy humans.
So, Scott Alexander draws that same sort of implication that this does seem like a...
that modernization and the push towards legibility are like a great Malthusian trap
that it's just going to be a race to the bottom until it's this brutal competition that we...
I don't think we've talked about at length anyway.
Bollock.
Yeah.
Anyway, James C. Scott is the author of Seen Like a State.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, and this all culminates in Robin Hansen's M scenario
of just brutal competition and complete, barely subsistence above being a conscious being,
which I agree that that's not a desirable outcome.
I mean, it may go all the way to Bostrom's Disneyland Without Children,
where even consciousness is too expensive,
and so the societies that strip consciousness from themselves will outcompete all the rest of us.
Yeah, that's a nightmare.
So, I guess like the only...
I'm just to tie this back to what I was saying at the beginning about like loss aversion.
It seems to me that you can model a lot of these processes with loss aversion.
People on mass making collective decisions, essentially,
that are choosing like a certainty of having some value over uncertainty.
Does that give me hope? Does it give me a little bit of hope?
I'm thinking about that because that implies that a society would not actually go right up to the point of literally self-destructing
because then it's like, well, no, why would anyone on an individual basis make that choice
if it doesn't gain them any more safety or security?
I have to think that one through.
So we need like a larger scale witch doctor to provide some alternate bulletproof potion.
Yes.
Oh, man.
Well, hey, first one to think of how to do that and gets to cash in.
I think that's possibly one of the problems with rationalism is
we wouldn't be able to find that sort of thing because it would have to be an emotional, irrational sort of driven thing.
You disagree.
Well, like to say that we couldn't, let me try and think this through.
If it's to be found, there are better and right ways to go about finding it
and there are better and worse ways to like go around implementing it.
And so those will all be found rationally, not by like whatever throwing die or praying or something, right?
Here's a question.
Do you think a society full of rationalists highly educated knows all the game theory stuff
would be able to overthrow a warlord without the bulletproof potion?
Just saying like, yeah, we know some of us are going to die.
Let's do it anyway.
My initial answer is that in principle, the rationalist will be the master of the laws of science
and can just make guns and shoot the warlords back, right?
Or make better guns or make bulletproof structures.
Assuming you don't have access to that sort of technology.
All you've got is the social capital and the ability to talk to everyone else in the tribe.
God, I don't know.
I'm sure there's some way to make this super doable in that whatever betting markets or prediction markets
on who lives and dies or somebody doing something that incentivizes individuals
even though they're going to die.
Because part of, if you could call this a weakness, which I guess in this particular instance it is,
there's a strong reluctance among at least the rationalist I know to die.
And so I wouldn't want to be in the front lines to take to, you know, tank bullets
so that my friends can tackle the warlords.
But I'd want somebody to.
I'd like to be part of that charge.
I don't want to be in the front line.
So, but again, I would like to think, oh, I mean, that's not fair.
I was going to say, I'd like to think that we could just make shields,
but obviously someone tried that, you know, it doesn't take a practiced Bayesian rationalist
to think of like, let's put something between me and the bullets, right?
Other than other people.
You can all just agree that anybody who turns tail and runs,
you're all going to shoot them in the back as they run,
which is a very effective strategy for getting infantry to charge actually.
So it's not, it's not very happy.
But if you have the guns to shoot them in the back,
if the guns to shoot the warlords, and that was one of the prerequisites
for not winning the stab.
You might just have like one or two guys standing in the back with guns
to shoot the people that run away.
I would like to think that we would rush those assholes
and take their guns to shoot the warlords with them.
I hate to keep beating on that point, but that just seems mean.
It would have to be the elderly, because if someone could be charging the warlords,
they should be in the front lines.
But like the old guy in the wheelchair who can't charge will give him the gun
to shoot the people that turn around and run.
But him and his wheelchair would make a great meat shield
for you charging the warlords, right?
Just push them in front of you.
That's some Rick and Morty shit right there.
I mean, so this is part of my issue with like, I don't know,
there's like the classical economics version of,
I'm trying to think of a decent example.
Someone's going to point out how it's really stupid for X, Y, and Z reasons,
but classical economics are things like the model that $110 is better than $100,
so I'll offer you $100 now, or $110 in two months.
And, you know, some number of people will take the $100 now,
and it's like, oh, well, they're just irrational.
So, you know, my model's right, they're just stupid.
But that doesn't seem to take into account that like,
well, I could really use $100 right now,
and I'll have a couple more paychecks in a couple months,
so the extra $10 will make very little difference to me or something.
There are considerations beyond like the easy math.
And so I would like to think, so like that's sort of like the example of
let's build cities on grids, and we'll put all the businesses on this side
and all the houses on this side, and it'll be perfect,
because everything's on straight roads and, you know, intersections and whatever.
So that doesn't seem to take into account the factors that don't seem unquantifiable to me,
but just seem harder to put, I guess maybe, maybe quantifiable's not the right word,
because they are hard to quantify, but they're not hard to consider.
Like, factors that people like living near businesses.
Like, that's just a failure of consideration, like of empiricism.
It's really cool, like I said, being able to walk down the street
and go to your grocer and not having to take a cab three miles into town
and then take the cab three miles back,
and you've now paid for groceries and 60 bucks worth of travel, right?
So it seems like there's a way to do this right, it's just hard.
Is that something that James Scott touches on in the book?
As far as I know, no.
Yeah, this was something that I was thinking about a lot while doing all this reading,
was surely there's a way to do this right,
and when you're reading all these examples of states doing terrible things
and making terrible mistakes, you're like, well, this was just stupid.
I mean, this isn't complicated, they just did it stupidly,
and I think the point of the book maybe is,
look, the state is incentivized to do it in this particular way
that ends up being stupid over and over again.
Yes, you could do it correctly if you had like a giant bag of money
and a group of people who were like committed to the idea of like,
hey, let's actually create a society that people will want to live in,
but that scenario has actually never happened.
It's usually the state wants to control and make legible its population,
and that's not conducive actually to flourishing.
I think that's where my conservatism comes from,
because I used to be very much of the opinion,
well, it's just been done stupidly, let's do it not stupidly,
and let's change things and make them better, just not a dumb way,
and now I seem to be trending more towards,
it's impossible to do it the not stupid way,
because reality is a lot more complicated than everyone seems to think
as shown by the entire history of human intervention,
almost always going wrong, so let's just stop trying to intervene.
I would like to say it's prohibitively difficult and not impossible to do it the right way.
Just the idea of let's make them grow these crops,
because they grow great over here.
That's not a mistake we'd make today.
We would test it under realistic conditions over there
before we just usurp their food supply
and say, you guys are going to grow this now,
because this grows a lot better and it'll be better for everyone over there.
We're going to make sure it actually is first.
The virtue of empiricism and testing wasn't a theme that I saw
in the review of seeing like a state.
That's relatively new, and I like to think that makes us a lot better at doing this right.
Okay, so that we can do it right eventually,
if we do it wrong enough and learn enough.
Or at least the mistakes will be less catastrophic, maybe?
I would like to think that we would make something on the order
of the Soviet farming practices again, right?
I don't think that we're stupid enough to try something that bad,
but maybe I'm wrong.
And then this weird situation where I sound optimistic,
and I sometimes feel that way.
Was it the Sam Z.Blogger that made the point,
it's actually very optimistic to say that all of the horrors of the 20th century
were due to malicious intent,
and the pessimistic interpretation is that all the horrors of the 20th century
were people trying their best to solve problems,
and the horrors being the fair outcome of their best efforts.
Their best efforts sucked.
Their best efforts sucked, and we've learned more since then.
I'm between the two poles, I think.
We have learned more since then.
We're much better at a lot of things.
We're only going to continue getting better
unless something terrible happens.
Well, and a lot of the people calling the shots here
were not people that you would think of as the epitome of rationality, right?
I think it was...
Some of them were really doing their best
with the tools and thoughts that they had at the time.
And some of them weren't. I think it was Mao?
I feel like I read somewhere, and I can't remember if it was Mao or not,
