Well, here's this basket.
We're going to use this.
Okay.
Well, are we filling it?
Are we packing it down?
Are we just pouring it?
Are we pouring it from waist height or shoulder height?
Like all these stupid little things to we have to eventually get down to every little minutiae.
I guess what I'm getting at is that, yeah, it's one thing to say, all right, we're going to standardize this.
And it's another thing to like implement that in a way that is at all successful or consistent.
And I hate to keep harping on the same thing, but that makes a lot of sense when you're talking about certain things like anything ecological seems to me hazardous to metal with.
But you don't want every community to have their own like internet protocols or their own like traffic laws.
Yeah.
Imagine traveling.
Yeah.
Right.
So like, there are certain, there are certain things that can clearly be made better by organizational hierarchical control and intervention to say intervention doesn't even have to be popped down.
And there are clearly things that are evolved.
I think one thing about churches is that they're an institution that's had some time to evolve to fill a particular role.
And no matter how smart any person trying to create an institution from scratch is going to do less well than natural selection can do on solving a given problem.
Maybe they create a thing and two generations later, the thing they created has actually evolved into something really cool.
But they're not going to get it right the first time.
And that's all well and good.
But, you know, maybe we'd still be glad that they tried to create it the first time in this abstract hypothetical scenario I'm sketching.
And I got to say, as a person living in a country with decent medicine and air conditioning and the internet, I'm really kind of glad that we went through that whole industrial revolution thing.
Right.
That I mean, we the destroying of all the metis and standardizing things really does create a lot of wealth.
Yeah, exactly.
And I mean, wealth might sound loaded to some people.
It creates a lot of value for like almost everybody.
You know, even the poorest in America, not like the bottom 10%, but the poor working class have like refrigerators, like being able to store food for more than a couple days before it spoils is not something that we revel at how awesome it is.
And yet, if we were tracking down this week's food all weekend and it went bad by Thursday, like that'd be a whole different kind of, I don't know, we've talked a bit about war, like whether people were happier in the past or versus now.
I do feel like there's more to be happy about now because you have time to actually catch your breath and enjoy things and you're not in this constant state of panic where you're chasing down food and then protecting it from bandits who didn't want to chase the food.
But, you know, you're easier to catch and rob.
So, yeah, I think I've I almost think that people were happier in the past because they had more social connections.
One of the major points of the second post that I talked about, the Meridian of Her Greatness is the name of this post is that, yeah, the Industrial Revolution created tons of wealth, and the people who were uprooted from their communities due to enclosure and working in factories in London, their wages kept going up,
going up, but they were removed from their friends and their family and it tends to make people miserable to be this isolated and I think that's a large part of the problem we have with the modern day is the isolation and the alienation is what gives us this feeling of meaninglessness that we are not important to anyone.
And that's an issue.
And that ties into your concern about the AI safety net making humanity less important in like some issues.
I kind of was Shelly was here because I think she sort of maybe got the right track where the main thing she values is other human connections.
And if you like other people because you like to be around them, then their worth is not tied to their economic output anymore.
You're valuable just because you're a human that has social ties with me.
You were friends with me while I was unemployed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I don't have an unemployed friends.
My friends need to be able to like, you know, quit pro quo on meals and stuff.
So come back when you have a job.
So I feel like we're sort of at an, I don't know, an impasse here.
You had a couple of things you wanted to touch, right?
Yeah.
Well, the main thing I wanted to, I think maybe this could provide some like concrete examples to maybe go over.
I have here the legibility game, which I invented.
And I think we can go through it pretty quickly.
The game is that I have four questions, four scenarios.
And I say, which of these interventions were examples of terrible overreach with devastating consequences and which were great things that it was really good.
They happened.
Oh, it sounds fun.
The first one is actually a freebie.
It's the demolition of natural German forests and replacement of those trees with trees planted on a grid for logging purposes.
Was this a good idea or a bad idea?
I already know the answer to this one.
So this one, I happen to know the answer because I read the article.
Yeah, right.
If presenting, I hadn't read the article.
I might be of the mind, well, I guess you destroyed nature, which is sad, but like, is it good for us or is it good for the world?
What's the question?
I think that's a really interesting way of framing it.
I mean, so in this case, it failed even on its own merits.
And I knew you two guys had read this one already, but like it failed on its own merits because they even didn't end up making a more efficient logging forest, right?
So they destroyed a forest and probably a lot of resources along with that and they didn't even get what they were after.
So it's just like production went down drastically because it didn't have the rest of the ecosystem that it needed to support those trees.
Right.
Which is one of those things that when a few years ago, if I would have read that proposal, I would have been like, hell, yes.
What do we need all this chaos of the jungle for?
Like bulldoze it, plant what we actually want in nice rows to make it easy to harvest and this way we will be able to not have to disturb as many forests if we just have one hyper efficient grid forest of the tree we want.
You didn't watch Princess Mononoke?
I did.
I thought it was an anime with no magic and druids and didn't really apply to real life.
I thought it was based on historical events.
But what's funny is like you drive around, you see orchards, they're describing an orchard, right?
So what's the difference between this and an orchard?
I guess the difference is the type of tree.
I mean, I'm sure there's some relevant difference that escapes me, obviously, because if I had done this, it would have resulted in a disaster.
But it's like it doesn't seem obvious at all that this would have resulted in a disaster even though it did.
Yeah.
And orchards are beautiful.
Yeah.
So that was example one.
Example two, development of high yield dwarf wheat strains and distribution of those wheat strains in India and Pakistan.
Good thing or bad thing.
Sounds great to me.
Sounds really good to me too.
Can you operationalize before you give us the answer, distribute?
Make it so that the people there grow those strains.
Make it so they grow them or give them the opportunity to grow them?
Give them an opportunity.
Okay, because those are very different.
That's a good point.
The opportunity sounds great.
Okay.
Thinking ahead, maybe they don't know how to grow that wheat efficiently.
And so it fails or possibly it's one of the ones with the terminator gene in it.
So they can't save seeds from year to year.
But it sounds good on this face.
Okay.
Yeah.
I appreciate the fact that you expected a gotcha.
But indeed the use of these wheat strains credited to Norman Burlog saved over a billion lives in the 20th century.
So the reason I juxtapose those first two, by the way, is to say it's really not a good rule just to say let's not intervene in unusual ways.
In ecological matters because then you just lost a billion people if you refuse to intervene by creating a dwarf strain of wheat or whatever.
Norman Burlog, by the way, was credited with a medal from Congress.
I think he's the single person on earth credited for saving the most lives.
Yeah.
And it was, yeah, on the range of a billion, which is insanely awesome.
I'm still pissed at Greenpeace for how much they've opposed the golden rice thing.
Goddamn.
They have those propaganda films where they go through fields and hazmat suits and stuff.
Yeah.
They strongly pushed against it and made golden rice, which was available free.
They put all their research out there for free and was like, here, take it.
Put vitamin A in rice and grow this.
It'll make so many less people blind.
And no, it never took off because Greenpeace is bullshit.
And it's just the same damn thing with vitamin A in it.
Well, they're doing, they bought the gotcha before they saw the results of the dwarf strain of wheat, right?
Yeah.
They were like, oh no, we don't want to fuck with it.
Well, actually, I take that back.
I think it might have been less about not wanting to fuck with other people's ecology and more about like...
It was literally about the GMO.
Yeah, all right.
GMO is evil.
It'll turn you into Frankenstein.
It'll turn your frogs gay, right?
It might.
Who knows?
Sorry.
I prefer my frogs gay.
They're very dapper.
Oh, good.
Then the chemtrails are exactly...
Sorry.
I was having this conversation with work friends and I had to explain to them like they had never heard big chemtrails turn my frogs gay.
So they explained to them both what chemtrails are said to be and where like the frogs gay thing came from and it turned out to be this really funny thing.
I have a feeling you guys are going to know the answer to this one already, but cats introduced to Australia to control the population of pest species.
So you don't know this because we don't know each other that well.
I'm a super big cat person.
Okay.
So part of me is like, that sounds great.
The more cats, the merrier.
On the dance or...
Dude, even if Australia is overrun by cats, that's an upside.
That's better than everything else they've got there, right?
It's fuzzy.
Yeah.
My general vague knowledge of history of introducing new species is that it tends to go very poorly.
So I'm going to bet that way.
What do we got?
Yeah.
It turned out terribly.
I mean, the cats decimated and probably made extinct the number of small mammal species.
Goddamn it.
And that's...
They're murder machines.
It's funny, I didn't quite realize that all three of these first ones were ecological,
but it's like, yeah, we know from experience that introducing new species tends to be a horrible idea,
but sometimes it can just sound so logical.
And also cats are a ridiculously effective predator, actually.
That's one thing that people don't realize.
Apparently cats kill...
I'm going to...
This is going to be wrong and I'm going to be misleading all of your guests by saying the wrong number,
but cats kill something like a billion birds a year.
I heard the same number.
Yeah.
And it's like in the United States too, not even in the world.
So yeah, if you don't pay attention to the details of what you're doing, things can go wrong.
And then my last question is just kind of cute.
The small group of wealthy aristocrats rebelled from their governing empire
and attempted to found a new nation based on completely untested theory of government
just because it seemed appealing to them.
Oh man, that sounds super appealing.
That sings my...
My heart sings hearing that for some reason.
I think it's going to go really well right up until they elect their 45th president.
Yeah, yeah.
I was going to say, I mean, depending...
People might disagree on whether this one turned out well or not, I guess, yeah.
But I feel like it turned out okay for me personally.
Didn't turn out so well for some of the more native populations.
That's true.
That's a great point.
I mean, speaking about legibility, I mean, this government definitely did that legibility thing
to a lot of people and it didn't turn out well for them.
So that's a very fair statement.
I can't think of another of a fifth example for the legibility game.
Yeah, basically, I was just trying to go back and forth and think of things and use Google, of course, to help me out.
Just think of things that had worked out well.
Think of things that had not worked.
