Hello, this is Eric with Two Pieces of Housekeeping before we get to today's episode with Sir Roger Penrose.
Now, in the first place, we released episode 19 on the biomedical implications of Brett's evolutionary prediction from first principles of elongated telomeres and laboratory rodents.
I think it's a significant enough episode and we've had so much feedback around it that before we continue any kind of line of thinking surrounding that episode,
I'm going to wait for my brother and his wife Heather Hying to return from the Amazon where they're currently in Communicado.
So thanks for all the feedback. It's been very interesting to process.
The second piece of Housekeeping surrounds today's episode with Roger Penrose.
Now, I know what I'm supposed to do. I'm supposed to talk about quantum consciousness and the emperor's new mind,
maybe ask Roger about the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics or the weirdness of quantum entanglement.
I'm actually not that interested.
I also don't want to go back to his earliest work on singularities and general relativity with Stephen Hawking.
What I instead want to do is to remind you what Roger is in fact famous for.
He's one of the greatest geometric physicists now living.
He's perhaps the best descendant of Albert Einstein, currently still working in theoretical physics in this particular line of thought.
I also think he's a great example of what the UK does well.
He has a very idiosyncratic approach to trying to solve the deepest problems in theoretical physics called twister theory.
I'm not expert in it, and I can't always follow it.
So if you're not following everything in today's episode, instead of deciding that the episode has somehow failed you,
try to remember that people who are working in mathematics and theoretical physics spend most of their time listening to colleagues completely lost as to what their colleagues are saying.
So if you start to feel that you are being left behind by some line of thinking,
what we do is in general wait to see if another line of thinking opens up that we can try to catch.
You're not going to get all of the waves, and in fact the same thing is happening to me while I'm interviewing Roger.
He's not understanding everything I'm saying, I'm not understanding everything he's saying, and in fact this is normal.
So what I would like to do is to instead present you guys with an idea of what science actually sounds like when people are talking from two slightly different perspectives.
We spend an awful lot of time simply trying to understand each other.
And if that feels a little bit uncomfortable, well, then in fact you're getting a true scientific experience which is often very different than what you're getting when everything is pre-chewed and spoon-fed.
Hope you enjoy it. Without further ado, Sir Roger Penrose.
Hello, you've found the portal. I'm your host Eric Weinstein, and I'm here today with none other than Sir Roger Penrose.
Roger, welcome.
Hello, good to be here.
Good to have you. I'm extremely excited about having you here.
There are lots of questions that you typically get asked these days, many of them about consciousness, some of them about art objects that come out of your thinking.
But I know you in a professional capacity as one of the most important people at the nexus of geometry and physics in our time.
Of course, you can't say that, you can make all sorts of faces, but I can assure you that it's true.
You know, there's a Leonard Cohen quote from a song called The Future where he says,
you don't know me from the wind, you never will, you never did, but I'm the little Jew that wrote the Bible.
And I have what I consider to be the Bible right here, which is a book you wrote called The Road to Reality,
which there's no getting away from, maybe in my opinion, the most important modern book of our time,
because what it tries to do is to summarize what we know about the nature of all of this at the deepest level.
And I think what I want to do is to introduce you to our audience, which has been habituated over perhaps 16 or so interviews,
not to expect to understand everything.
They want to work, they want to hear conversations unlike any they've heard.
And so we'll do some combination of explaining things, but some combination of allowing them to look up things in their own free time.
If you're a game, shall we talk about The Road to Reality?
You can talk about that if you like it.
It'd be great.
So where are we in the history of coming to understand what this place is in which we find ourselves,
what we are made out of, and what we know about our own context?
It's a very tough question that.
I mean, when I wrote that book, it was more or less the state of the world at the time.
I now feel I should rewrite part of it because things have changed in one important way in particular,
as far as I'm concerned, whether other people agree with me is another question.
But I don't think I'm going to rewrite it because it was such an effort.
And I don't think I would be likely to live long enough to do a good job out of it.
Has that much really changed since you wrote the book at a deep level?
A lot has not changed.
The thing that has changed, in my view, you see, whether people agree with me on this is another question,
is to do with cosmology.
You see, I have a proposal which I didn't have.
I mean, it's new since the book.
It's not all that new because it's about 15 years old, but it's new since I wrote that book.
And in our time scales, that's quite new.
That's pretty new.
Let's just get some context.
You were born in the early 1930s.
You got a chance to live through, if not the original general relativistic and quantum revolutions,
their consequences.
In particular, you were able to take classes from people like Paul Dirac,
who scarcely seems like a human being, sometimes more like a god.
Oh, yeah, that was an experience.
Yes, when I was at Cambridge as a graduate student.
So I did my undergraduate work at London University, University College,
and then I went to Cambridge as a graduate student.
And I went to do algebraic geometry, so I wasn't trying to do physics at all.
And I'd encountered a friend of my brother's, Dennis Sharma,
when I think I was at University College as an undergraduate.
And he, given a series of talks on cosmology,
well, it started with the Earth and then he sort of worked his way out
and then talked about what was then referred to as the steady state theory,
where the universe expands and expands and expands,
but it doesn't change because all the time there is new matter created, hydrogen,
and the universe expands and then you get new material and it keeps replenishing what's got sloshed.
And I thought it was quite an intriguing...
I mean, Dennis was a great fan of this model and so I was really taken by it.
So the story was that I was in Cambridge visiting my brother,
my older brother Oliver, who did statistical mechanics,
and he was actually much more precocious than I was.
He was two years ahead and he was, I think, finishing his research there.
But I had been listening to these talks by Fred Hoyle
and he was talking, I think, in his last talk about how in the steady state model
the galaxies expanded away, expanded away,
and then when they reached the speed of light they disappear.
And I thought that can't be quite right
and I started drawing pictures with light cones and things like this
and I thought, well, they would fade, gradually fade, but they wouldn't just disappear.
And when I visited Cambridge, visiting my brother,
and we were at the Kingswood restaurant in Cambridge,
and I said to my brother,
I said, well, look, I don't understand what Fred was saying,
it doesn't sort of make sense to me.
And he said, well, I don't know about cosmology,
but sitting over there on the table is a friend of mine,
he knows all the answers to these things.
And that was Dennis Sharma.
And so I explained this problem I had to Dennis and he was pretty impressed
because he said he didn't know the answer,
but he would ask Fred, Fred Hoyle.
And the main thing was that when I did come up to do graduate work
in algebraic geometry, Dennis decided to take me under his wing
and try to persuade me to change my subject and do cosmology.
So you were simultaneously under the great geometer, Hajj, as well as Dennis Sharma?
Well, Hajj was my supervisor.
See, Dennis was just a friend.
Hajj was my supervisor originally until he threw me out
and Todd became my supervisor.
That's another little story.
But Dennis just wanted to get me interested, do work in cosmology.
He wanted me to change my subject.
I learned an awful lot from Dennis about physics
because Dennis sort of knew everything and everybody.
And he had a real knack of getting,
if he thought two people should meet each other,
he made sure they did meet each other.
In one case, it was Stephen Hawking.
But Dennis was actually, when you mentioned Dirac,
Dennis was actually the last graduate.
At the time, he was the only graduate student of Dirac's.
Is that right?
Yes, Dennis was Dirac's.
That was famously sort of difficult.
I think that in recent years, this book came out of Graham Formella,
the strangest man that puts Dirac's bizarreness in line with it.
He was difficult to get to know.
But there's a bit of an irony here.
I mean, certainly he was hard for physicists to get to know him.
Now, there were two people.
And actually, maybe I could just say one thing to our listeners.
Yes.
In my estimation, if not yours,
Dirac would be neck and neck with Einstein
for the greatest of 20th century physicists.
I think I wouldn't be far off that description.
For some reason, his press wasn't nearly as good,
maybe because of his hair, I don't know.
Well, he didn't talk much.
This is one of the problems.
No, I agree.
I think he was, I mean, you think about all the quantum mechanics people
who developed that amazing subject.
And Dirac was really the one who put it all in order and so on.
And this gets to a very odd issue,
which is that you have wielded taste and beauty as a weapon your entire life.
Your drawings are among the most compelling.
I remember the first time, one of the things I've done
using our friend Joe Rogan's program
is to push out discussion of the hop vibration
because it's the only non-trivial principle bundle
that can be visually seen.
And since the world seems to be about principle bundles,
it's a bit odd that the general population
doesn't know that stuff of which we are.
Yes.
Well, the hop vibration or the Clifford parallels
was instrumental in the subject of Twister theory.
Well, but the first time I ever saw a diagram,
it was somebody reproducing a diagram they had seen of yours.
So the way in which you have used art and sketches
has been transformative.
The picture was drawn by hand.
I mean, there were, I think, some circles involved,
which I use a compass for.
But basically, I drew it by hand.
There were two versions of it.
The first one was more...
I sort of threaded...
The first one had more circles in it,
and I thought I'd draw a little more simply in the second version.
Well, actually, I had three versions.
The third version is in the road to reality.
But I'm not sure it's the best.
I think the second version perhaps is the best.
So Dirac, getting back to it, had this elegance of mind
that was unrelenting.
Yes.
And he famously brought in these bizarre objects
with which some of us are obsessed,
others of us don't understand the obsession called spinners,
which sort of a prerequisite to getting to twister theory,
which you've popularized.
Well, when I went to the...
You see, Dirac gave a course of lectures in quantum mechanics,
and the first course was sort of basic quantum mechanics.
And the second course was on quantum field theory,
but also spinners.
And there's an interesting story about that,
which I don't know the answer to.
In the second course, he deviated from his normal course of lectures.
Now, I understood when I talked to Graham Farmalo,
who wrote this biography of Dirac,
I understood from Graham Farmalo that when I described
that Dirac deviated from his normal course
