to give two or three lectures on two-component spinners,
which for me were absolutely what I needed.
You see, I learned from my work on algebraic geometry,
which ended up by trying to understand tensor systems
as abstract systems and things which you can't represent in terms of components.
And I should just say that in terms of these two-component spinners you're talking about,
for the lay audience,
all of the matter that they think about,
whether it's bound up in electrons or the quarks that make up protons and neutrons,
if you think of these things as waves,
which many people in our audience will be familiar with that concept,
the question is, what medium are they waves in?
And the medium would be a medium of spinners,
which is not something that's easy for people to understand.
Yeah, well, it's they're not.
And certainly the formalism, you see, Dennis,
I told him I need to understand about spinners,
and particularly the simplest ones are these two-component spinners.
And he suggested I read this book by Corson.
So I got the book by Corson, and I found it completely incomprehensible.
Just, I mean, it was a fascinating book because it was very comprehensive.
It described all these different spins, fields, and different things like that.
And using a lot of two-component spinners, which is the right way to do it.
But to introduce what these objects were was almost incomprehensible, I found.
Mainly because you have these translation symbols all over the place,
and they mess up the appearance of the formulae.
So I just found this thing very complicated and incomprehensible.
But then I went to Dirac's second course.
It may have been not the same year.
I think he went one year, I did the first,
and maybe the second course was when I was a research fellow,
rather than when I was a graduate student.
I can't quite remember.
I think it must have been when I was a research fellow.
Anyway, this was a course on quantum field theory and things like that.
But he sort of deviated from his normal course in one week
to talk about two-component spinners.
And for me, this was exactly what I needed.
It made the whole subject clear from this complete confusion that I had before.
Now then you see, many years later, I talked to Graham Farmerlow,
and I told him the story.
And he said, that's very strange.
Dirac would never deviate from his course.
He thought when he got his course perfect, it was perfect.
He would never change.
And this was true of his first year course, the initial course,
which people often said to me,
well, it's not such a great course, it's exactly like his book.
Well, I hadn't read his book.
So to me, this was, sure, the book is amazing too.
But not having read the book, I found this course absolutely stunning.
It made things up.
Do you think Dirac actually understood these objects, these most mysterious objects?
Two-component spinners.
Spinners in general.
I mean, he brought them into physics.
They'd been previously found inside of mathematics.
I think by people like Killing and Lee, I'm not sure who.
Yes.
Cartan perhaps.
I don't think, I mean, let me throw out a really dangerous idea.
I don't think any of us understand them at all.
And the part of the problem was that he understood very well what could be said about them.
Yeah.
But I asked you before about your favorite film, you said 2001.
You could make an argument that spinners in mathematics and physics,
like the monolith, it's always encountered.
Nobody ever understands exactly what it means, but it always grabs your attention
because it seems so absolutely bizarre and highly conserved.
Well, I always like to think of things geometrically.
And at least for the two-component ones, you see, when you go up to higher dimensions,
you still have spinners.
But the spinners, the dimension of the spinners goes up exponentially.
So each time you add two to the dimension of the space and the dimension of the spinners,
it's multiplied by two.
So a dimension 2D, for example, you'd get spinners of dimension 2 to the D over 2.
Yeah, that's the sort of thing.
That's right.
And so the, well, usually one talks about the Dirac spinners, which are the four-dimension,
the four-dimension spinners.
The full, right, right, right.
But they split into these two, two and two.
In even dimensions.
Yes, that's right.
In even dimensions.
And I like to understand these things geometrically.
So you could see what the two components have been represented.
And I had this picture of a flag.
So you have the flag pole goes along the light cone.
So that's a...
That's the vector-like piece of it.
Yeah, it's a...
And then you have an extra piece of data.
An extra piece, which is this flag plane.
And you get a pretty good geometrical understanding.
The one little catch to it is that if you rotate it through 360 degrees, so you might
think just to where it started, it's not the same as it was before.
It's changed its sign.
And then you rotate it again.
So...
Well, that won't make any sense to anyone.
But if, I mean, one way of looking at that is if you have a Klein bottle, and for those
of...
Some people will be listening to this in audio, some watching it in video.
A Klein bottle, in a certain sense, that can be made precise, has a square root that would
be a torus.
That is a double cover.
So it seems like a very weird thing to take a square root of a strange topological mobius-like
object.
But there you are.
Yeah.
So it's really the square root of the rotations that has this double effect.
But we say it linguistically in a way that makes it almost impossible for anyone to understand.
Well, I think this was a mystery.
I mean, I understood that the spinner was the square root of a vector, you see.
And I couldn't make out a tale of that idea.
And it was...
When I went to Dirac's course, it did become clear.
And he made...
He gave this very impressive illustration, which I thought was due to Dirac.
I learned later it was due to Hermann Weill.
But you imagine a cone, circular cone, some space like that, circular cross-section.
And another equal cone, which rolls on it.
So one is fixed, and the other one rolls around on it.
Now, you see, when you imagine initially the cone is almost just a little spike.
I mean, you've got a tiny circle at the end.
And when you roll one on the other, it's like rolling one coin on the other coin.
And you can see, when you roll one coin, another coin, it goes around twice.
It goes 720 degrees to go around.
Now, when you imagine gradually increasing the angle, the semi-angle of the cone,
and you do it again, you keep thinking of that motion, until it becomes almost flat.
And then what's the other one?
It's just a little wobble.
So when it becomes flat, this motion goes to nothing.
So this illustrates how a rotation through four pi, two complete rotations,
gradually can be deformed into no rotation at all.
However, with single rotation, it doesn't disappear.
Well, I think with a pulley system and a wheel, we don't have any trouble imagining a wheel
that rotates twice as fast, half as fast, not at all, hooked up to one particular crank wheel.
The problem comes when that that's not the generic case.
The generic case is usually encountered one dimension higher.
Three and up has a familiar, because something called the fundamental group,
as it's structured in Zmod 2, rather Z in dimension two.
So there is something where in the place where you can see this most easily,
it's slightly misleading.
And then in higher dimensions, you have to learn how to tutor your intuition,
which is this problem that all of us who try to think about higher dimensional objects
encounter is that we have to use the visual cortex we're handed,
and then we have to trick it into imagining worlds beyond where we've seen.
But you see, Dirac has another thing that I'd...
There's a thing called the Dirac-Cises problem.
So you imagine a chair which has the pieces of wood going out like this,
and you have a pair of scissors.
I think this is Dirac's joke that it was a pair of scissors.
And through the...
where you put your fingers, you have a piece of string which goes through these
and then goes around the chair and then comes back through the other one and goes back again.
Now the problem is you take the scissors and you rotate them through...
360.
360 degrees, and the strings all tangled up.
Whatever you do, you can't untangle it.
You're allowed to move the scissors around parallel, not rotate them,
and you can move the string around it and you can't undo it.
But you do twice, 470 degrees, two complete rotations,
and then you find you can untangle it.
So this was the Dirac-Cises problem.
And I think the joke was it's a pair of scissors,
so if you get so frustrated you just cut the string.
You just cut things where you're not.
And he wrote a paper explaining...
I think Max Newman wrote a paper.
Dirac did... this is an illustration of how you can undo it when it's 4 pi.
470 degrees.
But to prove that you couldn't do it with...
This is, I think Max Newman had a...
Have you seen this video called Air on the Dirac String,
which illustrates this in video form?
I haven't seen the...
I would highly recommend it because it shows this off as the similarity to the belt trick,
the Philippine wine glass dance, all of these different versions.
I find I could do that one actually.
I had Joe Rogan try it.
I think he got almost all the way around.
Yeah, no, I've done it with a glass of water.
Yes, you go like that and it comes back.
Very stylish.
Yes.
So you can do two complete rotations.
Two complete rotations.
Yes.
So this is a very fundamental property of the world that is somehow not discussed.
I think I find it very interesting that people want to talk to me about the multiverse.
Sometimes they want to talk to me about quantum measurement problem.
But the idea that we are somehow based on a square root,
and I would disagree with you slightly if you would permit it.
Go ahead.
It's not just a question of the square root of the vectors.
It's a square root of the algebra generated by the vectors that really the spinners are,
this exterior or Clifford algebra.
Oh, yeah.
