I often have a load of different views from people
on these things.
I think we're almost at the end.
Well, that's an interesting situation.
So, how do you come to the idea that we may be quite far?
I'm not saying that we're necessarily far.
I think it's understanding why the groups
are the groups that we see.
And people have different theories about these.
Well, let me ask you then a couple of questions.
Go on.
So, very early in this new stagnation
post the standard model,
people like Glashow and Georgiai
and Petit and Salam
put forward these unifying symmetries
that remain very odd
because they're so attractive and powerful.
The prettiest of them being something called
Spin10, which physicists persist in calling
SO10 for reasons that escape me.
Yeah.
This is the one which doesn't exist or is that not that one?
Well, the original SU5,
which sits inside of Spin10,
was disproven in its most basic form.
And at that point,
Georgiai and Glashow had been trained
in the previous culture of physics,
which is that you fell on your sword
when you predicted something and it wasn't true.
And I think that they sort of rushed to commit
ritual suicide far too quickly.
Yeah.
Maybe if I'd worked in the subject
in a form of clear review,
it's just that from the outside,
I'm not convinced that...
Clearly there are things which people have discovered
which are absolutely fundamental
in particle physics.
But somehow it hasn't got to the basic level
which I feel I can see why these groups
are what they are and so on.
Let me not talk about it
because I'm not an expert at that
and I'm only giving an impression.
And I suspect there will be,
maybe not too long from now,
a better understanding.
I'm hoping that Twister theory
might have something to say about it.
But at the moment,
the area which needs to be explored here
hasn't been explored.
The things we did at one time,
I'm sort of deviating a bit from the general trend,
but there was a question of how we treat
massive particles in Twister theory.
And naturally,
Twister theory describes massless things.
Things go along the light cone
and that sort of thing.
Because you privileged the light cones,
then the treatment of particles
that were massless got a privileged treatment.
They have a privileged treatment.
And not just that,
you find transformations.
There is a way of representing the Maxwell equations.
This is the thing I was mentioning
about the TV program.
We're describing the Maxwell equations,
which you get out of Twister theory
and it comes directly out.
What about the Dirac equation?
You want to talk about massive particles.
Well, the way it seems to lead you
is you think of the...
Well, you see a massive particle has a momentum vector,
which is time-like.
So it points within the cone.
And one way you can describe a time-like one
is think of two null ones or two light-like ones.
So you think of a zigzag.
So it's got a zig and a zag.
And that's one convenient way of doing it.
Well, you might have one which is made of three.
Zigzag, dog, something like that.
And you can get the time-like line out of...
So you can build it up from different primitives.
That's right.
So the argument is that you have a Twister
for each of these zigs and zags.
And so you might have two of them.
You might have three of them.
And you see how many of them give you the same amount.
And then you get these groups in Twister theory.
And these groups look like the particle physics groups.
So you've got SU2 and SU3.
And the idea we have is,
oh, well, that's the basis for these particle physics.
So SU2 doesn't impress me much because it's ubiquitous.
But SU3 is a very...
There's another reason.
This is the group that represents the strong force
that holds our...
Well, you see, there's the thing that SU3
gives you this...
You can gauge it.
So you have...
There is a difference between the SU2 and the SU3
that the quantum chromatinomics, if you like,
which is the theory which comes from gauging SU3,
is a genuine gauge theory.
But when you try and do it for the SU2,
for the electrons and...
We gauge the spin.
The gauging, it doesn't really work
because you've got a special...
It's not the full group and so on.
So there's something funny about it.
And there are other theories which might be
a more promising way to go.
Let's not go into that because this is all guessing.
But the idea is that you could develop
a particle physics using many Twisters.
We're going to have it, in other words,
if I'm not misunderstanding you.
The idea is that the extra data...
I mean, we have a problem in the standard model
in that we have effectively an origin story with two gods.
There's the god of Einstein that gives us space and time.
And then there's this other god that gives us
SU3 cross SU2 cross U1,
which gives us the non-gravitational forces
and all of these particle properties we call quantum numbers.
And this has no connection to the space and time data.
Well, that's the sort of thing.
It looks as though it's quite separate.
I mean, they must be tied up at some stage,
but we haven't got to that.
But the idea here was to try and do it via Twisters.
Well, I'm just trying to say that we had...
We got very excited about this for a while.
And then it was a long time ago
because when people discovered Charm,
I think it was Charm and then suddenly this didn't fit
and so we gave up the model.
And so by Charm you mean the addition
of the entirely separate versions
of the familiar family of matter.
So we now think we have three copies of matter
where the second two are repeated at higher mass scale.
That sort of thing, yes. Yeah, that's right.
And so people got...
I mean, it didn't seem so simple at that point.
And various things didn't seem to fit so well.
But I think we should go back to that.
From the insights that...
going from general relativity,
I mean, there's a long story
which should be probably hard to describe here.
But the construction...
You see, Twisters theory starts off as a theory
about space, flat space-time.
That's what bothers me about it.
Exactly.
And it was what bothered a lot of people when you see...
I mean, good company then.
I was at the time at the University of Texas
for a year.
And this Alfred Schild had put a lot of people together
who were relative general relativity experts
hoping that something would come out of it, I guess.
And I had an office next to Engelbert Shooking,
whom I learned a lot from.
And on the other side, I had an office
that was Roy Kerr's office.
And Ray Sacks was a little way down.
And I have to backtrack
because the question is where did...
where did Twister theory come from?
Now, I had lots and lots of ideas that I was trying to fit together.
Part of these were trying to combine the Riemann sphere of relativity
with the Riemann sphere of quantum mechanics.
And various other mathematical ideas
which come into quantum field theory.
And I...
they were sort of floating around,
and I remember drawing a big piece of paper with all these ideas,
which were, roughly speaking of the nature
that the world we see is described by real numbers.
But sort of hiding behind it is a world of complex numbers.
And they somehow control this world of real numbers
so that the dynamics is somehow controlled
by the way the complex numbers work.
And this was a sort of vague thought I had.
And I couldn't think of a picture in which you added...
you see, space-time has four dimensions.
