And Einstein, when you have...
I thought that this is real,
and this is not just a sort of a weird artifact
of the description of various processes
that we're being entertained.
Yes, but it's a kind of geometry.
And Minkowski showed that the space of special relativity
is really four-dimensional,
and it's this kind of geometry
in which you can have distances which are zero,
although the points are a sort of long way away from each other.
And this represents a light ray.
So you have one event, say,
and then the light through that vent reaches another event.
When I say event,
I mean not just a spatial position,
but the time as well.
You mean a position in space-time.
In space-time.
There's four coordinates, three space and one time coordinate.
So that's what we call an event.
And so you have a point or an event in space-time,
and imagine a particle moving the speed of light to another such event.
Now, the distance between those two
in this kind of geometry that Minkowski introduced is zero.
And Minkowski played around with different kinds of geometry,
and he realized that special relativity
is really best described by this kind of,
what we call Minkowski in geometry.
So you can have zero distances,
and yet the points are not on top of each other.
So your idea was to take all the points
that are bizarrely zero-distance away,
and then make those the new points in a new space?
Well, it wasn't quite that.
I had to come up to this slowly,
because it took years.
But the initial idea isn't so hard to understand, really.
You see, if you look out at the sky, what do you see?
Well, you're seeing light rays,
or you're seeing photons coming to your eye,
which have traveled with the speed of light.
So the world line in four dimensions of that photon
is tilted over at what represents the speed of light.
Now, in this Minkowski geometry,
that distance, well, it has a clear meaning,
so let me give that.
Suppose the photon is emitted at one point, one event,
and received at another event.
Now, to that photon,
the time between one and the other is zero.
And that time measure is exactly
the distance measure in Minkowski geometry.
Suppose the particle was not traveling with speed of light.
Suppose it traveled with half the speed of light,
and some other speed.
Then its time, experience of time,
is exactly the distance according to Minkowski's geometry.
So you say, if it traveled with very, very, very great speed,
suppose you traveled to a planet which is four light years away,
and you travel with...
I won't do the calculation right here,
but with half the speed of light,
then you would...
the experience that you would...
of time you experience is less
than the time that somebody here on Earth
would think that it took you to get there.
So as you travel faster,
your experience of the passage of time
slows down in a sense.
You don't think it's as long.
And if you actually traveled with speed of light,
that experience would be zero.
So this is the experience of the length of time.
Well, you could have a very, very good clock you carry with you,
and you see how...
The clock made of pure light,
it's pretty, pretty heavy out here.
Well, you don't make enough...
You can imagine a clock, say a nuclear clock or something,
and you're not traveling with the speed of light
because you can't get to the speed of light.
But the time measured by that nuclear clock
would be the distance in Minkowski's geometry.
I should point out, just for our listeners,
that even people who do this field of differential geometry,
morning, noon, and night in math departments,
almost never choose to work
in worlds with some temporal and some spatial dimension
because it just... It breaks your head.
It's a very different intuition.
Very different intuition.
And when you go back and you think about the puzzles that people had
when Einstein introduced his special and then most particularly
general relativity,
they found it very puzzling.
You could look at the arguments people had.
Well, we keep using these words like time and length
and all of these things that have become...
We don't recognize that in that one innocent decision
to break off one degree of freedom and treat it differently...
That's right.
...that all of our linguistic intuition goes out the window.
You have to start all over again.
Well, it was a curious experience I had
because I was giving a series of lectures in Seattle.
These were the Bataille Lectures,
given in what was at the...
I forget exactly what the dates were.
Maybe it was around about 1970 or something like that.
And there was a collection of mathematicians
and a collection of physicists.
John Wheeler and Cecil DeWitt had organized this.
It was a very interesting meeting
where people from both areas of expertise were brought together.
And at that time, it's hard to believe now,
but at that time mathematicians and physicists
were barely talking to each other.
And they got me to give a series of lectures.
This is before Jim Simons and C. N. Yang get together.
There is a good question.
When was that?
That was 75, 76.
It was before that.
Wow.
It must have been before that.
Is that right?
I think so, yes.
I really have to...
My memory of dates is not really clear.
I know you're hot on the trail of this,
but just to leaven something in.
Roman Jacob at MIT once beautifully said,
and I don't think you wrote it down, he said,
we didn't understand the partnership that was possible
between mathematics and physics
because we, the physicists, used to talk to the analysts.
And he said, the analysts either told us things
that were absolutely trivial and irrelevant
or things that we already understood.
He said, when we talked to the geometers,
we started to learn new things that we'd never considered.
Yes.
Well, there was very much cross-fertilization there.
But I was going to say, I gave these lectures,
I think it was 12 lectures,
and I wasted my time on some things that weren't going to...
And so I left myself only three lectures
to describe the singularities, the black hole idea,
which wasn't...
The term black hole wasn't used just then,
but the collapse.
It was just called the Schwarzschild Singularity?
Well, it was called the Singularity when it...
That was the thing.
People called it the Schwarzschild Singularity.
It's what we now call a horizon.
And I remember in my third lecture from the end
describing basically what we call a black hole.
I was talking about the Schwarzschild Singularity.
And I was explaining that it was basically to do
with the zero-length business.
And Steenrod was a very distinguished mathematician.
From Princeton, Norman Steenrod.
Yeah.
And he'd written this book on five bundles,
which is absolutely...
Impenetrable.
Well, impenetrable, but also fundamental to the subject.
Yes, but it's so impenetrable that I never got to the point
of being impenetrable.
But anyway, he was there at the back of the room,
and I remember telling him about it,
and he was absolutely dumbfounded.
And he said, here's somebody who's a real expert
at this kind of geometry,
Riemannian geometry or whatever you call it,
where you have the notion of when the distance is small
then the points are close together.
And here you have this other kind of geometry,
and the intuition you need for that geometry
was completely foreign.
That's the point you were just making.
Well, because we do have this weird way
of talking about something that sounds like this.
We might call it like non-Hausdorff topology,
but it is a Hausdorff topology.
Yes, this is a Hausdorff topology.
So the problem is, is it's pulling apart
two different notions of the word close.
That's right, exactly.
Because you think of close means a small distance.
So you imagine a little tiny ball
where the distance from that point is small.
Mathematics makes you pay for every attempt
to sort of intuitively encode something that isn't precise.
We've been discussing the fact
that this intuition is very, very strange
involving how to think about spaces of the type
