This object has fascinated me my entire life.
And it's very strange that all of the stability of matter and matter's strange properties
with electron shells are all coming out of this weird knot
that appears everywhere in the universe.
And it's not universally known that it's even there.
Yeah, it's the difference between the fermions and the bosons.
So the particles which have a spin, which is half an odd number.
Right.
Which have this curious property that you rotate them and they get back to manage themselves.
And it's crucial for matter, because the Pali exclusion principle depends on the Fermi statistics,
which is to do with the exactest property.
So without this knottedness and the scissor trick or whatever you want to call it,
we wouldn't have a periodic table and chemical elements.
You wouldn't have anything.
We wouldn't have anything.
Yeah, you wouldn't have fermions.
In other words, you wouldn't have things which have an exclusion principle.
And the bosons, which are the opposite, they like to be on...
If you have two bosons, you can have them in the same state.
They'd rather like to be in the same state.
So you get these things called bosons and condensates where if you get them very cold,
they all flop together into the same state.
But for the fermions, it's completely the opposite.
They hate to be in the same state, or they can't be.
And this is what sort of pushes them apart.
So you get the fermi principle.
So you have this strange thing called the spin statistics theorem
that says that if things have a knottedness of a particular kind,
then they either are highly individualistic or highly communistic,
whatever you want to call it.
My question would be, there's another aspect of that that I've been very curious about,
which is when we have to treat these objects quantum mechanically,
and you've of course thought a great deal about quantum theory,
we have two totally different prescriptions for how to make these different objects quantum mechanical,
but there's a one-to-one correspondence between these two utterly different treatments
that matter and force get quantum mechanically.
It's the darndest thing.
When you get these two kinds of particles, two kinds of atoms,
the bosons and the fermions,
and it has to do with the...
Make a complete rotation.
Do they come back to themselves or do they come back to minus themselves?
That's the topological bit.
But then there's this whole thing that might go under,
like bear is in integration, which is no integration at all.
I mean, you're effectively almost lying about what you're doing to the fermions
to make them look like bosons.
And yet, what we seem to get out of this is that nobody...
I don't think anyone could have anticipated that there would be a dictionary
of two totally different structures, which seems to be almost word-for-word.
Yes, because they're not totally different in the sense that you take a two-fermion system
and you get a boson, so you're all part of the same way.
Yes, that's right.
Now, maybe I could ask you a little bit about that.
So I want to get to supersymmetry, but before I do...
Yes, okay, go on.
We're going to make you work this morning, sir.
I can understand that.
So here's my question.
Am I correct that you've lived through two eras,
an era of fairly rapid development in testable fundamental physics coming from theory?
I've tried to be very careful about setting that up so I don't walk into a trap.
And a stagnant era in which theoretical predictions coming at the level of fundamental theory
have not been rapidly confirmed by experiment.
You're thinking of things like string theory?
I'm thinking about a regime before the early 70s and a regime following the early 70s.
Supersymmetry, is that what you meant?
Well, it could be grand unified theory, supersymmetry, technicolor.
It could be asymptotic safety.
It could be any one of a number of speculative theories from loop quantum gravity, regi-calculus, string theory.
It's like the kitchen sink.
We've tried a million different things that don't...
They didn't really pan out.
Well, it seems like if you'll permit an American metaphor,
we've been waved into third base and we've been waiting for the signal to come home for about 50 years
and we're not even sure that anyone's still there at home plate.
Well, you see, you might be playing the wrong game, that's the trouble.
You think rounders would do it?
Well, I mean, there's a lot of intriguing ideas.
You mentioned, basically, I think you were hinting at supersymmetry is one of them, which...
Maybe I've thrown off close to 10.
I could do it pretty easily.
But I guess you had...
There's nothing new about that.
People were playing around with knots and things.
I mean, Kelvin was the idea that knots might be...
At the basis of particle identity.
Yeah.
I mean, these ideas come back again in a different form,
but certainly in the, I guess, the 19th century, people were playing with...
Well, I guess you can go back further than that.
It's logiston.
Well, that's true.
But I would say that Maxwell was the first great condensation of theoretical ideas
where an enormous amount of theory surrounding magnetism, electricity, visible light, invisible light...
Well, that was a huge, huge revolution.
And that all of those things now can be unpacked from a single geometric equation.
But that's the thing.
I mean, people know about Galileo.
They know about Newton.
They know about Kepler.
They know about Einstein.
And they also may know about the modern quantum field theory, Heisenberg's, Roehlinger people.
How many people know about Maxwell?
Not enough.
Not enough.
Although people do have Maxwell's equations tattooed on their backsides.
Well, some people do.
Yes.
But the general public don't know about Maxwell.
But Maxwell's equations completely changed our way of looking at the world.
And we live off it without thinking.
You know, you've got these lights here.
Well, these are visible lights.
So we know you knew about visible light, but we didn't know anything about X-rays.
X-rays, X-rays, radio waves, they're all part of the same scheme.
Electromagnetism.
Well, some of this goes back to Faraday just before Maxwell.
Sure.
So Faraday had a lot of the influential ideas.
Electromagnetism.
Well, a little bit of that was known before Ersted knew that if you had an electric current,
then you get a magnetic field.
But it was the other way around with Maxwell.
Now, if you have a varying magnetic field, you get a current.
And you combine these ideas, you can make a dynamo.
So these things go to Faraday.
And he had sort of clues that there might be some connection with light.
But he didn't have the equations.
But even Max, you know, I'm very partial to this book on orchids that followed Darwin's origin of species.
Oh, yeah.
That was the book he wrote.
The title is, and I love reciting it.
It's on the various contrivances by which British and foreign orchids are fertilized by insects.
And so you think, well, why would he write a damn fool book like that after origin of species?
And the answer is he wanted to test whether he understood his own theory.
And in fact, it's revealed that he didn't understand the full implications.
I would say that the same thing is true of Maxwell's equations,
which is this is perhaps the best dress rehearsal for unification we've ever seen.
Oh, yeah.
You know, full unification.
And on the other hand, it's not until the late fifties that we actually unpack the last trivial consequence of the theory
with this bizarre effect of passing an electron beam around an insulated wire.
Aronoff.
Yeah.
In fact, we had dinner last night.
We asked Yakker Aronoff if he wanted to come, but he's in Israel and he sends his regards.
Oh, you know, send mine back.
Oh, we'll do.
I don't know.
He's great fun.
I always...
But that was a very weird thing where we learned that if you have an insulated solenoid,
that the phase of the electron beam going in a circle around it would be shifted despite the fact that the electromagnetic field
could be treated as zero because the electromagnetic potential, this precursor,
turned out to carry the actual content.
Before that, it had been thought that that was just a sort of a convenience product to recover electromagnetism,
and it turned out that that geometric object was more important.
And, you know, in part, the reason I bring this up is that we would have no way of visualizing this effect
if it were not for your interaction with M.C. Escher.
Now, you have to explain that one.
Well, you know, this etching called ascending and descending,
which is sometimes referred to as the penrose stairs.
Yes.
Well, you want that story?
Well, I do, but what I was going to say about why I'm asking for it
is that the photon is really best represented in some sense as the angles of a set of stairs like that
with this very mysterious property that what you're really talking about is what we would call horizontal subspaces,
pictured as stairs, and the fact that there's a paradox of going around,
and you seem to be going up all the time, but you're back to where you came,
is the same thing as saying, I never go up and yet I come back higher or lower,
and that's called holinomy, and we don't have a means of visualizing that
except for like either rock, paper, scissors, or your work with Escher.
Is that a fair comment?
Well, I had...
Is this the first time you've ever heard somebody say this?
Well, let me...
I mean, there's a quite complicated story here.
All right.
You see, when I was a graduate student in Cambridge,
I think it was in my second year when the International Congress of Mathematicians took place in Amsterdam,
and so I and a few friends decided we would go to this meeting,
and I remember, I think I was just about to get on a bus or a tram or something,
and Sean Wiley, who was a lecturer in algebraic topology,
was just about to get off the bus, I was getting on,
and he had this catalog in his hand of an exhibition in the Van Gogh Museum,
and this was a picture of the one called Night and Day, with birds flying off into the day and the night,
and the birds change into the spaces between the birds,
and I was looking at this and I thought, well, that's amazing.
What is that?
Where did nothing come from?
I said, oh, well, you'd be very interested, this is this.
In the Van Gogh Museum, there is this exhibition by an artist called Escher,
so I'd never heard of him before,
and I went to this exhibition and I was absolutely blown away.
I thought it was most amazing thing.
I remember particularly one called Relativity,
where people walk up the stairs and gravity directions are two different ways,
and I thought this was hugely impressive,
and I went away thinking, well, I'd like to do something impossible, you see,
