And algebra.
I mean, he wrote a book on commutative algebra.
Now, he had a partner for much of his career,
Isidore Singer, who I was quite close to for a period of time.
Sure, yeah, yeah.
And is was, again, another one of these figures
that if I'd never met one,
I wouldn't know that the human mind was capable
of that level of repeated insight.
Yeah.
And they came up with something called
the Atia Singer Index Theorem,
which governs worlds in which there are no time dimensions,
but only space dimensions or no space dimensions
and only time dimensions.
But there's no...
Just equations without any differential equations.
Well, differential equations,
if you think about differential equations
as coming very often in three main fields of study,
elliptic hyperbolic and parabolic,
then the idea is that wave equations would be hyperbolic,
the type that you're worried about in physics.
But things like soap films look like elliptic equations
and Atia and Singer had this incredible insight
into the nature of elliptic equations.
Do you...
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Sorry, no, I was going to say it's an extremely general theorem
which covers, goes over all sorts of different areas
of mathematics and has applications.
Well, it sort of tells you that the knottedness
of some beautiful space that you might be exploring,
like some kind of high dimensional donut
is knotted many times around itself, whatever you want,
that that topological knottedness tells you something
about the kinds of waves that can dance on that space.
Yeah.
No, I say it's a very remarkable theorem, certainly.
Does that theorem in the so-called elliptic category,
a world of space in no time, let's say,
relate strongly in your estimation
to the most important hyperbolic equations
that govern the waves that make up our physical world
due to the constraints of relativity in a world
with one time and three spatial dimensions?
Well, all I can say if I use the theorem,
and at least two different contexts, yes, maybe more.
So, I mean, I'm not an expert in that area at all.
And it was mainly when I was trying to solve a particular problem.
I don't know how much detail you want to go into these things.
It had to do with how to make twist the theory work
in curved spaces.
But I ran up into a question which had to do,
it has to do with complex geometry.
So you've got geometry in which instead of using real numbers
to use, you think of measuring with rulers, say,
and the ruler is one-dimensional.
The numbers go along one dimension, if you like.
And complex numbers, where you have the square root of minus one
incorporated into the number system, they're really two-dimensional.
So the geometry of complex numbers has twice as many as the real numbers.
But the geometry of complex numbers is particularly fascinating,
or unless the algebra, you might say the analysis or whatever it is,
it's particularly fascinating.
And I was sort of, when I learned about this,
when I was an undergraduate doing mathematics,
and I thought it was incredibly beautiful.
Because when you talk about real numbers,
you can have a draw curve, which is a function.
So this curve has some shape.
And you might want to see, is it a smooth curve?
That means you have a tangent direction as you go around it.
Maybe it jumps.
So it's not even continuous, or maybe it's smooth.
Or maybe you have to have a curvature of this curve,
and you might not be smooth enough to have curvature.
So if there's one degree of smoothness, or two degrees,
or you can have three degrees, or four degrees,
and they're all different, or an infinite number of degrees,
or that you can expand your function in the power series.
They're all different.
And then when you learn about complex,
you say, oh, we now do it all over again,
and you've got your analysis on algebra, if you like,
or geometry, where it uses complex numbers.
And then suddenly you find that if it's smooth,
everything comes with it.
You can differentiate as many times as you like.
You can expand as the power series.
And I thought that's incredibly magic.
You just have to do it once.
Rather than there's all these different kinds.
I should say that mathematicians quite often view the complex case,
the case of complex numbers as the natural case,
and the case of real numbers as artificially tortured,
which is a complete reversal from how most engineers are physicists.
And US actually have been quite instrumental in making the case
for the fundamentally complex nature.
It's not just a convenience that we use complex numbers in physics,
but that nature appears to be essentially complex.
I think you see, by just hearing the nature of complex analysis,
and how beautiful it struck me as being,
and I had this sort of feeling,
wouldn't it be wonderful if these numbers were somehow the basis of way
physical world operates?
I have no reason to think that.
And then I learned about quantum mechanics.
And I was amazed to find, yeah, there they are.
They're not just useful convenience.
You can use them to simplify ideas in mathematics.
You can, you know, might have an integral.
You'd have to work awfully hard to get rid of them.
Yes.
But there are things you find a little trick to do.
We come with contour integrals and they drop out in an amazing way.
And I thought, well, that's a piece of magic,
but it doesn't tell you anything about the world.
It just tells you this is a neat way of doing things.
And then I learned about quantum mechanics.
And suddenly these numbers are right there at the basis of the whole subject.
And I thought that was an amazing thing.
Maybe these complex numbers are really there at the root of everything.
I mean, I think you wanted to talk about twisters.
Well, that was good.
Maybe I can intro that and then try to fit that into this history
that I'm claiming we don't tell.
Now, one of the ways of describing what twister theory is,
and of course it's a bit of a tall order for a podcast,
is that you are replacing Einstein's space time
with a larger structure that in some sense implies space time,
where you can take all the data that roams around on space time,
the waves, the force, the matter, what have you.
And you can, as mathematicians might say,
pull it upstairs to this larger twister space
where you might have a couple of extra tricks up your sleeve
because the extra space that you've created to augment space time with
has this kind of complex number aspect baked into it.
Yes, well, it was something.
Just to go back for a moment,
it was to explain the Atea Singer theorem.
That's why it was useful.
I could come to that in a minute because it's a very interesting story.
The way these things sort of come together
and take many, many years sometimes before they come together.
But I was really intrigued by these complex numbers.
And there is, well, something, let me tell you,
sort of the origin of the twister idea.
I was struck by the fact that, you see,
people know that when things travel with a great speed,
and in, according to Einstein's special relativity,
they get sort of flattened in the direction of motion.
Now, this is a way of talking about it,
and you get this Lorentz contraction, as it's called.
Now, I was playing around with relativity
and thinking about, it was this two-component spinners
and thinking about the geometry of it worked.
And I realized if you think of the sky,
you see, the sky is where you have vectors in four dimensions.
Think of a vector as something which has a magnitude
and a direction to it as well.
And in ordinary three-space,
you've got this idea of a vector,
which is quite common to people know about.
But when you're in four dimensions,
then you have space and time together.
But you have particular vectors,
which are called null,
and these are the ones along the light cone.
So this is, you see, an ordinary vector
might represent a velocity.
So you have a particle moving along with a certain speed,
and your four-dimensional vector
would point along the velocity
or the momentum of that particle.
Weirdly, in the space-time metric of Einstein,
these are vectors that are not zero,
but if you used Einstein's special rulers and protractors,
what would the length of these vectors be?
The vector is zero.
So it's linguistically tricky to talk about these things
because they're non-zero things that would be measured
to be of zero length
if that concept of length was, in fact,
extended from your normal concept of length.
Yes, the idea that something of length zero
means it's two points,
the distance between them is zero,
you think of them right on top of each other,
or if the distance is very, very small,
they're pretty close to each other.
But in the kind of geometry,
we'll call it Minkowski geometry,
because although it's describing Einstein's special relativity,
the geometry was not Einstein.
People often say,
oh, Einstein introduced his four-dimensional space-time.
That's not true.
It was Minkowski.
