such as an electron.
So think of an electron. It has spin-half.
Now, what that means is that it's basically two states of spin,
which people call spin-up and spin-down.
Well, what does that mean?
Put your thumb up like that.
Right-handed spin is where your fingers go,
and that's spin-up means right-handed about up.
Spin-down is right-handed about down.
It's left-handed about up.
And those are the two basic states.
But what's special about up and down? Nothing.
So you think of what about right, left, forwards, backwards.
All those are combinations of up and down.
And they're combinations through these complex numbers,
which lie at the basis of quantum mechanics.
But here you can see, in a visual way, what they're doing.
You see, you can say, up, down, what's left and right?
Well, these are combinations of up and down.
So you add this much of up to that much of down,
and you get to the right.
Right.
And you minus it, you get to the left,
or i times, you get forwards or back, whatever it is.
And the complex numbers come in to describe
these possible directions of spin.
And it's the Riemann sphere, again.
But you are relating these complex numbers of quantum mechanics
to the directions in space.
So you have a connection between these rather abstract numbers,
which are fundamental to quantum mechanics,
and the much more concrete picture of the directions in space.
Well, but Roger, I think you're both...
Well, let me challenge you slightly.
Go on, yes.
What you're really talking about is a very important fork in the road for physics.
Do you wed yourself to the world that we're actually given,
and you know, Mach was famous for having said this phrase,
the world is given only once.
And so we happen to know that there does exist a world
that appears to be well modeled by three spatial and one temporal dimension.
And then the key question is,
do you wish to have a more general theory,
which works in all dimensions,
or which works for all different divisions
between how many spatial and how many temporal dimensions?
And what I see you as having done,
which I think is incredibly noble, brave, and scientifically valid,
is to work with mathematics
that are really particularizing themselves to the world we're given,
rather than sort of keeping some kind of...
I mean, like, you're getting married to the world we live in
in a way that other people are just dating it
and wishing to keep their options open.
I think you've hit on a very crucial point.
Absolutely right.
I mean, for example, with string theory and all that,
people talk about 26 dimensions or 10 spatial dimensions,
or 11 or 12 and things like that.
And sure, the mathematics,
we've got mathematics to handle these things,
and maybe that's important to the way the world works.
But I was never attracted by that for basically two reasons.
One was the reason I'm just trying to subscribe here,
and it's exactly what you're saying,
that I'm looking for a way in which you find a mathematics
to describe the world which is very particular to the dimensionality we see.
So the three space dimensions and one time dimension
is described in this formalism very directly.
And if you're going to try and talk about other numbers of dimensions
of space and time, it doesn't work.
Well, as much as I really like to stick it to the string theorists,
that's not exactly their problem either,
because 26 is really, because it's two more than 24
and 10 is really because it's two more than eight,
and in eight you have something special called triality.
And so what they were really doing was figuring out
how to build different theories around different highly specific targets.
But you see there, it's the beauty in the mathematics,
which sure is a good guide,
but it has to be...
Well, they play with point theories
and they never grow up to playing with reality.
That's the sort of thing.
I mean, it's perfectly good to explore all these different things,
and it's very valuable.
But I'm trying to follow a route which is viewed,
I think in many quarters, is very narrow.
I'm looking for a route which works specifically
for the number of space-time dimensions that we have.
I mean, there are aspects of twisted theory
which do work in other dimensions,
but they run out very quickly.
And you can see analogs of these things,
but they're kind of...
This is sort of a strong version of the anthropic principle,
which is that if there weren't a beautiful mathematics to catch you,
I mean, in some sense, despite the fact that you're in your late 80s,
it's like you're stage diving at a punk concert
where you're kind of hoping that the mathematics catches you
because you're willing to actually marry at a very deep level
the world that we do observe.
And I find that what's very disturbing to me
is that the political economy of science
means that fewer people are willing to make strong speculations,
strong predictions to explore things
that don't give them the flexibility
in case things that don't work out to say,
well, it could be like this, it could be like that.
And so, in part,
I see you as part of a dying breed of people
who are willing to go down with a ship
for the privilege of commanding it as its captain.
Well, you can view it that way if you like.
My claim is that the ship isn't actually sinking.
No, no, no, I'm not claiming...
I think that one of the things that's happened
is that yours has been one of the most important idiosyncratic programs
that in fact got a huge lease on life
from the fact that it has positive externalities
because it was absolutely solid mathematics.
It turned out that even if it doesn't give us
a fundamental description of the world,
it is at least a deep insight
into how to transform one problem into another
to allow solutions that wouldn't have been easily gleaned
in the original formulation.
Yeah.
And I'm not saying that it's knocked out of the park
for a fundamental theory,
but I don't actually know whether...
Do you believe twisters are a more fundamental description of the world?
Well, I do, yes.
I mean, I don't normally say that loud,
but now you've put me in a position, yes.
No, I do think so.
I think that's fucking great.
I mean, in other words,
it's like you have to say this, I believe,
and in general, people won't say it.
I think the thing is that I have been driven in directions,
just as you're pointing out,
in directions which are picking out the particular
rather than the general.
Right.
So, sure, you have mathematics,
which one of the huge aims in mathematics
is to be more and more general.
And you mentioned the Atea Singer theorem.
That's a beautiful example of that,
where it simply generalizes over areas
which you would never thought.
But it also particularizes.
So, for example,
it is only in low dimensions
where you get to play the game
with what are called deformation complexes,
where the first term is the symmetries in the problem,
the second term is the fields or the waves in the problem,
and the third term is the equations in the problem,
and then you get to cut it off at that point
and have that be this magical concept of an elliptic complex.
So, for example, in dimension four,
we glean something bizarre,
which is that there are an infinite number
of different ways to do calculus
in four-dimensional space,
and only one way to do it in every other dimension.
Yes, yes.
Well, there's something special there about four.
Certainly, that's true.
And the connections may be not that clear at the moment,
but maybe we will see that this isn't...
Maybe differentiable structures are part of physics.
It's quite possible, yeah.
But how amazing that...
I'll give you another very bizarre one.
I don't know whether this has ever come up.
If you have two sets of symmetries known as Lie groups
that act transitively on the same sphere in usual position,
then either their intersection acts transitively on that sphere,
or the dimension of that sphere is 15.
And I believe that the intersection of the groups
looks like the electrostrong group.
So, it's very close to the particle spectrum
of theoretical physics pulled out of nowhere
just from talking about sphere transitive group actions.
Well, it's clear that one...
I mean, in particle physics...
I mean, I've never really been somebody
who studied particle physics closely.
Is that right? I didn't know.
Well, I mean, in general way, I have.
But I suppose I thought we may be a long way
from really understanding what's going on there.
I don't know.
I mean, I hope that...
I didn't know that.
Well, you know, we have...
No, it's a completely...
