and I had an idea about an impossible structure with bridges and roads and things like that,
so locally it makes sense, but as a whole, it was inconsistent,
and I didn't think I'd seen anything quite like that in his exhibition,
so I played around with this and then I sort of whittled it down to the triangle,
which people refer to as a tri-bar,
so it's a triangle which is locally completely consistent picture,
but as a whole, it's impossible, and I showed this to my father,
and then he started drawing impossible buildings, and then he came up with this staircase,
so we decided we'd like to write a paper together on this,
and we had no idea what the subject was.
I mean, who would you send a paper like this to? What journal?
So he decided, since he knew the editor of the British Journal of Psychology,
and he thought he'd be able to get it through, we decided the subject was psychology.
Of course, as you say, it's more in a way mathematics,
because it illustrates ideas, well, of cohomology and other things like that,
which I didn't quite know I was illustrating at the time,
but anyway, we wrote this paper, and we gave some reference to Escher,
I think, reference to the catalogue,
and my father sent a copy to a Dutch friend that says he managed to get it to Escher,
and then my father and Escher had a correspondence, so that was...
This is Lionel Penrose.
Lionel, my father Lionel Penrose, yes.
But I actually visited Escher then,
and he had sent a print to my father with a dedication to it,
and he gave me another, and I have this in the Bodleian...
But in some sense...
So the Eschmeralian Museum.
You see, I'm very indebted to you for this reason,
because when I have to describe what general relativity is,
and I don't wish to lie the way everyone else lies,
if I'm going to lie, I'm going to do it differently,
I say that you have to begin with four degrees of freedom,
and then you have to put rulers and protractors into that system
so that you can measure length and angle.
That gives rise miraculously to a derivative operator that measures rise over run.
That rise is measured from a reference level.
Those reference levels don't knit together,
and they form Penrose stares,
and the degree of Escher-ness, or Penrose-ness,
is what is measured by the curvature tensor,
which breaks into three pieces.
You throw one of them away called the vial curvature,
and you readjust the proportions of the other two,
and you set that equal to the amount of stuff.
Now, that's a very long causal chain,
but it is linguistically an accurate description
of what general relativity actually is.
Yeah, well, it illustrates that.
It illustrates comology, which I was being interviewed ages ago
by, I don't know whether it's BBC, I can't remember what it was.
There was an interview, but for some reason,
they were interested in Twister theory now.
They think they're interested.
Well, they thought they were. I guess they'd heard the word or something.
Right.
And at one point they say,
well, surprisingly not at the beginning,
they asked me what good it was, you see,
what can you use it for?
So I said, oh, you can use it to solve Maxwell's equations,
you see, and that's equations of electricity, magnetism, and light,
and so they got a bit interested.
And they said, oh, how do you do that?
Well, it actually involves an idea that I couldn't really explain here.
It's not possible to, in a sort of popular talk like this.
No, no, what is it exactly?
No, no, no, I couldn't do it.
No, what's the, it's an idea, it's a thing called comology.
No, I could explain that.
So then I went back home and I was lying my bed,
and I thought, I think I can't, you know it's this and possible,
trying, that's exactly an illustration of comology.
So I went back the next day and told them that they weren't interested.
They didn't use it.
I think I may have tried to explain, yes,
where you have something which is locally consistent,
but with an ambiguity about it.
So here the ambiguity is you're not quite sure,
you draw a picture of it.
The ambiguity is that you don't know how far away it is.
It could be bigger and further away or smaller and closer.
And the picture is consistent,
but you get an inconsistency if you go around.
Right.
And locally, because you have a freedom.
Yes.
And you misuse this freedom in a sense.
So the glitch in it is this impossible structure.
Well, I had this, so this is actually my son,
my 14 year old son's copy of the book.
I see, yes.
And I was having to describe this to him,
what comology was.
He said that one forms, which is a piece of technology
in mathematics, that you can analogize to radar guns
so that while you're driving and the policeman shoots
your car with a radar gun,
he's measuring the component of speed in the direction of his gun.
And so that's something that eats the vector of speed
and spits out a number.
And you could imagine a racetrack
that wanted to have a circular series of radar guns
to measure the speed of cars going around it.
Now, the question is,
you also recognize that you could build
a poor man's version of a speed system
by heating the track to some temperature
and measuring how quickly the temperature changes
the car went over.
I see, yes.
But you can't actually have the one thing that you want,
the series of radar guns that are always measuring
the speed going around the track
because at some point if the temperature is going down,
down, down, down, down, down, down,
then it's going to be 10 degrees below wherever it started,
which is your paradox again.
Yes, but there's a nice example,
somebody may not remember who,
where you have a ball going up the stairs or down it,
whichever it is,
and you accompany that with a note going up or down
and you can make it sound as though it keeps on going
all the way up and all the way up all the time
but it's by the harmonics.
You bring a new harmonic in as you go around.
Below and it's sub perceptual.
So there's this auditory illusion that captures these.
Yes, you have an auditory version of the same thing
and somebody had this ball bouncing around with that.
That's a bit of a cheat.
I mean, my point would be that your Escher stairs
or your Penrose stairs
are, the cheat is that it appears to be flat.
In other words, it's very easy to achieve that
on a curved object,
but that what you did was to create the illusion
as taking place in a plane or...
Well, you can draw it in a plane.
Indirect the linear system.
You have an interpretation of a three-dimensional thing,
which is ambiguous.
So you saw the movie Inception, of course,
where they realized this action.
Yes, they have an illustration of that.
But that effect is the soul
of the Aronof Bohm effect,
which surprised the world in the late 50s
because it was discovered so late into the game.
It is a same sort of thing, that's right.
Well, of course, like so many things,
people point out that this...
Oscar Reutersfald, who's a Swedish artist,
had drawn things like this before.
I think round about the year I was born,
he had a picture, which is all with cubes going around.
It wasn't exactly the same, but it was...
I think I've seen these floating.
Yes, the one with the cubes, yes.
And then he had versions with staircases, too.
He never put any perspective in it,
which seemed to me that was something he missed.
Missed opportunity.
Yes, in my triangle, I did put some perspective in it.
So it's slightly...
But you can do it with a perspective, and it still works.
So what I want to get at is,
I think also that we have this very funny thing
that happened recently, starting from the early 70s,
where we started mis-telling our own physics history
because of the needs of the community
to look like we were succeeding when we weren't,
or we were succeeding at something different
than we were trying to succeed at.
And in part, one of the reasons that I want to use
this podcast to discuss science
is to give alternate versions of what's happened.
And I want to explore one or two of them with you.
Now, you and I have a very funny relationship,
which we don't really know each other,
but you were quite close to Michael Atia at various points.
Oh, yeah.
And I was...
Well, we were graduate students together in the same group.
In the same year.
Absolutely, same year, yes, with the same supervisor.
Incredible.
Yes, that's right.
And then you continued to cross-pollinate ideas
through the years.
Yes, absolutely.
Now, for listeners who don't know,
Michael Atia was one of the absolutely most dominant
and generative...
I don't even know what to call him.
He's like beyond genius, a seer of type.
Well, he has such a broad understanding of mathematics.
It's partly...
And geometry more generally and analysis.
It was just incredible.
