And I needed to add basically one more dimension
because I wanted to incorporate an idea.
Again, it's difficult to describe these things on a sort of popular program.
But it was an idea fundamental to quantum field theory,
which has to do with splitting your field amplitudes
into positive and negative frequencies.
And it's a...
Engelbert's had impressed upon me
that this was very fundamental to quantum field theory.
Most people weren't stressing it at that time.
And the way to think about this is to think of the Riemann sphere again.
And you have the equator of the Riemann sphere
describing the real numbers together with infinity.
And you've got this complex numbers on one side,
one hemisphere and also on the other hemisphere.
And the ones which are positive frequency,
which is the fundamental thing for quantum field theory,
extend into one half.
So this, to me, was a very beautiful way of thinking about it
rather than splitting everything into Fourier components
and taking half of them, and that seemed to me beautiful.
Do you have four degrees of freedom with one extra real degree of freedom?
I just wanted one extra dimension like the Riemann sphere
going from the curve to the whole sphere.
And I wanted it to divide it into two halves.
And that was the picture I wanted.
And you try to do the spacetime, it doesn't work.
The spacetime is four-dimensional.
And if you complex if I say it's eight-dimensional,
that doesn't divide into two, that's just something else.
I knew that wasn't right.
Okay.
Now, I was in Austin, Texas.
I had friends in Dallas.
Now, this was the year in which Kennedy was assassinated.
And my friends in Dallas were at a dinner.
And it was the next place that Kennedy was to go to
and he was going to give a speech.
And they all got worried because he didn't turn up.
And they were generally quite right to be worried
because he'd been shot.
And this was a great shock to us all.
And so we decided we wanted to calm ourselves down
and we went to a trip from Austin where I was
and Dallas where the others were.
And we went off in a few cars to San Antonio
and maybe to the coast.
And this was to try and recover from the shock.
And coming back, all the women wanted to gossip and so on.
And I was with Pishta Asvat,
who was a nice fellow, I like him a lot, Hungarian.
But he didn't speak much.
So all the others wanted to gossip and I was sort of left over
and the two of us went in the car driving back to Austin.
And so I had a nice silent drive coming back
and I started to think about these constructions
that Ivor Robinson, he was in Dallas at the time,
an English fellow who lived in Dallas.
And he constructed these solutions of the Maxwell Equations
which had this curious twist to them.
And I had understood these things
and I realized that they were described by, as you talked about,
the Hopf map or the Clifford parallels.
You can think of a sphere in four dimensions,
three-dimensions sphere of four dimensions
and you have these circles which fill the whole space,
no two intersect and every two link.
Beautiful configuration.
And I realized that this was the thing
that geometrically described these solutions
that Ivor had found.
And I tried to think about this and I thought,
well, okay, these sort of describe...
Well, the way Ivor had thought about it,
think of a light ray.
And then you think of all the light rays
which meet that light ray.
So you've got one light ray
and all the other light rays which meet it.
And that family of light rays,
solutions of Maxwell which point along those rays.
So what he did, this was his trick,
you move that light ray into the complex.
So you add a complex number to the...
So two extra dimensions.
Well, it pushes the light ray into the complex.
And then you construct this twisting.
You don't see the light ray anymore,
it's pushed into the complex,
but you've still got the complex family of light rays
which meet it in a certain sense.
So I try to understand what that looks like.
And I thought, this is...
You're pushing something into the complex
and you describe it by means of this
complicated twisting family of light rays.
So in the drive back,
I thought, well, let's count the number of dimensions.
There are these, as I call them later,
Robinson Conquerences.
And I was gratified or startled
or whatever the right word is
to find that the number of dimensions
of these family of light rays was six,
six-dimensional family.
What's the dimension of the family of light rays?
Five.
So the ones you actually see directly in the light rays,
that's the real thing.
And the thing which governing in the mysterious,
complex world,
add one dimension.
They can twist right-handed, that's one way,
left-handed, that's the other way,
devise the thing into exactly what I was looking for.
Fantastic.
And that additionally had this structure
of three complex dimensions?
Yes.
Well, I had to go back and get hold of my blackboard
and try to work it out.
And I'm very quickly...
So it was a complex, projective three-space.
You have these two twisters
and I, well, pretty chuffed
with myself to realize what this was.
You have a five-dimensional space
which divides this six real-dimensional space,
which is really a three-complex
dimensional space into two-halves.
So if I'm understanding,
you would start out off with a
seven-dimensional sphere.
You'd take an action by a circle
to get the complex
projective three-space
and then you could further quotient that out
by two spheres to get the four-dimensional sphere.
Well, you have to have a...
You can think of it as a sphere and...
Maybe I'm not seeing it correctly.
You can think of it as a sphere and...
But you had a complex projective three-space.
Yeah, you can think of a seven-sphere.
Now, let me just tell you what I find fascinating
about this story is that
you're talking about a
period traveling between two cities
where you realize something is the hop-fibration.
Well, I knew it was the hop-fibration,
but I hadn't actually thought of it.
You may not know the following.
Oh, go ahead. Yes, yes.
Isidore Singer
took the work of Jim Simons
and his father
and took the work of Jim Simons
and
Frank Yang.
Oh, really? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And on the trip to Oxford where you and Michael
were, he said,
oh, my God, this is the quaternionic
rather than the complex hop-fibration.
He said it was that was the instance
when he realized that the self-dual
instanton equations were going to be a revolution.
And so it was the exact moment
of the relationship to something
non-trivial, in his case,
as the quaternionic rather
than the complex hop-fibration.
So this is almost an exact parallel
between two stories because I've never heard yours before.
I see. That's very interesting.
It also has relevance, direct relevance.
Direct? Yes.
I think as you were just saying,
because you think of the vector space
for which the complex three-spaces,
and of course that's four
complex dimensions.
And then that means
three real dimensions.
Look, I want to tie this into a bigger thread,
which I think is fascinating.
I am not
a devotee
of string theory,
nor am I of loop quantum gravity.
I think that most of what has been said
about supersymmetry has been overbearing
and wrong. I completely agree
with all those things you're saying.
And I think that the intellectual
carnage
from these adventures
in political
economy or public relations
or whatever you want to call it
