that Einstein and Minkowski and Poincare were considering.
How does that begin to lead us
towards these more speculative ideas
of yours surrounding complex numbers
and the Twister program?
I don't think many people, many of them may have heard of it,
but even in mathematics, you have to know
that you were sort of seen as leading a cult.
It had its own newsletter, its own bizarre drawings.
It was very difficult to communicate to members
of the Twister cult because they didn't speak like other people.
Well, we had this Twister newsletter,
which started off just in handwriting,
and it was duplicated.
Let's not go into that for the moment.
Talk about the origin of Twisters here, if you like.
Where did it come from?
Is this, in fact, your big bet in physics, do you think?
Yeah, I think so.
Well, you see, it's between that and the cosmology.
The cosmology is a bit different because it's not such a...
Look, it's a wild idea,
but it's not a whole body of wild ideas,
which Twister theory more is.
But it has lots of connections with mathematics,
as pure mathematics and connections with physics.
Let me describe the basis of it
because I think we've got most of the things we need.
You see, the light cone describes how,
from one point or one event in spacetime,
all the different points of zero distance from it,
or in other words, all the light rays from that point.
Now, let me think of it the other way around.
That is my past light cone.
So I'm sitting at a certain point in spacetime,
and I look out at the universe,
and all the light rays that get to me
at a particular instant moment of my time
come along this past light cone.
You imagine this cone stretching out into the past
and getting bigger and bigger as it goes back in time.
And that's all the events which are...
At one moment of my time, I see those events.
So I see a lot of stars in the sky.
Now, let's suppose that...
I mean, the stars in the sky look like points, you see,
so that you have this sphere, the celestial sphere,
which is my field of vision,
if I'm imagining myself out in space.
So imagine that the Earth was transparent,
so you weren't...
That's one way, or just let's go out into space
and I can be looking at the world all around me.
Now, let's imagine that another astronaut
comes whizzing past me at nearly the speed of light,
and just as we pass each other,
he or she looks out at the sky at the same moment as I do.
Now, because of a phenomenon known as aberration,
the stars will be slightly...
not in the same place with regard to that astronaut as me.
This guy is somewhat distorted.
But it's distorted in a very particular way,
which is what's called conformal.
To say this in a simple way,
suppose I happen to see a configuration of stars
that happen to be on a circle.
Suppose they were concentric.
And then this astronaut passing by me
would also see these in a circle.
Even though the transformation would not be a rotation of the sky,
it would be squashed up more on one end
and stretched out at the other end.
But the thing about that transformation,
it's something which I knew about from my complex analysis days.
Do you think of what's called the Riemann Sphere?
This is the plane of points.
The complex plane or the vessel plane
are the points that represent the complex numbers.
So zero is in the middle, if you like,
and then you've got one, and then you've got minus one,
and i and minus i, they're all on the circle,
and you go out and infinity is way out to infinity.
But the Riemann Sphere folds all this up into a sphere.
So infinity is now a point.
So it's a little bit like if you have a caramel coating around an apple,
you're folding that disc.
You fold it around, that's right.
And at the point where the stick would go into the apple,
all of the boundary of that candy would come together.
Yes.
And it's what's called a stereographic projection.
You can project from the north pole,
and all the other points flatten out into the plane.
So you can see all the points on the sphere,
except for the point from which you're projecting.
Exactly.
And that's called a stereographic projection.
It's a remarkable property that it sends circles to circles.
Or you could say it's conformal, that is, angles are preserved.
And it's a very beautiful transformation.
I used to play around with these things just for fun, often.
Now, the thing is that the transformations of this sphere to itself,
which preserve the angles,
it's also transformation which is what's called analytic or holomorphic.
It's the most smooth transformation you can have.
So just the analog of smooth, but for complex objects,
rather than real objects.
Real and complex means the types of numbers.
Yes, that's right.
So it's what smooth is in complex analysis.
And those transformations which send the sphere to the sphere
are exactly those in relativity.
So the different observers passing me at different speeds,
looking at the same sky,
the map from my sky to their skies
is exactly these complex transformations of the sphere.
And this actually is what you exactly get when you use two component spinners.
And you see the description,
when you move from one observer to another,
is exactly those ones which transform the sky
in this conformal way to itself.
And often people find this puzzling.
Because suppose you had a sphere which is whizzing
from an alien spaceship, which is a sphere,
shooting past you at nearly a speed of light.
Well, you see the direction of motion,
it will be contracted by the Lorentz contraction.
So when you look at it, you should see it sort of flattened out.
You don't.
Because a circle goes to a circle,
if you see it as a circle when it's not moving,
you'll still see it as a circle,
the boundary of the thing will look like a circle when it is moving.
And you work away and think about it,
well, you see where the light ways go
and the front of it and the back of it and all that.
And you really don't see the flattening.
It really does look like a circle.
It's boundary looks like a circle.
So I wrote a paper on this.
Almost simultaneously there was somebody else wrote a paper
on mainly thinking of the small circles and spheres.
But this transformation, that's really what started me off.
If I understand correctly, maybe I don't.
We have another mutual acquaintance or friend, Raoul Botte.
He showed us that the world seems to repeat every eight dimensions in a certain way.
But during the first cycle of what you might call Botte periodicity
from zero to seven or one to eight, depending upon how you like to count,
you get these things called low dimensional coincidences.
Oh, yes.
And so they don't recur because of your point earlier about spinners,
that spinners grow exponentially, whereas vectors grow linearly.
That's right.
But during the first period where these things are of comparable strength,
you get all of these objects where depending upon,
you define in two different contexts, you turn out to be the same object.
That's right.
Are you making use of that here?
It is that.
It's the Lorentz group.
The rotations of space and time, which we might call SO13 or SO13 double cover,
would be equal to something else called SL2C,
which would mention complex numbers,
even though there's no complex numbers to be seen in space and time.
Yeah, it depends on that one of those coincidences.
Well, it's triple coincidence, I think.
You certainly get the coincidence there, which one is depending upon in this description.
But the point I'm making here is that in a certain sense,
relativity is described when you do it in the two-spinner form,
which is really expressed in this fact that it's the transformation of the Riemann sphere to itself,
which is a complex transformation.
This is the most general transformation of the sphere to itself
when you think of that sphere as a Riemann sphere.
It's a complex one-dimensional space.
You might say, surely it's two-dimensional.
Well, it's two-dimensional in real numbers, but one-dimensional in complex numbers
because each complex number carries the information of two real numbers.
For example, mathematicians would call what most people call the complex plane.
They might call it a complex line.
It's a complex line, that's right.
And so the language, again, is intended to make things very hostile to the newbie.
Yes, well, that's true.
But you have to get used to the idea that when you're thinking complex,
when you think of it concretely in the real terms,
you have to double the number of real dimensions to get the number of complexes.
I want my audience to work, but I don't want them to feel stupid for making the mistake
that every single person makes.
You have the number, of course.
Here we have the complex numbers playing a fundamental role in relativity.
That's the really point I want to make.
And it's the complex sphere.
Sorry, the Riemann sphere, which is this one-dimensional in complex sense,
two-dimensional in the real sense, object, which is fundamental.
Now, this Riemann sphere appears in the most basic way in quantum mechanics, too.
You think of a spin.
Now, that's practically the most direct, complex, the most direct quantum mechanical thing,
in a certain sense, where you see quantum mechanics playing a real role as quantum mechanics,
which is hard to grasp normally, but you can see it here.
The geometry really works.
You see, if you have an object of a spin-half, that's the smallest non-zero spin you can have,
