Hello, and welcome to Today's Injury Seriously, my name is Katrina Stanton.
I'm Minyash Brotsky, and I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we are...
We are talking about, we are talking about important topics that don't make it to the
main stage in the public conversation. So things that are not covered in the US
presidential debates. But should be. But should be. That's right. I... But maybe
should be. Dun, dun, dun. That'll be up to you and us. I will go ahead and
caveat that last week's, or last episode was supposed to be this, but I insisted
that we wait until we had a chance to discuss it with our local Leseran group
and get some ideas and... Yeah, so now we have their ideas all written down and we
are ready to just read them out to you. Ready to set go. Straight from the horse's
mouth. Okay, what would we like to start with? So I asked them for different
topics that should be discussed and are very important, but are not, and I
started off with the first couple. Okay. Animal welfare. Animal welfare? Wow, that
is not at all related to things we've just been talking about a whole lot
recently. It's incredibly important. It affects more than our entire human
population. Yeah. And it affects a lot of the human population. I don't think a
candidate would touch that and certainly major newspapers don't. Yeah. Why, why do
you think that candidates don't want to touch that? I think it's because so many
people eat meat and I mean I could go straight to the because the farm lobby is
massive. Right. Because it is. The United States does sort of worship farmers. Yeah,
we're really into farmers. There are all sorts of different, different special
exemptions for farmers from things like the Clean Water Act, for example. It
blew my mind. I had to verify it when I was told that if they don't make their
expected yield and crops, the government just pays them what they would have
expected to make. Oh yeah, farm subsidies. Yeah, but that whole thing blew my mind.
Like so wait, if you have a bad year, like you get paid anyway, but how's that at
all capitalistic? Because we love our farmers. Yeah, exactly. So that's that's
the thing. Not shooting off farmers. I mean they make our food and we eat that
to live. So good on them. Accept less shit on some of them. Because they're irresponsible
and causing a great deal of harm. The animal farmers in particular you're
talking about. Yeah, those people. I think the problem is that people really
like meat and as long as they don't have to see how it is produced they just
want it as cheaply as possible. That's true. Exactly. I don't think it would be
politically expedient for a politician to get up there and say I'm gonna
make this a central thing. We're gonna cut back on meat production because it's a
horror show. Well not right now, but it could be. Or increase some sort of
regulations or in order to. I feel like this maybe even has been an issue in the
past where people are talking about lifting up family farms and small farms
because people actually are concerned about that in the political world. But
it's because of the small farmers not because of the animals. Right, exactly.
Yeah, that makes sense. I think it is. I mean this is probably the case for
pretty much everything we talk about here is that it's not gonna win a lot of
easy votes to bring up some of these issues. Okay. So there's not enough
time. You only have 30 minutes to talk. You're not gonna spend five of it on
something that's gonna win you point two percent of the vote. Right? Okay. So it's
because so as far as the candidates are concerned. Right. It's because they're
in it to get votes. I think so. That's what candidates are always very focused on
and I think that's fair. But what about what about like newspapers? Or why
doesn't the populist care? Why doesn't the populist care? In my experience they do,
but they. Why do they care so minorly? Exactly. They don't even want to talk
about it or think about it. I think at least the people I've talked to they're
used to eating meat and you know you see trying to bring up how I like the word
horror show just because it paints a good picture. How nasty the process is that
gets their food from you know birth to their plate and I'm like I don't want to
think about that. I just want to have dinner and I'm like well I mean I get
where they're coming from but I don't agree with it you know. Like it's not
convenient or comfortable to think about these things but it can be really
important. So that is but I guess as far as newspapers and stuff don't care. I
have no idea. Because not enough people do right? Yeah I suppose they're trying to
sell newspapers which I guess are still an actual thing so. There's probably a lot
of people working at the newspapers themselves who are of also the opinion
that the animals really don't matter. Yeah also I want to make sure that when I
say newspapers I'm also referring to online. I know. Also it's the different
news and media sources. I was teasing and making fun of tree wear newspapers that
I don't know are super popular anymore. Did you call tree wearing? Tree wear as
opposed to like. I see. I thought you meant that they're wearing trees. I did too.
Like they're like yeah wearing some some true paper. I'm like but what is that
they're just paper. What is the wearing at the ink? Anyway glad we cleared that up.
Yes. The other thing that actually I think has been getting some minor minor
traction is antibiotic resistance. Yes. But it's been a huge problem for a long
time and people actually die of infection. I think it's been getting more than
just a little bit of attention. They recently passed the regulation that you
can't have antibiotics soap anymore. Uh-huh because there was a UN resolution on it.
And there's been a lot of attention paid to it in medical circles where
doctors have been trying to prescribe antibiotics less often and being very
conscientious to tell people to complete your prescription. Don't don't stop halfway
through. Do you think you're going to hear anything out of the major party
candidate's mouth on that topic? No because most people don't know or care
about antibiotics. Like I said I think in the in the campaign season it's gonna
be a lot of popular topics. You know if only 20% of people care about it maybe
20% is big enough but 10% of people know what antibiotics are and care or
something right. They're not gonna spend time they're at their platform time
talking about it. That's my prediction. Okay. I think it's just because a lot of
people aren't affected by it yet. Wait until we get our first antibiotic
resistant superbug scarring the country and then people are gonna care a lot. Yeah.
Do you remember that ship I've already sailed? Yeah do you remember when
everybody was really mad at that guy with I think he had antibiotic resistant
tuberculosis? Yeah. Who wouldn't go into quarantine? No but that's insane. And
people were just really mad. They're like oh that selfish jerk dude with his
antibiotic potentially antibiotic resistant tuberculosis. I think it
turned out that he was it was fine. I haven't heard anything about it since.
There's no plague. Yeah. I was wondering out loud or I am wondering out loud
whether or not it makes sense to like force people into quarantine saying like
look you don't have a choice. We're gonna you're gonna stay at home or we're
gonna take you to a hospital where you can't leave until you get better. So
that sounds like a really slippery slope but it doesn't sound like the worst
idea if implemented correctly. Well we've already been doing it.
Remember Ebola earlier recently? Oh yeah. Yeah that wasn't too long ago when
people are really upset about being kept in quarantine coming back from Ebola's
drug areas. I'm gonna go home and kill my family and friends. Well they didn't
necessarily have Ebola. In fact a lot of them didn't. They just had to stay in
quarantine until everyone was sure that they didn't. I'm kind of okay with that.
Like you know like this guy with potentially antibiotic or potentially
resistant TB right? Like if you have a reasonable concern it's not worth you
running out during risking lots of lives. Right but let's say that you're
coming home from visiting your family wherever they're living. You were on a
plane with him and now you have to spend the next two weeks sitting in a
quarantined hospital room where you can't you can't see anyone. You can't go
back to work. Your bills are piling up. That is a major inconvenience up to your
life. Some people might lose their jobs because what you might have Ebola. There's
a small chance you caught it. I don't have to. Or not Ebola but tuberculosis.
If I were to endorse a bill that would require the sort of thing I would say
it's like jury duty where you can't be fired to lose wages or something right.
Well I guess jury duty you get like what 50 bucks after three days or something.
Yeah it's not. But let's pretend it was enough. So like yeah especially if you're
gonna be gone for a month or something right. They can't ruin your life but it
does make sense like no I'm pretty sure I'm fine. I've got just a bit of a
fever I'm gonna go back to work. That seems also hugely irresponsible. I mean
would you be okay with being locked up in prison for a month if you shared a
plane with someone with tuberculosis? Not literally prison. Well because it's
basically prison except without criminals. Do I get wifi? Yes. Don't you get wifi in prison though?
No. You don't get phones and like I'm not not like to play with all the time.
You don't get free internet access. Why not? Because you're in your cell with
things that like your prison. I don't know. I don't know what the policy is. I imagine it's
different at different facilities. But to talk about to talk about antibiotic
resistance again. Yes. This is a situation where we have these um of public health
responses including quarantine and all sorts of other testing being tested
for Zika right now in areas that have been affected. But an ounce of
prevention is worth a pound of cure right? So but we're not hearing a lot about a lot of the
preventive techniques. I have a question for you regarding to how long of a quarantine
you're willing to put up with? Because I recall I don't know I think this was in the 80s. There
was an actual proposition that anyone with HIV be permanently quarantined. So that sounds
excessive because you can take steps like you can go to work and have a life with HIV and not
risk you know it's not like airborne right? Right. But if AIDS was airborne and you know you just
got it and you were dead in a month then it would kind of make sense. That would be a completely
different disease. Right. But I mean that's you know like we're talking some super bug or something
or you know maybe crazy TV. You're thinking Ebola again. Yes. Except Ebola was not airborne. Sorry
I take that back. Well I mean super Ebola right? So I think uh I mean we've extended up to 11
and say like if you're patient zero for zombie virus it might be worth killing you over. Right.
So like I mean then we can scale from there to like you know cold we're gonna hold you at gunpoint
in prison and like figure out some place in the middle to where it makes sense right? Yeah.
I how long did I like to be held? I mean depends on what I had. So like if I had Ebola. Right but
the problem isn't necessarily that you have it. It's that you might have it. So like if I might
have Ebola I'm not sure how bad Ebola is or how much it's I guess what the survival rate is or
something but. I think it was a 20 percent methylvary. It was higher I think. It was over half. Oh wow.
I would absolutely be okay being held per month if it meant that there was a chance I could kill
one or two people that I interacted with. So interesting to listen to you guys talk about
the sensational side of of the idea of antibiotic resistance or you know because people absolutely
will talk about superbugs and really get into it but for whatever reason talking about preventative
care is not super interesting why do you think that is? Imagining zombie virus is way more
exciting than like the new soap that helps. Okay okay so it's sensational. Yes I also think it has
to do with being able to see the costs the same reason that regulations that help you know just
one industry a lot and harm everybody else a tiny bit generally get passed because you don't see the
fact that all the prices for your food went up by one or two cents but you do see that all of a
sudden you can't buy this item that you love for super cheap anymore. Well here's something where
you definitely can I guess you can measure it and it does affect people's lives a related topic which
is. Can we stick on the disease for a second? This is actually also on disease that's how related it
is. Okay. Doctors not washing their hands. Oh yeah. Which is still a problem. Which is an easily
preventable and significant cause of death in hospitals. It's like this was breathtaking emerging
medicine 140 years ago and now it's it definitely should be out there. There is another was a push
and I'll I guess in 10 to 15 year old medical training to like hey wash your hands in front
of the patient when you get to the room. You might have just come from washing your hands but do it
anyway where they can watch that way they know you did it and you know you did it. So that that's
where things makes a lot of sense. The fact that it's still a problem is to cut your mind blowing.
Again there are really easy solutions for that but people don't like to ask doctors to wash their
hands. Right. Because they're and people have different theories for why that might be one of
them is that they're you know high class. Well I'm like the doctor's the authority you're going
there to ask their judgment and it's like hey can you do me a favor real quick and wash your disgusting
filthy hands. You're a dirty person don't touch me. You are not touching me until I see you wash
your hands. I think somebody might be some stigma on that. Yes definitely. I think even though people
sensation people focus on like the sensational diseases the zombie viruses and Ebola and whatever
but I think just the fact that our viral viral and bacteria load is so low nowadays
has really radically transformed our society. Back in the day when you would have 10 children
and maybe have four full grown adult children you'd give birth 10 times but only have four children.
There was much less I feel investment in children done and because you just couldn't
put that much care into something that was going to likely die you know and so I think the human
race has as a result of the fact that we generally expect everyone to live all the way into adulthood
gotten a lot better. We put a lot more care into children. We have a lot fewer children.
So why are we not taking better care of our children and immune compromise people
by pumping up these issues to mainstream. Well I think because we are so good right now people
are used to things to everyone being healthy and people not dying and I'm worried if we ever got
back to the point where there's enough disease load not not even anything you know super Ebola
or anything but just something like some of the major childhood diseases coming back and killing
maybe five ten percent of children at a regular basis that we could possibly see a lot of slide
back into the battle times where people don't don't care about their kids as much and society is not
as kind and as caring. I wonder if there's an outrage factor there because things that that
people do talk about including candidates are people not getting vaccines and I wonder if that's
because people can be outraged at their fellow citizens because I think the people really like
being outraged at their fellow citizens. There's a lot of outrage. I think it's the drug of choice
nowadays. There it is. I think that's a good use of the word drug of choice where people just you
know will find stuff to infuriate them and just get off on it but it does sort of make sense to be
inclined to have a conversation about vaccinating your kids right. It's bad for them not to vaccinate
them that is let me make that clear and it puts people who are immunocompromised at risk right
so you lose too many vaccinated kids and you lose herd immunity. Relating to vaccines actually I think
you know so like it took what two or three decades of concerted effort to eradicate smallpox from
from the world and it's the only disease that's been eradicated from the world. 2018 is expected
to be the last year that polly will be around. I think it's only been 67 reported cases this year
it was like 360 something last year so polio is on its way out which is kind of cool. Well as a
highly privileged developed country person I haven't thought about polio for my entire life.
My grandparents had polio. Yeah there's still some people who are counted in this.
