to understand the computational architectures and the nature of message passing
implied by either belief updating or predictive coding
or variational message passing.
How it is enacted physiologically on a neuroanatomy,
that has a deep structure.
Connor asks Friston about predictive coding.
There has been a paper that says that predictive coding
can approximate back propagation in arbitrary graphs.
I'm sure a friend of mine has contributed to that,
and if there's any sense that prop has been demeaned as something which is not
absolutely central to everything, then I think that's probably wrong.
So from my perspective, it is invariably the case
that the gradients with respect to anything of variational free energy
can be written down as a prediction error,
which means that if you believe that the universe of interesting things
is performing a gradient flow on a variational free energy functional,
then you also believe that they are, by the chain rule, minimizing their prediction error.
I think that's one of the first times that a premier scientist
actually say something positive about backdrop.
And does the free energy principle tell us anything about the origin of life,
for example, abiogenesis?
If we take for granted that the free energy principle
explains a great deal about how certain systems of the kind we've been elucidating will function,
does it explain the origin of those systems?
Is it almost unavoidable that we will end up
with these deeply structured, delicate, Markov-blanketed systems
that become increasingly rich and have longer and longer information lengths
and more itinerant dynamics as the universe unfolds?
It would be great to know the answer to that
and to have a tractable mathematical formulation of that.
I'm afraid that the free energy principle in its vanilla form,
as it currently stands, does not give you that.
All it says is, if that thing has evolved, these are the properties that it must possess.
But at least it can tell us we should continue exploring
and looking around to address that uncertainty.
Yes, of course, some better free energy principle.
Next, we're going to talk about Richard Feynman's path integral.
This is something that Friston referred to many times during the session today.
Yeah, so the path integral formulation, let's say,
which is essential for quantum electrodynamics, for one thing,
is quite interesting.
And actually, it should be familiar in one sense to, let's say, Bayesians
or people who do a lot of conditional probability theory,
because they may recall that the probability of, say, a particular event
is actually equal to the summation of the probability of that event
given, let's say, some other state of the world,
over all possible states of that A. In other words, this is marginalization
or the marginal probability.
If you have a bunch of possible worlds,
what you have to do is sum over all possible worlds.
And when that's applied to physics, say, in the case of quantum electrodynamics,
what it's saying is that if you have many possible ways in which, let's pretend,
photon could come from A and end up over B,
it could travel along any one of these many paths here,
that if you're considering the total probability of that actually happening,
you have to sum over all these possible states waiting by their amplitude.
And that's a very beautiful consequence, because in some real sense,
we don't think that the photon, say, travels every one of those possible paths,
but it's as if it did.
And why this is important in the free energy principle
is that when we live in a universe where you have to perform
this summation over all possible worlds,
that means that inherently we need a system that can model
probabilities and can transform those probabilities
accurately according to the laws of probability theory.
And another interesting consequence of it is that
if we're playing this repeated game where we're trying to survive over time
and we're getting in new information all the time
about these many possible future paths,
we have to model the world in a flexible way.
We have to keep an entropic model,
a model that has a high entropy that's able to adjust
as new information comes in about those probable paths.
How did he find it talking to Professor Friston?
Oh, I really, I have to say, I very much enjoyed talking to Professor Friston.
When I went into the preparation for this call some weeks back,
I would say I was probably more skeptical of the free energy principle
than I am now.
But as we've learned a lot over the last few weeks,
and then really having a chance to pose some questions to Professor Friston
and hear his answers.
Yeah, I think this is a very interesting principle.
And I think we'll find increasingly as we become more sophisticated
with both the modeling of the principle and the application of the principle
that we are going to find many systems that conform to it.
So I find it quite interesting and completely enjoyed talking to him.
I wish I lived next door to him.
I'd probably hop over there once in a while to have a sherry
and just discuss deep topics.
He has such an intuitive understanding of deep topics
that it's sometimes hard to keep pace.
But if you can, it's very fun.
Yeah, because if you look at the free energy principle on Wikipedia,
it even says at the top of the article that it's very complicated.
Even experts in the field just have trouble getting their heads wrapped around it.
And when you listen to Professor Friston talk,
he clearly is a polymath.
He has deep knowledge of so many different fields.
And it's really interesting to have all of that embodied in one person
because the level of cross-pollination is really quite impressive.
But by the same token, there's so much jargon
and he's diving into so many different areas
that it does make it quite difficult to follow what he's talking about.
I think that Wikipedia has got it wrong that it's complicated.
I think that we often make the mistake of thinking
that things that are hard to understand are inherently complicated.
And I think that's wrong.
I think simple and easy are very, very different concepts.
It's possible for simple concepts to be very difficult to understand
and indeed to take human civilization thousands of years to discover.
And I think this, I think the free energy principle
falls under the category of simple but very difficult to understand
very deep, deep concepts.
Almost like some of the concepts that rest
at the foundation of mathematical logic or probability theory.
When you start to think about puzzles, this sentence is false.
Or if you think about what is the meaning of probability?
Is it a frequency?
Is it a degree of rational belief?
Why or why not?
These are very deep concepts.
At the end, they can be expressed relatively simply on paper
but still be very difficult to understand.
Thank you very much for the very informed questions.
I got a sense you knew the answers before you asked them.
That's how I felt.
Anyway, we really hope you've enjoyed the episode today.
We've had so much fun making it.
Remember to like, comment and subscribe.
We love reading your comments and we'll see you back next week.
The New Yorkers are rude and blunt.
You know, they're very direct and they're really assholes about it.
Well, Germans are polite but blunt.
Like, Germans will very politely tell you your code is completely unacceptable
but they'll be very polite about it.
It's kind of slightly similar to southern culture
or classic southern culture in the US.
It's very polite but straightforward.
Like, they don't like beating around the bush.
But I would say they don't go as far to the rude spectrum
while being blunt.
Like, they still are straightforward but politely.
I'm super sensitive to people beating around the bush.
Yeah, that's it.
That's why it was funny that when you told me
you were like a traitor in New York,
I was like, yeah, this makes a lot of sense.
Like, straightforward and polite.
I love Germans.
I worked with a few of them in my lab and in graduate school.
And I also like how rule-based they are.
Like, there are rules and you follow the rules.
When you open the door, you close the door.
You close it.
You don't leave it half open.
It's like, I love it.
It's awesome.
It's true.
It's both a blessing and a curse.
I used to work with some radioactive dyes.
And I'd disposed of one in the wrong container.
So I'd disposed of like the betas in the alpha container
or something.
And it caused like a cost, like a couple hundred dollars
or something.
The German postdoc there was so like pissed at me but polite.
He's like, just keeps going on and on about how can you put
A in the B container, right?
That's just not how it happens.
That should have never happened.
I don't know what we should do about this,
but something needs to happen to make sure you never do that again.
Yeah, that is such a German thing.
I've heard that exact conversation with people before.
He would keep, just wouldn't let this go.
I'm like, yeah, I'm sorry.
I screwed up.
You know, it wasn't a good enough explanation.
It was like, what is broken that we need to fix?
So this never happens again.
That is the most German thing I've ever heard.
Hello, hello.
Hello, Professor Friston.
Great to meet you.
Nice to see you.
Fantastic.
Now I'm not an expert on etiquette.
Is it Dr. Friston or Professor Friston, which is more correct?
In England, it would be Professor Friston.
Okay.
In the States, I think I've heard that teachers are called professors,
so they prefer to be called doctors.
In the UK, it's a professor.
Gotcha.
And tech industry is first names only.
Welcome back to the Machine Learning Street Talk YouTube channel and podcast
with my two compadres, Connor Lehi and MIT PhD, Dr. Keith Duggar.
Now today we have a very special guest, Professor Friston.
He is a British neuroscientist at University College London
and an authority on brain imaging.
