steady state that entails a Markov blanket. As such, it's only about steady states. It's not
where that steady state came from. So there are lots of really interesting questions. There's a
great paper by Kate Jeffries and there's lots of work by people at Los Alamos and around the world
trying to say, is it almost unavoidable that we will end up with these deeply structured,
delicate Markov blanketed systems that become increasingly rich and have longer and longer
information lengths and more itinerant dynamics as the universe unfolds? It would be great to
know the answer to that and to have a tractable mathematical formulation of that. I'm afraid
though that the free energy principle in its vanilla form as it currently stands does not
give you that. No, all it says is if that thing has evolved, these are the properties that it
must possess. At least it can tell us we should continue exploring and looking around to address
that uncertainty. Yes, of course. So, better free energy principle. Professor Friston, thank you
very much for joining us this evening. It's been an absolute honor to have you on the show.
It's been a wonderful talk with you. Thank you very much indeed.
Thank you so much. It's truly a pleasure.
Thank you very much. They're very informed questions. I got a sense you knew the answers
before you asked them. That's how I felt.
Look, I'm going to be honest with you. After talking to him myself, I think he has a very
intuitive understanding of very deep topics and a massive depth of knowledge. Therefore,
when he tries to communicate that, I think he just, what's the right way to say this? He leaves
behind a trail that's a little bit hard for us to follow because he's just moving at a very
kind of deep and fast rate, in my opinion. He was trying to help us understand. He operated
on such a high level that it's not always easy to follow. I tell him that that's just the result
of externalized intelligence. Oh, man. You might get your alpha constant.
I would have called it something like Kappa after my first name. Alpha's good. I mean,
start with the first one. Why do we need to go? Alpha's good. It's the backsally ambiguous
answer that still fits the data. Just hedge fund I worked at. We had a problem one day and lost a
couple million dollars or something, not me personally, but the fund. We called up one of
the guys who maintains our market data feeds and we're like, was the ticker that had the problem
today the NASDAQ ticker or the NICY ticker? He goes, yes. We're like, yes or no question.
So that was kind of an answer for a person there. It's like, do we need alpha? No. And yes.
Anyway, we really hope you've enjoyed the episode today. We've had so much fun making it.
Remember to like, comment, and subscribe. We love reading your comments and we'll see you back next week.
