And we're going to start to expect those vertiginous slopes of error reduction if we continue to engage with the drug.
And once those expectations become deeply ingrained,
anything else we do is going to start to feel like failure.
Okay, so if I get used to taking cocaine all the time and then I have to sit through a family meal where I don't have any drugs and I have to kind of sit still and there's no dopamine available.
I don't have my phone.
That's I'm going to experience that as feelings of frustration and as if I'm being prevented from doing something I want to do.
And I'm going to experience that as doing worse than expected.
So I've learned these expectations for prediction error minimization and I'm not getting them unless I engage with the drug.
And of course, it's worth noting that in many cases, these drugs are going to have chemical withdrawal effects that compound that as well,
especially things like nicotine and alcohol in particular is very nasty.
So alcohol can kill you if you try and withdraw from it too quickly.
So they really do pull the agent into a grip.
So what happens here is the agent develops a kind of suboptimal grip.
So you start to enact a new world, a new identity.
So instead of doing all the things you once cared about, like different hobbies, you start to hang out with different people.
You start to frequent different places like a dealer's house or wherever.
And very slowly you start to carve out essentially a niche.
The addict enacts a particular niche through their actions and they have quite a good grip on that niche.
It's just that it doesn't speak to a broader array of concerns.
So what's really important is that this is not this pushes back against the disease model because on this view,
the active inference agent, well, the system is doing essentially what it was evolved to do.
So there's another quote from the paper here that I like that says their habits allow them to remain well attuned
and keep prediction errors under tight control so long as they remain within the narrow confines of such a niche.
And this is important because it shows that allostatic control and prediction error minimization are not the same thing.
They come apart.
And this really speaks to a question that was asked after Abel's session recently about what does prediction error actually look like?
Well, in this case, you have a system that has learned that engagement with certain affordances gives it.
It's an illusion, but it has this feedback that says this is the state you expect to occupy.
Or this is a state that the agent has learned to expect to occupy.
And it's carved out a niche of affordances that means it's very likely to occupy that state.
So it actually has a really good grip on the situation.
It's just that that niche is very narrow and it's constricted, meaning it's simply that kind of those habits and that web of habitual action policies are just not well suited to maintain good allostatic control.
So everything else in the addict's life starts to suffer.
So we can kind of think of this as a form of niche construction gone wrong.
And I think we're going to look at niche construction in the coming weeks as well.
So why is this whole agent, well, so I should say it just to back up a second.
So this is what I like about this account of addiction is that it's thoroughly an active account of addiction.
It really brings out the kind of an active core of active inference.
So the addict is addiction becomes an identity.
It becomes a world that the person actually produces to their actions.
So rather than the disease model where you have a person and a stimulus and expose it, you know, whenever they're exposed to that stimulus, they're going to have problems because of these brain changes.
What this does justice to is actually the activity of the agent.
So they're not accidentally bumping into this stimulus in the environment.
And they're not just seeking it out, but they're deliberately restructuring their environment to make this state more and more likely over time.
So it really does justice to the efficacy and the agency of the agent rather than giving that agency a more backseat role that it takes in the disease model.
But the other thing that it does because it's this inactive picture is that it also does justice to the environmental features.
So it also it kind of speaks to the fact that addiction is not just all in the head.
Actually, the real some of the problems of addiction come with the fact that it is this procedural constructive process.
And one of my favorite experiments all time is I don't know if people are familiar with the rat city experiments.
This is why I've got the image up here.
And this is a very cool experiment where originally it was found that if you exposed rats to a drug laced stimulus in the environment, I think it was I think it was heroin laced water or it might have been cocaine.
But the original experiments found that like nearly all the rats would kill themselves with the drug.
So they would just keep keep keep keep at the drug until until they died.
And it was a very, very, very high percentage of the rats would engage in that destructive behavior until the experiments were rerun sometime later.
And instead of having the rat just in a boring cage on its own, it had the rats in Rat Park, which was a very social, exciting, brightly colored environment with lots of different affordances.
And what they found was that, given the same choice, a vastly reduced proportion of the rats would choose to engage with the drug.
Okay, so it's capturing the importance of niche construction that I think is really nice here.
And it also speaks to the role played by embodied affect in phenomenology.
There's something that it's like to be an addict.
And that really matters.
Okay, it really matters that the addict has these embodied experiences when they're engaging with particular sets of affordances.
So that's really summed up in the overview that I've put here.
So these were the things that I wanted to emphasize active inference agents are embodied, they're embedded in a landscape.
That landscape is constituted by particular affordances, and we can distinguish between a landscape of affordances and a field of affordances.
And that distinction really speaks to the inherent affectivity and normativity of affordances.
Okay, which affordances stand out to a certain particular time, which exit a pull over us.
And active inference agents enact their worlds through action.
And this is nowhere starker than in the case of addiction.
Active inference agents are effective.
So emotion plays a super crucial role, keeping us tuned, keeping us in that grip with our affordances and helping us contextualize those important physiological
changes.
Active inference agents are agents.
Okay, so we do have a way to describe behavior as agential and motivated.
And we do have these cognitive architectures that can make sense of agential action and active inference agents have this inbuilt sense of self that comes with agency as well.
So that's pretty much it.
This final slide just goes over some of the things that we can expect.
So this what I've done today, I hope has laid a good groundwork and has installed some high level expectations to learn more about active inference.
And what we're going to do in the subsequent weeks is now scale this up to see how when you have more than one active inference agent together, how the expectations of some can impact the expectations of others and individuals.
And I look forward to learning more about that.
But as for me, that's it.
Amazing, Ben.
Awesome work.
What can people look forward to next week or in two weeks if they join the discussions section?
Like what's it going to be like or who would you encourage to join?
I would definitely, I mean, the more people that come along, I think the better it's going to be.
I'm really looking forward to it.
I'm kind of just in the first place intrigued to see that we covered so much ground.
I'm just interested to see where people want to go with this and see where people's interests lie.
I assume that the people are going to have questions and I think maybe the best way to do it would be to explore some of people's questions during the discussion.
We can use them to kick things off and keep things going.
But I think it's likely that we have a whole hour.
So we've certainly got time to really dig into things in some detail.
And like I said before, we're going to have Mark Miller with us and Mark is just awesome in discussion.
It's very, very passionate and enthusiastic about his work and he can do a much better job than I can in explaining it.
So just to have the opportunity to speak with Mark about his work, I would say definitely come along.
Alright, anything else?
Otherwise, again, awesome job.
No, I think that's it.
Thanks for listening.
Well, thanks.
It was a pleasure.
It was ambitious to do what you did elegantly with no equations or getting snagged on any of the potentially infinite philosophical and technical and normative and all these different layers of challenge and diversions.
So to really, to really cut a path there is great.
Yeah, I think it just speaks to there's there's so much good philosophical work in these areas and active inference and predictive processing.
And I should say again, I mean, I didn't really do justice to any of the work I talked about.
So that's the final thing I would say is definitely, you know, the document is there with the reading and please go and actually look at the work of these people because it's it's some of it's really, really good.
Alright, till next time.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
