And this happens through exactly the same process as the same predictive error minimization process that I'm engaging with with the outside world.
So the brain is making predictions about its own internal states, and then it's going to engage in some kind of action to minimize any prediction errors.
And these prediction errors are going to be very highly weighted, they're very important.
But here's an interesting thing.
So there was a very unethical experiment done by Schachter and Singer, I think, in the 60s, who they were emotion researchers, and they conducted an experiment where they injected subjects without the subject's knowledge, I think, they injected them with adrenaline, and then they exposed the subjects to different stimuli.
So some subjects were exposed to one type of stimulus and some subjects are exposed to another.
And even though the subjects had essentially been, they'd been pushed to have the same, to experience the same physiological changes in their body, they reported different emotional, like different kinds of feelings depending on the stimulus that they'd been exposed to.
So this highlights something really important.
And again, I feel compelled to say that I am moving through this incredibly quickly, there's so much to say here.
But the nub of it is this, in order to keep good allostatic control, in order to know what to do, the brain needs to contextualize those changes in the body, because there's not a one-to-one mapping between changes in the body and the external.
Stimulus.
So sometimes changes, physiological changes in our body are about something in the world.
They're a response to something.
And it's very, very important that the brain is kind of taking a confluence of those inputs to try and contextualize, okay, what's actually happening and what do I need to do?
So an example of this is, if you imagine running into a bear while you're hiking in Wyoming, which is something that's actually happened to me, I've experienced it, it's terrifying.
And you imagine going on a scary or a date that you're really nervous about.
The physiological changes that are happening in the body are give or take more or less the same.
So perspiration, elevated heart rate, breathing changes.
So the underlying physiological footprint is very, very, very similar.
But what you need to do to manage that situation, the apt action, is very, very different.
And so the claim here, the kind of revolutionary claim in a way, is that emotions, the things we experience subjectively, are constructions just like percepts are.
So just like my experience of the car when I step outside my flat is a construction that explains away the prediction error and gives me a cleaned up picture of the world.
Emotions are essentially doing the same thing.
They're explaining away these prediction errors and telling me this is the best explanation of these changes within your body contextualized against this external stimulus.
So in the case of the date, apt action is to like chill out and be normal to a certain extent.
And in the case of the bear, it's you get the hell out of that.
Although interestingly, you don't running away from a bear is a terrible idea.
You should not turn your back and run away, but you get the idea that it's going to be what you should do in each situation is completely different.
So that's emotion for the active inference agent.
And something I don't want to I don't want to lose here is what you get with this is really kind of cool because it turns out emotions and subjects subject.
We we're kind of moving into subjectivity here.
It turns out emotions are really they're just part of the same cognitive architecture.
So there's no difference here.
There's no dualism between his thinking and his emotion and emotion is this kind of fuzzy stuff that we're not really interested in.
Actually, emotion subjective embodied feeling is core.
It's absolutely vital to understanding how we maintain this allostatic control and how we engage in adaptive behaviors and how we remain gripped to our affordances in the environment.
And the notion of grip is going to be something that comes up again very soon.
So very, very briefly, because this is something that I've really already talked about, but I want to put a slightly different spin on it right now.
I've already said that allostatic control for humans can involve very, very temporally extended timescales and we saw this with Andy's model of agency.
So if you think about something like saving into a retirement fund, for example, okay, we're doing something that the idea is that maybe decades from now is going to kind of minor spikes in prediction error called the disappointment of having not having as much money right now is going to pay off later.
These are the kind of things that that humans engage in.
And our generative models have to be temporally thick.
So George Dean writes that the levels of temporal extension are hierarchically interlocked.
So shorter timescales inform expectations of what the agent can do over longer timescales.
So these different levels of the hierarchy are in a kind of dialogue with each other, telling you what kinds of things are possible and what kinds of things you should expect.
And when we were talking about agency, we talked about the way that agency is kind of baked into active inference.
Because in order for any of this to work, the system has to have as a hypothesis, I can do things.
Okay.
And this is more or less taken to be the same, the same thing that underpins the sense of self under active inference.
So the system implicitly refer infers its own ability to bring about intended sensory consequences.
And so Dean writes here quote in Friston, it is in this sense that implicit in a model of sampling is a representation or sense of agency.
So a minimal sense of self is kind of like the flip side of agency comes baked in here.
So one has to model oneself as a potential cause of sensory inputs.
So George Dean and colleagues, I think George Dean, Mark Miller and Sam Wilkinson propose a model of the self under active inference called the allostatic control model.
And the move they make here is that we have to recognize that it's not just our self efficacy that has to be modeled.
We also have to have some kind of idea in there of how we're actually doing.
So we have to model our own capabilities in order to set precision weighting on future action.
So we don't simply infer that we can be the cause of sensory states, but also infer our own capabilities to successfully bring about expected states at longer time scales.
So the phrasing that they use is tracking the performance or fitness of the model over time.
So part of that tracking is going to be affective and emotional.
And so there are strong links.
We kind of really dig in our hooks into subjectivity at this point.
But the claim with the allostatic control model is you get this rather than just a minimal self, you actually get a longer term.
Phenomenological self emerge from these interlocking time scales, which are modeling not only the agent's own causal efficacy, but also modeling how good your own model is at doing what you need it to do.
And like I said, I said when I was talking about the reading, and I want to flag this again, because I've really, really, really not doing justice to this in the way that I should.
But this has formed the basis for a lot of really interesting work on phenomena like depersonalization on the role of psychedelics and the potential for psychedelics in therapy and in meditation, ego dissolution and kind of that kind of stuff in meditative settings.
So anybody with any interest in the self or in those kinds of practices should definitely go and give a closer look to these readings that I'll make sure in the document.
Okay, so quick overview here.
So active inference agents maintain homeostasis to anticipatory action, and this is something we call allostatic control.
To do this, the system must engage in intraceptive prediction over its own internal states.
Actually, I kind of, I think I've got time to do this, so I'll just deviate slightly.
The topic of intraceptive inference is really interesting in the context of active inference.
So I want to flag work by Sarah Garfinkel, who I believe is at UCL, who used to be at Sussex.
And Professor Garfinkel's work looks at the central importance of intraceptive predictions in various psychopathologies, especially I think she's looked very closely at PTSD and anxiety disorders.
And it turns out that an agent's accuracy in their intraceptive predictions is a good indicator as to the kinds of symptoms that they're going to like the strength and severity of their symptoms in these kinds of disorders.
And what she's shown is that if you can increase the accuracy of intraceptive predictions, this forms the basis of treatment for these symptoms.
So in short, the better you are at intraceptive predicting, I think one of the measures that they use there in her lab is how well people can track their own heartbeats without feeling their pulse.
So if you just sit there and try and say, like, do my heart's beating like this, then the more accurate you are and the more any training you can be given to be more accurate, it forms the basis of effective treatments for these kinds of symptoms.
So I just wanted to flag that because the world of research in intraceptive inferences, large, diverse, vibrant, super interesting and very much worth our time.
Okay, where was I here?
Okay, so to maintain our static control, the system has to engage in intraceptive prediction over its internal states. And then to best explain changes in those internal states, the system has to contextualize those changes against some extra
intraceptive input. And that's emotion categories serve that role. So just to be very clear on this view, this emotions are constructions. There are some important deviations from other theories of emotion here, particularly what Barrett calls the basic theory of emotion.
So on her view, emotions themselves have no underlying kind of essence or neural footprints. And there's an ongoing live debate there as well between these theories.
And also just at the end, the good allostatic control in human agents is this very temporally thick phenomena. So we engage in very long term planning that involves a lot of the kinds of counterfactual representations that we talked about with the axle constant paper.
And this is hypothesized to form the basis of our phenomenological sense of self.
Okay.
So, okay, we're up to an hour. Good. We're running on time. This is the final section. And it's probably going to be probably going to be the longest section. What I want to do here is I want to introduce, I want to try and pull together some of the things I've been talking about because it's been very fast and very abstract.
And I want to try and pull some of these things together in a slightly more concrete example. So the case study I'm going to use is addiction.
So there's a particular account of addiction in the predictive process in literature that I think in a very succinct, dark way highlights a lot of the things I've been talking about and puts them within a context that is quite stark and easy to understand.
But in order to do that, I'm going to have to introduce a new, slightly more difficult to understand mechanism within the framework that crops up in a lot of the predictive process in literature.
And what this is going to do hopefully as well is give us a direct bridge to phenomenology.
So when we talk about things like neuro computational phenomenology, this the things I'm going to be talking about here have underpinned a lot of the a lot of the work in that area.
So these are some of the readings. We're going to look at some work by mostly a lot of the papers we're going to look at.
First author Mark Miller or Mark Miller's been second or third author. And I bring that up because in the discussion section on the 25th, when we have an hour to kind of unpack and answer people's questions, we're actually going to be joined by Mark Miller.
So if anybody has any specific questions about the things I'm going to talk about now in this section, he's going to be the man to answer those.
But also I'm going to put a lot of secondary readings up again in the in the document. So you'd be able to find them all there.
Okay, so let's suppose switch gears slightly.
I want to keep the focus on feelings, although what I'm going to be talking about here and not what might be called like full blooded emotion states, but I want to talk about something a little bit more subtle.
So one thing that might seem really, really obvious, kind of so obvious that we often overlook it when things are going okay, is that it generally feels like something to be an agent.
So when we're going about whatever business we have in the world, we always feel like something.
And it's not entirely clear how best to characterize that. So I want to draw on some work in phenomenology that some active inference theorists have also drawn on and made use of, because I think this is a really good grounding for some of the things I'm going to go on to say,
certainly proved to be a good grounding for some of the work that I'm going to highlight.
So these are two books by Matthew Ratcliffe, I think he's at the University of York, and has done really, really cool work in kind of really get into grips with the what it's likeness to live in certain conditions.
And Ratcliffe has, he argues that he's identified this certain area, this space of feelings that have been largely neglected in the wider literature. And he describes these as existential feelings.
So he says, existential feelings are, quote, they are not intentional states directed at however many objects, and they are not feelings or of the body or some part of it. Instead, they amount to a felt sense of belonging in the world.
So the main difference between a full blooded emotion state and an existential feeling is that the emotion state is about something. Okay, so if I'm disgusted, I'm typically all the time, I'm disgusted about something in the world.
Okay, so emotions are intentional in that way. Ratcliffe elaborates on existential feelings by, I'm going to quote this at length, because I quite like it, he says,
People sometimes talk of feeling alive, dead, distant, detached, dislodged, estranged, isolated, otherworldly, indifferent to everything, overwhelmed, suffocated, cut off, lost, disconnected, out of sorts, not oneself, out of touch with things, out of it, not quite with it, separate, in harmony with things, at peace with things.
There are reference to feelings of unreality, heightened existence, surreality, familiarity, unfamiliarity, strangeness, isolation, emptiness, belonging, being at home in the world, being at one with things, significance, insignificance, and the list goes on.
So this is this really, really cool work and I recommend everybody to go and read Matthew Ratcliffe, but some of the work I really like in predictive process in an active inference has taken this idea of an existential feeling and what they've recognized is that these kinds of feelings are really about how we are orientated in regards to the world and the affordances in it.
So their background bodily states of action readiness. So how are we relating to, like, how do we find ourselves in relation to the world? So we're talking about the general structuring that's present in our everyday phenomenology.
Okay, so I really want to make that clear that what this work is doing is building a bridge between computational models and the way, even the underpinnings of those models in neurobiology and phenomenological experience.
So the thing that I need to introduce, and this can be fairly straightforward, but it can be a little bit tricky at times, is this notion of aerodynamics. Okay, this is really important.
So like I just said, aerodynamics is going to provide this conceptual bridge between different levels of analysis, and it elaborates on how systems are sensitive to the success or failure of their own action policies unfolding across multiple timescales.
So the recognition here is that we talk a lot about action policies and expected states, but the reality is that we have a multitude of goals and action policies and expected states that are interlocking, overlapping, constantly shifting.
Okay, the picture is messy. And so I like this quote from the 2019 paper that says, the rollercoaster of continual increases and decreases of errors that accompany life become expected and are folded into our expectations.
For such a system, it becomes important not only to track the constantly fluctuating instantaneous errors, but also to pay attention to the dynamics of error reduction over longer timescales.
So the systems, the upshot of this is that these authors believe, building on some other work in computational modeling, that systems must track the rate of change in overall error reduction relative to the system's expectations.
So this is the kind of global upwards or downwards trend in prediction error. That's what the system is sensitive to how that relates to the expectations.
So the idea here is that aerodynamics provide a system with a much broader ongoing sense of how they're doing to their multitude of goals over time.
So a big step here is that those changes in the rate of reduction feed back into the system. So they're folded back within the system, and they serve the role of modulating precision on action policies.
So let's say I'm engaged in some tasks. I have a particular expectation about how I'm going to do it that task. And when I actually engage with the task, I do slightly worse than expected.
The idea there is that that rate of change, so the rate of error, error reduction is going to decrease until I'm reducing error worse than my expectations.
And in a typical healthily functioning system, that rate of change, the sensitivity to that rate of change is going to feed back and reset the precision waiting on those actions.
So it's going to reduce my confidence in that particular action policy such that I might try a different strategy, I might try a different tactic, or I might just throw whatever it is that I'm doing away and go and do something else.
So we're starting to see this picture of through expectations, sensitivity to change, and feedback onto precision waiting. It's starting to dictate how I manage my action policies.
So there's this ongoing reciprocal relationship between aerodynamics and my future expectations. Now, crucially, the claim here is that on the subject level, all of this manifests as these existential feelings of some kind.
So the way that I feel on a kind of day-to-day basis is a reflection of how I'm doing in terms of these sensitivity to aerodynamics.
So when I fail at the task and precision waiting is downregulated on that particular action policy, the thing that actually kind of moves me to go and do something else are my embodied feelings of frustration that I experienced.
So as conscious agents, those embodied feelings are what are tuning us towards acting more effectively.
So optimal behavior on this account is characterized as a feeling of grip towards the shifting field of affordances.
So I'm going to unpack this quickly, but the feeling of grip in a nutshell is just this feeling that we're engaging with our affordances in the best way that we can and that we're either meeting or exceeding our expectations for prediction
And what they mean by a field of affordances, and this is, again, really important, a landscape of affordances is just the total opportunities in my niche.
So my landscape of affordances right now is brightened. It's not really going to change very quickly unless I get on a plane and fly somewhere else.
But affordances aren't neutral in that way. They don't just exist there.
The affordances that stand out to me as relevant or attractive is going to change quite rapidly depending on what it is I'm doing on my internal state, on the context, and so on.
So right now, my water bottle stands out as attractive, a couple of keys on my keyboard stand out as attractive, but that's going to shift quite rapidly once this lecture's over and I turn to do something else.
So the idea of grip is that we exhibit a stability in our attunement such that we can remain attuned as that field changes.
And this is part of the skilled intentionality framework, which I won't get into because I don't want theoretical overload, but I've put some papers upon this slide as references and of course the reading will be in the document.
But the skilled intentionality refers to the selective openness and responsiveness to multiple relevant affordances in a concrete situation.
So it's just this recognition that things change quickly for multiple reasons and we really need to exhibit a kind of flexibility and stability in those engagements.
And aerodynamics has been applied in lots of very, very cool ways. I can't recommend this work highly enough.
So aerodynamics, I won't run through how everything has been explained just for time reasons, but you can kind of take a look at this yourself.
But aerodynamics has been proposed as a more complete answer to the dark room problem that we were talking about earlier because it can explain the drive for exploration and curiosity because it literally feels good to minimize prediction errors better than expected.
Okay, so again, that rate of change manifests as embodied feeling. So we're always looking for opportunities to do better than expected.
And kind of this has been suggested to account for feelings of boredom, prompting us to go out and find new things to do.
And similarly, aerodynamics has provided a computational account of play, which is for a while has remained a kind of mystery.
Because it's on the face of it, like why would we engage in play when it's metabolically costly and we need that energy for other things, you know, like Lisa Feldman Barrett says like managing energy is super important.
So wider baby animals burn it all engaging in playful behavior.
Aerodynamics has a has a story for us there.
And there are also aerodynamics based accounts of happiness and well-being and depression as well.
So I won't go into the details there, but it turns out that aerodynamics and this connection to phenomenology is this super malleable, flexible kind of feature of the framework that really underpins the
that really underpins a lot of what we experience and do as active inference agents.
Okay.
So I'm going to talk a little bit about addiction.
Got some time here, things going well.
So I take so I had some options here because I wanted to use a case study that really brought out some of the things I was talking about.
And as I've just said, aerodynamics has been applied in a bunch of different areas and it's all very much worth talking about.
But I chose addiction because well, as you'll see, as I kind of make clear, I think it also brings out not just the way that all of this fits together, but also why it's good.
And why seeing people as active inference agents and broader structures as active inference structures is actually a worthwhile thing to do.
So addiction was once viewed as a moral failing.
So the kind of Victorian addict is too rotten to make the right choice to self-indulgent.
I'd say Victorian unless you're Peter Hitchens and then you still subscribe to this view.
But that's the old fashioned view.
Okay, there was something wrong with the addict, some moral or spiritual failing.
And gradually that changed to what the dominant view is today, which is the disease model.
And the idea here is that addiction is a disease and that disease is characterized by changes in the brain, which changes to brain structures,
which mean the addict can't help but act in a certain way when confronted with a certain stimulus.
So it's this loss of control that's engendered through these brain structures.
And this is the idea of it being a disease.
The work that I'm going to describe now, I won't go into too much detail here, but it's kind of founded on this thought that this disease model can't quite,
it can't be quite right because these changes in brain structure, essentially, that's what the brain does.
It's just learning.
This is what we do all the time.
Essentially, me completing my PhD is a process of me undergoing changes to my brain such that I'm kind of disposed to act in certain ways.
So there's no, so Mark Lewis, I think it's Mark Lewis in his book, 2018, The Biology of Desire argues, look, addiction is more of just a dysfunction in learning.
It's not really a disease.
So we need to think about it a little bit differently.
And this work by Miller and colleagues 2020, that's where it picks up.
So the idea is that those brain changes engendered through exposure to a stimulus.
In this case, we're going to talk about drug.
We're going to leave behavioral addiction aside for a second.
That clearly plays a critical role.
So nobody's going to deny the kind of chemical, the importance of the biology here that's going on in the brain.
And of course, different drugs have different chemical profiles in that regard.
But on this view, we're going to kind of shift focus from that slightly.
And we're going to have a much more active picture where we view addiction as a self organizing process of whole agent environment systems.
Okay, so I have this extract here.
It is in the dynamic interaction between the agent and its environment that addiction is born and endures.
So the harm of addiction emerges from a breakdown in the broader stable dynamics that typically underpin a flourishing life.
Work, family, friends, health and so on.
So the typically flourishing life has a broad kind of bush of concerns over different time scales in different areas.
And what we're going to see is that the harm of addiction is in a narrowing of those concerns.
So what happens is when somebody takes a drug to some people who are exposed to drugs, that drug is going to, through direct action on some neural mechanisms,
is going to signal to the agent that they've done better than expected at reducing prediction error.
Of course, this is a losery.
They haven't really done better than expected in anything that matters.
But the signal they get is, wow, like we have just reduced prediction error at this insane rate.
And repeated use through this aerodynamics mechanism, repeated use is going to tune our expectations about the kinds of prediction error slopes,
the kind of slopes of prediction error that are available to us in the environment.
