The entangled state is one thing. It's not two particles. I think in a deep sense entanglement
isn't spooky. It challenges to rethink what we mean by locality.
Hello everybody and welcome back to Chasing Consciousness.
So today we're going to be trying to get our heads around one of the most
extraordinary phenomena ever recorded in subatomic physics, quantum entanglement.
Famously dismissed by Einstein as spooky action at a distance, it has since been proved to exist
over and over again in the lab. This non-local phenomenon is when particles remain connected
so that their physical properties continue to affect each other no matter what the distance
is between them. It's been in the news a lot recently, not only because it's been photographed
by a team at the University of Glasgow, but also because a host of successful so-called
teleportation experiments in which entanglement has been used to send information instantaneously
between two computer chips that have absolutely no causal connection between them whatsoever.
I believe that the implications of this phenomenon are basically among the most
important scientific discoveries of our time. Most importantly, to update our purely classical
cause and effect understanding of the world, but it does beg an important question. Through what
medium is that information passing between those two entangled particles, if not through space and
across time? So to help us get our heads around this mind-bending reality today is theoretical
physicist Dr. Chris Fields. Dr. Fields is an independent scientist interested in both the
physics and the cognitive neuroscience underlying human perception of matter in space and time,
very simply. He began his career as an experimental physicist, obtaining his PhD in the Philosophy
of Science at the University of Colorado, and he was an early developer of the automated DNA
sequence analysis tools at the Human Genome Project. He's published over 130 peer-reviewed
papers in nuclear physics, artificial intelligence, molecular biology, and cognitive psychology.
So I have been pondering this question of entanglement ever since I first heard about it,
so I literally couldn't wait to get into this with Dr. Fields. So without further ado, let's go.
So Dr. Chris Fields, welcome to Chasing Consciousness, and thank you so much for joining us. How are you?
Well, thank you. I'm very well.
And you're in France, I understand, not in the States.
Right, right. In a tiny village in the south of France where I can see the Pyrenees from
my upper window here.
Ah, stunning. Well, listen, Chris, thank you so much for coming on to help us with this
really quite extraordinary topic that I think the general public are dying to understand better
about entanglement, the entanglement of distant particles and how they seem to be connected
in a way that we don't quite understand. But before we get into that, give us a quick overview
of your career, what are your research areas, and maybe what's your big passion? What got you
into physics in the first place?
Well, probably like a lot of kids, I got into physics from amateur astronomy and telescope
making, and a fascination with the night sky, combined with just a general
curiosity about how things work, which I think also drives a lot of people who get into
science as a general.
Absolutely.
And my career has been a real random walk across various disciplines.
I spent a good deal of time in the Human Genome Project, for example, working on software systems
for analyzing DNA, and actually came back to physics only about 10 years ago.
And what are your research fields in physics?
I take a very informational approach to physics, and so I'm interested in physics as a theory of
information transfer between systems. So physics as a way of talking about communication between
entities. I work in quantum information theory, decoherence. I'm starting to do some work in
quantum gravity.
Wow, that's the big one, isn't it? So Chris, if you were to try and choose the thing you're
most proud of, in terms of getting maybe getting a bit of feedback, getting a bit of
interest from the rest of the field, what's your most, what are you most proud of in terms of
conclusions that have rocked the boat, maybe?
Actually, I think the most significant thing I've done professionally was to emphasize very
strongly and very early on in the genome project that data analysis had to be fully automated.
Right. And why is that significant?
That, well, it means, for example, that today in our current pandemic situation, for example,
people are able to analyze DNA from hundreds of sequences in real time.
Right.
And understand what's going on on a daily basis, as opposed to having to wait
months to years to figure out what's happening, because analytical techniques are so slow.
Now, I mean, certainly, I can't take credit for that.
My contributions were much longer ago when the problems were not nearly so significant.
It was a sea change in the way people thought about analyzing biological data that happened
in the early 90s.
Yeah. Well, Chris, if you don't mind, let's get straight into the meat of today's conversation.
So, entanglement has been in the news a lot recently, first with this instantaneous teleportation
of information between two separate chips in a lab in Bristol, in UK, and then later last year
with China's extraordinary achievement of teleporting information between a ground station
and a satellite over 100 kilometers high up into the atmosphere.
And listeners, we're hoping we're going to speak to the Chinese head scientist of that,
who's my age, which is just bonkers, really, how young these incredible scientists are
who are working with this totally ridiculous new technology.
Starting with the broadest possible definition, shall we say the sort of textbook definition,
Chris, what is entanglement? How was it discovered?
And how has physics understanding of it evolved over the last 100 years? Because I do
want, if I understand correctly, it was quite a controversial one at the beginning when Einstein
was about. Well, the idea of entanglement first appeared in Schrodinger's work.
Yeah. And so I think that Schrodinger was actually the first to understand it.
And the idea is actually very simple. A system is, in an entangled state,
if you can know everything there is to know about the system and yet have no knowledge of its parts.
Right. So entanglement is the exact opposite of what's called separability.
Yep. And a system is separable if you can know about its parts.
Nice. And in fact, no, everything there is to know about its parts.
So entanglement, entangled systems are systems that are not separable, entangled systems are systems
for which you don't have access to information about the parts.
So was this originally observed or was it theorized about and then later discovered to be true?
Well, it was not observed in a way that anyone knew that they were observing it or understood
in what way they were observing it. Entanglement is characteristic of quantum systems,
but it takes a very delicate experiment to see it explicitly.
And that experiment was, in a sense, designed by Einstein, Podolski and Rosen in their paper
claiming that quantum theory, because it allowed entanglement, was incomplete.
And their philosophical position was, if you can't learn about the parts of a system,
your theory must not be a good theory or must not be a complete theory.
But the approach that they took eventually led to the aspect experiment, which was the first
experiment that actually demonstrated entanglement in the laboratory.
And that was the prototype for all the experiments that we've seen since then,
that have been over longer distances, that have closed various loopholes,
alternate ruled out various alternative explanations to entanglement as the explanation.
And these experiments are really the most sensitive direct tests of quantum theory that we have.
So can you just maybe give us a little example of what is actually happening when they alter
the state of one particle and they see a difference in another, just so we can sort of get a visual
on it? I mean, quite impossible at a quantum level, but certainly something we can imagine.
Well, the way these experiments work, essentially, is one has a source that produces
an entangled state. And informally, we can think about an entangled state as a pair of particles
that are correlated in a certain way. Now, that way of thinking about it is useful,
but it's actually wrong. And I think it causes a lot of confusion.
But one has this source that produces an entangled state. And one produces an entangled state
that expands very quickly. So typically, you're producing, for example, entangled photons,
so they're moving away from each other at the speed of light, or you're producing entangled
electrons, and they're moving away from each other very quickly, very close to the speed of light.
And then you have detectors that are set up far enough apart
that they can't communicate by a light signal in the time that it takes the particles to reach
the respective detectors. So that closes a particular loophole. It means that there's no
classical communication going on between the detectors. And what one sees when one
does that kind of experiment is a level of correlation between the results obtained at
the two detectors that is larger than one would expect on classical grids.
Yeah. And the correlation is not just
between the states of the particles, between the parts of the entangled state,
even though I just defined an entangled state of one for which you can do nothing about the
process. This whole way of talking about parts of an entangled state is not really accurate.
But it's also the response of the entangled state to what the experimenters do in the two
locations. So a key aspect of this experiment is that the experimenters at the two locations
have to be able to independently change the question they're asking about the entangled state.
And it's the super correlation that one doesn't expect classically is that the detector,
the two experimenters are always called Alice and Bob, right?
The super correlation is that what Bob sees depends on how Alice has chosen to measure
her side of the entangled state, even though Alice and Bob cannot communicate.
So we have what might be, if we follow what you're saying is a mistaken thinking,
it's we have a bit of an observer problem.
Yes. But the extent to which it's a problem I think really does depend on
this importation of the idea of parts.
So Chris, just before we get into that, talking about non-locality and how maybe the way we're
interpreting this phenomena is at the heart of that problem, tell us a little bit about this
famous maxim that Einstein said, this is spooky action at a distance. What made Einstein call it
that? And why was he so derisive, derisive about this? Why did he just throw it out?
Well, I think if one looks back at Einstein's career, and this is a historical observation
that I think if I recall correctly, Nicholas Geissen made. Einstein's career was about
removing from physics the idea of action at a distance.
And so he was driven by this idea of locality. And if one goes back to Newtonian physics,
Newtonian physics incorporates action at a distance in the form of gravity.
And gravity in Newtonian physics is just a force. It has a name and it has an equation,
but it doesn't have a physical explanation. It just exists. And it acts out to infinite
distances. So it gets weaker and weaker as you get farther and farther away. But it doesn't have
a time component. It's meant to be acting instantaneously. So the sun exerts a gravitational force
on the earth in classical physics. And it doesn't take any time for that force to get to the earth.
And now if you think about Einstein and the special theory of relativity,
basically what the special theory of relativity says is that it takes time for information
to propagate through space. And information only moves at the speed of light.
The photon is the most efficient carrier of information. So that must apply to gravity too.
So this is what, this is one driver of the theory of general relativity is to try to turn
gravity into something that's local as opposed to something that's acting in a distance.
Yeah. So if you replace the idea of gravity with the idea of space time itself being curved,
having a particular shape, then the gravitational action of the sun on the earth,
what the sun does is curve space time in the vicinity of the earth. So the earth now just
detects that curvature locally. So now the action of gravity is not this force reaching out over
a long distance instantaneously from the sun to the earth. But it's rather something that the
earth measures locally by just responding to the curvature of space itself. So Einstein was
the person who got rid of action at a distance in this theory of gravity. And the understanding that
photons were the transmitters of the electromagnetic force got rid of
action at a distance in electricity and magnetism. So action at a distance was temporarily gone from
physics. And then quantum theory seemed to reintroduce it. And do you think that these observations
justified everybody saying that actually Einstein had been wrong?
Or are we going to get into that in a minute when we start talking about how this has been
misinterpreted? Well, I think that quantum theory systematically challenges all classical
intuitions, you know, up to and including the intuition that space itself is a fundamental
future of the universe. Which we're about to get into actually. Chris, this brings us beautifully
onto the next question because it really regards this. So from the point of view of us as a general
public who don't necessarily understand how this works, it really looks like a non-local phenomenon
because there literally isn't time for this information to pass between these two particles.
It looks like there is some conduit of this information that isn't classical, that just
doesn't follow the linear spacetime thinking that we're used to in a local context. So that's the
way it looks to us. But is it possible that we've just really misunderstood what local means?
Because it seems from the theory of general relativity and the way quantum theory then
comes back against that, it seems that this sort of the fact that space and time really aren't as
linear as we're led to believe by our senses. Does that completely undermine what non-local
actually means? Maybe we've just got this idea of what is local and non-local wrong? And if so,
can you tell us, is entanglement actually a non-local phenomenon? Is it spooky?
I think in a deep sense entanglement isn't spooky.
In a deep sense, it challenges to rethink what we mean by locality and to
go even more deeply than relativity theory did into the idea that space itself is local in some
sense. So let's go back to the idea of entanglement being about two particles and see really what's
wrong with that idea. The idea is that, I don't know if you use my hands here.
Thank you. We've got no board for you to demonstrate, I'm afraid.
And two little things come apart from the source and there's nothing in between.
That's what our particle intuition tells us. That after the photons leave the source,
there's nothing in between. There are two little individual identifiable things out here.
Now, that's precisely the intuition of separability. That's precisely what's not correct
in thinking about entanglement. So that's what I tried to say. The source creates an entangled
state and the state itself expands. So that if you think about Alice and Bob with their two detectors,
Alice is effectively operating on a rigid object. So she's taking something like an
eye beam and twisting it. So it's no surprise that the other end of the eye beam over on Bob's side
moves because it's one thing, not two things. And in that sense, we're looking at a similarity
between the matter of these particles, if we can even consider them as matter, and the space
through which they're moving. It's almost as if the space is part of the same continuum.
Yeah. I mean, I think that's a good way to put it. So let's think about this,
not from our perspective, but rather from the perspective of the entangled state.
The entangled state is one thing. It's not two particles. And so the source produces the entangled
state. From its point of view, it's just sitting there. It's not doing anything at all. It's just
a state. It's been produced. And then all of a sudden, from out of nowhere, these two laboratories
