as an in-practice approximation that's good enough for government work.
That was actually confirmed by Pauli's energy principle, wasn't it? That if you make a change of
the level of energy, it changes all of the other particles in the universe. That's actually been
confirmed by quantum physics many years later, isn't it? Well, confirmed in a mathematical sense.
Yeah, well, yeah. Chris, if you don't mind. It's built into this sort of idea that information
is never lost, is built into quantum theory. Chris, if you don't mind, I'd like to speak a
little bit about integration of these kind of ideas. I think one of the most challenging things
about quantum physics for the general public is that it undermines so many of our quotidian
experiences. It goes so heavily against our classical viewing of the world on a day-to-day
basis. I don't think that entanglement is any different by your definition and by the implications
that we've just been discussing. What I wanted to mention was that it's very interesting to me
seeing entanglement before it's even entered the kind of group consciousness, if you like,
the general public's thinking and understanding of the world, we have it being used in technology.
So now, of course, we've got quantum computers and we've also more specifically to entanglement.
We've got these photons being used to transmit information on using entanglement, which of
course will lead to very highly encrypted information transfer, very, very useful in today's world of
information hacking. So there's lots of applications of entanglement here and I,
I thinking back into history, it seems that it's quite often that a concept that was really quite,
people were a bit skeptical about, particularly I think the religious conservatives always sort
of sceptical about these new phenomena discovered in science. Take electricity, for example, or
radio waves. There was this demonic understanding of electricity at first, that it was some sort of
evil demonic energy being harnessed by these evil scientists. But as it entered into technology
in everyday life, it became just an everyday thing. Do you think that the extraordinary
implications of entanglement and quantum theory in general will have the same sort of path that
as these start to get used in quantum computers and in quantum communications, we'll just see this
becoming part of everyday understanding and the classical view will start to open up into a slightly
more sort of dualistic quantum slash classical thinking? That's a very good question. And
I think the number of places in technology where
one, in a sense, has to have some quantum intuitions is still fairly small.
But it may be growing as the recognition of phenomena that need quantum thinking to understand
and say biology becomes more clear. And there are now well documented aspects of things like
human decision making that really make sense only in terms of quantum theory.
And it's also the case that as quantum theory is reformulated in different ways we may find
fear to us. And so
its implications may be hidden in plain sight, shall we say,
in things like context dependence and the observer effect as it's seen in
which we've covered on the show in all areas of life. Absolutely. So what it may do is just
loosen the grip of an idea of objectivity which was never accurate in the first place
and that exists essentially as a mythology of again the observer as a kind of god that
is able to act completely precisely and then observe without influence, without influencing
anything. So you think that the advance of these kind of technologies starting to normalize,
shall we say, some of the implications of quantum theory and entanglement,
you think that in a way physicalism as a pure philosophy, as a very reductive philosophy,
as followed by the kind of scientistic, the scientism kind of approach, do you think it
stays in number? Do you think that the public will just slowly start to open up to these less
physicalist views that we seem to have been indoctrinated so heavily into as school children?
Well, I suspect that eventually the ideas of classical materialism will start to go away.
I always worry about using the word physicalism because it's so ambiguous.
Yeah, yeah. But the idea of classical materialism,
the world consists of a bunch of more or less independent hunks of stuff
that behave in sort of interesting ways, is so far, I mean that's 100 years out of date already,
even in physics. And that's not an idea that's all that useful.
Well, where I think that the ideas of quantum theory may be more
hopefully absorbed into the general thinking in society is in
viewing the world in a sense more biologically as in viewing all actions as having
not just unknown but unknowable side effects. And in recognizing that
systems in general are highly nonlinear and are unlikely to behave in ways that simple models
would have us expected to behave. I think these are the sorts of lessons that
this kind of physics will actually end up injecting into the culture in general.
Well, I think it's long overdue and given how long quantum theory has been about,
it really is taking a little while. So I hope that this podcast and wonderful work like the
work of Chris's will help with that. Chris, I am appalled at myself that it's taken me
this long to get to your book. But the book is not about quantum physics,
so I suppose I can be forgiven slightly. And it is very much about, again,
mind, isn't it? So tell us about the book you've co-authored with your wife about meditation,
what's it called? And we're going to be interviewing quite a few neuroscientists
about meditation, the positive effects, the effects inside the brain, the benefits for cognition
and the benefits for against mental health issues and even immunity. Tell us a little bit,
what's your book about? And what are you hoping to communicate with it? And tell us what it's
called and where we can get it? Well, I should first say that the book really is Allison's idea.
Allison Tinsley. And the idea came out of going to one of the many science and non-duality meetings
that we've been to and talking to people about their meditation practice. And the book's called
Meditation If You're Doing It, You're Doing It Right, which is a slogan, a very lovely slogan
that a friend of ours once used about working together in the kitchen.
And it's a book of interviews, not unlike this one, with people about what their meditation
practice is like. And the people that we interview range from some fairly well-known figures like
Deepak Chopra to people you've never heard of who are just friends of ours from somewhere
who've been meditating for a long time. And it's really an exploration of the variety of
practices that people use and the variety of experiences that people have in using them.
And it's held together by the phenomenon that meditation is useful for well-being.
At almost every level, I imagine.
Yes. And it has different kinds of outcomes in different people,
but of course, that's what you would expect because of all different people.
How long have you meditated, Chris?
Goodness. Probably about 12 years. So I'm not really a long-term meditator as that goes.
Some people have been meditated for 30 or 40 years.
And how did it change the way you saw the world? Did you find that some of the
mental states, the states of mind, literally, that you came to not necessarily during your
practice, but also as a consequence of your practice, did you see a shift in the way you
perceived the world and in the kind of physics you were considering as possible?
I would say that it's one of its fundamental effects, at least for me, but for a lot of people,
is an increased openness to what the world is trying to tell us.
A good meditation is like a long walk in the woods, except you do it in half an hour in your
living room. It's a way of stopping thinking and starting listening. I think that's the
important thing about it. And do you think there's a suggestion towards, through meditation, do you
think there's a suggestion towards some of these slightly non-dual, the slightly more
non-separate states that we've been discussing as implied by entanglement, do you think that
meditation gives us some hints in that direction? I mean, obviously, there's a lot of tradition,
eastern tradition, that kind of talks about non-separation. Do you think that meditation
as a phenomena of mind takes us towards that kind of understanding of the world?
Yes, and I think the neuroscience evidence here is very good. In fact, one thing that
meditation is helping us do is to understand how we create that sense of separation,
understand it at the level of neuroscience at least. So it's clear that meditation
is one technique among many. And I would include not just psychedelics, but
what are called flow activities, anything that's a very engaging, externally directed
kind of activity. They break down the boundary between the self and the world
by defocusing attention on the self. They tend to turn off or turn way down
of the parts of the brain that construct this representation of the self and the
interests in the sense of self-interested, the interests of the self in meeting its own
particular goals or in achieving its particular status or whatever.
Do you think it really, do you think it really turns massive?
Medically turns that kind of stuff off.
Absolutely.
And so what it allows is a focus on the world as a whole without the self being regarded as
this little piece of it.
Do you think it really matters fundamentally which is true? I mean obviously in philosophy
and in science we're always desperately trying to work out what is actually there,
what is actually true, what is actually real. But does it actually really matter?
To what extent we are actually constructing and how illusory these separations may be?
I mean the bottom line is the reality of embodiment is that those separations are in place.
So does it really matter which one of these two possible realities is fundamental?
I mean surely we can just work with both and meditation is rather a wonderful way of
hopping between the two and maybe harvesting the benefits of both.
I certainly agree with that and when I think of things being fundamental I tend to think of it
from a kind of epistemological perspective as opposed to an ontological perspective.
And I think it's the epistemological perspective that's more useful because that's the one we
can do something about. That's the knowing rather than the being isn't it? Right.
We can do something about what we know and how we think about what we know.
Well that brings me on to knowledge. I mean it's such a conundrum isn't it when we think about
this sort of what we might call a kind of relativity of what we know and how difficult it is to jump
from what we know from the epistemological to the ontological, you know from what we know to what
actually is. The question I wanted to ask was about mystical experience sometimes called
peak experiences, religious experiences, deep moments of you know psychedelic experiences
where these separations literally do break down and the self kind of dissolves.
These experiences can give us a lot of knowledge about this non-separate world.
However scientific experimentation and the scientific method doesn't work with that. So
which side do you start to fall on? I mean Jung, somebody will be covering quite a lot on the show
particularly in this first series where we'll be talking about the communal unconscious,
we'll be talking about synchronicity. Jung was very very clear as a clinical psychiatrist that he
felt that there was a limit to which the scientific method couldn't go beyond and that beyond that
area. The mystical and the symbolic was something that science couldn't penetrate, it couldn't really
make conclusions about. Do you think that that's the right approach? This let's face it, let we
fall into a dualistic position there and you know the separation between between the physical world
and the soul or how do you want to call that duality? Do you think that's the best way of
looking at it or do you think it's better to say actually the structure, the reality that mystics
have reported for millennia through the mystical experiences actually just has a structure, a science
that we have yet to discover. Is it better to think of it in that unified kind of way and therefore
leaving hope open to a unified theory? Or do you think it's better to do as Jung did and say listen
this is mysterious and it's designed to be mysterious, it should always remain mysterious
and you should never pretend that you can know anything about that. What's the best approach?
Well I think that science always gets into trouble when it pretends to be about ontology.
So I suppose the first thing I would say is
ontology in science is purely pragmatic and the second is something about how science works.
You know all science, all ideas in science come from somewhere
and that somewhere is often I believe of what people like Jung for example are talking about
when they talk about intuition or the collective unconscious or
enlightenment experiences or however you want to describe these kinds of experiences
of just suddenly getting an idea out of nowhere. At least from your conscious experience it's out
of nowhere. I mean that's where ideas come from and the scientific method is a methodology for
testing ideas. It's not a methodology for generating ideas. The scientific method in a sense recognizes
that great ideas occur to you when you're taking a bath or out walking in the woods
or meditating or something. So now okay you've got this great idea. What do you do with it?
You try to figure out whether it's correct in some sense or useful or gives rise to
a model that helps you do something. Build buildings or cure diseases or whatever it is
that you want to do. So the scientific method is about experimental test. It's not about
where the idea comes from in the first place. So
this raises the question of can we then have a science that addresses where ideas come from in
the first place and if so what would it mean to test ideas about where ideas come from in the first
place? And in a sense that science exists it's called positive psychology for example or
the neuroscience of meditation or aspects of cognitive science. And we know a lot about
the situations that that typically give rise to good ideas in humans. And
we know that they typically involve relaxation, positive affect, low stress, and so forth.
Curiosity. Do we know how those conditions give rise to good ideas? Not yet. Will we learn more
about it probably? Will this sort of investigation give us the final answer on where good ideas come
from? My guess would be no. There may be no final answer. I don't know. So we could be being naive
to hold out for a unified theory where we do actually have the ability to understand the
full picture going right into the realm of spirit, mystical experience, non-separateness.
We could be being naive and therefore potentially from your point of view,
Jung's approach might be a better approach.
It's untouchable. It's mystic. It's not to be talked of in terms of cognition.
See, I always think it's a bad idea to rule phenomena out of court as not to be investigated.
I quite agree. But I also agree that it is naive to imagine that
any system with finite resources can figure out how it itself works completely.
So that leaves us in a situation that one could regard as deplorable, but one could also regard as
really interesting and fun and that we're blessed with this motivation of curiosity.
And as long as we don't know what's going on and we're curious, it gives us something to do.
Yes. Yes. What a beautiful, beautiful way of looking at it, Chris, that that curiosity can
only be there if we haven't got all the answers. And as stimulating and fascinating as all of these
phenomena coming from, shall we say, the world beyond the scientific method,
can just keep us asking questions and keep us curious and just keep those anomalies coming
so that we have to continue trying to integrate greater and greater models that
include more and more of this stuff. What a beautiful way of thinking of it, fun and exciting.
Thank you, Chris. Chris, thank you so much for your time and for your enthusiasm for all of this
because it is so difficult to ask these more difficult questions and to come up with reasonable
answers that do bring into focus all of the various elements and all of the various arguments
without getting all wrapped up and tangled and into a right old stick. So I hope listeners that
this has been interesting and has helped you map your own ideas about this and sort of come
a little bit closer to the implications of entanglement and quantum theory to our daily
lives and to the way that we start to interact with what we might call the unknowable, you know,
what Jung called, beyond the realm of science. So please, listeners, go out, get Chris's and
