collapse onto it. So the state doesn't, doesn't, from its point of view, there's no motion.
There isn't, there isn't any space because there isn't anything for there to be space between,
right? They're not two particles. There's nothing, there's nothing in there. There's no empty space.
So we, in our laboratories, have tools for measuring space. We have meter sticks.
We have clocks. We have those sorts of things which, which help us distinguish one place from
another place and one time from another time. But this entangled state doesn't have any of
those tools. It doesn't see any passage of time. It doesn't see any, any distance. It has no way
to measure distance. So it just exists. And then all of a sudden it doesn't when these two
laboratories collide on top of it and annihilate. It's so, so difficult to imagine, isn't it? It's
really, really hard for us because we're just, because our senses are so attached to the linearity
of time and space. Let's move on, Chris, to this idea of spin. Now, I am, if I've understood correctly,
spin is all about, is the way that we define some molecular particles. What exactly is spin?
And can we kind of use an idea of spin? Is it analogous to an idea of frequency?
And does that suggest that there's some sort of resonant phenomena going on between the various
spins of various particles across the universe? Is there a resonance phenomena in this concept
of spin? What is spin? From a, from a technical point of view, spin is just a variable that has
two possible values that you can call up and down. Right. And classically, spin is associated with
rotation with angular momentum with an actual object like the earth. Right. Spinning around.
And that creates a, a vector that resists being moved. So if you're riding a bicycle or something,
the wheels are spinning. That helps you keep your balance on the bicycle. Right.
And that classical concept was imported into quantum theory because quantum theory
needed this extra variable to characterize a particle. And the variable always takes one of two states.
So the, the variable behaves mathematically like an angular momentum that can either be pointing
up or pointing down or pointing north or pointing south. So the mathematics of, of a rotating body
was just imported into the theory. So in fact, it's, it's actually a quite a mistaken image
in terms of helping people to understand what's actually going on at the, at the quantum level.
So it's, it's somewhat useful, but somewhat misleading as, as so many things are in trying
to go from classical, classical concepts to quantum concepts. But there, there are now many, many
things that are called spin in quantum theory. So to, to pick one example, there's something called
isospin. And the state that's isospin up is a proton, like the nucleus of a hydrogen atom.
And the state that's isospin down is a neutron. So I asked, I asked because I understand that
it's used in the measurement of entanglement experiments. Is that, is that correct?
Yes. Yeah, spin is, spin is by far and away the easiest kind of,
a thing to measure in that kind of experiment because it's manipulable by the apparatus.
And the, the results are always up or down in some direction. And when we talk
earlier about Alice and Bob being able to choose how they measured what was going on,
what they're choosing in the standard experiment is what direction to define is up.
And do you think, do you think that when we see a change in, in one particle,
you know, theoretically beyond any kind of classical information exchange,
is, is it possible that there's some sort of resonant phenomenon going on between those,
those two particles or am I on the wrong tack by thinking in that way?
Well, again, there, there aren't actually two different particles.
Absolutely. I keep, we've just got to try to change our imagination here, haven't we? It's so
difficult in a classical world. Okay, well, that brings us nicely on to, to information.
Because obviously what is happening here is, it is an exchange of information at some level.
And I know this is a concept you've worked with a lot. You spoke a little bit at the beginning
about some of your computer science work. How has the concept of information influenced
modern physics? And do you think it's a useful tool in terms of trying to help us to really
understand what's going on at a quantum level and understand what's going on, you know, at the
level of the true fabric of reality? I think it's a very useful concept. And indeed, the last
couple of decades have seen a number of attempts to reformulate physics completely in information
theoretic terms. And I think this, in a sense, is the, the wave of the future for, for physics.
And many, many people, physicists and also
philosophers are exploring the idea that information itself, not particles, not spacetime,
not material in any sense, but rather information itself, is what is, in a sense, fundamentally real.
Yeah. And my, my own position on the relationship between quantum theory and information is that
quantum theory is not a theory of objects at all, but quantum theory is a theory that tells us
what is required for observers to extract information from some system that's being
observed. So quantum theory itself is about the movement of information and the resources necessary
to move information from one place to another. And by resources, I mean things like energy and time.
And that, you know, it seems to me that information is a really good way of drawing a parallel
between what's being exchanged at this physical level you've just mentioned about, you know,
interaction, energy, matter, cause and effect, this sort of thing. But it draws a parallel
between also the exchange between what's happening there and observers and consciousness itself.
Now, in physics, that's been a big problem, hasn't it? The observer effect and it's caused all of this
debate over, you know, you know, the double slit experiment and everybody getting very riled up
about the problem of consciousness and the problem of observation. But it seems to me that
information has this wonderful sort of unifying ability to bring together these two types of
information, if you like, as a single idea. Can you map out for us how you've used this
idea of information to arrive at your conclusion that consciousness must be fundamental to the
physical world? Well, I think what information, but thinking about physics or thinking about
other sciences in terms of information does is to disallow this backing out of the situation
that characterized classical physics and characterizes classical sciences in general.
You mentioned the observer effect. The observer effect is very common in psychology and biology
and these other fields. So it's not unique to physics. And in, say, psychology, it's just understood
that how you ask questions affects what sort of answer you get. And what the informational outlook
in physics does is enforce the way, the same way of thinking that what kind of question you ask
influences what kind of answer you're going to get from the world. And John Wheeler was probably the
first to make this completely explicit. He was fond of saying things like, you don't ask a question,
you're not going to get an answer. So if you don't actually do an experiment, if you don't
actually do something to the world, you're not going to get anything back. So that's a way of
emphasizing that the observer is interacting with what is observed and there's information flowing
from the observer into what is being observed and that the experimenter is acting on the world
in some way by asking a question. And the world is then giving an answer back. So it's a very small
step from there to think of the world as observing the observer. Think of the world as just another
participant in this conversation. And to see observer and world as just exchanging information.
If I'm doing an experiment, I'm giving information to the world effectively by acting on it.
And the world is giving information to me by acting on me. So there's no information flow
without interaction and that information flow is bi-directional. So you're saying that an
interaction in terms of energy and matter really fundamentally has no difference than an interaction
in terms of mind and consciousness. Right. Can you give us an example that sort of,
because that sounds very abstract, can you give us an example that would show how fundamentally
it's the same kind of information? Because it seems different, doesn't it? I mean, like if you
tell me I've got this hat in the background and I think it's a beige color, I can't really understand
that in terms of anything except the qualia, that that is a perception. It is a conscious
interpretation. That's not the same thing as a cause and effect interaction, is it?
We have these two different languages and I'm not sure how different they are. Yeah.
If you talk to an experimental physicist, for example, I used to work at an accelerator laboratory,
and so how do you talk about what's going on as, say, a beam of protons
travels through some complicated plumbing arrangement that moves it this way and that,
as if it was a stream of water. It's almost impossible not to talk about the proton moving
along and feeling a magnetic field and responding to it by moving in some direction,
and then sensing an electric field or feeling an electric field and moving in another direction.
So it's a metaphor that we fall into very naturally when we try to take the point of view
of some other entity. And so I think what this language is challenging us to do is to
take other points of view and try to imagine the sensory world of possibly very simple things like
electrons that are sensitive to electric and magnetic fields and that's about it.
I mean, presumably that could work the other way as well. There's a lot of
neuroscientists out there arguing that consciousness is an illusion, that this is just an exchange of
neural firing and chemicals in the brain. Presumably we could argue it the other way and say that
actually consciousness is just an energy and matter interaction as well and that therefore
consciousness sort of really doesn't exist. It's just a physical process. Couldn't that also work
the other way, Chris? Well, yeah, you could also say that it's all consciousness and that
energy and matter don't exist. I mean, the question is whether there's anything productive in talking
that way. I don't think there is. There's always the temptation to find the one master language
that expresses everything to the exclusion of all other languages and I think that's probably
not a sensible thing to be looking for. So you think that in a way information is a kind of
neutral language that sort of avoids the necessity of having to take the plunge either way and saying
consciousness is fundamental or physicality is fundamental. We can just talk about information
and say, listen, we just don't know what's fundamental. Let's just work with information
because that allows us to press forward. Yes and no. Information is a very useful language
but when we talk about information, we very naturally tend to hide the distinction between
semantics and syntax and classical information theory as developed by Shannon and others in
the mid 20th century is all about the amount of information that you can move from here to there
and if you talk about the conservation of information in physics, then one's talking
about conserving the amount of information. So for example, one might claim that if
Alice and Bob are communicating, then they're exchanging equal amounts of information. So the
communication channel is symmetrical. Now that's just about the amount of information
but what we're really interested in is what the message means to the sender and what it means to
the recipient and those may be completely different and in human conversation often they are.
And that definitely brings us towards more of a consciousness
take on things, doesn't it? Because you know, information in a kind of physical system should
be fairly predictable. Well, again, we may want to dissociate predictability from meaning.
Right. I can predict to some extent how a conversation partner is going to respond
to the meaning of what I say, the meaning for me. Yeah. So I can predict a little bit about
the meaning for the hearer, for the conversation for you. But that doesn't mean that our
conversation is meaningless. So predictability and meaning are not opposing concepts.
So if we suppose we think about our proton traveling down a beam line in an accelerator,
what's the meaning of the magnetic field? It may be turn left.
And we can predict that. But that doesn't mean that our ability to predict it doesn't mean that
it doesn't mean turn left to the proton. Sorry. And what about the observer effect where we find
that as soon as we introduce an observer, they're not doing anything, they're just perceiving.
We get different results and we seem to have affected the system. Presumably that's a pretty
good argument for consciousness having a very active role in these interactions.
Well, again, the key idea here is that observation is interaction. There's no such thing as a
passive observer. And this was Wheeler's point was saying no question, no answer.
The only way to get answers to actually get information from the world is to ask questions,
to interact with the world. So in classical physics, we have this idea of observers almost as gods
who are able to act completely precisely with no side effects whatsoever on the world
to do exactly what they want and not do anything unexpected or unintended.
And then to stand back and watch the results unfold completely with no other influence.
But that's not what observation is actually like. The observer is embedded in this situation.
And the phenomenon being observed may be much smaller scale or much larger scale than the
observer. So I may be looking at some other galaxy, for example, some very big thing,
in which case I'm looking at light that's very old.
But nonetheless, I as an observer exist in the world. I'm interacting with the world that I'm
that I'm receiving information from. I think there's a there's a great reluctance to
to state things in a way that suggests that experiments are not reproducible or possibly
not even possible. But I also think that
all physicists understand at some deep level that Wheeler was right, that this idea of the
observer being completely abstracted from the situation isn't really viable. And
I have lots of discussions with colleagues, some of whom are physicists, some of whom are
psychologists, some of whom are biologists about the meaning of objectivity and the extent to which
this ideal of objectivity is achievable and what intersubjective agreement means and that sort of
thing. And these are these are topics that I think increasingly are being discussed in public.
Well, panpsychism is most definitely becoming far more popular, not only among physicists and
among philosophers, which I think is perhaps slightly more predictable. But we're starting to
see biologists who are usually behind the curve on this more philosophical thinking and much more
physicalist about these things. We're starting to see them come in and start to start to support
this kind of thinking because it can seem quite abstract and quite theoretical. But the way you
put it, that really, you know, the answer to these non local phenomena, the answer to the observer
effect and the, you know, the answer to all of these conundrums we see in the double slit
experiment is really to just understand that actually they're the same kind of interaction.
It seems so simple and it leads so clearly and so kind of obviously to a panpsychist position.
Why do you think it's received? Why do you think that the mainstream take, which is basically the
Copenhagen interpretation, why is it such a stretch for them, this kind of thinking? What is it that
just stops them from taking that step? I mean, is it so ambitious? You know, maybe it is quite
strange to be as open-minded as some of us are. You know, maybe one of those scientists would
come back at us and just say, you know, you're out of your mind, you're thinking too abstractly,
we need to work on observables. But it seems like it is observable. What is it that's stopping
people moving in this direction, despite the fact that it is becoming more popular?
I think probably mostly tradition and training. You know, from a physics point of view, there's
this phrase, shut up and calculate that sometimes attributed, I think was originated by David Merman.
And the idea of that was, don't ask these philosophical questions, just figure out how
the theory works. Be practical. And I think that that attitude was actually a disaster.
I think it put back understanding aspects of the theory that have only come to, really,
to the fore in the last couple of decades, because people did ask these more fundamental
interpretive questions. Well, it does seem rather strange to have a mathematical model
to reflect reality if when you come to ask, okay, so what does that tell us about reality?
You actually can't say anything. It does seem essentially useless. But it seemed to me that
the shut up and calculate school was just so interested in kind of what we might call institutional
science, you know, just in terms of sort of getting the funding and can, you know,
make sure the equations add up and, you know, keep teaching. And it seemed that there was almost a kind
of conformism, a kind of herd think, a group think problem going on. When did you, when do
you see there being a change there? What do you think was the turning point? You mentioned
the last 10 or 20 years. What started to happen in the last 20 years that started to see that
table turn? What kind of theories were trailblazing that slight change that we're seeing?
Well, I guess I would personally, personally at least put a lot of the credit here to John
Archibald Wheeler and his work. I agree. And, you know, his lineage went very deep to both
Bohr and Einstein. Tell us more about his ideas that slightly, that managed to bridge a gap between
