the Copenhagen crowd and the rest of us.
Well, he was the first to popularize the idea of what he called the participatory universe,
which was the idea that physical systems are question askers and answer receivers.
And they're all in there asking questions and receiving answers. So interacting by information
exchange and that that's what physics is about. And that was Wheeler's idea.
Well, I interviewed particle physicist John Butterworth, who's definitely on the sort of
Copenhagen side of this. And when I put to him some quotes from Schrodinger, you know,
basically saying, there is no doubt this consciousness must be fundamental. He was
skeptical. But then when I mentioned Wheeler's idea of the participatory universe, he said,
I can handle that, you know, and he also admitted that there were deeply uncomfortable questions
with the wave particle duality. So I think that you're absolutely right. Wheeler was right there,
wasn't he somehow bridging this potentially unbridgeable gap between the consciousness as
fundamental supporters and the more traditionalist Copenhagen supporters with this wonderful kind
of half and half solution of the participatory universe. However, I'd like to get your opinion.
It sounds to me like the participatory universe is kind of panpsychism in disguise. Do you agree
that he was more or less arguing a panpsychist point of view that consciousness was fundamental?
Or do you think he was trying to not go quite that far?
Well, I maybe this is maybe this is interpreting him a bit liberally, but I don't think it's in
disguise at all. I mean, it seems perfectly straightforwardly panpsychist to me. And I
and looking back, you know, beyond Wheeler, what's called the Copenhagen interpretation is,
I think attributed to Bohr fairly slothily. I mean, it's the it's the interpretation that grew
out of the textbooks. Yeah. Bohr's thinking was very subtle and very influenced by Kant especially.
I think even by William James. Yeah. So you you I think Bohr's thinking and Heisenberg's
thinking also. And certainly Schrodinger's thinking. Well, of course. What is life? And he's
quoting new Panashads and so on. Those those people were certainly not crankturners.
Well, I am extremely, extremely interested to come back to this in part two. Chris, thank you so
much for allowing me to sort of rip you from side to side here, because there's so many things playing
into the implications of entanglement. So please, listeners, do stick around because
we're going to be going right into Chris's work also on meditation, because Chris is a long-term
meditator and has a book out about that. We're going to be going deep into the implications
of entanglement as Chris is interpreting it. And we're going to be talking about duality and
non duality. We're going to be talking about knowledge. So stick around guys to find out
really, what does this all mean? And these are the questions which to shut up and calculate guys
never want to ask because their calculations just don't answer those questions. So let's go there.
And thanks again, Chris. We'll be back in a minute. Okay, excellent. Thank you.
So welcome back to part two with Dr. Chris Fields of today's interview about entanglement.
We've had an amazing part one, everybody. So do please, if you're new to this subject,
go back to part one and listen to Chris's eloquent description of how entanglement
entered into the literature, how it may have been slightly misunderstood and how there could be
potentially a better way of thinking about that and how information, particularly information,
which by the way guys, we're going to be doing a whole episode on information theory,
really helps us to unify these sometimes completely dissociated ideas of observer and
physical interaction. But now for this part two, we really want to get into the implications. We
want to get into the meat. A lot of the time, the scientific world is, shall we say, a little
cautious to draw interpretations from their results. Again, Chris in part one mentioned
tradition. Quite often scientists are just literally afraid from parting from tradition
in case they will sort of become pariah and potentially even excluded from funding and
from potential positions in universities. So me and Chris, we're not scared of this,
are we? So we're going to go straight in and start looking at these questions and say,
listen, what does this actually tell us about the nature of reality and the nature of what it is
to be a conscious being? So Chris, thank you. Welcome back. Thank you once again for part one.
Very, very eloquent. But let's get into the really real bag of worms here. We spoke about
entanglement. It's very unclassical or maybe it's the real classical and classical's got it wrong.
What exactly are the implications of entanglement the way you see it and what questions do we need
to answer to kind of unpack that? Well, I think that I think this idea challenges us to think
very deeply about what the process of exchanging information with another system is.
What does it really mean to interact with the world? What does it mean to receive information
and receive it in a way that is distinctive? So when any of us hear words in a conversation,
we may not know what the word means, but at least we typically know what word we heard.
We don't just hear sound. So what does it mean to receive information? What does it mean to
give information, to transmit information to the world? And what is this world that we're interacting
with? So recall that by saying that an entangled state is a state that we can know everything
about without knowing anything about its parts. And I think a first thing to do
is to ask ourselves what we really know about the system that we call the world
that each of us calls my world that we're interacting with. So if I think in my own case,
I'm at all times interacting with my world, which I can characterize as everything in the
universe except me, leaving it open what the word me means. But I know that there's something else,
and that's what I'm interacting with. And I receive information from
my world, this something else. And that information is classical. It consists of discrete,
identifiable experiences that I can remember. So they're linear in space and time?
Well, let's leave that aside. I can keep track of experiences as they arrive. So I have my own
time counter. How that relates to time on clocks is another matter. Since clocks are outside of me.
They're just in this world. So the fundamental question is besides the fact that we receive
this input, what do we know about the world? And this is a question, of course, that philosophers
have been asking for millennia. And the answer to this question that almost every philosophical
tradition seems to arrive at in one way or the other is that we actually know nothing about the
world except the information that we get from it. And you can turn that around and say, and that
means the world knows nothing about us except the information that it gets from us. So the world and
I are on exactly the same footing here in terms of knowledge. We're two systems, we're exchanging
information, and we each know about the other only the information that's been exchanged.
So how does this relate to entanglement? If we think of our interaction with the world in this way,
that we know about the world only what the world has given us,
then in particular, we know nothing about the world's parts. We're not interacting with any of
the world's parts. We're interacting with the world as a whole. And the information we receive
from the world, we then organize into a bunch of discrete categories, which we call physical
objects or other people or other organisms or whatever. We cut the world up into these chunks,
each of which has given a boundary. So we treat the world as separable.
So maybe a newborn baby, for example, wouldn't see it in that discrete way, it would be a kind of
blurring, blurred mass. Well, there's the famous phrase of the blooming, buzzing confusion. I'm not
quite sure who that was, who quite originated that phrase. It is the world of an infant, a blooming,
buzzing confusion. Current evidence suggests that it's much less of one than was thought by,
even as long ago as the 50s, by, say, Piaget. Infants at birth seem to already recognize
many of what we would regard as the ordinary characteristics of the world.
I think a useful question is the question that I think Wittgenstein originally asked about
the motion of the sun. The pre-classical physics idea, of course, is the world is flat and the sun
moves around the earth and you see it come up and you see it set.
The alternative theory is that the earth moves around the sun and Wittgenstein's question was,
so what would it look like if the earth were moving around the sun, as opposed to the sun
moving around the earth? And the obvious implication is it looks exactly what, as it does.
If all you do is see sunrises and sunsets, you can't distinguish the two at all.
So the reason for bringing this up is that what's the difference between
a theory in which the world has structure independently of us and a theory in which
we impose structure upon an unstructured world?
And if all we can do is make observations, then those two are indistinguishable.
We can't tell just from making observations where the structure comes from.
This is an aspect of a very general phenomenon. And interestingly, the science that
brings that phenomenon closest to home is computer science.
In a sense, the entire idea of computer science is multiple realizability.
And it was people like Turing and Church who founded computer science who first realized this,
that any computation can be executed on any of a huge variety of kinds of hardware.
And so if what you're interested in is the behavior of something,
that behavior could always be implemented in an arbitrarily huge number in different ways.
And by just looking at the behavior, you can't tell how it's being.
And in the case of our interaction with the world,
we can't open up the world and see how it works on the inside,
because opening up the world is just making more observations.
It's just moving this interface in some way or manipulating the interface in some way.
It's not getting rid of the interface altogether.
So Chris, do we have a problem then of coming to any conclusions about the nature of reality?
I think that's exactly what it means.
However, a question, Chris, if you are suggesting that we have a fundamental
unity between the interaction between an observer and something in the physical world,
or between two elements of the physical world, or between two observers,
they're essentially all interactions, they're all the same thing.
They are inseparable in that sense.
As we notice when we spoke about these two particles that are entangled,
they are essentially inseparable, and we make an error when we see these two particles
moving separately as being entangled in some sort of non-local way.
They are in fact really the same thing.
If that is in fact the case, isn't the information that we are receiving and observing
and transmitting, isn't there also a non-separation between those two things as well?
So in some sense, the information is already transmitted.
I already have the information.
Isn't that one of the implications of your take on entanglement?
Well, I think a way to put that is that whether things are entangled or separable
is a matter of perspective and point of view.
Right.
So if I'm observing you interacting with your world,
and I'm observing, of course, from within your world,
but I can split my world into you and everything else,
then I can say, as Thurus describing this situation,
the combination of Freddie's world is in an entangled state,
and there's no information moving between them.
And they're just one entity with no separation.
Or I can say, okay, I'm going to choose to regard Freddie as a separate entity.
And in this case, I can describe his interaction with his world as communication.
I can take either of those stances.
So in that sense, what we have is a kind of dual-track way of seeing the world,
where it's useful for us to talk about separateness and an exchange of information and interaction.
We can think about that, and there could be an exchange.
But equally, if we look at the fundamentals, we find that actually that information is already present.
And in a way, that interaction is wholly unnecessary because the information is already available.
The reason I mention this, Chris, is because something we're going to be looking into
on the podcast is remote viewing.
The technique developed by Ingo Swan and some physicists at SRI in the 1970s.
Have you heard of remote viewing?
I've heard it. I know nothing about it.
Well, the phenomena is very, very simple.
It's a form of psychic phenomena, where people are able to see in their mind's eye
information distant, not only in space, but also sometimes in time as well.
So they are given an anomalous target, a code usually, and the operator knows what that code
refers to, and they then tune in with that target.
What I find absolutely fascinating about this phenomena is not only the results that they
were getting, which have been statistically analyzed and obviously very effective for the
American military because the program ran from the 1970s until the mid-90s.
It ran for a very long time and was well funded by all of the lettered agencies.
The reality of this kind of phenomena, should it prove to be true, as I hope to investigate on
the podcast, is that in a sense, whilst we are in an interactive world where there is a separateness,
that that separateness must in some way be an illusion in some way because it seems that these
certain people who have stronger results than the average person, interestingly,
they found out that everybody can do this to a certain extent.
It's just that some people are particularly talented.
That essentially they have access to this information in some way, even though there would
be no way in a separateness model, in an interaction model of them having access to it.
I wonder if there isn't some possibility of a kind of two-tiered world, a kind of two-tracked
world in which we have some form of physically interactive and separate world, but that it's
actually operating on a kind of entangled, unseparate base and that this information becomes
disentangled and becomes separate through our embodiment.
What do you think? Do you think there's a possibility that we have a kind of two-tiered
reality here? Well, I think the question of how the world works is, of course, the question that
drives all of science, but I think it's almost undeniable that we have these two
perspectives on how the world works. One is, as you put it, the perspective of
separate entities. We have to take perspective if we want to think of ourselves as entities that,
in some sense, are well-defined, that have particular identities and that have pasts
and futures and sets of experiences and so on. On the other hand, we have this conception of the
world as a completely coherent, connected, single entity that just is doing whatever it is,
it's doing and that we're at best kind of fuzzily definable components of that world,
that we're completely interpenetrant with that world, that energy and matter are constantly
flowing through us in exchange with that world, that our boundaries really aren't well-defined at
all and that the boundaries of anything else aren't well-defined at all. That sounds pretty
two-tiered to me, would you agree? I think it's very useful here to, in fact, go back
into classical physics into the thinking of Laplace, who was somewhat after Newton,
but who, I think, first very clearly understood the philosophical consequences of Newton's laws.
Newton's laws describe these mechanistic interactions between entities and Newton's laws
involved action at a distance, as we described earlier. Laplace, I think, immediately understood
that if the universe is, in a sense, a contraption of entities that interact according to these fixed
laws and that forces act at infinite distance, then information about the state of the whole system
is encoded in every part, because every part is in the state it's in, only because the whole thing
is in whatever state it is in as an entire whole. Making any change anywhere, because all of the
forces have infinite range, affects everything. There is no sense of an isolated system other than
