Yeah, thanks so much for joining me. How are you doing?
Awesome. And thank you very, very much for having me. I'm
excited. This is going to be fun.
Yeah, yeah, I'm really looking forward to it. Yeah, I want I
want to shine the light on some of the younger people that are
doing some amazing stuff. And I'm really excited about your
work. So
thank you. Yeah, me too.
Cool. Yeah, so maybe maybe just, you know, introduce yourself
where you are now. And we'll we'll go from there.
Totally. So I am Ali Hansen and I'm in Raphael Usain Lab here at
Columbia. And how did I don't know that it's time yet to go into
a full background, but I'll just suffice it to say that I've
completed my psychiatry residency. But my background was in
sort of selling of developmental biology, and sort of jumped
into the field of neuroscience and using Hydra as a model
system to sort of study, let's say, to be able to see the whole
nervous system at once. And from there, what really interested
me is the role of spontaneous neural activity, neural activity
that's going on when the animal is not behaving. So I'm now a
postdoc finishing that and in the process of figuring out where
I'll go next to start my own group.
Yeah, yeah, why don't you maybe talk a little bit about your
background and just kind of your journey as far back as makes
sense of how you got here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I mean, I think, I think maybe far, far
back, I'll just broad overview of a person from Iowa thinking, I
don't know, no one else is probably paying attention to
basketball, but Caitlin Clark, it went to my high school and
she's the newest phenom. And so I thought, I wrote on my thing,
I was going to play basketball in the WNBA and then I never
grew, but ended up playing basketball in college, and studied
molecular biology, and ended up doing MD PhD program. And my
PhD at that point was in, yeah, so cell and developmental
biology and the molecular mechanisms of wind signaling, so
very, very molecular. And so I got sort of trained in that,
that belief system that molecules are king. And that sort of
explains, you know, not only how cells work, but how
development works. And so my thesis was on that sort of the
molecular mechanisms of wind signaling and ubiquit relation
and these kinds of things. But then luckily, someone clued me
in to the physiology course at the MBL in Woods Hole, which sort
of was like, Oh, there's a whole other way to do this, you can
sort of really zoom out and interact with other people, and
in many other different disciplines, right? So there I
was with peer mathematicians, physicists, computational
scientists and people who had no experience with biology and I
was the biologist coming in. And so it was like this awesome
thing, right? Where you go and you do two weeks with different
scientists on different projects and get really
exposed to totally different ways of thinking. And in that, I
ended up with Goudon's Danizer, actually, as one of my mentors,
and I did a two week course on modeling three proteins in the
wind pathway. And I was like, Oh, wow, like you can really start
learning something really counterintuitive, something that
you wouldn't know by just saying, Hey, you're going to draw
the cell signaling pathway in a two dimensional piece of paper
and draw a bunch of arrows and that's understanding. I was
like, Oh, shit, that doesn't actually explain anything, right?
So yeah, that that was sort of my first worry. And then of
course, the likes of like Mark Kirschner and Andrew Murray were
on the chalkboard doing all kinds of these things. And it was
like, Oh, there's a different way to do this to find the
simplest system possible, and try to model as much of it as you
can to gain some understanding. And of course, that was right
the end my PhD. So I didn't have time to sort of implement that
and then went back to do medical training. And then I took
another foray, which I think is important to how I ended up
doing this kind of resume right now, which is art. So I left
in the middle of my MD PhD training to go study painting in
Santa Fe, New Mexico, with an amazing person who is Tony
Rider, and that totally changed sort of, this is going to sound
nuts, but how I see and the way I think it sort of opened up my
mind to like, how you approach reality with a fixed idea. And
so I went in there and I'm like, Oh, I got to paint here was so
it was it was classical realism. So you're trying to be
portraiture and nude models drawing and painting. I didn't
have any experience with this really at all, except for you
know, childhood classes or something. And going in there
just for an example of like, Oh, a shadow is dark, just black,
or something is like, no, as long as you have this belief,
you'll never paint a shadow as it actually is because there's
no such thing as pure black in nature, or reality, right?
There's always some amount of light, some amount of color,
something. And I remember so Ted South Jacobs was Tony's
teacher is a very similar sort of lineage in art and science,
who wrote a whole book on the anatomy of human forms. Like if
you paint a human eyeball that looks like an almond with a
circle in it, you'll never ever paint an eyeball that is true to
reality. So it's kind of like, Oh, all of these concepts that
I'm laying on top of these things are not real. Like it can I
get rid of those things? That was part of that exercise for two
years of trying to like, unlearn all of the things I had been
told about what a human, you know, is and the features of it in
order to paint what it actually is. And at the same time, there
was a upaya Zen Center was in the back yard of this place. So I
learned Zen brain, which is about conscious complex adaptive
systems and all of this kind of stuff. Also Santa Fe
Institute was there. So I was just all over doing all this
stuff and taking all kinds of classes around all of that. And
ultimately sort of, you know, I was I was debating, do I go
paint full time? Do I do a postdoc? And if I was going to
just do a straight postdoc, I was going to do on the origin of
multicellularity, right? Like, how do you go from one cell to a
group of cells? That was what I was interested in. But then, you
know, I got interested in like, I really want to help people in
quotes. And I want to do that through sort of psychiatry. So
it's our way to put all of that stuff together. And I was like,
well, shit, now I'm going to have to switch fields and study
neuroscience. Which I was like, that's not at the time, I'm
sorry, any neuroscience is out there. But like, that's not
science. That's not molecular. What is that? It's, it's a you're
putting a human in fMRI skin, you're looking at blood flowing
all around. You're not even looking at neural activity. It
was like, this isn't understanding. This isn't
mechanism. Because for me, mechanism, what's the amino
acid on the protein? That that's a mechanism, right? That was the
kind of thinking. But going to that Zen brain conference
actually was was one of those things we're like, oh, some of
these questions, you just can't reduce to an amino acid and a
protein, like that that model that that way of thinking doesn't
doesn't compute here. So there was a lot of, you know, things
going all around. But then, yeah, deciding, okay, I'm going to
pursue a residency in psychiatry and try to figure out what is
neuroscience. And so like, you had to do all these interviews,
and I was just essentially using the residency interview as a
postdoc interview to say, who's doing neuroscience? Where? What
are they up to? And what level of scalar people studying all of
this? I was just trying to see the lay of the land. Yeah, and I
remember, I think, actually, at one point, somehow got a hold of
Sidney Brenner, when he was in the hospital in Singapore, and
I was like, Hey, what level scale do you think we should be
doing this? You know, studying the nervous system? And I'm
pretty sure I can't even remember his answer, but it was like
single cells, you could go down, you can go up and this kind of
thing. And so that kind of question of, of where, how do
you tackle this problem? And then I ended up reading Rafa's
articles, George Church and Scientific American around that
time of like, you know, using complex adaptive systems theory
to study the brain, you need to see the whole thing. I'm like,
Yes. So on that interview, I then talked to Rafa, and he had a
hydra on the screen, and it was just one of those moments where
I'm like, No way. This is amazing. This is this is exactly
what I've been looking for, like all of my dreams coming true on
the screen, like it's a simple system. You can see the whole
thing, you know, I don't know. And it's like, it has a lot of
it, you know, obviously, rich history and cell and developmental
biology, evolution, like it was all together. And one thing
I'm like, All right, that's what I'm gonna have to do. And,
yeah, in early saw that there was this spontaneous neural
activity in that animal. And I was like, What is this? Right?
What is that? And that got me very curious about where else that
was found, which leads to the human brain and all of these
things and, and the self and all of that. So it sort of all was
coming together. And then I was sort of, you know, seeing
patients as a resident. And then had a little bit of research
time. So I was like, really reading and thinking and looking
and, and all of that. Yeah, and I mean, I'll just disclose to
you that I'm a, I'm a Zen student. And so it was also a
scientist of my own mind. So I've been, you know, exploring it
from that angle. A lot. So first person point of view and third
person with patience. And then, you know, the in quotes, third
person objective view of the system too. So there's all of
that at play all the time. So yeah, that's the longest version
I can muster.
Yeah, yes, very interesting. The art at the art angle, I think
is also is also quite quite interesting. I do know, you know,
I can't draw anything like that. But I do a bunch of photography
and I agree with you that that watching the light and like
trying to trying to capture what you actually see or what you
think you see is an interesting component of it. Yeah. How do
you, how do you think about I'm curious, since you have you have
a background in molecular genetics and also now neuroscience?
How do you think about the kinds of things that those systems
are good at? Like how are how are molecular dynamics and the
kinds of things you get out of those different from what you
can get out of out of, you know, for example, electrophysiology,
you know, in terms of the computations, the usage, like
how are the how what's different about those systems?
You mean like sort of at the cellular level versus the system
level or like the neural?
I mean, I mean, if you were going to if you were going to
build things and your options were gene regulatory networks
and diffusion versus electrical networks and synaptic kinds of
things, what are the different, you know, dynamics that you can
expect to get out of those systems? How are they different
functionally?
Yes, great question. I mean, ultimately, this is what I sort
of, I mean, this isn't any big idea or anything. It's just like
one of them is slower, right? So like molecules diffusing limits
you I think in space and time. Whereas electricity, right,
allows speed and distance. So it just speeds up processes, right?
So I don't think there's anything particularly special
about neurons. I think you agree with that, right? They did. I
don't know. And if we're talking about, let's say memory or
computation, any of those things, those can be implemented in
any, any material, right? There's nothing special about
neurons, this can happen in those molecules, if you put them
together in certain ways, and you maintain a pattern, right,
that's relevant to the organism, that can be implemented in the
