of life that we're sort of used to studying. And neuroscience,
where you have a central midline structure structure and a
left and a right side. Whereas the Nigerians are sort of
totally radially symmetric, they don't have any of those
things. So it's it's another instance where you can sort of
say, Hey, what are these general principles? This nervous
system looks nothing like that one. And yet it's able to
generate complex behavior. Does it matter what the
architecture of this nervous system is? Because it's
seemingly, right? Everyone's very interested and obsessed with
getting those the circuit diagrams, right? But does that
matter? Can you get complete essentially the same
functionality out of completely different architectures? And I
think that's probably what we'll find if we look. How do I go
forward? Oh, there we go. So, so this is just what an actual
hydra looks like with its mouth, tentacles, foot, and then this
hydra buds. So this is going to be important in a second,
because hydra can reproduce asexually. So hydra essentially
just can clone itself with it. You keep feeding these animals
instead of them just getting infinitely big or long. They
start budding and reproducing and making a genetically
identical copy, right? I think it's critical for you. And then
they can also reproduce sexually too. So the same
animal can their stem cells can then generate testes or ovaries
or an egg here and reproduce sexually. So either way. And
then right, so again, it has essentially not exactly the same
but 20,000 genes very similar to our genome, right? So the genes
here are are essentially the same thing as your eye and yet
it's building something completely different. And then
it's small so it can be anywhere from 500 or one, one and a
half centimeters. And I'm currently sort of figuring out
what's the smallest one we can get to to make so that we can fit
that really under the field of view. Transparent, robust, you
can do all kinds of things to this thing. And then
interestingly also is that it completely regenerates its
nervous system every 20 days. So it's constantly making this
nervous system and maintaining itself somehow. Right. A lot
of molecular tools being developed. And then it has
these well-defined behaviors. So these are just so it's
resting, right? Just laying there doing nothing. And then
can just do a very simple longitudinal contraction where
it goes from long to short. And then the opposite of that is
elongation. So it goes from short to long. And then it has
complex behaviors. I mean, these are arbitrary words I'm
defining. I'm just saying these are more complex. And this one
is eating. So in lab, you feed hydra, artemianopoly, just
brine shrimp. And this is just glutathione, reduced glutathione
will also have them do this feeding response. So they'll
rip open. So they'll use their tentacles to capture shrimp,
rip open, rip open in their mouth and shove a bunch of them
inside of their body. And then the most complex, I would say is
somersalting. So it will reach out, stick its head and
tentacles down, contract, release its foot, flip over, and
then put its foot back down. So in this way, it can sort of
in quotes, walk. So it can do all of this with a very, very
simple nervous system. And so this is just some quick, yep.
Sorry, sorry, could I just ask on the on the behavior side? Does
anybody do? Has anybody checked various learning training? Can
you teach these things anything?
Right. So this is this is the new frontier. But there it's also
the new old frontier. So as is all science, that that there were
some old studies, I think some of the first was 1900 and then
1950 of habituation in Hydra. So if you just sort of if you
pinch them, or even stick an electrode in them, they'll
contract. And if if you keep doing that over and over again,
with it with the proper inter stimulus interval, they'll
stop, they'll habituate. But that hasn't there hasn't been like,
in the last, I don't know, 50 years, any of that has not been
repeated. And and I don't think it's because people have tried
and failed. I think most people haven't really revisited that.
But yeah, that's, that's on the docket. Yeah, and, and I mean,
there's so I guess, was I think it was nematostellas showing
associative learning there. So other Nigerians now have been
shown to be doing, you know, more complex things than meet the
eye. Right. So you get this hypostome. This is just a cartoon
of the same thing, this nerve net, the tentacles. This is where
they would have the buds coming off. This is the basal disc. And
this is the tissue. So it's a just two layers. It's not a true
three layer thing. There's no true mesoderm. There's just the
endoderm on the inside and the extra term on the outside. And
it's thought that all of these, these are also myo epithelial
cells, they're epithelial cells with, let's just go over there
like muscle processes at the bottom. So they're sort of a
dual cell type. And then it's thought that all of those are
connected by gap junctions. And then you have your nerve net in
the endoderm with sensory neurons poking into the inside of
the gut, and then ganglion neurons in the ectoderm with
sensory neurons poking out to the outside environment. And it's
thought that these do not communicate. But I think that
might not be accurate. But that's the current idea. And then
these three different cell types, you have eye cells, which are
the stem cells that make the germ cells, the gland cells,
nomadicides, which are specific to, to Nigeria are super cool cell
type that shoot out darts, like with toxins, essentially, and
then neurons. And then these all cell-free new. So the eye cells
make these four and the ectoderm and endoderm cell-free
new themselves also. So that's sort of just the gist of that.
And then this is the current view of sort of the connectome, if
you will, of Hydra. So this is from Charlie David at LMU using
anti-kid heron antibody that they've just shown sort of stains
all of the neurons in the animal. And it looks, you know,
like, again, this could just diffuse nerve net. And in the
ectoderm, it's sort of this north-south highway where you
have more of a bipolar neuron. And in the endoderm, it's a
more multipolar thing that's sort of going more radially
around the animal. And then again, this is from Rob Steele at
Irvine, where this is just GFP expressed in eye cells. And you
can see that there appears to be a little bit of a condensation
of neurons in the, in the foot and in the head. And again, I
think this is another thing to keep in mind that what we're
seeing is depending on the tool that we're using to look at this
thing. So which is true. Yes, they're both true. But when you
look at that, it's unclear, like how that there's no obvious
circuitry, there's no anything that you say that would really
tell you just looking at that structure, how that's going to
function. Is it functioning as one thing as many things who
knows, until Christoph put in G camp six. So this is a molecule
that will fluoresce every time the neuron fires. And you, he
made a transgenic animal expressing this in the eye
cells. So all of the neurons had G camp six expressed, he then
put the hydra in between two cover slips. So this is just a
hundred micron spacer, it's swimming around in hydra media,
so it can still behave in two dimensions. And then just put
this on a normal white field microscope, and came up with a
movie that looks like this. So it's sort of, you know, this
can you see all the pixels in the movie at the same time. And
when you do, what do you see? Are they all firing completely
independently, total chaos? No, and are they all firing as one
thing? No, it's, it's something else. And in order to figure
out what the something else was, Christoph had to painstakingly
circle every one of those neurons and track it over time to
analyze that data and figure out what, what is happening here
and came up with this sort of general model, and saying that
out of that seemingly simple nerve net, you have these three
independent sort of units, ensembles or circuits, however
you want to call that groups of neurons that are co firing
together. And the one that's most consistently associated with
muscle activity is CB, where every time it fires, you get a
longitudinal contraction. So it gets shorter. That's very, very
clear that that's motor. These other two are less clear rhythm
potential one and rhythm potential two. But the potential
two in that early paper was most associated with radial
contraction. So that's in the end of the animal, when that
fires, it gets skinnier and can do some ingestion. So it will
spit its food out or water, let's say from its mouth. And then
rhythm potential one is in the ectoderm. And when it fires in
that paper was correlated with elongation toward light. But
what was most interesting to me was that this was also
happening when the when the animals just sitting there
doing nothing, just there. And that again, is not new. We're
noticing a thing. Reading literature is helpful. So that
this was found in the 60s by Pisano and McCullough, where
they were just sticking an electrode into Hydra. And they
found the same thing that there was this rhythmic, you know,
firing of some kind of neural network in the animal, they
didn't have access to, they just knew that this was happening
with their electrode when the animals doing nothing. And they
were called this cryptic activity, they said, What the
hell is this doing? Right? Because again, at the time, the
idea is that the nervous system is there to generate
behavior. Otherwise, it's off. Why at the base of the Tree of
Life, the simplest nervous system, are we seeing all kinds of
activity going on? If it's not generating behavior? And so
he hypothesized in one of his early papers, that is this
thing, coordinating the nervous system, sort of the
quarterback of the thing, the conductor, whatever metaphor you
want to use. And I've been told that he went off and started
selling bikes. And so never finished that work. And so we
don't know. But it was discovered there, right with
an electrode, and it was discovered rediscovered, let's
say with calcium. So it's method independent that you find the
same sort of thing. And that is what got me interested and
brings us to this very brief history of what we know about
simultaneous neural activity, which is very little. Because as
I was saying, Sherrington at that time, the big mantra was
reflexive brain, it's doing nothing. Otherwise, but his
own student actually was finding something very different
than that. And he sort of, he cut the head off of a cat and
deafferented the cat, no sensory input whatsoever, zero input to
a nervous system, he had all kinds of activity going on to
the point where the cat could still walk. So this was clearly
internally generated neural activity had nothing to do with
outside input. But that was just ignored. I was like, whatever,
that guy's nuts. Whatever he's up to, let him do that. And then
at the same time, or around the same time, Hans Berger was
inventing the EEG, EEG, we have humans. I'm just sitting in a
chair, all kinds of electrical activity going on there as well.
And like I was saying, so it wasn't just Poisson and McCulloch
discovering this spontaneous activity in hydra, it was sort
of anybody looking at any Nigeria, we're sort of discovering
this kind of thing going on. But of course, no one's talking to
each other. And so no one knows. And so it wasn't, of course,
until the 2000s when Raeckel and others at WashU put humans into
fMRI scanners. And at the time, right, it's sort of what was
interesting is the task evoked activity. Anything else that you
couldn't explain was seen as noise, like white noise on the
TV, get rid of it. What we're interested in is what happens to
the brain when you go to do the task. But at some point, he was
like, Hey, all of those areas in the brain that are active at
rest seem to be specific. And they're specifically inhibited
