molecules. But it just sort of limits, I would say, yeah, the
space and time of that that molecules are on a shorter like
length scale, obviously, and take longer to move and
communicate, whereas you can send electricity much faster over
a longer distance. So yeah, I don't know if that's answering
what you're asking, but that's sort of how I think about it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I agree. That's that's definitely, that's
definitely an important, an important feature. You know,
people people sometimes ask me like, what's what's magical
about bio electricity, like what's different about
electrical networks, that's harder, or maybe even even not
doable in typical molecular, you know, the kinds of kinds of
networks. Yeah.
Right. And I mean, because I, what I mean, I'm just thinking of
this, like, intuitively, at some point of like, you know, what
do we as human beings use to communicate, we use electricity
because it's the fastest thing, use the smallest thing in
electron that can go the fastest, right? And that's how we
connect globally via the internet and all of this. So of
course, nature would be using the same thing. And I remember
looking it's up at some point in one of your papers, right, of
like, when you get a wound, the first thing that happens is
electrical communication, and then the molecules. And then I
was at some point thinking like, one of the things I did, I
mean, shit, every day all day was running Jell-O-Lusher
freezes in a lab, right? Yeah, you're generating an electric
field to put your proteins where you want them. Why would it
nature be doing that, right? Itself, organizing itself using
electricity. So the molecules are sort of, you know, and as you
know, it's both bottom off and top down. But that, you know,
you're using electricity because it's the fastest way to
communicate from head to tail, let's say, in this organism,
some things up on this end, and then you bring the molecules
over there. Yeah. So for me, it's about sort of, yeah, speed
and distance. That's what I would say. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, so what kind of what are you working on
now, talk to, you know, talk about? Totally. Yeah. And I
mean, I don't know, I have a few slides I could go up, bring up
here. Yeah. If you can see, I can't see that. Right. So this
isn't, we don't really have to do a formal formal thing, but
don't do as much as you want. Yeah, this is sort of the gist of
it, right? As I've alluded to is what is going on with this
spontaneous neural activity. And this would be an outline of
like sort of why somebody like me, mostly interested in
studying something like the human brain is some interested
in studying as something as simple as this hydra. And then
sort of that brings us into some kind of history of the
spontaneous neural activity, what it might be doing, the tools
needed to study that hydra and some of these future directions.
And so I don't know how much we have time for, but I'll just
kind of go as quickly as possible. And this is one of my
favorite things to start with to say, like, just imagine that
you're a scientist, and you're the first person to ever see an
image that looks like this, which is exactly what happened to
Golgi when he put the Golgi sound neural, like a nervous system
for the first time, and you're trying to make sense of what is
this. And he thought that this is just one giant reticular
mesh work. It's all one thing. And other people at this time
looked at basically the same image and saw something else. And
they zoomed in on these little shapes here would look like
these little pyramidal things. So Sherrington and Ramonica Hall
say, Oh, what about these little pyramidal things? Like, what
those are how this works? What are those are the functional
units of this system?
By the way, sorry, could I ask the Golgi stain? Was that random?
Was he just trying random chemicals? Or did he have some
idea that that was going to stain something interesting?
I have no idea. Honestly, I would have to look that's a great
question that he like why how that ended up happening. But
before that, like, there was no ability to sort of see what it
looked like. So there was all kinds of speculations, I think
on behavior and all of that, but no real way to see or
visualize the nervous system. And then what you do, then you've
got to make sense of it, right? I think like, this is just a
fundamental thing about science. It's like, first of all, the
method that you use to view the thing will determine what you
see. And this is exactly what happens in Neil Thies. We'll
talk about this. And so this was happening at the same time as
you know, cell theory with Schleiden Schwann, because at
that time, they see cell boundaries, they see lipid
membranes. And so they're like, Oh, what the functional unit of
that system of non neural tissues is cells. But Neil will make
the point, if you had just had a nuclear stain, what you would
have seen is just a bunch of dots floating in liquid, you
wouldn't have known that there were these things called
membranes as you had sort of an Eastern conception of what's the
functional unit of tissue, right? It would be like, Oh, it's
fluid with a bunch of dots floating in it. So here, you
have this at the beginning, right, like this whole picture of a
nervous system. And then you're arbitrarily deciding which
parts are separate from the rest. And so the decision at that
point was sort of, we're going to go with cell theory, and the
neuron doctrine that these little pyramidal shaped things are
the units. And at the same time, Sherrington was going nuts on
in reflex arcs. So that sort of solidified this idea that the
not only the structural unit might be a single neuron, but
the functional one, because you hit your knee, you get one
sensory neuron that goes in synapses on another motor neuron
your spinal cord, and that's your reflex, right? So that sort
of gave them two ideas. A, that single neurons are the
functional units. And that B, the nervous system is doing
nothing unless you stimulate it from the outside. So those are
just these two sort of major paradigms taken from mostly
spinal cord peripheral nervous system is sort of applied to the
cortex. And that must be how it works. But I would argue that
those two major ideas have left us in a situation where you
still don't really know the true functional unit, at least of
cortex or non spinal cord peripheral nervous systems
really are. Is it multiple neurons? Is it all one thing? Is
it some amount of, let's say, ensemble, how many neurons are
in ensemble? How do those things interact to generate
complex cognitive states? And how do those go awry in
neuropsychiatric disorders?
Do you think that? Do you think there's a single objective
answer to that question? Like, is there a, you know, the the
optimal subunit or is that where do you think it's more of a
observer dependent kind of, you know,
Oh my God, yes, we got to skip his head till like 20 slides
from now. But
no problem. Keep keep keep going.
Totally. And yeah, and I think I think it's I think there's
again, what I'm most interested in, which I think most people
are, are general principles. And I think this is going to be,
there'll be general principles in that there's not one answer of
like, what a functional unit is in a particular system, but the
general way that that works, I think will probably be general.
And so yeah, I don't need to introduce a complex adaptive
system to you, but maybe other people, if anyone ever sees
this would be interested. So basically, it's just you have a
bunch of individual simple systems or subunits, right at this
level of scale. And I should just say that why am I talking about
that? I'm saying because if the brain is actually this complex
adaptive system, maybe we're studying at the wrong level of
scale, we can't see the functional units because we're
studying one thing at a time. So this is a bunch of units,
right, these can be anything, these can be electrons in the
magnet, water molecules and water, ants and ant colony birds
and flock or neurons in a nervous system. The key is you put
enough of them together and they follow simple rules. And if we
just think of this as an electron simplest example, you
have an electron that spin up and its neighbors spin down and
it needs to become a spin down. And you put enough of them
together and critically that won't happen with one electron or
10 electrons and it's a property of many electrons, you get this
emergent phenomenon of the higher level scale. In this case,
it'd be like magnetism, right? And then that higher level scale
can feedback down and coordinate and constrain the lower lower
level. And the key here right is that you you're never going to
see magnetism if you're looking at this level here at this
single electron, you're only going to see it up here if
you're looking at a higher level of scale. And that level of
scale also is going to be following sort of totally
different rules than this level of scale. So if that's what
we're trying to do in neuroscience in general, we
think of this as a TV screen. Like, you know, for the most of
the history of neuroscience, we've been doing these single
pixels at a time, you know, single unit electrophysiology,
which of course is critical, we need to do that, we had to
understand what a neuron is, and doing that one at a time, but
you can't really see the whole picture at once. Alternatively,
you can zoom out and do things like I was saying MRI, EEG, MEG,
these kinds of things, you get a global view, but it's very low
spatial temporal resolution. So you can sort of tell that
something's happening. But it's hard to sort of see what that
is. So the ultimate goal then, right, is to just look at that
TV screen with single pixel resolution to sort of see, okay,
now that we can see all these individual neurons, what picture
is emerging at this higher level scale, what can we see by just
looking at it, right? And again, I'm interested in this big
thing here, the human brain, given that I'm interested in the
human mind and helping these kinds of folks. But it's huge,
it's 86 billion neurons with trillions of connections, it's
not going to fit under the microscope and all of that. So
you can simplify that problem, you can do it in a mouse brain,
right? But even here, how are you going to get all this
hardware in here, record all those neurons, and even if you
do that optically, if I don't know, right now, we're up to,
let's say, let's be generous, I think I'm really arresting by
saying 20,000 neurons, that's out of 71 million. So it's just
really not much of the whole TV screen, let's say. So you could
simplify this even further. And you can do zebrafish, right?
And Drosophila and even CL again, but even these systems are
still quite complex. Depending on the, you know, developed stage
of the zebrafish, you can have up to 10 million neurons still
and lots of different cell types, and they're all, I think,
importantly, sort of shoved together in these complex brains
and ganglia that are also sort of hard to disentangle. So
Sidney Brenner sat down with my mentor, Rafa, who we all know,
Sidney was the one who pioneered the work on C. elegans. And he
said, that's even still too complicated, right? What if we
try something even simpler? Let's do Hydra, which has 200 to
2000 neurons, depending on the size of the animal. And
depending on how you cut off the cell sequencing, single cell
sequencing data, you get 11 to 12, maybe 13 different neural
cell types. And it doesn't have a true brain or ganglia as you'll
see momentarily. I gotta get that off there. Okay, I say. Right.
So then it also not only is it simple, but it's an interesting
position on the evolutionary tree, at least as far as I'm
concerned, it's right after and quotes the non neural lineage,
and then right before the bilaterians, which is the branch
