you, you know, you generate action potentials, we're all
used to that. But this is where people get confused, okay, hung
up, where you're leading the chart, this is, this is what
yeah, like when I when I learned of your stuff, I was like, no
way. So yeah, it's like, of course, this is how this works.
Um, it's just a different, it's just slower, right, people for
really hard time. And I think this is going to be out there,
but like, I'm excited to think of like, different scales of
like, planetary or really small, we can't deal with. And it's
like, even in the biological sphere, we can't deal with like
different spatial stuff. But yeah, this is just, it's just
slower. So you can have ions flowing through gap junctions
and non neural tissue. And this, you know, I'd be very curious
to know what you think or what you're finding in terms of any
of these, let's say, non neural bioelectric networks. If, if
you're finding anything of the sort, if there are, there are
any kind of like, you know, higher frequency oscillations or
lower frequency oscillations, and if there's any of that, that
that's sort of organizing even the non neural tissue, we can get
there in a second. But that would be the idea is it's a very
similar thing as I was just saying up here that, yeah, you
have individual cells that would be, you know, that the voltage
there, if there's some kind of fluctuation would be also
some higher frequency. And those can be sort of put into
groups of a lower frequency to form, let's say, a subunit, like
an arm, and then you can have a bunch of those arms being read
out, right? Yeah, okay. What time is it? Okay, yeah, yeah. And,
and, and on up to sort of, to sort of like build chunks of
bodies based on on a similar, let's say principle of these
voltage circuits, being read out by lower and lower frequency
oscillators. And then in single cells, is this possible that
instead of proteins being sort of just the structural units of
cells, which is what I've been taught my whole life, is it
possible that these things are actually themselves conducting
electricity, which is what I'm forgetting his name now, Stuart
Lindsay at Arizona has shown that you get like nano semen
currents flowing through all proteins, no matter he just
picked six at random, like BSA, collagen, some things that you
just wouldn't be like, oh, that's conducting electricity, why
would it be? So is it the case that cells are actually true
little living computer chips, where the proteins are forming
electrical circuits on and off, and that metabolism itself
we've been taught is sort of generating ATP and energy, but
it's also generating a bunch of hydrogen ions. And so is it
also just giving us a pool of hydrogen ions to be flowing
through the computer chip. So that's, that's out there, but
that's, that's what I was thinking on that one. Okay, so
right, so you can build all these things in these different
ways at these different scales. And, and so what might they be
doing again, could they be sort of maintaining systems out on
your criticality, right? If in the human brain, for example,
with the default mode network around is thought to be at
criticality, where I can sort of help the system form patterns
at a useful time scale. But you imagine, you can also then
have a system that's totally on or totally off, you either
have brain death, or totally on speed is a tonic chronic
seizure, or totally disordered, in terms of total total chaos.
And this appears to be what happens, you go towards chaos,
if you get rid of this organizer and at least the human
brain. So I don't know what happens in any of these other
systems, if you get rid of that. So again, integrating all the
bottom of electrical information in the system, and then
coordinating at top down. And so very quickly on that, not
only with this thing sort of maybe maintained the overall
electrical sort of organization or structure of the system,
but then it's the spikes of that oscillator are not totally
constant, like a mechanical clock that you get, you know,
every 60 seconds, it's variable. And I think that would be
variable in terms of like, external and internal input,
so that it can sort of coordinate the entire system top
down and provide some kind of information about the overall
state of the system by how frequently it's firing. And so
that's complete speculation there. Low frequency, you're
sort of saying, okay, within a range of frequencies, everyone
that's local gets some kind of global piece of information
that's giving everyone that that knowledge that this is this
frequency means everything is cool, keep doing your local
job, however you do it. And a higher frequency signal means
something else to the local function. And there maybe need
to speed up their processes. Right. So, so again, is this is
this thing conserved in Hydra? And so that's sort of what I
want to do is just start testing this thing there. And to
just speed this up is to just say, does the does the Hydra
cell phone serve as the organizer? Sorry, organisms
unifier, an ultimate integrator of both its internal and
external input to generate coherent behavior, i.e. a
unified self, and I'll just breeze through. So again, just
to quickly say that first of all how to do all this manual
tracking by hand. And so what I've been spending my time
doing is trying to get all this automatic working with a
group of people in Rafa's lab to sort of make a I don't know
if people can see this or what, but the dual color animals so
that you can use that nucleus that never disappears while
the animals moving because keep in mind in all other neural
systems, you're putting a microscope on the head of the
thing. And it's not moving much, but this entire system is
moving. So you have to figure out a way to track it and
extract all of those calcium signals from each neuron and
end up down here with individual spikes from each of
those neurons. And what's another interesting or I think
potentially unique thing about Hydra is from Christos
initial work when he put an electrode in, at least in one
of the particular neurons in Hydra does appear that one
calcium spike equates to about one active potential. So just
using optical information from this animal, you can
essentially capture every spike from every neuron and get a
real clear picture because in other systems, a calcium is
equate to many, many active potentials in the mouse, for
example. So it's hard to have that as you only read out.
Okay, right. So I'll just show you really quickly this beautiful
movie. This is right. So those are the all of the the TD
Tomato and then the G Camp seven neurons there. So then you
can track all of that and do the signal analysis. And then you
can write then you can also do these automatic behavior
tracking using deep block cut so that you can do automated
behavior and automated neural signal and start making sense
of this stuff. And so with that, I'll just I'll just end with a
few like teasers, right? So like this is just to show you
prove that Hydra's lays there and rests and it still has this
neural activity which will flash in a second right there. So
you can start asking. So what is the relationship between
that network and its other two networks? Is that network
actually predictive of global neural activity in this animal
and all of those kinds of studies? What's really I think
unique about Hydra is this, right? These two other things
that you can do where this is the parent animal, this is the
foot in the head and this is a bud. This is an early bud
coming off and you can start to say, okay, this is again,
this is genetically identical animal. This is one slab of
tissue. But at some point, the genetically identical thing
becomes two individuals, right? And how does that happen? You
can like so, right? At this point at this stage, their
global neural activity is essentially looking the same
and their behavior is essentially the same. But at some
point, that tissue becomes three different individuals. So
this is a bud here, a bud here and the parent here, and
they're flashing so asynchronously, right? Like
different Christmas trees and they start to develop
completely independent behavior. So you can sort of, you
know, go to town on all of those kinds of questions. And
then you can also do all kinds of other crazy shit, which is
cut, make these two animals with two heads and you would
expect sort of like a split brain patient. You're sharing one
body, you have two heads, one foot. In this case, these, I
would have predicted they're gonna, you know, act
independently. But it's also the case that it looks like
Hydra's brain like the plant might be in its foot. So these
actually start acting basically the same. But you can, and I
didn't know if this would be possible, you can actually
break a Hydra. So if you make a split foot, then it starts
acting. So this was contracting independently of this foot.
And then all of its sort of nervousness was sort of broken
that it's not, it is no longer one coherent thing. So even
the tentacles, it's sort of the body here is, is, is, let's
say, flashing independently of this foot independently of
that one. And so it's sort of having a hard time trying to
coordinate itself as one coherent thing. Right. Right. So
yeah, so just to conclude that these things, you know, low
frequency electrical oscillations are found through the
living world. We don't really know what they're doing. This
crazy hypothesis is that are they, you know, overall
electrical organism organizers that can do these three
jobs, maintaining systems out of near criticality that if you
get rid of them, you go more towards chaos disorder. And
then are they integrating the little information and then
from that top level view, coordinating everything from
the top down. And then I'm going to start trying to test
these things out. These tools have been built. So there's the
the world one tour. And I'd like to thank all those people
that have contributed all this. And you for sitting here.
Yeah. That was awesome. Thank you so much. Yes. Super
interesting. We're going to have to, we're going to have to
schedule a part two because there's a bunch of things I
want to I want to ask you and and and also talk about this
the cell phone concept, both in cells and embryos and then
outside of electrophysiology in general, because we're
starting to see something similar in other systems that
are not natively electrophysiological at all. Yeah.
So so I think this is this is a more, you know, what you've
got here is a very kind of profound generic concept that
I think could apply to a lot of things. Yeah, awesome. Love
it. Yeah. All right. Thank you so much. Yeah. Great. Yeah.
We'll talk soon. All right. See you. Okay. Thanks.
