when the person is going to do the task. So he called up this
default mode network, which became like, you know, a very hot
topic, and has reignited interest in study of spontaneous
neural activity, which we now know is one of the most highly
conserved aspects of all brains. And so this is from
Busacchi's review, and that spans a wide range of frequencies
to 600 Hertz, very ultra pass all the way down to ultra slow of
like the point one to point one Hertz. And this is something
that's found in all mammalian brains, regardless of size or
structure, you find this, right? And I think the current idea is
that that's just noise, right? That's reverb, you have a
complex enough electrical system, you're going to get
oscillations, it's not functional, it's not relevant,
it's an epiphenomenon of the system. It's not doing anything.
And I think one of the reasons that that still is the idea is
because you can't really image it or manipulate them in a
specific way to determine if you if you manipulate this
oscillation, in particular, does that do anything? Or what
does it do? But again, it's taking 20% total body energy and
one of the most highly conserved aspects of all brains that we've
looked at. So the question is why or what is it doing? And
again, one of the most highly studied is the default mode
network in humans. And this is related to the self in theory.
So it's most active at rest, it's going on all the time and its
function continues to be debated. But it's thought to be
involved when you're internally focused. So you're either
remembering your past, thinking about yourself right now or
contemplating your future. And the same sort of midline
structures that I'll show you in a second appear to be
activated when you're doing self related processing. So if I'm
shown a picture of a stranger versus myself, the default mode
network lights up when I'm looking at something related to
the self. And that's in any modality, whether that's pictures,
whether that's hearing my voice, those kinds of things. So and
then also it's linked to a number of neuropsychiatric
disorders. And so you can't throw like a dart at PubMed right
now and not see the default mode network link to something. And
the way I'm simplifying that is to say that the general idea
seems to be that you have states like depression and anxiety
when you're too internally focused, the default mode network
is too active. This is associated with rumination and
worry and depression and anxiety and vice versa. When in
states like psychosis, psychedelic meditation, when
you disrupt the default mode network, this leads to in quotes
ego dissolution. So some of the best data that there are in human
studies are when you put humans in and that they can self
report, you know, on either psilocybin, LSD or DMT, that
whatever they think they are sort of dissolved, and then you
can see what happened in the MRI scanner. And that correlates
with disruption of the default mode network. So the question is
how how why or how would that have anything to do with the
self? What would be the mechanism by which the
development network could implement something like a
self? And there's sort of, you know, the structural argument
and the functional argument, the structural argument being that
it's a central midline structure. So medial prefrontal
cortex, the posterior cingulate, the medial temporal lobes, that
these are sort of these major rich hubs in the brain that are
connecting regions that would otherwise be segregated, right?
So you can imagine if you had a brain where the visual cortex
was not talking to the auditory cortex is not talking to the
olfactory cortex, and it was not talking to the internal
brainstem system, that you know, that would be a disintegrated
system. So is this this sort of central midline superhighway
with these thickly malignated axons connecting all of those
brain areas sort of getting input from all of them and then
maybe getting sending information back. So that's sort of
the structural thing. And then the functional piece is that
it's one of the lowest frequency oscillators in the brain of
0.01 to 0.1 Hertz. And this is where we got to go real crazy.
And this is now finally going to answer your question about the
observers in the brain, which is so Buzaki was saying, right,
like, this is what we've been doing as a neuroscientist is
looking at things from a quote unquote, third party, third
party objective view, you're looking at a brain with a bunch
of squiggly activity, and then you're looking at its output,
this behavior, and you're correlating those two things. And
you can say, Okay, if I see this squiggly activity, then I
can predict that the animal, whatever organism is going to
do this behavior. And that's helpful for us. And that's very
useful clinically, right, we could use that. But that's not
understanding. That's not what the brain is doing. The brain has
to observe itself, the neurons have to observe their own
information, and then decide sort of in quotes, decide what what
to do. So, right, so if you think of neuron A, B, and C
here, neuron A has to sort of observe the upstream activity
from its inputs neurons one, five, and nine. And in order to do
that, it has to be integrating that information over a certain
period of time. And let's just say that's 100 milliseconds. So
it reads that information and decides and not decides whatever
word you want to use, will fire or not, right? Based on that
that upstream input and same thing with B and C. So you can
think of those as sort of the highest frequency oscillators in
the system, the letters, if you want, in the neural code. Then
the downstream observer of A, B, and C is Q, let's say it has to
read out the input from A, B, and C, and therefore has to be
integrating that input over a longer period of time to give
time to for A, B, and C to give it its input. So that would then
say integrate over 200 milliseconds. So it then reads
out A, B, and C. And so reading out, let's say, cab a neural
word. So looking over here, that would be like this frequency.
And so you could say you would go from letters to neural words,
and then this is going to read over a longer time scale to get
inputs from those to form sentences, and then paragraphs
and all the way down. And so is it possible that you have this
thing that's the lowest frequency oscillator, getting all of
the input on the longest time scale in the entire nervous
system to read all of that information out? And so this is
just sort of a picture of what that might look like, placed on
top of the brain. And I like to think of this in terms of the
visual cortex is sort of the easiest for me to conceptualize.
And if we think of this little red thing here as the highest
frequency oscillator, sort of the letter of the neural code, if
that's coding in the visual cortex, at least for the
simplest thing like edges in the visual field, then the next
layer, layer two is getting input from that layer. And that
has to be reading that over a longer period of time. So it
has enough time to get input from, let's say two edges for it
to read out a higher level abstract concept or shape that
looks like this. And then the next lowest layer, lower
frequency reading out the input from layer two, right over a
longer time scale, so that it has time to read out this shape
and this shape to form a higher level abstract concept of this
shape, all the way down, right, to the lowest frequency
oscillator, the, let's say in this case, the default network
that's reading out all of the visual information, the auditory
information, the somatosensory information, the factory and
internal state of the organism. And in that way, getting all of
the highest level view, the highest abstract view of both
the external environment, the world in the internal
environment of the organism or the self. Right. So that's sort
of, okay, can it, can it be the reader, sort of the integrator
of the information, but then can it also be the coordinator top
down? And in this way, we sort of went through that diagram, but
in this case, if we're thinking, is it possible that these low
frequency oscillators can essentially organize higher
frequency oscillators through various mechanisms of cross
frequency coupling of like phase phase coupling, phase
amplitude coupling and these kinds of things. So is it possible
that this lowest frequency oscillator is essentially sort
of critical for setting up this hierarchy of oscillators and
organizing them in sort of space and time in the brain, such
that if you get rid of it, that organization, that hierarchy
might disappear. And there's some evidence, right, that when you
give humans psychedelics, the brain goes into a more disordered
or chaotic state. And it's unclear totally. If, if you get
rid of this default mode network, do you get something like
this, where you have all these other oscillators that are all
like this or do the oscillators themselves go completely out of
order and you just get complete chaos, right? And it seems to
me that it's not the latter of that complete chaos, because it
seems like, you know, if people report psychedelic
experiences, it's like, they're still having some kind of
experience, it's just less order that you might be having those
ensembles playing in a different order than you normally would.
So all this is complete speculation, right? And so it's
because it's very difficult, like I said, to image or
manipulate human brain. So luckily, this thing appears to be
highly conserved. So you have humans, monkeys, rats, a hierarchy
of brain white oscillations have been found a bunch of insects
also. And then this gets into some, you know, really out there
stuff where we're talking about finding these things in even in
systems that don't have a nervous system. So people have
been looking at this kind of thing in plants for a long
time, when you just put a microelectrode array in their
root, and you see these kinds of, let's say electrical spikes in
plants that Belusca and others have been saying for a long time
might be involved in information integration and
communication plant wide. And then Adamatsky putting this, these
electrodes into oyster mushrooms, and just finding the same
thing, like, yeah, these, these global organism wide electrical
spikes. Yeah, and this animal that he's doing all kinds of
interesting things to about is this is this is a fungal
language. And that kind of thing. And then same thing with
amoeba, finding these low frequency, I guess, electrical
like oscillations or spikes, it's unclear what they're made of,
right, in that case, and then bacteria here in single cells
when I'm going first made the voltage indicators of putting
those into single cells, and seeing that even bacteria are
having these low frequency electrical oscillations, that
then if you play that movie too, and you didn't, and I didn't
tell you that those are bacteria, you might think that those
aren't like a dish of neurons, you know, flashing. And then,
once you put them together, as you know, into a biofilm, right,
so those individual bacteria, you put them together, they, they
generate these global sort of biofilm wide potassium waves
that help them coordinate themselves as one giant unit,
and then not only can they do that with themselves, but they
can do this, you know, long range. So biofilm one wants to
eat, and biofilm two wants to eat. If there's enough nutrients,
they eat at the same time. But if there's not, they can
coordinate nutrient sharing, and then they sort of oscillate in
anti phase. So the general idea then just being that are these
low frequency electrical oscillations, right, ways to
coordinate otherwise autonomous units into coherent holes, no
matter where you are with or without a nervous system. Right,
so this, this gets a little bit, you got to take a lot of drugs
to watch this, but this is, this is what I just showed you,
right, we're all very used to this, the neural tissue being
electrical, you get ions flowing through. And, and that's how
