nice to do a couple of years of philosophy. I always say when people, when my children and
when my students and when other people ask me what's good career advice is keeping your options
open. You've used that phrase earlier on today. I think there's something quite fundamental about
that. As broad a foundation as possible, bearing in mind that we are all quintessentially curious
creatures. And therefore, if you omitted your academic career, you are indulging that. But
the best way to explore is to have a very broad foundation. And I managed to do that to a certain
extent. I didn't, I didn't miss out a lot of history and a lot of philosophy. And I remember
one of my mentors, Jerry Edelman, used to refer to me. I won't say fondly. He just used to refer
to me as an intellectual thug because of my lack of scholarly understanding and very little finesse
when it comes to sort of mechanical or history. So it would have been nice. I don't know what would
have happened if I had spent time doing that, but it would have been nice just to involve myself
with what somebody is and not trying to try. Sure to have that base. But there's still time.
I mean, it's not like, you know, I mean, I'm sure you're busy, so you don't have too much free time,
but you know, it's always available. Well, Professor Friston, thank you so much. This has been,
I mean, this has been amazing speaking with you. And I'm so honored, so blessed that you
take the time to speak with me. And I'm sure the audience will appreciate everything here.
And I'll include links in the description of this video for people who want to learn more,
who want to read your papers, I'll link to some of your papers and some of your
some of your presentations. And thanks again. It's a treat.
Well, thank you. I really enjoyed talking to you. And I'm going to find out how long we've been
talking. I deliberately haven't looked. I shouldn't have said anything. I wish I had
said anything now because I'm going to ask you about attractor landscapes. But no, yeah,
it has been a while and I appreciate so appreciate you going over.
Right, I shall go away thinking about attractor landscapes and what I should have advised myself
to do when I was 20 years of age. That's a great question. Bye.
