from this point. And it would be the case that the trajectory caused out by that ball
would be a path of least action. It would be the path that minimised a certain energy
when averaged along that path. So this is a path integral, meaning sort of adding things up.
So the path of least action, the path of least at least resistance, if you like,
where the resistance scores the expenditure of energy because it deviates from the path,
is prescribed by the principle of least action. And you can use that principle then to predict
or to describe the most likely path that anything will take. And indeed, that sort of path integral
view is exactly where free energy, the variational free energy comes from. But here we're talking
about sort of Feynman trying to work out the probability of various paths of small particles
or electrons. So a very difficult mathematical problem that was finessed by introducing this
notion of a variational bound on the probability of a particular path in his pathological formulation
quantum electrodynamics. The math is identical to the free energy principle. And it just says that
there is a particular path through a space of beliefs that is the most likely. And in the same
way that there is a particular path, if I throw a ball, that is conforms to Hampton's principle
least action. And the space through which we're talking about how traveling now is the space
of probabilistic beliefs encoded by the internal states of something. So slightly more abstract,
it's more about the measurement thing, more like the sort of James in use of the word entropy,
or the way that James would apply his entropy to belief structures. But the mathematics,
the variational calculus is exactly the same. It just tells you, given a particular initial
condition and some sensory input, for example, I can tell you the most likely trajectory of
beliefs that would be described in terms of belief updating, for example, that will ensue
using this variational principle of least action, which is the free energy principle. It's exactly
the same math. I'm just trying to think of even more intuitive ways of describing it. It's a path
of least effort. It's just a mathematical way of describing the path of least path into the
future or the past of least effort, where the effort is effectively scored by the amount of
surprise I can avoid. Are you familiar with Jeremy England's work with dissipative adaptation?
Yes, well, I was about four years ago pre-COVID. Yes, I haven't read what he's been up to recently.
So he moved recently. He moved to Georgia, I think. Oh, really? Oh, I didn't realize he moved. Yeah,
but it's far more of it. I know it's more of a thermodynamic. It's solely, I think,
a thermodynamic, but it makes me, because one of my general interests or one of the things I try to
get to is, you take something like the free energy principle, you try to think, okay,
what's even more fundamental than that? You keep trying to cut away and say, okay, well,
how do you make this even, what's behind that? What's below that? What kind of feeds into that?
And I don't, I mean, to be completely transparent, I don't fully understand how
dissipative adaptation works. I think that's something to do with the environment,
adjusting itself to best accept the energy that's flowing through it, something like that.
But of course, it's very technical. Is that, at least, I know it's maybe been a few years since
you follow the, follow the idea, but does that, does it conform? Well, I guess it would have to,
but does this play into the free energy principle at all, or is this a dynamic that kind of works?
No, I mean, it's fascinating work. And you may also want to invite Suzanne Still
to one of these conversations who's been doing very similar work from the point of view of
sort of predictive information theory. And recently, she's also been looking at this sort of
remarkable capacity of systems to, again, resist the second law, and, you know, use their free
energy thermodynamically, but she would frame it in terms of information theory, to, if I could,
extract order from, from else. And you know, common to a lot of these notions, there's a notion of a
ratchet, that you, you, you, you, you, you can make little random jumps, but you, you, you maintain them.
And each jump is maintained. If it's heading in the right direction, you know, if they are
minimizing sort of free energy at the expense of something else. However, I have to say,
it's not really addressing the same kinds of issues that the free energy principle is addressing.
I have to say, also, you won't get more fundamental or simpler than the free energy principle. So,
I look at thermodynamics as one particular domain of application of that kind of mechanics.
The only difference between thermodynamics and the free energy principle is that the free energy
principle actually commits to a thickness, it commits to a Markov blanket. So, it's now got a
partition of states where you can start to talk about beliefs in a non-trivial sense, in the sense that
there is a morphism from the internal states of a physical system to the states beyond the heat
path or beyond, beyond the blanket. And all the more interesting questions really about
maintenance of that blanket or the heat path. It's not about the equilibrium physics of things on
the inside. Most of them are just rather uninteresting descriptions of ensembles of things on the
inside that have some particular exchangeability criteria. And then you can apply classical
equilibrium physics to that. That's not terribly interesting from the point of view of people
looking at non-equilibrium physics. And even less interesting from the point of view of people
looking at real randomly dynamical couple systems because these systems are not exchangeable.
You mentioned before that Mike Levin's description of sort of cells of cells of cells of cells of
cells are boundaries of boundaries of boundaries of boundaries. Markov blankets of blankets of
blankets of blankets. There's a heterogeneity to implicit in that scale invariant description
of actual systems that will not allow you I think to apply to adopt the assumptions that we
would have to commit to if you wanted to apply thermodynamics. So I have a missing attitude
to thermodynamics. So in that sense, trying to understand the thermodynamics of
self-organization, I think it's possibly misguided because you have to make too many
commitments to the kind of systems, particularly the exchangeability of ensembles
to make it really interesting. On the other hand, the the the questions that people like Jeremy
England and Suzanne Still more recently have been addressing are I think deeply interesting
and are not really addressed by the free energy principle. I think what you're talking about here
is the sort of the complexification that seems to be an inevitable property certainly
of biotic self-organization. You could argue other kinds of self-organization but certainly
biotic self-organization are far from equilibrium systems that have this kind of stale freeness and
implicit heterogeneity in them. I think that there has yet to be a simple story to explain why we
are becoming increasingly more sophisticated increasingly, but if we are organized. I think
that's a fascinating issue. I don't have a clear answer and I will repeat. The free energy principle
itself does not properly address that because the free energy principle starts by saying,
let's assume something has self-organized its house and attracting set. That's where it starts
and that's really where it finishes. I think if you want to think about how these attracting
sets evolve and contextualize each other, I think you're going to be in a slightly more
challenging frame which lots of people are addressing. It's a really interesting question.
I'm not sure thermodynamics is the right toolkit to address that to be honest. I think you need
to look at more fundamental maths probably quantum information theory at different scales and think
about that through the lens of say theoretical biology and evolutionary thinking. I'm so glad
you brought up quantum information theory because that's where I wanted to go next.
I was wondering if the free energy principle lends any credence to the idea or has any
relationship to, I'm not sure if you're familiar with some theories about the universe being
like a quantum air correcting code. If you're familiar at all with that landscape,
basically it's a speculative idea but looks like there's some evidence to support it that the
fabric of space-time itself is actually like a quantum air correcting code. When I hear that
and I think about the free energy system trying to minimize uncertainty, it's trying to close to
air correction or it seems kind of similar too. I wonder if there is a potential link there and
if you have any comments about that or if that's something that's come across your desk.
Well no, it literally came across my desk about three or four weeks ago so suddenly
sent me this paper on the universe being an air correcting code. I'm delighted and if I remember
the sentiment of the email was it would be great to get this chaps or this woman's take
on this in relation to free energy, theoretic formulation because it seemed as if there was
a very very close connection as you have spotted. I think the best person to comment on that would
be Chris Fields. I did quantum physics as a young man but that was 40 years ago.
I usually defer to Chris when he comes to quantum information theory. He has a beautifully rounded
perspective on these things and will probably be able to give you quite a definitive answer. He'll
probably say yes it's the same thing but then try to explain why it's the same thing. Yeah,
it's hard to link to. I can't do that. Again, I will be surprised if all of these things weren't
entirely conciliant and I probably ultimately, you know, you probably aren't going to fall back
on something like James' maximum entropy principle, certainly if you're in the quantum
information theory. You will probably find an equivalent description of the kind we've already
mentioned in terms of variational principles of least action but you may also find similar
explanations in gauge theory and ultimately category theory but they should all, I think,
be internally consistent. You should be able to sort of morph from one to the other without doing
too much damage to your governments and anyone, your favourite way of framing them. I'm sure the
other directing universe is one example of this. Yeah, this is very well could be. It reminds me
too of Chris Fields, a frequent collaborator of his is a cognitive scientist, Donald Hoffman.
I'm not sure if you're familiar with his work. I've interviewed him a couple of times on this
channel as well but one thing that you said that stood out to me and it's something that
he said as well or something similar is that we don't need to know the truth. We just need to
minimize prediction error. You know, it's like this very separate thing and I don't know if you
are familiar with it. He's got a few different theories. I mean, one of which is fitness beats
truth theorem that we've evolved in order to basically maximize fitness instead of to see
what's vertically actually there in the environment. So much of what we see is or all of what we see
is an illusion. We can never, he posits that we can never actually get to the base reality, the
base truth. And I'm sure if you have any thoughts about that or if it's something that you've come
across or if you've spoken with Don. No, I think that's absolutely right. And it sort of leads you
to interesting discussions. Should you want to go there in terms of skepticism versus realism,
internalism versus externalism and the like with philosophers, but certainly from the point of view
of the maths, the physics of this kind of sentence, it is all about making, forming or
understanding internal dynamics as encoding subpersonal probabilistic Bayesian belief about
stuff which is fundamentally hidden beyond your mark of blood, beyond your sensory veil.
It is inaccessible. It is unknowable. And I think that probably Chris Fields would frame this in
terms of holographic streams, sort of appealing to the holographic principle that, you know,
classical exchange of information across your sensory veil or your mark of blanket
can be construed as a holographic stream from the point of view of quantum information theory.
But that's the only way you can entangle a couple, two systems, you know, with classical information.
So, you know, again, we come back to this fundamental separation between the inside and the
outside, which, you know, read in terms of your conversations would be exactly,
you can never know what's out there. We don't need to. If you can keep your prediction errors
very, very small for as long as you live, job done. I mean, that's perfectly, that's perfectly
okay. It does raise the interesting issue, though, is there an outside, which would involve
philosophical issue. So both Chris and I, I think, would have to commit to the fact that probably
is an outside in order to help to actually be able to read and write to your holographic screen,
or to be able to transact with an environment, you know, in terms of in both directions over
your mark of blanket. So the free energy principle puts you in a slightly ambiguous position when
it comes to philosophy. So on the one hand, you can be entirely skeptical, everything that needs to
be done is beneath your mark of blanket within the skull bound brain. There is nothing else.
On the other hand, you're making sense of signals that are provided by something
out there. So you have to commit to at least a mathematical description of stuff being out there.
What the something is, sure. I'm just really looking at the time and I realize we've gone way
over what we had sort of planned out to go. I hope you've enjoyed this discussion. I mean,
I've gotten so much out of it, Professor, and thank you so much. Anything else you want to?
I mean, I literally have so many questions I could continue to ask you, but I do want to be
mindful of your time and energy as well. So please let me know if, you know, if you have a few extra
minutes, I can ask you a couple more. But if, you know, if you've reached your limit, please let me
know also. Please ask me two more questions and then I'm going to go and have a nice cigarette.
Okay. Oh, that sounds nice. That sounds lovely. Yeah, one of those once in a while isn't so bad.
I think, okay, okay, two questions. So now I have to really narrow it down here. But
we'll see it's a little bit. Well, one, one I'll ask you is, and I'm surprised we actually haven't
touched on it, active inference, which honestly for, I mean, maybe the first couple of weeks I
was looking into the free energy principle, I actually thought they were the same thing. I
actually think it's written in other places, I think Wikipedia maybe kind of writes them as
equivalent. And I believe active inference is a subset of the free energy principle or it's like,
well, perhaps, I mean, you could probably, you could definitely do the best job. Can you help
separate the two or help us make a distinction between free energy principle and what active
inference is? I think you could be forgiven by by using them synonymously. And so, you know,
that's how it was portrayed, I think, in the in the Wikipedia links. Having said that,
you know, in the world of philosophy, one's got to be a little bit more rigorous in the way that you
you frame various offerings. So nowadays, I mean, I am, and then one of my friends
in the philosophy are also very careful to distinguish between the free energy principle,
which is just a method. So very much like we were talking about Hamilton's principle of
least action as a method for determining the path of least action or least effort.
But the free energy principle is just what that what it is, it's just a method. It's a tool
for describing the most likely kind of active sense making or belief updating,
or, as you say, active inference. So it's not falsifiable. It's not a theory. This is a principle.
This is a tool. It's a method. If you apply that to purposeful behavior,
then you have active inference. So active inference, I think, is an application of the free energy
principle to usually simulate or predict or emulate or to model purposeful section behavior,
basically. So I've given you a long winded technical answer, but so you you can you can
so free energy principle is usually for sort of physicists and philosophers that
the fossils like to shout about it. The physicists think it's probably quite trivial.
The active inference is more an application that you might want to actually apply if you're
a psychologist or artificial intelligence researcher wanting to emulate this kind of behavior
or understand, say, given subjects behavior by fitting an active inference model to that
subjects behavior using the much more practical way. I mean, you can regard the free energy
principle as only having utility in that ability to simulate active inference. Just technically,
the only thing you get from the free energy principle is really a way of writing down the
dynamics of self organization as a gradient flow on the on the generative model on those prior
preferences on the probabilistic description of those attracting sense, which means instead of
just just looking at the way a system behaves, given its dynamics and trying to reverse engineer
its Lagrangian. What you could do is actually write down the Lagrangian as a Jamesian constraint
as a set of prior preferences and then just apply the rules of the free energy principle
to simulate the behavior of a system that self organizes to that set of attracting states on
that particular set of preferred states. That's basically what we do in computational neuroscience
and machine learning research. Okay. Thank you very much. That helps. The distinction is super
helpful. Great. Now, last question. I had to kind of a bunch of different ones. I'm like,
oh, I forgot to ask them about attractor landscapes and strange loopiness, but I will
instead ask you if you, this is more of a metaphor, this is a personal question, but
if you could give your 20 year old, 20 year old self one piece of advice, what would it be? So if
you go back. I think it would. No, I'm trying to be too clever about this. Probably to go
to the dentist more often, to be honest, if you're much less trivial answer. I think it would be
