many seconds. So you would also, I think you may be able to rediscover that remarkable,
if you like, suspension of the fantasy that we can perceive immediately,
sort of see yourself seeing using things like ambiguous figures. So psychophysicists have
a whole range of really beautiful experiments, you know, using ambiguous figures and different
kinds of illusions that deliberately put you on the edge, so that you can experience
the sense making and all the sort of settling down a option or another option, you know,
resolving the fuzzy cloud into, ah, yes, that's the percept that makes the most sense in this
instance. And sometimes it's, you know, when you're looking at ambiguous figures, for example,
sometimes it stops making sense, and you cannot voluntarily stop yourself
seeing the other interpretation. So, you know, famous two faces or a vase example. So, you know,
I think these kinds of experiments, that kind of experience really do speak very powerfully
to the kind of experiments you can do at home to convince yourself you've got a very
fantastic organ, but it takes time to construct the fantasies in situations which you're not
used to. And either you'll wait until you experience a police car chase, or you can go and look at some
sort of illusory stimuli devised by psychophysicists. I should just add though, if my
erstwhile colleague Alan Hobson was here, he'd just remind you that, you know,
if you want evidence that your brain constructs all your percepts, just think about dreaming.
That is such clear evidence that our vision is actually something we built from the inside.
And it's just gently constrained by, in the form of prediction errors, the actual sensations.
Then just think about your visual experiences, you know, during dreaming.
So, I want to ask you about that. While you're dreaming, let's say having a
standard dream. I don't know what a standard dream is, but you know, let's say having a
typical dream where you're in it and you're non-lucid, let's say, and you're out and you're on the
beach or something. Is there, and so while you're in the dream, you're experiencing it,
you're not realizing it's a dream, you're not realizing that you're constructing the
environment, the beach. So, is there, in a sense, a Markov blanket between your personal,
your first-person experience in that dream and the dream world? Or is that making it
like, am I getting fuzzy here? I mean, is there technically the same thing or is it different?
I think, technically, it is the same thing. It's just, you know, you introduced a really
challenging issue there, that you know that you are dreaming or not. I mean, sometimes you do
know you're dreaming, certainly as you're moving into lucid phases or sort of only working, making
up. So, I'm just thinking, you know, a proper answer to your question would have to accommodate the
fact that you perceive and you act in this world, and yet you're not aware that you are actually
dreaming. And that must, as you say, induce a whole series of Markov blankets. First of all,
you're sequestered from the sensorium. So, you know, the biological state of dreaming
rests upon a particular kind of sensory attenuation, which is very enduring, unless for many hours,
if you're sleeping halfway. But it's mediated by the same neurochemical, the same modulated
neurotransmitters that we were talking about before in relation to Parkinson's disease,
different kinds, but basically the same kind of functional role. So, basically, you're switching
off sensory import from the periphery upon the body. So, you're now letting your brain free wheel
in terms of generating predictions and resolving, in a hierarchical context, where you're resolving
the self-generated predictions by other parts of the brain, trying to explain them away. So,
effectively, you're rehearsing your prior beliefs about the narratives that you usually
are certainly constrained by the experiences you've had the previous day. And yet, as you say,
you're not aware that you are dreaming. So, there are certain very high levels of this hierarchical
construct, or say, deep levels, if we think of centripetal like hierarchy or heterarchy,
that have dissolved that sense of presence and Belford, or no, sorry, that is associated with
the reality monitoring. So, yes, not only is there a Markov blanket established that separated you
from the sensorium, but there's possibly another higher one that separated your normal
reality checking and self-modeling from certain parts of the brain that are engaged in
rehearsing particular fantasies that you are experienced as dreams. One of the things I
was thinking about with your model, with the principle, is I can understand what the system
is doing a bit in terms of like having its own internal states. Can we think of the environment
as doing anything with surprise, or are we staying agnostic on what the environment is doing?
Right. So, again, a very leading question. So, I'm just, there's a whole other
sort of podcast under the hood. Possibly, I'm not the best person to have that conversation. There
are people who speak, I think, in an informed and very fluent way about this perspective. But
what you are suggesting is that one can appeal to the mathematical symmetry of this
way of partitioning the inside and the outside of the Markov blanket,
which has an exact symmetry. So, technically, certainly at the level of sort of basic
sentience and sense-making of the kind we were discussing earlier on, it is mathematically
true that you can also interpret the environment as inferring your internal states, because you've
got this generalized synchrony, which is another manifestation of self-information or surprise
or surprise minimization when the surprise of the measure of your sensory impressions. So,
on that view, the environment now is acted upon by you in the way that, from the environment's
perspective, render your actions sensory inputs, and the way that the environment acts upon you
is by providing you with sensory impressions. But, yes, mathematically speaking, the environment
should certainly be modeling you. There are various flavors of that truism that you could pursue.
One would fully acknowledge that there is clearly a vast asymmetry between you and your environment.
The environment is usually making it bigger. It doesn't always have the same delicate structures
or the precise mechanics that would require the sort of planning that we're talking about in terms
of the expected free energy. So, we're not saying the environment plans, but in terms of still trying
to minimize prediction errors and doing the right kind of learning about you, I think there is good
evidence. Well, you can certainly read certain aspects of the environment as doing exactly that.
So, the favorite example is the elephant path of a desire path, the shortcut that is worn by repeated
use across a grassy lawn when you're getting to what the cutter corner to walking through the park
or to your favorite coffee cafe. So, one way of looking at this is something I've done
to my environment, and I've done it with my conspecifics, and I've created a little path to
my favorite place, or the place that is the favorite of me and my conspecifics,
from the environment's point of view, it's learned a lot about the behavior of its inhabitances,
of its denizens. So, you think you are impressing yourself from the environment's point of view,
it's just a bit of plasticity, an experience-dependent kind of learning,
where it's remembering things about you. And you can take that argument right through to
those kinds of parts of the environment that are actually constructed by conspecifics,
by traffic lights, by signs that have a semiotics and sort of deontic value.
So, you could say that the lived environment you would express if you walked out onto the street,
it's all man-made, and it's all built to maximize expected information gain. I mean,
what is a sign? It is there to create an environment that states our curiosity in terms of making it
easy to respond to epistemic affordances that you're underwrite our curiosity or our plans
to maximize expected information gain. But we build that. So, then you go into the role of
into the game of cultural niche construction, the notion of the designer environment from Andy
Carr, for example. So, all of these, I'm just summarizing conversations you could have,
probably with other people who I want to. The final kind of conversation you might have is that
when you realize that your environment is composed of other things very much like you.
When you're young, your mum, or as you're older, or your colleagues, and your friends,
and your family, and your specifics on the street. I think that's interesting because now we're
getting to a much more symmetrical sort of relationship between me and the environment.
And certainly in this context, most of my universe is basically you and me. So, now there's a certain
kind of symmetry in play, whereas you are my environment, and I am your environment. And yet
we both have gelatine models of our environments, which basically means I have a gelatine model of
you and you have a gelatine model of me. Minimizing the surprise in the exchange
is one description of, can be understood as leading to a generalized synchrony,
literally a meeting of minds, a mutual predictability. The rest of all certain things, such as
communication and language, and certain common frames of reference, common ground.
But you could actually argue that in this setting, it is an inevitable consequence
of joint free energy or surprise minimization. When we put two of the things that are sufficiently
similar together, that this would be inevitable. The best way to minimize surprise, when I
surprising signal that generated by things like me, namely you, is to ensure that I was much like
you as possible, so that I can predict what you're going to do next, because that's what I was going
to do next. And exactly symmetrically so for you. So that basically means that we come to share a
gelatine model, a shared narrative, we're seen from the same hymn sheet, and everything becomes
mutually predictable. And that would be what explanation for the kind of in-group formation
and the kind of, you know, the mechanisms you might find in evolutionary psychology,
could be described in terms of niche construction. What it doesn't describe though, is the going
back to your twilight zone, and the man in the nice hell, the epistemic hell. So if it was
the case that we could become completely mutually predictable and just keep on singing the same song
together for hour after hour after hour, that would become boring. So now we come back to,
you know, what would this kind of mechanics and this way of understanding self-organization look
like when I'm packed in societies and in exchanges between different kinds of conspecifics. And you
get to really interesting questions about polarization in-group, out-group, the spread of
ideas and the spread of memes that can be simulated. At this point, I think you're now into sort of
social neuroscience and joint free energy minimization that can sometimes lead to quite
paradoxical results or understandings of the way that we search for information or engage with
people. On the one hand, I want to make my world as predictable as possible, so I don't get any
nasty surprises. So I'm going to go to those kinds of news channels. I've talked to this kind of person
because I think that, you know, we have a lined frame of reference. We have common grounds. We
speak the same language. On the other hand, I'm going to be compelled to be slightly curious
about other ways of thinking. It's not, you know, we're not all going to merge into one
massive community, you know, one massive hive mind, one massive collective intelligence. It's
that's not going to work because we are compelled to, you know, what would happen if I looked at it
this way? Well, what's that kind of person like? What's this culture like? So, you know, I haven't
got any answers, but there's a really, really interesting field of information in the social
neuroscience. Sure. It reminds me a bit about, I think you've spoken to it a bit, the Explore,
Exploit, TradeOff, EETO, a little bit because it's sort of this balance between exploiting sort of the
linearist, say, most accessible forms of energy or, say, news content, but then also having this
balance between doing that and exploring, say, other modes of thought or, you know, exploring
what else is out there and that balance, that getting that balance right. And I think you said
something to the effect once about the free energy principle that it gets, was it solves it in the
right order? Something to that effect? I think it's in the way I perceived it was or viewed it was
in order to know what's surprising, you have to know what's possible, kind of, does that make any
sense? Is that performing it? Absolutely. So, yeah, I probably said it sort of dissolves the
exploitation, exploration dilemma, but you're absolutely right, it does so in a particular way.
And it does matter in terms of the order in exactly the way you say. So, if I go to this
gambler's heaven, there's an enormous opportunity for me to resolve uncertainty and to indulge my
curiosity, to respond to epistemic affordances, which is the expected information part of the
expected surprise and the expected free energy. So, I'm going to, first of all, explore all
possibilities. What is possible in this particular new environment? I moved to a new city or I put
a new device in the kitchen. So, the first thing I'm going to do is explore by becoming a little
scientist and trying out this and that and going there and seeing what happens until I have resolved
sufficient uncertainty that there's no more irreducible uncertainty there. At that point,
the component, the expected information gain will fall below the expected costs or the expected
utility. So, I'll have innate preferences that put constraints on my exploration. So,
at the point where you literally, your epistemic expected information gain falls below the expected
value, then the expected value will take over and I will switch deterministically to exploitative
behavior. So, that means the first thing I'm going to do is explore and then, so there is no
uncertainty left to resolve and then I will exploit. So, exactly, secure the possibilities
and then just act in a way that is predominantly dictated by my prior preferences or my constraints.
Another way of looking at that is,
we are primarily surprise minimizing or uncertainty minimizing creatures, but we do
so in the constraints. The constraints are provided by our prior preferences or by our,
the constraints afforded by the fact that I would be in this state would be very, very surprising.
So, one way of looking at this resolution of the exploration dilemma is that it's not a dilemma.
In any sense, we are quintessentially exploration machines, exploration curious artifacts,
but we have constraints that we can't become dead or disabled or dehydrated or dissipated.
We can't allow ourselves to be damaged, but under those constraints, our primary
imperative is to explore. Unless, of course, there's nothing left to explore and then we get bored.
Yeah, sure. It's the train off. Are you familiar at all with, I believe it's called a number of
different things, but it's like a game theory question. So, they're called like the marriage
problem or the secretary problem. Have you ever heard this before? Yeah, so, would you like to
hear it? I don't know. Yeah, so basically the way the game works is you're looking for a partner,
a life partner, and the question is how many partners, how many people should you date
before settling on one person? How do you know the available options? I guess, how do you know when
to stop looking is kind of the question. It's also called the secretary problem. It can be called
the hiring problem because sort of like the question of, you see one applicant, you have to
say yes or no to that one applicant, and if you say no, you can't go back to them, right?
The jilted x, let's say. You can't ever go back to, apparently, what's optimal is,
and you have to know, what's interesting is you have to know kind of how long you're willing
to date. How many partners are you willing to sort of to suss out?
The answer is you basically date and you say no to the first 37% of potential partners,
or potential applicants, let's say it's for a job, and then after that point, you say yes to
the first person who's better than all the options you saw already.
It's kind of how it works, right? So it's like you have to date around, you have to kind of explore,
but even if you find someone that's incredible by this model, you're not supposed to say yes to
anybody until you've seen a little more than a third of the whole people that you're trying to
observe, and that just makes you think about EETO a little bit because it requires a certain amount
of exploration. Obviously, there's certain parameters here that are more firmly set than
you'll find for most system environment dynamics, but that there is actually technically a
mathematically precise sort of strategy that works across the board, so I just thought I'd share that.
No, I haven't heard that. That's brilliant. It reminds me of sort of evolutionary game theory,
having sort of stay wins, or tip-a-tap, like different strategies and which super things
that an evolutionist has done as well. The free energy principle. How it reacts to or how it's
related to Hamilton's principle of least action. Can you possibly make that help make that link?
Yeah, well, so the free energy principle, as we were discussing earlier on, can be regarded either
as a variational principle of least action or a constrained maximum entry principle, just depending
upon your favourite way of understanding the maths. So the variational principle of least
action just is an instance of how it's this principle of least action. Technically, both
when applying Hamilton's principle of least action, say to mechanics or movement of massive
objects, for example, what these principles prescribe is a prescription of the trajectory
or path that something will take. So you could apply Hamilton's principle of least action to
the trajectory of a ball if thrown at a particular angle with a particular velocity
