watching, but it's an old show, so if you haven't seen it by now. But basically, in the episode,
a thief, a robber dies and it goes to heaven, and they're a gambler. They like to gamble. So,
in a casino, basically, the way it works is they win every game at the casino. They're playing
craps, they're playing blackjack, and every time they win, right? And the robber is happy. You
know, he's like, oh my god, this is amazing. Everything I play, it's so great. And then,
please stop me if you've seen this episode already, but for folks watching, he's happy at first,
but then it goes a month later and he's sitting at the table and he's bored out of his mind,
right? He's winning every time and he's just like, oh, I won again. Like, oh, why even play, right?
And maybe you think about this, I mean, maybe this is completely off, but in the fact that
there's no more surprise in the games that he's playing, right? So he's lost all of the will,
basically, to go on. And of course, at the end, you find out he's not in heaven, he's in hell,
right? He's got everything that he wanted, but it wasn't the right thing that he wanted,
sort of, you know, the lesson in the story, I guess. But maybe think about this a little bit,
because basically, the surprise is zero. And actually, all the veil, it's only a negative
outcome, really, for him. You know, he hasn't realized that the folly of his actions, you know,
there's no more hypothesis testing happening here. Every time it's the same thing and what a dull life
to live. And maybe think about this a little bit, and please tell me if that's anywhere close to
this idea. I know it's art. I know it's different. It's television, but...
No, I think that's spot on. I hadn't seen that episode. That's a marvelous, marvelous story.
I know you're absolutely right. So this is, you know, not only do you see this in psychology,
but when you start to simulate, you know, little animals minimizing their sanity, you see exactly
this kind of behavior. And as you say, it's just the fact that the expected surprise entails
the motivation to do those things that resolve uncertainty. And if you're denied the opportunity,
because there is no more uncertainty to resolve, there's no more curiosity out there. There's no
more epistemic importance. There's no more expected information gain that you expect because you know
everything. And this keeps happening the same again and again and again and again. That would be awful.
You know, when you actually simulate it, you actually can simulate little artifacts who just
get so bored. They do nothing. And certainly if you have, you know, once they attain their preferred
state, so they're maximized their expected utility or minimized their expected cost,
because there's nothing to shape their behavior, because there's no now reducible uncertainty
out there. There's no more, there's no more epistemic affordance. There's nothing to do.
They just sit there and do absolutely nothing. And that must be an awful situation to be in.
And I say that because, you know, 99% of your life is not chasing, you know, if you are a mouse,
cheese, it's not putting yourself in a position where you're going to win the lottery. It's actually
indulging in your curiosity. The very fact you're doing these podcasts, having this exchange,
is just an expression of the fact you are compelled to be a curious creature. So this
is part of our makeup. And if we didn't do this, then, you know, at least from a mathematical
perspective, it's highly unlikely that we would exist over an appreciable period of time. So,
yes, I hadn't seen that episode, but I love the twist that you end up in.
Yeah, he was a thief, so he deserved it.
So about the, let's see here, I'm trying to figure out where we're going to go.
I believe there's two ways, right, to minimize prediction error.
They were change the model to better fit sensory input, and or change the world,
act on the world in order to better fit the prediction. But I wasn't sure, are these two
mutually exclusive? I mean, do you have to choose between the two? And if so, how does
the system decide which one to do? Right, so we're now at a sort of more elemental
application of the energy principle, just to understand the fundamental, you know,
the fundamental drives to both perception and action, and you face up beautifully. So,
if we now simplify things, and then just read surprise and free energy in the moment
as prediction error, then there are two ways, as you say, that I can minimize my prediction error.
I can either change my mind, so my prediction error has become more like the sensory data at hand,
or I can act upon the world to solicit some more or a different set of sensory input that are
closer to my predictions. So what would that look like? It would look as if I am basically
acting to fulfill my predictions, which is what I meant before, is that if you weren't
optimistic, successful New Yorker, if you didn't have that prior, that optimism, that sort of
optimism bias, then you wouldn't be able to act in a base optimal way, because you need
to fulfill your own predictions to survive. There's something quite fundamental about that,
but at the level I think we're talking, the kind of self-fulfilling purposes we're talking about
are very sub-personal. So all we're talking about, basically, is effectively reflexes. So,
when we move, when we talk or move our eyes, what's happening is that we're sending predictions
down to the Pontine nuclear to the spinal cord about the kind of signals we're getting from
the state of our body. Technically, it's called proprioception. And if I predict that I'm going
to be moving in a particular way, I would expect to get these signals from my muscles.
And if I don't get them, there's a prediction error. So by acting, all I mean or all that one
means in this setting is that you send these prediction errors back to the muscle so that
it contracts to the right length. So it sends the signals that you predicted. So this is just
like a thermostat. It's just like feedback control that we find in many, many devices.
All you need to supply is the set point, the temperature you want or the length of the muscle
you predict will happen. And then the body does the rest. So this is how a very sort of elemental
level of just moving around. You can understand action, motor action, motor being the use of
particular kinds of muscles as minimizing prediction error or minimizing free energy.
So it's not quite this more deliberative kind of action. It's not how do I imagine myself
behaving tomorrow or generally unfolding in this conversation. We're talking about action in the
moment as basically eliminating prediction errors, reflexes very, very, very quickly.
So in answer to your question, how do we decide which to do? And are they
mutually exclusive? They're certainly not mutually exclusive in the sense that the whole point
of this explanation of action and perception and the action perception cycle
is that there is a common theme. It's just all driven by minimizing prediction error
or minimizing free energy in a more general context. However, in practice, I think you're
absolutely right that we do seem to be built to switch between the two. So in principle,
you could do them both at the same time. In principle, you could dynamically adjust your set
points and your reflexes could try to fulfill those set points or those predictions and the
two could go hand in hand contemporaneously. But in fact, in practice, it looks as if there was
actually a turn taking. And it looks as if certainly sort of larger mammals have a very
particular schedule of turn taking. I mean, this may sound very specific, but I think it's really
interesting that it speaks to the cognitive moment. So it looks as if if we just take say vision,
then our vision, certainly active vision, where sometimes it's kind of active sensing,
where we actually have to go and palpate and select little parts of the visual scene,
bearing in mind, we can only actually see a very, very small part of the visual scene
without, you know, with high resolution in our familial representations. So basically,
although we think we can see everything, we're not, we just see little patches and we're knitting
it together in our heads. It's fantasy that I can see everything. That's not true. You could see
something if you looked over there. And that gives you the illusion that you can see everything.
In fact, you can't. So this is part of this sort of debate as a fantastic organ, having a fantasy
you can see all around me. You can't, you have to go and get the most epistemically rich,
maximize the expected information gain, arts of the visual field to knit together and to
accumulate the right kind of information that builds your hypothesis about the scene that
I'm currently constructing in my head. But this process happens very, very quickly. So we move
our eyes about four times a second. Interestingly, well, yeah, he's amazing. But it's also, well,
I've had even more amazing is that everything seems to be about four times a second. And by
everything I made, if you were a mouse, you wouldn't really be using your eyes so much,
you'd be using your whiskers as your burrows in the field. And you whisk about four times a second.
If you are talking, you produce little chunks of information called phonemes about four times
per second. When you're listening, you're listening about four times per second. When you sniff,
you sniff it about four times per second. The way that we sample, the way that we sort of
gather our information from the world, seems to have this very saltatory aspect that you're
roughly at four hertz, technically a theta rhythm. We seem to be going to sample in the
information. But even more interestingly, during the action, during the actual movement itself,
the way that you adjudicate between changing your mind and updating your, allowing your brain to
revise its beliefs by changing its neural activity to provide better predictions.
During movement, you actually attenuate the consequences of that movement to enable you to
act. So this is a really interesting phenomenon called sensory attenuation.
But simply, if I had the prior belief that I was going to lift my arm,
and I didn't ignore or attenuate the prediction errors that were coming from my arm,
telling me my arm is not moving, then I wouldn't be able to lift my arm because those predictors
would come and revise my beliefs. Oh, no, my arm's not moving. But if I can ignore the sensations
that I am going to generate, then I can use my reflexes to fulfill my predictions that my arm
is actually raising. So in order to move, I have to attenuate the prediction errors that are,
if you like, undermining my predictions. And this is called sensory attenuation.
And it's beautifully exemplified in eye movements. So if you now look at this finger,
and then it's the card to this finger, whilst you were moving,
saccading and moving your eyes from one finger to the other finger,
you were suppressing and attenuating all the prediction errors. I know that because you didn't
see the massive optic flow, the shift of the world induced by moving your eyes.
You can actually see it, if you press your eye, this is Helmholtz's famous experiment,
if you just gently nudge the outer edge of your eye, you'll see the world shift around.
Huh. I don't want to push it too hard. I like being quite careful of the viewers at home,
don't poke your eye out. Okay. Yep. Can you see the world just jump around a little bit?
It does, yeah. So that's because your eyes weren't causing the motion,
and you were able to actually register and attend to that visual motion, that visual,
if you like, retinal slip. Exactly the same signals were being generated when you were
moving your eyes with your eye muscles. You didn't see that. You didn't see the world jump.
All you saw was my finger, and my finger again in a different position, the world had not moved.
So you were actually attenuating your sensory prediction errors, your visual prediction errors
during the movement. That's called saccadic suppression. It's a remarkable capacity of the
brain to temporarily suspend attention to self, the consequences of self-generated
sensations. And this happens everywhere. It's a wonderful explanation for the phenomena
when you've got two children in the back of the car, and he hit me hard, and I hit him,
and the escalation and the argument came out absolutely right, because when they're hitting,
they attenuate the sensory information from the reports, how hard they're hitting.
So they actually feel being hit as more intense than they feel they're doing the hitting.
So they're just like a little arms race, they just ratchet up, and this is due to sensory
attenuation. You could actually use that metaphor for a political excitation.
Sure. Is that related to, I know if you've ever heard this, I actually don't know if it's technically
true. I think it is. I've tested it out. I've asked people to test this out. How you can't tickle
yourself. Yep. Yep. The same kind of. That's a brilliant observation. So that example comes from
people like Daniel Wolpert, who I think is now actually in New York, and Sarah Jane Blakemore,
and trying to understand the remarkable, first of all, it is remarkable you can't tickle yourself
because you're attenuating the consequences of self-generated behavior. So in a sense,
the fact you can't induce visual motion by moving your own eyes with your eye muscles
is an example of that. But you can circumvent that by tickling your eye, by using something you're
not used to, which is your finger. So it is exactly that notion. You can't tickle yourself,
which explains this little experiment. It's actually devised by hell health, so you can
perform on yourself. The interesting thing is that what Sarah and colleagues and Chris
Frith were pursuing was that people with schizophrenia have great difficulty
in this kind of sensory attenuation in another paradigm called the force-matching paradigm,
which means that people, there may be certain psychopathologies that interfere with your
ability to suspend attention to the consequences of your own actions. So for example, if you had
inner speech and you heard yourself because you were not attenuating the consequences of your
inner speech, you might then try to explain away these unattainuated auditory or pseudo auditory
inputs as if somebody else was speaking. So this is the notion that Chris Frith bought the table
as an explanation for auditory hallucinations. If you were able to sense your own movements
and were not, if you moved and you were not able to attenuate the sensations of movement,
it might feel as if somebody had caused your movement. So you've got this phenomenon made
acts. So there are all sorts of very quite frightening experiences that would ensue if you
failed to have this sort of turn-taking between action and perception, especially at this very,
very fast time scale. And some of these frightening consequences, one could argue,
are seen quite frequently in many guises in psychiatry and in the neurology. For example,
Parkinson's disease, an abnormality of dopaminergic neurotransmission, where dopamine in this context
is thought to affect the capacity to do this kind of sensory attenuation at a particular level
in the motor system, and therefore subverting your capacity to realise your intentions to move.
So what would that look like? Or it would look like somebody who can't initiate an act.
And that, of course, is one of the common symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
So this adjudication between acting and perceiving, quickly going out there,
moving actively, ignoring the consequences of that movement until you get there,
and then fixating, not moving, getting the information, sorting it out, doing your processing,
and then starting again, the cycle of action perception, where you have actually got the
separation in play, at least from a biological perspective, seems to be a sort of ubiquitous
way that we actively sense our world, or actively make sense of our world, and is very,
very reliant upon this notion of selective attention, sensory attenuation, to get that dance
between action and perception exactly right. Sure. That reminds me, if I tell you just a
personal anecdote from last summer, it was a random day, I was out on my fire escape
eating smoke meal, and, you know, I do this in some days, and all of a sudden,
there was, I live on a one-way street, but coming the opposite way was a police chase.
There was a dark SUV being chased by a cop car. And I remember the first, second, or two,
where I was looking over at what was happening, I didn't quite see the vehicles.
I saw what I can describe as like a fuzzy black cloud. It took a second or two for my brain to
catch up to what was happening, and to construct a car being chased by another car. It was very
bizarre, because I mean, it was highly unexpected, right? It just doesn't happen every day.
And I'm not sure if that's a common thing with people who see things that are extremely uncommon,
but I did have that, and perhaps I was just getting into sort of the perceptual science
literature and reading about the stuff, so perhaps it's hard to disentangle that from
expectations, let's say, but I mean, it really stuck with me as, you know, one, confirming,
although it's well-confirmed, obviously, in the science, but that this is what our brain is doing,
is constructing, you know, correcting for errors, because that's a, you know, highly uncertain,
or really surprising thing to happen, and my brain in real time took a second or two to
cohere and make that a solid, those solid objects.
Yes, well, that's a wonderful story. And, you know, as you say, I mean, it really speaks to the,
you know, the brain as a constructive organ, as an organ that really is trying to actively
make sense of what's going on, and sometimes in a bigger situation, that can take many,
