about that question. And the short answer is yes. So those are referred to as escort ants.
And they, they do seem to play an important role. And there's another group who has done quite a bit
of obstacle navigation work on this species, the Feynman group, offer Feynman's group at,
oh, I'm blanking, I want to say Hertzberg. But anyway, they have, they, they found in the
population, they're studying that, yes, those escort ants joining, if they, if they join
the transport group, they have an outsize influence on the, on the direction.
And I think that is likely to be important in some contexts. They also have found that, that they,
and I can confirm that the, these other ants that are around are sometimes laying some pheromone
trail. It's really conspicuous when these ants lay pheromone. And that's sort of happening
in the vicinity of this, of the cooperative transport group pretty frequently, even after
they're, they're moving. So that could be another additional source of information.
I, I noticed though, I, I, I tried to sort of do a pretty careful analysis of this,
you know, initially qualitatively, but the, that's not happening very much while,
while they're in the, this hard obstacle, though, I'm not seeing that kind of information while
they're navigating around this, this challenging obstacle or obstacles in general. So that doesn't
mean that they're not providing information, but I will say kind of, I think they are, I don't think
they're required, however, because sort of, you know, there's, there's a lot of variation in how
many of those there are around. And trials where there were few, if any, it didn't seem like they
were substantially worse at navigating around obstacles than when there were many. I also see
actually fairly low turnover. So in terms of the possibility of ants joining and, and providing
you information, I think that absolutely happens, but, but even when, you know, there, there isn't as
much turnover as you might expect in, in my, in my prod, in this project anyway, when,
if, if that, if that was really crucial information, you would expect more turnover.
And, and I also looked really carefully at the specific, the specific turns that led to their
success when, you know, the, the, the last turn they made that allowed them to escape.
And some of those did coincide with another ant joining, but, but the majority of those,
there was nothing that I could see. Obviously, I'm not an ant. There's nothing I could see though,
that, that kind of directed that. So, yeah, long story short, absolutely the other ants are playing
a role. In fact, I mentioned in passing that I also gave them an impossible obstacle, which was
it was just this same obstacle here, but with the door shut. And their behavior in that shot to me
because they, I expected it to look pretty similar, their trajectories to look maybe pretty similar
to, to this, this, this obstacle here. And maybe eventually they would kind of give up, but they
almost immediately start to give up. It's like they know very, very quickly that something
is different. And so I think what explanation for that might be that in the case where this door is
shut, the escort ants, these extra ants around, there's, there's maybe fewer of them, they're
not changing over. Anyway, I'm rambling a bit, but I want to say I think they're really important.
I don't think they are absolutely necessary, especially not for obstacle navigation.
And, and I don't know more about their importance really.
Oh, sorry. Is it possible to track pheromone trails laid by escort ants? Is it any method or
technique? Yeah, so actually that's something that the Feynman group has, has done. So, you know,
and I could quibble a bit with some of the ways they're doing it. And I would be, I would be
fascinated to apply that method to my videos, which I think the trick there is that in order
to do that, they had to be, they had a moving camera that was focused on the object so they
could be really close, which is hard to couple, certainly not impossible, but hard to couple
with needing a wider view for obstacle navigation. So yeah, I think, so that has been done, has not
been done in the content, I don't think in the context of obstacle navigation, but, but yeah,
it's a very, because it's tricky because the only thing you can see, you can't, you can't
chemically track as far as I know, you can't sort of pick it up. But you can, they have this
halting movement pattern when they're laying pheromone trail where they, they pause every centimeter
or so, just for a fraction, split second to touch their gaster down to the ground to lay
that pheromone trail. So, so you can kind of see it in a video. And that is, that's what the, what
the Feynman group used to get that automatic kind of information. So, yes, to some extent you can.
Helen, if you compare these behaviors, so these rules that you're sort of sussing out about how
these navigate different environments, how does that compare to if you had the same species, but
a solitary individual carrying a single piece of cargo? Are they scaling up the rules of the
individual or is it a completely different strategy? I don't think they're scaling up the
rules of the individual. Oh man, you're all asking such great questions, which is not surprising.
And it's also just reminding me of all of my like zombie data projects that I haven't done because
I, so I, I collected videos of individual ants facing these same obstacles with
any bitty pieces of tuna. And also with, you know, like using like liquid, liquid bait,
where their behavior is actually kind of different. But the, these ants, the challenge is,
it was really, yeah, so this was, this was, I, you know, actually, if I, if I did turn back to it,
I might be better equipped now, but the challenge is, there's a real computer vision challenge in
tracking these individuals because they move absurdly quickly and in very, very like,
they're called crazy ants because they have this really crazy movement pattern. They kind of like
jolt all over the place and it's, it's quite unpredictable. And I think it's fine for tracking
out close up. But the videos that I have, which are not that close, they're similar to this
because of the scale of the obstacle just made it challenging to track the individuals. So even,
even, even manually, even, you know, just with by eye, not impossible, but it never, it hasn't
happened. It could happen in the future still. But, but my intuition, however, from having just,
you know, not quantitatively analyzed it at all, but having actually just done that experiment is
that it's very different. The individuals, they, they, they often would run up to the obstacle and
just, just bounce back and forth like a lot. They're moving so fast. I think the, I think that
my impression is that the additional effort of like having a really circuitous path and, and
going far more distance than you need to is just like not important at the scale of the individual
when the, when the object is small enough that, you know, they don't, there's not like a huge
amount of effort to actually move it in the first place. So I do think it's a wholly different set
of rules. Can I ask a quick question as well? Yeah. So from your videos, it's, these are,
these are really cool. But there are two ways that they could solve this problem is that just
bounce around all along the wall and then accidentally discover, oh, there is the whole
here through which we can escape or after doing some whatever information gathering, they can
know, okay, here's the whole, let's go for it. And it looks from the video is that it's like,
like the latter because it's like they are struggling, struggling, and then suddenly
they get it and they, they just go through that gap even without touching the, the corners or,
or anything like that. Does that make any sense? It doesn't make sense. I guess I will say you,
you saw one video, which I, you know, I, I could look back through. I don't think it was as clean
in all of the videos. I think that, but there, I think it is true that maybe, and maybe this speaks,
maybe this gets at what you're saying, I hadn't thought about specifically how they're interacting
with the exit, but it is true that across the board, once they do exit, they immediately turn
around and know where to go. And that is still very surprising to me. So yeah, there's something
potentially interesting going on there. And that might, that might be affecting the exit itself as
well. And even if it may be at something that, you know, they don't, they don't appear to be exploring
the space enough to like build a map. They, you know, there were, there were plenty of examples
where they escaped a lot faster, although that certainly might have been random. What isn't happening,
I don't think at least not by a rule, at least not that the majority of the time is that individuals
are leaving and exploring to see where the exit is. And then coming back, I looked for that and
didn't find that to be a common thing that was happening. But yeah, I mean, you're right that
so, so what I, what I know so far is, is pretty basic in terms of I can compare their performance
with what we would expect with some kind of really gross ideas about what their strategy could be.
But there are pieces to the strategy that I certainly, you know, I don't, I don't pretend to
know what the strategy is. Very cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. They're also, you know,
side note normally would be the option of just climbing, they can, they can lift these things
and go vertical too. So normally they'd also be able to climb the walls, which I've prevented by
just making them really slippery. So, and maybe that's affecting things, maybe they're just trying
that over and over, although they don't, they certainly don't seem to be. All right, so I'll,
I'll kind of recap this, this, what I've told you about this project, which is just sort of
scratching the surface a bit. What I learned about their collective strategy, which again,
as we just talked about, is, is I don't know what it is, but I know that it involves sticking
together. So they are extremely good at maintaining consensus, even when they do not know where to go.
So they stick together, they maintain consensus. They are also flexible. So, you know, they,
they don't, even though they start off with this tendency to want to move as the way I'm
interpreting it, this tendency to, you know, have this strong bias to moving towards their,
their nest, which is the easy thing, right? We, they, we, they are good at knowing the
direction of their nest, that should be an easy strategy for them to use. They will shift over
time to a more complex strategy, one that is more robust over time, if that initial strategy
doesn't work. So that's, that's what I did with cooperative transport with obstacle navigation
in the context of cooperative transport. But cooperative transport working together to carry
something heavy, that's unusual. That's not normally how groups move through the world. And
it's actually as, basically, we think just ants really, and humans, and maybe a couple other
species, but mostly just ants and humans that even do that at all. And, you know, most, most
groups that are moving through the world, including groups that are very invested in,
in sticking together, are not tethered together, right, by the objects that they're carrying in
the case of cooperative transport. So I really wanted to explore how these more typical groups
navigate around obstacles. And I just have done one project, looking at this in theory. I think
there's potential for a lot, a lot more interesting stuff here. But I just thought I'd share a little
bit about what I've learned with this, this little theory project. So, so a bit more motivation
in context for this. So we, there's been a lot of really great work on flocking models on, on
modeling swarm movement. It's one of the really well studied behaviors in collective behavior,
going back decades. You know, we know that quite simple individual rules can reproduce
behavior that appears very similar to what swarms do, what swarms of schools of fish,
you know, flocks of birds, things like that. But those kind of standard well studied flocking
models typically exclude obstacles. When in real life, in the, in, in nature, animals that are
moving through the world are going to be facing obstacles very frequently. So how do you, so,
so with, with some collaborators, Justin Whirlpool, Stefan Popp and Varun Joshi, we wanted to explore
how does those, those basic flocking models, I say basic, they're not, they're not basic, but
those existing flocking models that are well studied, how do they behave when we just throw
some obstacles at them? So this was, you know, really inspired by the project I showed with,
I showed you, as I mentioned already. But we, we wanted to kind of apply that concept again to
these flocking models. So we started with these well studied models, where they have zones of
avoidance, alignment and attraction. So, you know, you have some individuals, they have behavioral
rules. This kind of Ian Cousins was one of the persons, one of the people,
Reynolds sort of came up with this initially. Ian Cousins was one of the people who kind of
developed this modeling framework a lot more, especially in the context of biology. And in
these well studied models, these Boyd's models, individuals have, if they're, have these zones
of behavior. So they will be, they will avoid other individuals that are very, very close to them.
They will be attracted to individuals who are much further apart from them. And then
individuals that are at some middling distance, they will kind of tend to align with. So that's
sort of the basics of some of the earliest versions of these models. And so we, we took that same
basic model and several other extensions, and added a goal direction, and a dead end
obstacle. So added a challenging obstacle that require, require them to move backwards.
And so we, the other stuff we added was just, they're not going to collide with obstacles. So we
extended the model to include collision avoidance. But we did not add in any other specialized
behaviors for dealing with obstacles. We were planning on it. But then what happened surprised
us. So we ended up not. So, so the individuals don't have any, any rules for wall following.
They don't have any, you know, any of the kind of, you know, I thought we were going to take what
I learned about the ant strategy and maybe apply it here. But, but this is not even that complex.
So no, no obstacle navigation behavior, other than just don't run into the obstacle.
And we explored a large parameter space for, for this model. We also explored different versions
of this model that are not based on these zones. So there are, and the individual parameters are
things like, you know, how big is your zone of avoidance versus your zone of alignment versus
your zone of attraction? And how much are you kind of waiting those, those three different
possible behaviors? And how fast are you moving? How fast are you turning? How many are in the
group? How many are informed about the direction of the goal, etc. And what we found, which was
surprising to us at the time anyway, was that flocking escapes, this is what we call them,
emerge when you have high alignment when the individuals are waiting the aligning with others
just moving in the same direction of others. If individuals are waiting that behavior high,
then, you know, they will, they will escape. I've been waiting for them to escape and I forgot
that that was the example when they don't escape. So this, so over here on the left, that's when
they, they have low alignment and on the right is high alignment. So, and, and one of the reasons
this was surprising is that there has been research in the maybe last five to 10 years where
showing that that alignment behavior is not itself necessary for the kinds of movement to emerge
in the absence of obstacles. So, so when you, when you do simulations, you don't necessarily do
simulations in the absence of obstacles, you're looking for behavior that is qualitatively similar
to what these swarms do in nature, you don't need the alignment to get there. But we found that with
the alignment in, in these simple models, these, these individuals are just like spontaneously
escaping. Okay, so a few more things about this, we explored this in a lot of detail. So solitary
agents never escape, except that they do if they have an extremely low turn rate, a turn rate where
they can't, you know, they'll hit the obstacle and they can't just turn around and go backwards,
they're kind of forced, they're forced to wall follow because they can't turn fast enough,
that's the only situation where solitary agents were able to escape. And that's why we started
calling it a flocking escape. So let's look a little more carefully at, yes. Can I ask you
something? So is this a like kind of a mathematical physical consequence of the fact that if, if they
are aligned, they can, you know, walk longer distances without, you know, random fluctuation
or random walk. So your radius is increased. Yeah, yeah, you, I mean, that's the punchline. Yeah,
we, we did get a mechanism and that's, that's pretty much it. So yeah, I mean, I, I could just
say, let's say end of talk now, but no, I mean, there's perhaps some more interesting stuff,
but absolutely, yeah, you, you, yeah, you, you have higher directional persistence, you're more
likely to move in the same direction for longer. Yeah. Yeah. And so we see that really quickly.
So, you know, we looked at a wide range of values for alignment weight. So on the left here,
it's showing just the proportion of simulations that had flocking escapes. And you very quickly go
from no flocking escapes to you're always doing flocking escapes. And then this over here on
the right is showing you how long it takes to get to the goal. So if you get to the goal at all, so
in many of the cases with low alignment weight, they never reached the goal, right? But if they
did reach the goal, you know, as their aligned weight increased, they got to the goal faster and
faster until the fact that they had that high directional persistence meant that even once
though they escaped the obstacle, they were taking really circuitous routes back, they were sort of
like took them a long time to arc back to the to the goal. So, so there is such there's certainly
quickly such a thing as too high an alignment weight when it comes to just getting to the goal
faster. Let me ask a quick question. So, yeah, yeah, yeah. So how many of these agents know
what the target direction is? In the results I'm showing you right now, it's 100% of them.
