How's that? Can you see what you expect to see? Okay, great. Hi, everyone. I'm excited
to chat with you today. So I sort of debated a few different projects to talk about and
landed on some stuff. But like, like Professor Levin said, I'm always happy to talk, talk
about collective behavior. And I'm nearby. And also, yeah, please feel free to interrupt
if you have questions. This can be just more of a conversation. I realized just, you know,
a minute ago that perhaps I should tell you a little bit about who I am in my background.
So I did my PhD at the University of Colorado in Boulder, where I studied collective ant
behavior. And I did a postdoc kind of spread out at a few locations. So at Michigan State
University, and at at Harvard in Roddick and Naugpal's group, if you might know some
of her work, she's a computer scientist, doing collective behavior, but with sort of bio
inspired robotics, especially. But I was still studying, studying animals, studying ants
there and doing and doing modeling and theory stuff. So I did not myself, Dell very far into
the realm of robotics, but it was really great to, to do that really interdisciplinary work
and spend time with with folks who think about these questions pretty differently. Yeah,
and then yeah, I landed. Oh, and I also Albert Cow is a new, new collective behavior professor
at UMass Boston. So I spent some time, I had collaborated with him for a while spent some
time in his group as well. So and he is brand new there. So also an interesting person to
chat with if you're interested who's local. All right, so today I thought I'd focus on
problem solving and dynamic control and self organized systems. So yeah, so I my work is
broadly motivated by wanting to understand how complexity and patterns and even intelligence
emerge from groups of simple individuals. And I think this group group is really familiar
with with this, but across all scales, we know that collectives are capable of accomplishing
tasks that are a lot more complicated or a lot more difficult than what the individuals in those
groups can can accomplish. And in a lot of cases groups are groups also can outperform
so called intelligent intelligent individuals, like individual people. And this is perhaps
surprising because we might expect collective systems. Sorry, I'm not sure what the
I don't know. Okay, my keyboard is not working. That's okay. We might expect
collective systems to face particular control challenges, because they have to integrate
all of their sensing decision making and actions across dispersed individuals that might be
physically separated by a lot of space might be only loosely connected. So how can decentralized
systems coordinate? So I just want to expand on this for a moment and think about a spectrum
between distributed systems that have no leader like these ants here and systems with really
centralized processing where you have a single entity gathering information and making decisions.
We already know that there are a bunch of benefits to being over on the distributed end
of the spectrum. So we know that just decentralized groups are really robust. And they also often
make better more rational decisions than individuals, but they're also cost to distributed processing.
So we at least imagine that centralized approaches might be faster and more nimble in the
sense that they can respond more to changes or to new information. So I sort of think about this
as distributed systems having high inertia and the potential cost of high inertia is going to
matter more in some groups and for some tasks than others. So tasks that require a lot of flexibility
because they're being performed in conditions that are constantly changing or tasks that
require a lot of trial and error. I think it's reasonable to expect that those kinds of tasks
might be particularly challenging for distributed groups. So I have a few tasks kind of focused,
a few projects that I have focused on each of these kinds of tasks. I was going to say that
I'll talk about each of these, but I actually decided this morning to focus a little bit less on
the dynamic control of self-assembled bridges and a bit more on the trial and error tasks.
So I'm happy to tell you about this self-assembled bridge project in Army Ants that I finished more
recently. But like I said, I'm going to focus today on collective problem solving during obstacle
navigation. So I first explored this collective obstacle navigation problem in the context of
cooperative transport, which is what I studied for my PhD. So this is an example of cooperative
transport. This is a group of paratrokina longicornus ants. The common name for this ant species is
longhorn crazy ants. So I'll probably just refer to them as crazy ants. And they're working together
here to carry this large dead cricket. And you can see they're good at this. They're moving really
quickly or relatively quickly. They are not stopping and starting all the time. So these
particular ants, this ant species is really good at cooperative transport. But just for some context,
most ant species are really not very good at this at all. So most species, if they even try to work
together to carry something, they'll pull in opposite directions, perhaps for a long time.
They'll stop and start a lot. But I studied the crazy ants. I did actually do some comparative
work about the differences maybe between groups that are species that are good and species that
are not so good. But I'm just going to talk about the crazy ants today. So let's take a look at the
whole process of cooperative transport. The first thing that usually happens when we see
cooperative transport is that an ant that happens to be foraging comes across a large food resource
and decides that she can't carry it herself. She needs help. She'll then typically return to her
nest to recruit more workers. Oh, I apologize for that. She'll recruit more workers. And once there
are enough ants around the object that they're able to move it, they need to make a collective
decision about which way to go. And this direction that they pick, though, is not going to work for
the whole journey back to their nest, because they're going to run into things like obstacles,
like twigs, like leaves, or like this rock here. Really, anything is an obstacle when you're the
scale of an ant. And to navigate around these obstacles, they have to make a whole series of
new decisions. If they can do that, though, they're likely to make it all the way back to their nest.
So during my PhD, I spent a lot of time researching the mechanisms of this initial part of the process
on how groups make a collective decision in the first place. So I studied the individual traits
and behaviors that promote a group level success, why some species are better than others, as I
mentioned. But today, I'm really just going to tell you about the part of my PhD work that was on
obstacle navigation. Because, like I said, this is a task that requires trial and error.
So I want to convince you that obstacle navigation requires problem-solving. It requires
a whole series of decisions that build on one another. Because, like I said, the first direction,
they might choose to turn, initially, when they hit an obstacle, they might choose to turn left,
but then they have to choose when to turn back towards their goal, or perhaps
turning left in the first place doesn't actually work. Maybe it's a really complex obstacle.
Maybe they have to move backwards in order to get around it. So they may have to try multiple
directions and what the optimal choice at any given moment might depend on the decisions that
they just made. So let's think about potential strategies for navigating around obstacles.
I was really interested, particularly in whether a strategy or, yeah, is simple versus robust. So
strategies that might be really easy for ants to accomplish may work well for some obstacles,
but there may be obstacles that you need a much more robust strategy for. So let's just talk about
an example here. Let's say we have this simple obstacle here, a simple wall, and let's imagine
that the ants' strategy for navigating around obstacles is that when they hit an obstacle,
they choose the direction to move, and then as soon as the path, as soon as the direction of
their goal becomes available, again, they switch and move directly in that direction. So that would
work really well for this obstacle here. And I say this is a simple strategy in large part,
because we might expect ants to be particularly good at this kind of strategy. The only information
you need to know to do this is the direction of your goal. And ants are really good at knowing
the direction of their nest or they tend to be. So you don't actually need any other information
to succeed here. And if the ants were following that strategy, they would succeed with this obstacle
without any issues. But of course, we can imagine more complex obstacles, as I mentioned,
where this strategy would fail. So here, because the ants have to move backwards to escape this
obstacle, the direction of their goal is physically going to be unblocked well before they have
escaped. As soon as they start to move backwards, you might imagine they could say, oh, the direction
of the nest is free again. I'm going to move in that direction before they've even gotten out of
the obstacle. And we can imagine other strategies, of course, that would work for this kind of obstacle
too, but they all require having more information or more complex processing than the simpler
strategy. So for example, if they are keeping track not only of the direction of their nest,
but also of how close they are to their nest at every moment, using both of those pieces of
information has been shown to be able to solve any obstacle at all, but does, of course, require
more information. I just want to say a side note, which is that this project was
inspired in part by known simple obstacle navigation strategies from the field of robotics.
So this was a collaboration with Radhika Nagpal and sort of these kind of endpoints, these sorts of
endpoints of this spectrum from simple to robust, where it was coming from this robot
navigation literature. That's a tangential question. Yeah, please. Yeah, so you said that the task on
the left hand side of the screen is relatively simple, but even within that, you would need all
the answers to sort of come to a consensus in terms of, so there must be some kind of a communication
or all that stuff. So it's not as simple as it might seem, right? That's absolutely right.
And that's, I think, so the question that I spent most of my PhD really working on is how
might they come to a consensus in the first place? And for various reasons, it's kind of
experimentally a lot more challenging to study that question while they're already moving than
for the first decision they make. So I focused, in terms of the actual mechanisms of coordination,
I focused a bit more on the first decision they make to go from not moving at all to moving,
but change the decision to change directions. I think a lot of similar processes are likely
involved, but it's a little bit more experimentally difficult. So I have less, in terms of the
behavioral mechanisms, I have perhaps less satisfying answers to that, but I'll show you
some examples of them maintaining consensus. And to make a long story short, I think
they're feeling kind of voting by feeling the forces through the objects they're carrying,
right? So they're physically tethered together. If one pulls strongly, the others will feel it.
And especially on a simpler, you know, if the object they're carrying is relatively simple
and not doesn't have like moving pieces, although it often does. But then I think individual
persistence is a big part of it. So persistence or stubbornness, if you have, I did some theoretical
work as well, and some comparative work across species that if individuals, the kind of more
persistent individuals are about their direction, even the more stubborn they are, surprisingly,
that improves coordination. They're able to coordinate better. I was initially expecting
the opposite, but I think that the problem of like, nobody has a strong opinion is harder
in the case of the, you know, at least in the ants that I was looking at, that's a harder problem
than the problem of like, two individuals are pulling in opposite directions. So that was maybe
a bit rambly, but yes, I agree that the problem on the left is by no means simple. But with respect
to the obstacle itself, the challenge of that problem isn't so much the shape of the obstacle,
it's just the fact that they have to maintain consensus. So yeah, maybe that does that get
to your question about? Yes, absolutely. Thank you so much. Cool. Yeah. Okay, great. So like I said,
part of this work was inspired by the robot navigation literature. And I just wanted to know,
we wanted to know, you know, how are ants going to do these, these really different kinds of
obstacles? You know, so if they're following a really simple obstacle navigation strategy,
a strategy that we expect to be really easy for ants, where they only need to know the
direction of the goal, we would expect them to do really well at the obstacle on the left and
perhaps completely fail to navigate the obstacle on the right. And if they are using an extremely
robust strategy, then we would expect them to be performed relatively equally well with these
obstacles. So I went to the field to do, to study this in Arizona. This is my field assistant,
Zach Dix. And we gave ants groups of crazy ants little pieces of tuna to carry. We blocked their
paths with obstacles that look like this, as well as an impossible obstacle to see how they
how they handle that. And of course, we recorded them doing it many times. So here's one of the
videos. And one of the things I want you to pay attention to as what we were just talking about,
how rapidly they change direction when they do. I was really surprised. I thought when they first
hit this obstacle, they would kind of stop and have to regroup. But even, you know, even when
they don't know where to go, it's clear that they don't, they don't, you know, they change
direction several times. It's not like they, there's no trail here already formed. I didn't
put the obstacle down until they were almost there. So I knew that, but it's not like they
know where to go. They don't. But they are, are, it doesn't, it takes them like, you know, a moment
or like a second or less to change direction. So Justin, they are really amazing at maintaining
consensus, which I looked at quantitatively as well. But that was one of the take home messages
that these, these crazy ants are really good at maintaining consensus. And I think that that's
one of the primary things that distinguishes them from the species that are that don't do
cooperative transport well, which makes a lot of sense. Okay, so once I had recordings of all of
these obstacle navigation events, I extracted from those recordings the trajectory of the piece
of tuna. So this is just looking at the group level trajectory. I have some other, you know,
work and thoughts about individual movements and individual contributions to this. But, but
these images are just the trajectory of the whole group. And you can see that they do navigate
around these simpler obstacles, pretty effectively, you know, as, as you saw in the video example,
they do change their minds, they do change direction, but they were able to navigate
around all of these pretty rapidly. And they also have out, however, succeeded at navigating around
all of the more challenging obstacles, not so easily, you know, so it took them significantly
longer, they had significantly more circuitous paths, you know, they spent a lot more time
navigating around these more challenging obstacles. But I was actually surprised initially that
they succeeded at all. It never took them longer than about 10 minutes to escape these harder
obstacles, even though they have to move backwards away from their goal to do it. So I wanted to
look more carefully at how, how are they escaping those obstacles. Just to show you a video example
of that. First, this is obviously sped up dramatically, and now it's speeding up even more.
And you can see that they do, in fact, have a strong bias towards moving in the goal, in the
direction of their goal, you know, they, every time they move away, they're very likely to turn
back towards their goal. But they do eventually manage to completely escape the obstacle and move
on. So let's take a closer look at one of these trajectories, focusing just on one particular
trial. So you might notice that when they first hit the obstacle, which is the pink part of the line,
they spend most of their time along this back wall, which is as close to their nest as they can get.
And it's not until later on, the blue part of the line that they seem to explore the space more. So
this may be wonder, do they actually, are they, are they more likely to move further backwards the
longer they've been stuck in an obstacle? So to find out, I extracted the distances of all of the
backwards movements from all of their trajectories, where I counted it as a single backwards movement
for as long as they were moving away from that wall. And as soon as they, the distance to that
back wall started decreasing again, that was the end of that backwards movement. Okay, so yeah,
and then I just ask, do those distances of backwards movements change in time? So here are
the, here are density plots showing the distributions of the distances of backwards movements for,
for these trials where I've broken, these different lines are showing different time
intervals, I've broken the trials up into different chunks of time. So if you look at just the very
first time interval, when they first hit these obstacles, almost all of their backwards movements
are very, very short. They're essentially bouncing around along the back wall. But then by the last
few time intervals, they're much more likely to move substantial distances backwards. And you know,
I excluded the, the final backwards movement that led to their escape from all of my analyses,
and confirmed statistically that yes, the mass of this distribution is shifting more towards
the right, the longer they're stuck. So the longer they're stuck in these obstacles, the further
backwards they move. Yeah, go ahead. Can I ask a very quick question? From the videos that we're
seeing, do the other ends also interact with the answer, the carrying the load, are they also
reporting what the environment looks like, what the best trajectory is? That's a really great
question. And I spent quite a bit of time on that question. I've spent quite a bit of time thinking
