As I'll show you later on, that is so if you have many fewer that know it that that does affect
things for sure. So I'll show you that in a minute. In a in a small way. Yeah, so but right now 100%
no. And so what we found is across the full parameter space. In general, this high alignment
weight was necessary and sufficient for flocking escapes. So we played with a lot of parameters
as you saw, or you didn't see but as I mentioned, and pretty much regardless of the parameter parameters
of a particular simulation, if it had high alignment, they succeeded. If it didn't, they failed.
There are exceptions where it was either not necessary or not sufficient. So but just to
show you what this looks like. So every panel here is a different parameter that we varied.
And the orange dots are the average of a bunch of simulations in terms of proportion of escape
where they had high alignment. The green is that same parameter set but with low alignment.
And you can see in general, when they had low alignment, they didn't succeed when they had
high alignment, they did. And yes, there are exceptions. And I'll go into some of the exceptions
in a bit more detail. Happy to talk about the others as well. So here's, you know, some more
parameters. And yes, fraction informed. So if if instead of having everybody informed, it's a lot
less informed, you can you can see some escape from those obstacles, even without high alignment.
So we'll talk more about that. When the other one I wanted to point out here. So these are these
are the cases when high alignment weight is not necessary. That's what I'm focusing on here.
Low, really, really low turn rate, you can also get some escape without without alignment. I'm
not going to focus on the cases where high alignment is not sufficient. In most of these,
most of these parameters, there's some threshold above which you see the expected pattern of
of high, high escape with high alignment. All right. So we wanted to know is I'll talk more
in a moment about about the sort of low fraction formed and low turn rate. But I wanted to kind of
pause and and and talk about what we did to to think about whether this flocking escape is just
an artifact of the way we coded the model. So or the way we implemented the model or or maybe
it happens with this zonal model where you have the discrete radii of different behaviors. But
but that's not very realistic for real animals. We don't think so maybe it fails under more
realistic situations. So we we like I said, we built initially built the model with that zonal
zonal behavior. We also tested this with continuous zone boundaries where the
the different weights for avoidance, alignment and attraction are not there aren't these discrete
boundaries where you just have your you're you're changing instead of changing your behavior and
only doing one thing at a time, you're waiting the three possible behaviors depending on the
distance to the to the other individuals. And so yeah, I'm not don't worry too much about
understanding the precise details of this of this. But the point still held that even with
a very, very different way of implementing the same model that was based on some work by Daniel
Daniel Colovey on on real fish. So even in that scenario, we have low alignment weight,
no escape high alignment weight, you still see this escape. We also looked at a model
with bursting coast movement instead of continuous a continuous velocity. So this is also more
realistic for many fish species that that move in short bursts. We found the same general pattern
with escaping with high alignment, not escaping with low alignment. We wondered whether there
was something about the shape of our obstacle that was maybe increasing the likelihood of having
this behavior, because it's curved, maybe they're kind of reflecting off it in a funny way. So we
looked at different shapes of obstacles as well. And we were not we were not able to kind of
prevent our flocking escapes from happening. So again, with high alignment, we saw flocking
escapes basically all the time. And again, with low alignment, we did not see a lot of flocking
escapes. I don't completely understand how your model translates to to the actual experiment,
because the ants are connected through this tuner that they're holding on. So they're
absolutely aligned, right? It's not like the individual ants moving around. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So we didn't want to we were not trying to connect directly to that experiment at all. We said,
okay, we learned some stuff. It was inspired by that. But actually, you know, a totally separate
thing. We, we looked at that. I, you know, did that did that project with the ants got me really
interested in obstacle navigation. And initially, the plan was to say, okay, what do those rules that
the ants were following or might have been following? What do those mean when you're not
tethered? But because we saw this flocking escape without even having to add any obstacle
navigation rules, we got really interested in that. So but but the whole point, indeed,
was to look at groups where there is no tether now. So so we're, yeah, so you're right, there's no
connection. I mean, there's a historical connection. And it's the same similar thing. But but yeah,
that's that was sort of providing context. So they answer your question.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Yeah, great. Great. So, okay. So, point being, we just we kind of,
we tried to break this and and we're not able to with with the specific ways that we tried to.
So I want to kind of recap what we found about flocking escapes in terms of describing them
before looking a bit more at mechanism. So the these flocking escapes, as we called them,
they happen without any specialized rules for navigation. They are nearly ubiquitous when you
do have high alignment weight. The cases where you don't need high alignment weight to get them are
when you have a low proportion of individuals being informed about the goal and a low turn rate.
And they never happen with solitary agents. So again, except that unless the solitary agents
have extremely low turn rate. So the social aspect is key. And we did explore the mechanism. Some of
you have already asked questions. You're already thinking about the mechanism. This is obviously
a great group to talk about this kind of thing with. And if you're if you think you might have
some intuition about the mechanism, you are probably right. So yeah, so once again, we have
three parameters that enable escapes, high alignment, low fraction informed, low turn rate.
And I just thought I'd show you a bit, a few more examples of what this behavior looks like
with each of these. So that was a case of high alignment. This is a different case of high
alignment. They don't always move completely together as one group, they do sometimes split.
But the high alignment, they always get there. When you have fewer individuals informed. So in
this case, the individuals that are in red are informed about the goal, you're also able to
get this escape. And then this is what it looks like when it's low turn rate, they're a little less
aligned, right? They don't have high alignment here. But they're still able to escape. All right.
So we and I'm sorry, I don't remember who who it was that mentioned this, but
we as as someone mentioned, turn radius is something we got really interested in.
So sort of how their directional persistence and another way of thinking about that is
how tightly are they able to turn. So we implemented an individual one of our model
parameters was individual turn rate, the maximum rate that individuals could turn at. But what's
the actual turn radius that you get when you have this group of agents that that have behavioral
rules that they have. So we measured that by doing separate simulations without any without any
goal without any obstacle and where they're there were their goal was really just to turn
as tightly as they could while following their rules. And we measured their turn radius. And so
here, this panel shows you the turn radius as a function of each of those three parameters
that we saw affect flocking escapes. So so on the bottom here, this is turn radius as a function
of a line weight. And you can see that, you know, as we expected, the groups with a higher alignment
weight have a higher turn radius. And likewise, turn radius is also strongly affected by the turn
rate. That's pretty intuitive. And the fraction informed. So when both of those cases, the higher
that parameter is the lower the turn radius. So if you you can think about for fraction formed,
which is perhaps the less intuitive of the two, you can think about that like if fewer individuals
are informed about the direction of the goal, then collectively, they're kind of waiting that
lower, their perhaps their their collective behavior would be, you know, carrying a little
bit less about getting to the goal, or would have that effect. And so, so then they're kind of
relative weight of how how much they want to align are usually would be higher if you if you're
just thinking about relative weights. But either way, we have now we have this information about
how turn radius is affected by each of these parameters. So here in this last graph on the
right, I'm showing you turn radius as a function or sorry, proportion of flocking escapes versus
turn radius. So for the for the three different parameters, the what was the x, the sorry, the
y axis here in this middle panel now has become the x axis here. And the point of this is just to
show you that, indeed, you know, regardless of what parameter it is that's leading to a higher
turn radius, unexpectedly, with high turn radius, you're more likely to get to get flocking escapes,
but also the shapes of these curves, you know, we didn't have there's not a lot of data here,
we didn't have a lot of we didn't test a ton of different levels. But these look relatively
similar, they're they're not they're not wholly different. So I'm going to try to just wrap up
here. So overall, we found that low effective turning rate is is leading to these flocking
escapes. So that happens with high alignment, because agents are prioritizing pointing in
the same direction as their neighbors. It happens with low fraction formed, because low effective
turn rate. Sorry, it happens with low fraction form, because the drive to turn back towards the
goal is lower. And it happens with low turn rate, because it's low turn rate. And and the last thing
I want to say about this project is that whether you're able so so having this low turn rate is
is helpful potentially in the context of obstacles. But whether you're doing that through alignment
versus having a low fraction informed versus having a low turn rate in the first place,
individual turn rate matters with respect to the larger context. So having groups that had a low
fraction informed, those groups did escape, but they took a lot longer to reach the goal
overall than the groups that that escaped because they had high alignment. And low turn rate also
in low individual turn rate also led to longer total navigation times. And if we think about
downsides to having a low turn rate or a low fraction informed, you know, negative possible
consequences of that outside of the context of obstacle navigation, just if you're like a school
a fish in the wild, it makes sense that, you know, you you would want to be able to be individually
agile and turn on a dime to escape a predator, predator, let's say, or you would want to know
where your goal is. We can imagine pretty pretty intuitive downsides to those. Whereas, you know,
there are also there's a downside to having a really high alignment weight. In the sense it
takes you a bit longer to get to the goal. But there's less obvious, I would argue less
obvious downside to that in the context of, you know, other behaviors.
So we think that this really high alignment weight could potentially be a sweet spot where you
you in the context of obstacle navigation, it allows you to navigate around those obstacles,
but perhaps when you're avoiding a predator, you're still able to do that with some agility.
Yeah, so with high alignment weight groups can rapidly escape the obstacle,
still pretty quickly reach the goal, and maintains the individual's ability to turn quickly and be
informed. All right, just to wrap. Oh, yeah, sorry. So flocking escapes emerge with high alignment
weight. It's necessary and sufficient with few exceptions. And regardless of our model
implementation, so we do think it's possible that this is something that really happens for
some species. And it's, yeah, it's, it's kind of, we think it allows you to get some quote,
unquote free obstacle navigation capabilities without sacrificing agility or speed.
I'll move on to kind of an overall recap. I think there's something, you know,
it makes sense. This is obstacle navigation into really different contexts. In the case of cooperative
transport in ants, we are finding that they prioritize coordination over efficiency. So
they are really good at maintaining consensus. And that I think is a really important aspect
of their success of why that species is so good at this. And in that case, they start with a simple
strategy and they add complexity only if they need to. Whereas in the case of untethered groups,
doing a very similar behavior, similar obstacle navigation task, they, I would argue, having
high alignment weight is also prioritizing coordination over efficiency, prioritizing
alignment in this case, over efficiency of movement. And in this case, we didn't find that
they actually had to have that added complexity. So, you know, even without changing the behavior
over the course of the simulation over the course of the time that they were stuck in the obstacle,
they did escape much of the time. So that was all I wanted to mention. Lots of, lots of great
collaborators who were part of these projects. And also the bridge project that I'm sorry,
I ended up just teasing you about and not talking about at all. Oh, I wanted to also give
another shout out to Albert Cowell since he's local, if you're curious about chatting with
anyone else about collective behavior, he's done some really interesting stuff on that front. So,
yeah, happy to take any more questions.
