This episode is mainly a continuation of the previous episode.
If you did not hear the previous episode due to volume reasons, we did get many reports that the volume was very low.
The next day we updated the episode with a higher volume one.
If you have not heard that version yet, it would probably be a good idea to listen to it.
To do that, delete the local copy of that episode and then re-download it from whatever your podcasts are used.
If you're streaming, you shouldn't have noticed a difference if you listened to it more than like a day after it came out.
So, yeah, you should be good.
Welcome to the Basing and Conspiracy. This is Katrina Stanton.
I'm Uniesh Grotsky.
And I'm Stephen Zuber.
And today's episode, we are going to begin by covering some points from last week's or last episode on the topic of animals, some corrections and updates.
And then if there's time, which there probably will be, we're going to move into the topic of emotions, which I know we've brought up in a previous episode.
I think one of the first five and finally getting around to it was mostly sparred by a commenter whom we'll mention when we get around to that part of the episode.
So, Katrina, you were eager to talk about animals. What's new?
Well, last time I talked about, are we smart enough to know how smart animals are?
The lengthy title by a book by Friends DeWall, the animal, he does not call himself a behaviorist, but he's definitely been very active in the field of ethology and a bunch of other fields that he mentions, animal cognition, evolutionary cognition.
What is ethology?
Ethology? You're going to have to read the book.
Oh, shit, okay.
Well, because it actually goes through the history of the study of animal cognition and intelligence and it starts with a feud between ethologists and behaviorists and goes from there.
It's really interesting from historical perspective and also has a lot of great stories, many of which are anecdotal and some of which are experimental.
And science beeps are always fun.
Yes, exactly.
I actually read this, even though the title is really unwieldy, I totally recommend this book.
The best thing about science beeps is that unlike regular beeps, the more petty they get, the more fun they get.
Watching two scientists just be sneering and bitchy at each other is the best.
Oxford comma!
Oh my god.
Yeah, that's a science beef.
Okay, my favorite science beef was someone perfectly just calm, commenting back and forth about whether .99 repeating equals one or not.
And someone mentioned, it was like a sentence or two, but it ended with, and so you see, .99 repeating does equal one.
And the reply was, why don't you come here and say that to my face, you bitch?
That is not the nice way to speak.
Yeah, they fell short of that before the rules.
But yeah, this is a fantastic book. I read it.
And if you recall from our last episode, Edgar sent us a really nice message asking, I'm sorry, maybe we're commenting that it's impossible to get inside animal minds.
Everything is just kind of guessing.
Mind projection fallacy, etc.
And just like Steven said.
It was a long, you heard the whole thing last time.
Yeah, you heard the whole thing last time.
And now that I've read this book, I'm like, wow, this book exists pretty much exclusively.
It's like a two answer, Edgar's question.
I guess the moral of the story is, wow, we have done a great deal of science with animal cognition and it's come a long way.
And it's very, very interesting.
And I know that they would love to read this, but they should love to read this because I did and everyone should.
It came out this year.
Would you say, I don't want to throw a wrench in your game plan, but would you say that it is as unreasonable to doubt the cognition of animals as it is to doubt the cognition of other people?
No, but from an evolutionary perspective, it is kind of unreasonable to start from a perspective where animals do not.
Think, have cognition.
Like they have literally nothing going on up there.
Yeah, like it's a black boss. They're just stimulus response machines.
Considering that we evolved from a common ancestor and evolution is gradual.
And you took a soul into us 60,000 years ago.
Right.
That was when Jesus came down and said, now you have souls.
Well, people would talk about a spark or the soul suddenly being put into whatever ancestor, our hominid ancestors.
Or something like that.
Oh my God, Matt.
Do people actually make that kind of argument?
People do.
Because the Catholic one version of Catholic.
Well, okay.
Do non-religious people make the argument that animals are just stimulus response machines?
Yes.
Or they'll talk about, again, a spark or they'll for some reason have a bias that makes them think that evolution just doesn't include your brain for some reason.
And human brains kind of sprung, fully formed, just in humans.
Okay.
So I think that sounds, I mean, I don't know.
Maybe there are people to say that, but those people should not be considered representative.
Because they're walking straw men.
Yes, exactly.
How dare you get up and walk around with your straw body?
Maybe because you don't get us, get around that point.
I didn't get you derailed.
There's a big difference between saying it's nothing but a stimulus response machine.
And saying that animals do not have the sort of reflective equilibrium that humans have that was, you know, supercharged over our recent ancestral environment.
Right.
So, DeWall addresses a bunch of different parts of cognition.
So theory of mind, right?
The ability to model others, the ability, self-awareness.
And I got to say, his view is much more nuanced than the mirror test that I was talking about.
And then he also addresses the mirror test.
And actually, just quick, quickly, the cool thing about the mirror test is that they're only a handful of animals that pass it.
I guess humans start passing at the age of two.
But even animals that don't pass it, a lot of them understand what mirrors are or seem to through other ways.
So, for example, great apes pass it, but monkeys do not pass the mirror test.
But, like, capuchin monkeys are perfectly capable of, even though they don't touch a mark on their face, they still will take a mirror and, like, use it to look around a corner.
Oh, neat.
That's like a more clever use of a mirror than finding it.
I don't know if any value to it or something, which still is more important.
Maybe they think it would look really handsome with those marks on their faces.
That's true.
I'm like, thank you, sir. Can I have another?
Who's that sexy monkey?
Oh, that's me.
I'm worried I could have turned myself on.
Additionally, with capuchins, they don't treat the mirror if they have a full-length mirror.
They don't treat the mirror image as another monkey.
So, when they had either a mirror, a monkey who was a stranger, or a monkey who was familiar to them, they treated the mirror completely differently.
If it's a stranger, they turn their back.
Like, I don't even know who you are by.
If it's the mirror, if it's a known monkey, they would interact.
And if it's the mirror, they just ignored the mirror.
Okay.
And we're not afraid of it.
No, wait, that doesn't make sense with them using it. Never mind.
Right. So, it seems like...
I was obviously joking too, sorry.
Yeah, so it seems like there's something that doesn't quite catch exactly what it wants to using just the mirror test.
There are lots of different aspects to cognition.
Interestingly, and I think we talked about this a little bit, in the cognitive realm, non-humans in several ways, you know, they do better than humans at certain tests.
Some of the tests that I didn't know about, there's a chimpanzee.
Oh, is this the... having the numbers flash on the screen and it has to touch me in order?
Yes.
Yeah, that's an awesome one.
So, I Moo You is the name of the chimp.
I Moo You too.
And yes, he can remember strings of up to nine numbers and that flash on the screen for a fraction of a second.
And then he'll touch the numbers in the correct order on the screen.
Humans can be trained to do that with a string of five numbers, but for a longer amount of time to memorize a string of five numbers after a couple seconds.
Adult humans?
Yes, adult humans.
Damn.
So, in response, kind of funny, in response to that experiment coming out, a bunch of people, a bunch of scientists got together and they just kept training themselves, really trying to see if they could beat this chimpanzee.
And I don't know if they succeeded or not, but it's certainly not something that an adult can do easily and without significant training.
Additionally, when playing against each other, you might know from learning about chimpanzees in the past that they're very strategic, they're very social animals, and a lot of what they do involves deception and long-term maneuvering, social maneuvering.
So, in another experiment, two chimps were playing a computer game against each other, a strategic computer game, and they found that these chimpanzees reached optimal playing strategy much more quickly and more reliably than adult humans playing against each other.
That's cool.
So, they postulated that it's because the chimps need that kind of strategic thinking for their lives.
And, for instance, a wall makes the argument over and over again that kind of like beak length for the types of nuts that you can crack or seeds that you can eat, your cognition is also adaptive towards whatever your situation is, right?
So, if you need to be able to think strategically, then chimpanzees can do that.
If you are a J, caching nuts and worms, they're much better than humans are remembering where they've cached things and also remembering what they cached where, and they did that test with perishable items and non-perishable items that they give the J's.
I think sort of what we were talking about last time was that what you're cognitively adapted to do depends on your environment.
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
So, like, you and I have very little intuitive skill of like what it takes to be a good squirrel or be a good fish, right?
Just because we didn't, our more Disney ancestors weren't really doing a lot of that stuff.
So, how does this tie into...
Most of us have no idea how to be so adorable that someone else will feed us and house us for our entire lives.
The dogs are back for this episode, I'm not sure if that was clear from the tenor.
Well, so, Amyash made the point that the only thing that he cares about, like literally the only thing that gives an entity moral worth is its intellectual complexity.
So, talking about how different animals are more complex than humans, more intellectually and cognitively complex than human beings in certain areas,
kind of helps make the point that maybe we don't know all of the areas because we haven't found the right way to test them for a lot of these animals.
So, for example...
Well, I would argue that being very good at certain tasks is not necessarily a complexity thing, it's a specialization thing.
And what makes humans special is that we do have the complexity across a large domain of different types of commission.
Does that make any sense?
Yeah, but we're really crap at finding things that we've hidden if we hide a lot of different things.
Yeah, we are, but we can think ahead and make organizing strategies.
So, right now what we're looking at in terms of animal behavior is we're taking inspiration from our own behaviors.
Saying why aren't they like us?
And then we're saying, are they? To what extent? How do we know, right?
Right.
We aren't even looking at a bunch of the amazing cool things that an animal mind is capable of.
Right.
Because one of the things that Debal's frustrated about is all we're asking over and over, our central question is, how are we unique and special?
How are humans unique and special? Well, we really need to feel special, so we better figure out how we're unique and special in terms of our brains and pinpoint that.
And there's a lot of goalposts moving.
And he talks about those, you know, when he's talking about the history of this, of exploring animal cognition.
I don't know if we've touched on the phrase goalposts moving in the past.
I don't know if it's a formal logical fallacy or either an informal logical fallacy or if it's just a bad reasoning tool.
But basically when your position's been defeated, you move to another position and say, all right, well, we didn't talk about this thing, this whole new thing yet.
That's goalposts moving, where you move the victory condition from one place to another once your position's been beaten.
I've heard that be a complaint too about artificial intelligence that people say, well, a computer could never play chess.
So it's not smart. Then a computer beats the world chess grandmaster.
And they're like, well, that's obviously not really that important, but a computer could never beat a human at go.
And then the computer meets a human at go and they're like, well, I mean, that's not really the essence of what it means to be human either.
A computer could never write a poem and then a computer writes, like, could be interpreted as a poem.
And they've been writing jokes for years. They're driving better than people are now.
Right. So every time a computer does something better than a human, it's like, well, that's not really what it means to be human.
They're beating people in flight, fighter pilot, flight simulations.
I was actually surprised that that hadn't happened a long time ago.
Like when I heard that that was a new thing.
They've been using it for a long time.
Yeah, but when I heard it was that they were just recently started beating people, I was like, oh, I was apparently wrong at how long this has been a thing.
Well, it's recently beat the best person who's pretty much his entire job is to play computers, play artificial intelligences.
Cool. In flight simulations.
Yeah.
That's so cool. And terrifying.
Well, and best of all, the computers will not be limited to high energy forces.
Like the human body can only put under so much stress before it blacks out or dies.
They can do some maneuvers that we could not ever physically pull off.
And he actually says best of all, but...
That's exactly what I was thinking.
Well, we want these machines on our side in case of a war, right?
This all will be horrifyingly good at it.
This is incredibly worrying.
Well, I'm very happy that machines can lift and haul dirt much better than humans do.
It makes our house building much easier and faster.
Yeah. I also wanted to point out, in terms of adaptive brains, I wanted to mention a couple other animals.
And Deval mentioned this in his book too, like maybe in order to study strategic thinking, you study chimpanzees,
maybe in order to study conforming to a social norm, you study schooling fish or guppies.
These animals all have different strengths.
And some of them have very generalized strengths that are similar to ours.
And those would be animals like great apes or dolphins or elephants.
Although elephants are really understudied because they're huge.
And you might be interested to know that they have three times as many neurons as we do in their giant brains.
Right. And whales, there's a lot of animals that do.
