A lot of the function of the brain is just to move your muscles and react to your environment.
So as you get bigger, your brain tends to get bigger too.
I think elephants also pass. So yeah, what you're talking about, I forget what the formal name is,
but yeah, the brain size isn't just it. It's the brain size relative to body size.
Like, corvids have really tiny brains compared to humans, but smart as hell.
Right. And I think that elephants pass the brain size to body size thing, even how big they are.
Oh, maybe. Some animals. Maybe it was great apes or something. Some other animal did.
So that reference on the zone is completely useless.
I don't think my argument was ever that animals have no moral weight, just that it is significantly less than that of humans.
It's okay. I do want to mention one thing.
While it kind of briefly addresses the idea that it's the body size to brain size,
instead of the number of neurons, it says that it's been shown to be the number of neurons.
Huh. Okay.
I mean, I don't think whales do have more neurons than we do. I just think they have much larger brains.
I think it's the elephants that have many more than we do.
And if I'm wrong about that, I will post a correction for myself.
I didn't get to my corrections.
Oh, please do the corrections then.
I'm going to correct myself about some things.
One, I said that I thought that the mask that experimenters wore while banding crows
and then that crows were able to communicate to each other about was a president's face.
It was a vice president's face.
Oh, my God.
It was Dick Cheney's face.
Do we need corrections to this level of minutiae, though?
Somebody will get on us about it.
Oh, those bastards. All right.
It doesn't defeat the argument, though.
Yeah.
We spoke about a monkey study in which there were more and less desirable treats
that a monkey would happily eat cucumbers, which are not as desirable as grapes,
until they saw the other monkey getting grapes.
And you asked me, and Yash asked me,
so the monkey with the grape, did they refuse the grape,
seeing that the other monkey got cucumber?
And I said, I don't think so.
And they did. I was wrong. Yes.
The monkey that got the grape refused the grape?
Yes.
Oh.
They're like catty two-year-olds,
which like they just want the toy the other kid has.
No.
No, no, no.
Because I remember the monkey with the cucumber threw the cucumber down.
I was like, I'm not taking your cucumber.
He's getting a grape.
But you're saying the monkey with the grape refused the grape, too.
Out of concern for fairness? That's awesome.
Yes.
They're a very reciprocal group of animals.
Kapuchin share their food,
and they share very generously with individuals that they like
or want to curry favor with,
but it would be unseemly
and probably not necessarily go well for that monkey in the future.
Yeah.
So there's some potential future planning there.
That's pretty cool.
I wonder if it's...
I was going to say it sounds almost exclusively like future planning,
but not necessarily.
It could just be, you know,
to try and still man the position that monkeys are automata.
It could just be basically like a robot reaction of,
I'm programmed for fairness.
That's not fair. I'm going to stop doing that.
Well, you could say the same of humans.
Right. That's what I was going to say, too.
But the other way to think about it is that,
yeah, they are thinking, well, shit,
as soon as that researcher leaves and puts us back in the same cage,
he's going to kick the shit out of me,
seeing that I have all these grapes while making eye contact with him.
I'll stop now.
He should load up on grapes so he has all those calories
to fight off his attacker.
They have some long-term goals.
I thought it was kind of cool the idea of male chimps,
alpha chimps going on safaris with sexually receptive females
to avoid competition.
Safaris?
I know. They call it safaris.
She can do air quotes.
Oh, yeah.
For those who aren't watching the video feed,
there were air quotes around safari.
Everyone could hear the air quotes.
Okay.
Anyway, yeah, when a female comes into sexual receptivity,
a lot of time the alpha male will escort her
for several days to the outskirts of the territory
where they can enjoy alone time without any interference.
It's like exactly what high school kids do at their first car do, right?
It's cool to talk to make out point, right?
Where there aren't other jocks to compete for your favor, right?
Or parental figures, yeah.
No, that's really cool.
There's something to be said about where we, I guess,
draw the lines in this, not even the lines in the sand,
where we draw the grid.
What kind of, what am I trying to say?
We want to make sure we identify in advance what sport we're playing
before we say that animals aren't any good at it, right?
Like we say, you know, not even the same league or whatever.
Yeah.
It is interesting that, yeah, many animals are better than humans
at many things because they need to be.
And that's what the ancestors were good at.
I don't know, maybe it's my, my species, species.
Speciesism.
Speciesism.
Speciesism.
Sure.
Bias leaking through my humanist bias that I would say that,
you know, my, my ability to, to, as much as I, I'm going to have a squirrel lover,
but as much as I love squirrels, I wouldn't say that like their ability to remember
where they put stuff, like makes them smarter than me in a meaningful way.
Makes them better at finding stuff where they hid it.
I guess that really depends on what you're doing.
Exactly.
And if I'm a squirrel hiding nuts, and if I was, as, if I was a squirrel and as bad
at hiding nuts as I am now, I would die.
But it's not a squirrel.
So yeah, that's it, right?
It depends on what you're doing.
And then that comes into where you want to weigh in on what does it matter what you're
doing and put the value judgments on what we can do versus what they can do.
Right.
So that makes it much more of a value game than a just intellectual game.
A lot of the problems with people's research is that they were comparing in large part,
they were psychologists who were comparing children to chimpanzees.
And the experiments were just simply not set up in the right way, partially because the,
the person who's running the experiment is a human being, right?
And if there's a human being who is running an experiment with two small human beings
and explaining it to them, usually they have a, one of the kids, the kids have a parent
there, maybe even are sitting on their lap.
It has to be, if you're, if you're doing human stuff, it has to be comfortable for the kids
versus an experiment or a human experiment or working with a chimpanzee where they...
Well, you'd think if a chimpanzee was smart enough, you could bring a chimpanzee mom in
to explain to the chimpanzee kid how to do this, right?
I was just going to say, let me go ahead and see if I can put words in your not just mouth
and feel free with them, which is if the chimps are running the experiment, they do it the other way,
but they're not because they're not as smart as us.
Would you say something kind of like that?
So we, so experimenters have been able to organize things like the computer game that I just mentioned
where it's chimp versus chimp and various experiments where they're chimp doing things
that they're actually interested in.
Like noticing if another chimp has noticed where an experimenter hid a treat to see if
they have to either run to it or if they'll walk past it,
pretending they didn't see it and come back later when no one's paying attention.
See, that is the really cool stuff that you don't start thinking of doing until you actually start doing better science, right?
And that's awesome.
Yeah.
Because yeah, putting them up against kids is great for seeing how well human kids compare to the average chimp,
but it's not really the best, the best litmus test for like chimp native intelligence, right?
Well, it's not even very good for seeing how they compare to chimps
because the situation is so basically different.
That's true.
How they compare to chimps under like basically duress circumstances
as opposed to like pampered baby human.
Right.
So yeah.
If you have two kids doing a game with each other,
but in terms of the chimps, they're in separate cages.
They have to interact through bars.
Great apes are notoriously difficult to control and work with.
And they can be very dangerous.
An experimenter, you know, can't touch them, can't really interact with them.
Maybe.
It turns out shockingly that apes care more about what other,
and I'm saying apes, we're apes.
Right, right.
So let's say chimps.
Chimps care a lot more about what another chimp is doing,
where another chimp is looking, what another chimp is interested in,
than what a human experimenter is doing.
Those speciesist sums of bitches.
Although, you know.
We probably, yeah.
Sorry, go ahead.
No, no, no.
It kind of seems like these great, the dangerous great apes,
maybe doing a bit of game theory.
Like if we're always really unpleasant and mean and attack humans all the time,
they'll be less motivated to keep us in captivity to experience on us.
So anyone who gets caught, just act dumb and attack the humans all the time
and they'll leave us the fuck alone.
They had this at the big meeting before the humans moved in to capture them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I have a very high bar.
I guess I should mention that Inyosh prefaced the last episode by saying
that he didn't expect to change anyone's mind,
or that rather he didn't expect the episode to change anyone's mind.
And while my position hasn't really been flip-flopped,
I'm still, I think, on the same side of the fence as Katrina,
but I think I moved my camp a little closer to the fence.
Just one way of thinking about it was when you made that analogy to,
like, insect mines versus, like, your thermostat.
