But this is kind of an emotionally charged topic,
especially since Katrina was bummed out
that my position updated in the wrong direction.
I was so bummed out that I asked to do a second part.
I was like, no!
I must represent this better.
No, I love animals.
I always have.
That's why I've dedicated my life to helping them.
And I think that I love animals, too.
So, I mean, there's a difference between, like,
how much they matter, because I love them,
and how much they matter if I wasn't around.
But, you know, as far as all of that emotional attachment goes,
it is a decent segue into talking about emotions
as a larger topic.
Except, I think, how late are we?
How long have we been recording?
59 minutes.
Yeah, so we're...
I mean, if we don't want to start another one-hour episode
at this point.
So...
It's a beautiful segue for next week?
Yes, if you are okay with waiting until next week.
That's fine.
We'll be back next two weeks from now when we do this.
I'll even be more prepared to engage with you guys
about emotions.
That sounds good.
Emotions and rationality.
In the meantime, do you want to get into some
of the listener feedback?
Yes.
I will remark that we now have, as of recording,
on August 11th?
10th?
What's the date?
As of August 11th, we have a handful of reviews on iTunes.
I'm not going to read all of them, but we're stoked.
Thank you so much for taking the time to do so.
Thank you so much for the reviews.
You are really great.
We read them to each other, and we felt really good just now.
So thank you very much for making us feel happy.
Yeah, it was great.
Let's see, as far as listener feedback...
We got one comment from someone named Kevin McFarland
on TheBaysianConspiracy.com
in response to the Street Epistemology episode.
Hi, guys.
Just discover your podcast this week in the trending section
of my app.
Podcast addicts, BTWs.
They said BTW.
After listening to number four, Street Epistemology had a question.
On one hand, you espouse rationality as a goal worth pursuing.
I do too.
But then, you spoke of the goal of increasing happiness.
No doubt, you have found happiness through your skeptical and rational friends,
but I've generally laid down my quest to de-convert
in the realization that most of the people who are deeply religious in my life
are themselves and families and communities that are religious.
For them to reject religion,
bring them possibly the greatest suffering
because the family, friends, and community would feel rejected
and that their beliefs are being attacked by that rejection.
So, de-conversion is hard and usually produces immediate unhappiness
that I'm sure you've experienced.
Where would each of you say you lay on the spectrum
between choosing rationality and happiness
if they were mutually exclusive?
They don't have to be, but let's make this a thought experiment.
Thanks for looking forward to listening to more good stuff.
It's kind of like, if you had to choose between killing Matt when Hitler,
who would you kill?
I mean, I see where they're coming from,
but I don't necessarily think that you can draw an argument
or a plausible real-world scenario where they're mutually exclusive.
It's like that kind of makes just burning rubber and wasting fuel
trying to find a good answer to it.
I think, for me personally, there's some world that it's not worth living in
and if I have to choose a world where I'm either happy and, you know, of the...
I mean, if you can't use rationality, I'm assuming I'd have to be like
of the mental caliber of a dog or something.
If I have to be happy and stupid or if I have to be miserable and rational,
I'd really probably rather just kill myself
because that is not a world that I want to be in.
Option C. There's always a third choice.
If it's literally be unhappy and don't de-convert or be rational
and be happy but irrational, I would choose being happy.
I guess I wonder what necessarily means to be irrational.
Like, does it mean, like, incapable of being...
Does it mean incapable?
Or does it simply... are they simply talking about...
So if Kevin was simply talking about religion,
like, you have religious beliefs that are wrong
and you're happy versus you don't and you're unhappy,
I would definitely choose having religious beliefs that are wrong.
I live in a world right now where I have beliefs that are wrong.
I am the opposite because if it was just, you know, religion and happy
or irreligion and unhappy, I would choose irreligion and unhappy
because I would much rather know the truth about the world than be happy.
Why unhappy are you?
What, right now?
Because I have been extremely unhappy in some stretches of my life
and I managed to get through it so I could be very unhappy
and still be okay with it.
I do not want to be miserable.
I don't want to be miserable.
I want to have a good life.
I highly value happiness.
I value happiness more than being right.
The good news is being less wrong makes me more happy.
See, that's the thing that initially it may not
and for many people, and this is going to be a judgment call on anybody
who wants to try and approach somebody about this,
but initially, yes, if you're going to look into these things
and de-convert and, you know, lose a spouse or connection with your family
that would suck for a while,
but it's quite possible that on the other side of what's called the valley of bad rationality
you could retire peaks where you not only get the joy of finding a partner
that you can get along with again and, you know, whatever forming new connections,
but also the joy of, like, I guess...
Further exploration.
Further exploration and there's a kind of happiness that comes from being right
or being less wrong.
There is, totally.
And I guess that's not quite exactly how I want to put it.
I'm not sure if I can articulate it in the course of the sentence,
but there's something to be said about...
I know I said this before about the...
I think maybe it was even the last episode that it's better to be a miserable Socrates
than a happy pig, which is a statement I agree with.
But I mean, part of the problem for me is that basic simplistic religion
is so simplistic that it feels like a sort of a lesser order,
a less... a qualitatively lesser way of being, you know?
You lose some complexity in your life.
Yes, I was.
And I know that's not necessarily always the case,
because there are very complex types of religion made for people who are, you know,
the highly introspective type.
There's the Jesuits who are basically the atheists of the Catholic community anyway.
I mean, I know they aren't really, but...
As close as you can get while still being Catholic.
Exactly, yeah.
And they... that's where all the really high, high-functioning,
highly analytical Catholic people go into the Jesuit branches.
So there is those outlets in religion, which is nice.
But if we're just talking about standard, basic, you know,
Jesus loves me, this I know religion,
to me that's just... that's a different level of thinking,
which is less rich and...
And like I said, I put moral weight on intellectual complexity,
and I would feel like I am less of a human
if I were to reject thinking those things,
just for the sake of being happy.
Let me think of it this way.
If you were told you could go back to that,
you would say, no, I feel diminished.
Is that about what you're saying?
Totally.
I think I completely agree.
But coming from another perspective,
where my brother-in-law, his face gets him up in the morning,
his faith comforts him when he's down,
his faith helps him get through every day,
and he doesn't feel like he would be able to do that without his faith.
Well, then he should probably keep his faith.
He should keep his faith.
Yeah, that's why I think it's definitely a case-by-case basis.
Yeah, if it's literally to the point where
you probably could not get out of bed and you might kill yourself,
if you don't have that, then you shouldn't risk it.
It is... there are people who... and I guess...
I can't be sure, because I don't have a large enough sample size,
but there are people who are going through what your step-brother...
or your brother's step-brother, you said.
Uh, my brother-in-law.
Your brother-in-law.
I knew it was... I got this confused earlier, too.
There are people who are going through the exact same feelings that he has,
but can do it anyway, even without religion.
So, like, there are... there are ways to get around those problems
that sound like there's one cure for it,
and it could be that having these other tools to get through it
are more generalizable to other kinds of ways of being happy.
There's a lot within science that is inspiring,
like awe-inspiring and mentally-inspiring,
and just makes you love humanity
and want to... want to do things with your life.
It's not... that doesn't all just come from religion
and from thinking that the Sky Daddy loves you, you know?
Right, yeah.
Uh, it's one of the great lies that religion has a monopoly on.
All right.
Those kinds of experiences.
Also, we can move away from religion a little bit.
All right.
Well, I did want to say really quickly,
