And the molten glacier replied, and I totally agree that we also have the ability to change
us, not them.
Right.
If, if by saying, hey, you shouldn't be a dick.
And they're like, fuck you.
It's like, all right, well, I tried.
Yeah.
But I, I cannot be a dick.
So, and I'll probably get more people if I am as all of the things being equal, I might
get more people on my side than on them because I'm not being mean to everybody.
You catch more flies with honey.
I also, I want to make a distinction between being a dick and being affirmative.
I, I recently got in a, not an exchange.
It was a brief, just one email back and forth, no big deal, where I mentioned that just my
atheism in general, and this person was like, Oh, well, yeah, but you know, we can't know
everything.
And so there's just as likely that this could be the truth as that, you know, and I, I guess
the non-dick position would be like, Oh yeah, well, I guess you're right.
We don't know everything.
But I was like, No, I dismiss your God belief out of hand.
These are the reasons why I don't have any problem saying that.
And maybe some people would consider that to be dickish, but I wasn't getting up in
his face.
I was just being firm about, I think this is easily dismissible.
And I am not going to make any apologies about it.
Or you can say you're right.
We absolutely don't know everything.
We know a very small fraction of the things that there are to know.
And every God I've ever been presented with is easily not.
But we do.
It lives in the same category.
Yes, exactly.
Right.
But we do what we can to assign probabilities to things based on what we do know, what we
can reason.
And this is, this is why I've come to this conclusion instead of this other one.
Right.
And that might be a nicer way to say it.
Well, I also mentioned, which I don't know if this was nice or not, but I did mention
that I hear this argument a lot and it's true that we don't know everything.
But that suggests that if this is your evidence, then the position that suggests is strong
agnosticism.
But whenever I hear someone make this claim, they are never a strong agnostic.
They're always kind of the wishy-washy spiritual, but this is why I can believe in my God.
Right.
And I don't accept that.
That is not a good argument for your position.
It doesn't.
Sure.
I have definitely heard the argument we don't, there's so much we don't know from strong
agnostics.
I have too.
In fact, that is the argument that strong agnostics tend to make.
I have heard that online.
I've never met anyone in person that made that claim as a strong agnostic.
Different different friends.
Yeah.
But I think, you know, at this point, it stands, and that's true.
That is the correct position for an agnostic.
But you know, at this point, it stands that I do, I've met people too, where they say
we don't know everything.
Therefore, Jesus was born of a virgin and, you know, et cetera, et cetera.
And it's like, okay, so how do you know all that if we don't know everything?
There's a lot of things we know that we can be more sure of than that, right?
Well, no, because it's their catch-all refutation to challenge, right?
They're not actually out there endorsing what they're saying.
They're just saying that phrase.
Maybe it's part of a more complete argument.
You start with, we don't know everything.
Just to, you know, like get somebody off of the 100% ledge.
And then you go, here's some things that we do know from the Bible.
Or from this, or from that, or whatever.
Right.
Yeah.
And it was said that Harry Potter would fight the dark lord.
There was a prophecy about it.
And it happened in a later book.
Where does that sound familiar?
One of the key pieces of evidence, apparently, in support of the efficacy of the Bible is
the fulfilling of prophecy.
Okay.
Well, that would be, I mean, if the prophecies were fulfilled, that is how we get good signs.
Yes, but how hard is it for an author to write another book saying that the prophecies were
fulfilled, right?
Oh, it's not.
Not at all.
Yeah.
That's why we dismiss the religious prophecies, but we're kind of in awe of the science ones.
What's the claim?
No, not the claim, but the quote.
I don't remember if I'm recalling it exactly correctly, but I love this quote, so a paraphrase.
Priests say they can move mountains and no one believes them.
Scientists say they can move mountains and no one doubts them.
Right.
It's pretty awesome.
Scientists talk about moving mountains unless it's, you know, arogyny, a mountain building
event, you know, caused by plate tectonics.
I think we've moved a number of mountains, if there was gold under them, or other valuable
minerals.
I see.
Yes, I guess we have been responsible for more mass wasting than...
Someone's going to use that gold, right?
Point is there was a mountain there and now there isn't.
There's one last thing to say is that when you get further into the rationality community,
you'll find people that are more not just comfortable, but like eager to be challenged.
Not with necessarily dickishness, but with the bluntness that you know I was just talking
about.
If I'm wrong about something, I want my friends to come right out and say, you know, Stephen,
I'm not going to cherry coat this for 20 minutes.
That's stupid, and here's why.
This is why I want sharies.
That Aussie thing of things commented that when people come to rationalist forums, they'll
argue with them, and the rationalists are like, ooh, they want to be friends, and they argue
back, and the people in our rationalists are like, these assholes are arguing with me.
Why, yeah.
So that's how rationalists make friends, by arguing.
Some of them anyway, not all.
We'll talk about Crocker's rule at some point.
Do we have any more comments?
That is all I had.
We want to address?
There were a handful others, but I don't think we have time to get to all of them, but you
know, I do encourage the discussion.
I'm happy that people coming by the subreddit and writing us via email are coming to the
website and sharing your thoughts and feelings.
If you want them public, email us.
If you want them semi-public, post them on the website, and more public, maybe subreddit,
I think, in that order.
So I think more people probably visit the subreddit than the website, but you can't track the
numbers of visitors, although I don't think you can.
Anyway, thank you so much for listening to us.
We always appreciate it.
Thanks for writing in, and we will talk to you in two weeks.
Thanks.
Bye.
Bye.
Erogenous when mountains are made, that's the term.
It's a mountain building event.
Yeah.
That sounds kind of erotic.
Erogenous?
Yeah, yeah.
It's like you have erogenous zones.
