uh, in reference to him about, uh,
that his relatives would lose a lot of happiness
if they were to leave their religion.
Uh, I kind of feel like that is a sort of hostage-taking.
It... to me, it feels very similar to...
in the 50s, people would say,
uh, you don't want your children to be gay
because they will be miserable.
Mm-hmm.
And the reason they'll be miserable
is because society is fucking horrible to them
and would make them miserable,
but that wasn't default of them being gay.
That was the fault of society being shitty.
So if their lives are made miserable
when they leave their faith,
that's probably because their faith is shit
and makes the lives of unbeliever shitty,
as opposed to them necessarily being less well off intrinsically.
Right.
But they have a different environment, right?
Mm-hmm.
So if we're talking about existing in a certain environment
and adapting and a huge amount of what we do as humans
is conform.
Mm-hmm.
Um, it's really important that we...
we conform socially in many ways.
Weird environment where we can conform
in ways that we think we want to.
And, um...
And in whatever town he's living in,
that might not be the case.
Yeah, well...
Is that an argument for staying in a closet in the 1950s?
It is.
Yes.
Yeah.
So I guess that's the case.
If you live in the equivalent of the 1950s with regard to gayness...
It also probably depends a lot on your own personality.
I'm very much a kind of,
fuck them all, burn the place down
when it comes to that sort of thing,
but I understand that a lot of people aren't,
and if everyone was like me, society might be worse off.
I'm not sure.
Maybe it would be better off,
but I see where there's...
Katuna's shaking her head.
No, she's like,
everyone should be like you, Enne Ash.
That would be terrible.
But no, there's a lot of people
who just don't aren't...
See, I get a charge out of fighting sometimes.
I'm like, yeah, bring it on.
Fuck y'all, I don't care.
You too.
You never had fun arguing with or looking with somebody?
You didn't enjoy today's discussion?
I did.
I don't know.
I don't like when it's negative.
I don't like it when it is the fuck you all approach
that Enne Ash is describing.
Or, you know, some of the things that...
and it never mind.
Yeah, no.
And it takes all different kinds of people,
and that's one of the wonderful things about humanity, right?
So I can see for some people
it may not be the optimal strategy to be like that.
Right.
But there's also my self-survey question lens,
and this reminded me of it,
where if you learn the truth about X,
and it was horrible,
would you still want to know?
I always say, oh yeah, I still want to know.
I still want to know.
But that's also because I kind of have a little bit of faith in myself
that learning the truth about whatever
is not going to plunge me into a deep and horrible depression
from which I cannot emerge.
It is... God, what is it?
Is it the litany of Egon?
The litany of Tarski.
The litany of Tarski?
Well, that which is is already so,
and acknowledging it doesn't make it worse.
That might be Gendlin, I forget.
There's Gendlin and Tarski, who knows.
But the...
The other one where everything boils down to normality.
Like, no matter what you learn about the world,
the world itself hasn't changed,
so it all reduces to being normal.
Right.
And Krishna, what was the last thing you said?
A jarred something that I wanted to acknowledge,
but I forgot.
It still passed me with it.
I just mentioned the survey question.
If you could...
If learning the truth about a thing,
if it's horrible, would you still want to know?
Yeah, of course I'd still want to know.
But the question wasn't,
would it make your life horrible?
It was, is the thing is horrible?
Right.
No, I totally understand.
But that I think raises what it's like to come out
on the other side of the valley of bad rationality.
So, like, when you're on the low peak over on the side
where, you know, you're in a faith-based environment
and you're okay with it and everything's jolly and whatever,
you may...
Some people, I didn't, but some people might...
In fact, many people probably do.
I don't want to generalize from my own personal experience.
Find a period of decreased happiness.
But I think part of coming up on the other side of that
is that you'll have better habits of thought
that will let you confront situations like Katrina was positing
where you're confronted with, you know,
do you want to learn this bad truth
or do you, you know, want to persist in delusion?
You know, you could have, man, my...
You're no longer held hostage by your false beliefs?
Exactly.
And you're not afraid to confront them.
So, like, and you're not afraid...
You don't have the mental habits of saying it's okay
to blanket yourself from doubt.
So, like, you know, that way when you're, like,
you're having, say, like a medical symptom
that you're worried about, you know, one approach might be
to be like, well, you know, I'm gonna just not think about it
and everything will be okay.
Another thought will be like, I should get that checked out
and then it's cancer either way.
But checking it out and knowing before, like, it's visible,
you know, to the naked eye or something or however bad it gets
is probably a better prognosis.
It depends on, yeah.
It depends on the cancer, I know.
And it depends on the very specific situation.
Right.
So, for example, we de-incentivize sex workers
from getting checked for HIV because we have laws in place
that make it illegal to be a sex worker if you have HIV.
So, if you know you have it.
Right.
So, people are incentivized not to ever get tested for it,
otherwise they're going to potentially lose
an important source of income and possibly be jailed.
Don't we also have a law against being a sex worker
in the United States?
Yes, we have those too.
Yeah, but it gets a lot more serious.
The punishment gets a lot more serious.
If you're knowingly spreading HIV, or if you're...
Not knowingly spreading, but just knowingly have HIV.
While being a sex worker.
Yes.
Yeah, you can be a sex worker without spreading HIV.
But as the consumer, I would share, you know,
like some disclosure there.
And it's better for people's health to know
what their HIV status is, of course.
Not just for, yeah.
Yeah, what if you're on cancer?
You've got some crazy communicable disease that you picked up
and you're ignoring the coughing
because you're worried that it might be this scary disease
and because you want to ignore it,
you're going to spread it to everyone you know and love.
This is kind of like the...
It's kind of like religion.
Well, like Clifford that I mentioned in the episode
on street epistemology, the boat captain, right?
Are you going to look at it or not?
Well, you're culpable either way if the thought occurs to you.
And if you're going to suppress that thought,
you're culpable, you know.
So even if you didn't get it confirmed
and then spread it anyway, it's still your fault for not checking.
So, yeah, that's where it kind of comes down to on that.
But I would posit that, I mean, some people's mileage may vary.
Maybe some people, you know, they lose their religion
and their life sucks forever.
I'm sure those people exist.
And so be cautious when there's a whole lesson
to be learned about other optimizing, right?
You don't necessarily...
What works for you might not work for them.
And a lot of religions are very happy to take the fallen sheep
back into the fold.
