And I kind of just missed it because I'm like,
well, I mean, there's something different.
But then the more I thought about it,
and I mean, yes, there's differences,
and I don't want to be, like, pedantic and point out all of them,
but really, you'd set something along the lines of, you know,
how many thermostats would I have to count up
before I would sacrifice a human for it or something.
And I realized the answer would be, you know,
all of them, times however many there possibly could be.
And then I was thinking the same thing of, like,
well, that's sort of true of, like,
and we actually had this at our last local meetup,
there was a wasp bugging us at the table,
and I was like, I think, you know, barring the harm to the environment at large,
I'd be willing to sacrifice hundreds of billions of wasps for the sake of one human,
because they're just, like, they're just mindless wasps.
Right. You've got one wasp, you've got every wasp.
I think that's probably mostly true.
But maybe there, I mean, I'm sure there's some differences depending on varieties.
I'm sure wasp is a large category.
Yeah, so Stephen, Stephen made that statement
just a few days after we recorded two weeks ago,
and I was devastated.
Yes, I was devastated because I thought that I had failed
at responding to clearly flawed arguments that Enyash made.
And then I shared what my answers to those would have been,
and apparently it didn't change anyone's mind.
But hopefully it'll change your minds.
Here's what I didn't say when Enyash said that a thermostat is the moral equivalent to a slug.
We made thermostats.
We know exactly how thermostats work,
and how complex they are, and exactly what's going on.
Humans, although we've been trying an awful lot,
haven't even been able to simulate something as simple as a flatworm,
as simple as platihelminthes, right, which is an adorable flatworm.
But it is a flatworm.
It is much more simple than, say, an earthworm, which is an anelid.
It is much, much more simple than a slug.
It's got just over 100 neurons, right?
Yeah.
Like 103?
It's got a little bilobed brain.
We haven't even been able to figure that out,
and I think that goes back to the,
are we smart enough to know how smart animals are?
We are just kind of piercing the surface of the complexity of even simple animals,
not to mention somewhat complex animals like wasps that have differentiated jobs
and do amazing things like taste with their ovipositors.
What are ovipositors?
Feet tongues?
No, not quite.
An ovipositor is where, is the tube on their butts where they lay eggs,
and it's also a stinger for animals in that group of animals.
Can't sting me and lay eggs in me at the same time?
Kind of.
God damn it.
Now we're definitely killing all of them.
Yeah.
So, I mean, so here's an organism, which, really cool,
it can kind of sting, lay eggs, lay larvae, and passive venom, right,
and taste so they can like feel around inside a cocoon,
figure out by taste where the right place to lay their eggs are,
lay them with paralyzing venom.
Then they can, I was just reading this article,
there's a wasp with, that has a felting ability, also on the ovipositor.
So as they pull back out, they felt the cocoon closed.
See, when you say really cool, I feel the same thing that you guys must have felt
when I said it was awesome that the jet fighters could,
computer jet fighters could out-fight the human ones.
So to me, that is just horrifying.
But, you're like wasp, whatever, who cares?
Wasps are learning creatures.
Wasps can do amazing things that we are still,
like that article just came out.
Oh, they can felt certain parasitoid,
ecumenum wasps can felt with their ovipositors.
Well, that's cool.
All of these things were kind of just discovering,
and it's not necessarily cognitive stuff,
but it's also cognitive stuff.
There's a lot of people working on wasp behavior.
Compare that to a thermostat,
which we seriously know exactly how it works.
And it's very simple.
So that's the one point that I just wanted to respond to,
is that one, and then I'll get to your other one.
You bet.
You know, so the thermostat thing is,
I sort of used it as a jumping off point for like say,
at the meetup I was talking with somebody,
and I said, alright, so forget actually getting a billion wasps together.
What if we simulated a billion wasp minds on,
we emulated them on a computer?
We can't do it yet,
but there's every reason to think that it would be doable in the future.
We can emulate great chess players on computers.
Would it be like a bad thing to delete the program and get done looking at it?
Like it would be with a person,
if you're emulating a full human mind.
Would it be a bad thing to,
if you were able to emulate a chimp mind,
to get rid of it when you're done looking at it?
Right, and so I think this comes into like,
when you say, look at all the complex things wasps can do,
it's not the same thing as saying,
look at how smart they are, how important they are.
I feel like you're conflating,
conflating the complexity of,
you mentioned we can't make flatworms,
like you're conflating their atomic complexity,
their intellectual complexity,
and the things they can do complexity into all like this one thing.
And I think they're very different things.
Okay, why is this important?
Because they're different goalposts.
So I'm judging the thermostat based on what it can do,
what use it has.
Thermostats have a great deal of use.
They're very helpful.
They probably save lives.
Yes, because people die of heat and cold.
Thermostats are there to help people not die.
They're very useful, right?
Right.
Thermostats do cool stuff.
They do very simple cool stuff.
So if we're comparing a fucking thermostat to a wasp,
you know, there are different places to compare them on.
I think if we're comparing a thermostat to a flatworm,
a flatworm can do some cool things too,
but they're really simple.
They're not that simple.
It turns out not as simple as a thermostat,
because we can't even figure out how we can't make a flatworm if we want to.
But it's like the thing with like how complicated they are,
like with thermostats matter more if they're more complicated to make.
I certainly don't think so.
Well, the thing is we don't...
Like, would flatworms be less important if we did understand them?
I don't think just the fact that we can or can't understand something
is what determines whether it's of moral value or not.
You spoke about, if we were talking about aliens,
and we didn't know that many things about them,
that you would err on the side of caution.
All right?
I'm talking about the known versus the unknown.
And if something is complex to the point that it is in the unknown
and you don't actually have a complete bearing on all of its abilities,
all of its capacities,
what its wealth is, what its inner life is, how it sees the world,
then why would you try to make that equivalence?
See, I totally err on the side of not torturing animals,
of not killing them needlessly.
But on the other hand, I do not walk with a broom sweeping my steps
before I step in the fear that I might step on a worm or something,
because I do not think I need to err that far.
There's a difference between killing a dog without needing to
and stepping on a worm when you're walking.
I don't check my steps for those kinds of insects,
because I just don't care.
I don't think you need to err that far,
where you're literally starting to get incapacitated.
But that said, you also don't seek out ant hills just to set them on fire.
Exactly.
And that's why I feel like I'm still on your side of the fence,
and you're on the side of the fence on that particular issue as well,
that there's a difference between saying,
like, look, they have no value whatsoever,
and they're utterly pointless, and saying that I would...
Like, if there's an ant hill in my way where I want to build a building,
I'll bulldoze the ant hill.
Right.
And you'll probably also bulldoze the prairie dog colony,
and poison the prairie dogs, and...
Would I have to poison them?
Hopefully not.
Yeah.
But, oh, it might be a little bit more expensive for you,
so you'd have to kind of try to figure out
how much you not poisoning the prairie dogs is worth.
You know, like, there's...
Right.
That is something I would have to consider if I was a land developer.
But then that said, like,
I guess what is the answer to that conundrum, right?
So, like, yeah, there's going to be a cost-benefit analysis
where some number of beings on Earth will be harmed by something that you do,
and, like, building a dam or a building is a good example,
because it will necessitate those things.
Humans, including humans, are going to be hurt by the things that you do.
Right.
But then, like, do you not do them?
Because, like, what if it's literally an ant hill,
and you just want to build...
You just want to put up a light post.
And, like, there's an ant hill right there, right?
Like, and that's all that's going to get out of the way.
Like, do you not put it up because of the ant hill?
Or do you put it two inches over to the side?
