Also, consensual epistemology, probably.
Consensual street epistemology have these arguments
with people who consent to speak with you about it.
Right.
Who aren't like my brother-in-law, who'd be like,
No, I don't want to talk.
I don't want to talk about this.
This is so important to me that I don't want to do anything
that might endanger it.
Yeah, I wouldn't advocate really doing a lot of things
to somebody against their will.
But especially shattering worldviews.
I mean, that's a whole other thing.
I don't know how you approach somebody delicately.
I mean, that's the thing.
For a lot of people, it's a cat that's fairly easy
to let out of the bag.
And for others, you know, the bag is just powered shut
with animantium and mithril, right?
So like, you know, those people you're never going to get to.
But other people just raising the doubt or like, you know,
just voicing your own doubts and proximity to them
being able to hear you could shatter their worldview.
So like, that's a tough thing to do, right?
Or a tough thing to consider and how cautious you want to be.
This is Santa Claus question.
Let's get away from religion.
I got a lot of kids pissed at me because I told them
there's no Santa.
And I was the kind of kid who's like,
I don't care what you want to know.
This is the truth.
Santa's not real.
You're living in a lie.
Get it through your sixth skull.
And that was really, I was,
I didn't have good social skills.
She's done that.
I honestly don't remember my,
my de-conversion from Santa Claus.
I remember, I remember roughly the, not the incident,
but I remember never really believing it
because Santa's handwriting was a lot like my parents.
And I remember being super proud.
I was proud, not bummed.
Maybe that says a lot about me as a child,
that when I was between four and six,
I stayed up late enough to catch my parents,
put in the presents under the tree,
and thus confirming my hypothesis
that they were behind it the whole time.
Stephen de Science.
Right.
But other people might have been devastated.
So I don't really, my,
that's, that's why maybe I was never bummed
moving down from the peak into the,
into the valley of bad rationality was,
that's just kind of spoke to more who I was
on a, on a gut level.
So.
I'm not sure you're using the term correctly though.
Isn't the valley of bad rationality where you learn
some rationality techniques and you can apply them
to make your life worse?
Yes.
Not necessarily unhappy, but to make,
like use rationality to defend things
that are not actually correct.
It's a bit of both, I think.
The short version is your version.
Well, no, the short version is both.
So there, I guess maybe there's two versions.
Yeah.
It's been a while since I read about it.
You can, you can, if you know enough rationality
to say, like become a sophisticated arguer yourself
and being able to like point out to other people,
oh, by the way, you know that's so and so bias,
but you're not smart.
You're not strong enough to put those,
to turn those techniques towards your own beliefs.
That's a bad place to be as well.
I don't know if that's the same thing as the bad valley,
but it sounds like a bad valley.
No, I think that is what the bad valley of bad rationality is.
Yeah.
The moral of the story is turn that rationality inward.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And be, be cautious, but not necessarily completely
unwilling to engage others about it.
That brings me to a comment which I wanted to read.
It was on our street epistemology episode.
Mr. Aliva said one problem I have for teaching street epistemology
very early is that it is so easy to become a good arguer
and not a good rationalist.
It's the same reason that I think before we teach hordes of biases,
we need to teach the moral right of wanting to have true beliefs
more than wanting to not change your beliefs.
If not, you knock down all challenges to your beliefs.
I see that street epistemology is much epistemology is much
harder to turn to reinforce your own beliefs because it is based
on encouraging rationality, but people are surprisingly resilient
to changing and use every tool to make others believe what they do.
Truth.
Yeah.
I was a good arguer before I was a good rationalist for sure.
Yeah.
Same here.
Yeah.
And I actually, I responded to that saying I agreed.
There's a lot of conversation going on in the subreddit.
I mean, you know, not hundreds, but you know,
Did I tell you, did I mention this on the podcast?
Because I know I told you personally, but when I was
like, oh fuck, what was it?
Maybe sixth, sixth, seventh grade.
I would argue now in more than sixth grade, seventh or eighth grade,
I would argue a lot on a BBS's, which is what the internet was
before there was an internet with this guy who was maybe two or three
years my elder and he was an atheist.
And I was like, so why do you believe in this devolution stuff?
Devolution?
That is so cute.
You gave a shout out to this guy.
I think that episode, whatever episode.
I did.
I reckon five.
Okay.
Yeah.
I really thought he did repeat it because he didn't say devolution
before.
I'm not sure if I use the term then.
I am now familiar with it.
I really hope that.
I'm disappointed.
Yeah.
I feel bummed out having, even though like I wasn't around for it,
knowing that it might not have happened now makes me sad.
I don't know what to say about that.
I was, I was very into arguing and I thought I had a lot of things
behind me.
So I was, you know, I was practicing rhetoric even back then.
That was one of the things they teach you actually in Jehovah's
Witness church, you're supposed to go three times a week.
And on Thursdays, they always dedicate one hour to rhetoric, to how to argue
people out of their beliefs and turn them into Jehovah's Witnesses.
This is self-extreme.
Apologetics.
Yes.
Yeah.
Apologetics is another way to put it.
But it wasn't just apologetics.
It was just general arguing techniques.
Oh yes.
Apologetics is more like defending yourself, not arguing against other people.
Well, I mean, apologetics is specifically about religion.
Yes.
Apologetics is specifically about Christianity.
Sure.
And this was in general ways to, to convince people that you are correct.
Sometimes it was apologetics, but other times it was just general techniques.
We can't get around all the, the topic or the comments here in the subreddit.
But there was one other one that I wanted to mention.
User.
Oh, molten glacier.
I recommend your name for one of the reviews on iTunes.
Thank you so much.
Asked, isn't being a dick more a more general problem than just with the atheism
slash rationality?
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
I find, I find people are dicks whenever they believe something that someone else
should believe.
Wait.
Something other than what they do.
No, I totally agree.
And I, I, I responded saying that, and this is something I ought to have clarified on
the episode.
That's why I'm bringing it up now was that it is a problem with a lot of groups.
So there, there are two, two reasons why to bring it up for us in particular.
One is that our message is a harder sell.
Like it's a hard sell already.
You know, you're telling people, this is basically a quote verbatim from Phil Plates
talk.
The, the sales pitch is like, no big deal.
The, the sales pitch is like, no God, no afterlife, no miracle cures, no souls, etc.
You know, basically all the things that, you know, make some people's lives great,
that's all bullshit.
And so we're, we're not going to get that message.
That's a hard sell anyway.
And if you're a way of conveying it is by getting at someone's face and calling them
an idiot.
You're definitely going to, to lose that person.
There's a subset of people who don't like know it all.
There's a large.
There's, there's a separate majority of people who don't like know it all.
Yeah, for sure.
We're trying to win hearts and minds, not just arguments, right?
