taking this computational approach I think makes these things very approachable.
Although I have to admit that I have an incentive here, I'm not impartial.
So I teach workshops where I try to explain how to get started with Bayesian methods and
I have a book on the topic which is Think Bayes published by our friends at O'Reilly
also available under a Creative Commons license at thinkbayes.com.
So if this is interesting and you want to pick it up from here please check that out.
In my slides I won't have time to present but I have a few additional slides here with
additional readings that I recommend.
I think I have a minute to take a question.
I'm also, this is four ways to get in touch with me and again my slides are there and
I'm also, during the break, we have a break at 335, I'm going to go hang around at the
O'Reilly booth so if you would like to talk to me about any of this stuff that would be
a good place to catch me.
But if you've got a question now I'm happy to take one.
What do you do if you don't have a prior?
Questions what do you do if you don't have a prior?
I have two thoughts on that.
One is you always have some background information and it might take some work to quantify that
and express it in the form of a prior.
Another thought is if you really truly don't know anything what you can do is a multiple
model analysis where you start with several different priors that might represent what
different people believe, run that analysis and then the divergence of that result will
let you quantify your uncertainty about what's going on.
So at the very least you will know what you don't know.
Yes?
Any tips for communicating results that they would just wait until you say all the p values?
Any tips for communicating results for people who just ask you what's the p value?
People when they ask that question they almost always what they really want is a probability.
They want to know what's the probability that this hypothesis is true and a Bayesian method
can answer that question.
One of the things that's nice about communicating these results is that you can communicate
them in a way that people understand.
So things like yes the probability that your hypothesis is correct is 50% or whatever it
is.
Or in the example that I gave of an optimization you can show expected return as a function
of your actions.
I think it's a nice thing about Bayesian methods that you can communicate the results in the
language that people understand.
Yes?
I know you're being at least partially impetuous but what do you think is behind the smear campaign?
What's behind the smear campaign?
It's a weird historical question.
I think that the book that I mentioned, the theory that dare not speak its name, I'm drawing
a blank on the title.
The theory that would not die does a much better job of explaining the history.
But a big part of it actually was the force of personality of two major figures in statistics
in the 20th century.
It almost really came down to the 400 pound gorilla who stopped it.
Yes?
When you say subjective to get over it, meaning that everything is subjective, this approach
just makes it explicit.
Correct.
So when I say it's subjective, get over it, what I mean is I'm just paraphrasing what
you asked.
Everything is subjective and so this is really no worse and I think that's exactly right.
That the frequentist methods try very hard to maintain the illusion of being objective
but they're not actually, you're kidding yourself and you're much better off not kidding yourself.
I will stop there.
Thank you all very much.
