And so, so the goal here is to develop a computational pipeline that goes all the way from the beginning of understanding well which channels are even expressed in my cells, down to understanding the bio electrical tissue dynamics, large scale kinds of anatomical
decision making eventually a computational and algorithmic description of how different regions decide their shape and size, which makes it much easier to then make changes and we want to like a full stack simulator where we can understand this.
And, and, and we're only at the very early stages of this but one thing that we can already do is make repairs in quite complex organs so this is a normal tadpole brain.
Here's a completely disorganized brain induced by a dominant notch mutation so you can see the forebrain is basically gone the midbrain hindbrainer bubble. They have no behavior they're just as a very, very, very drastic defects, but we had a computational model that told us that actually we could open certain
channels to reinforce the endogenous bio electrical pre pattern that tells cells how to make a normal brain. And if you do this, despite the notch mutation being there and not just a very important neuro genesis gene, but despite that, you can, and it happens to be this
if you activate these channels or misexpress some of these channels, you get back a normal brain. So, not not only normal structurally and molecularly but actually their behavior is normal their IQ comes back to normal indistinguishable from controls.
So in some cases and I'm not saying this is always going to be the case but in some cases, you can fix certain hardware defects, I mean this notch movement is a hardware defect, you can you can fix some hardware problems in software if you have the computational
platform that can they can show you how to do that. So what we are working on is this notion that that at some point there's going to be a workflow like this where you start with a with a incorrect by electrical state, say a tumor, you already have a database of
eomic data so that doesn't exist yet we're working hard to start to generate some of that data that tells you what the what the correct state is for that tissue or organ. And then the simulator would be able to say well these are the ion channels you need to open or close to convert the incorrect
state to the correct state, and then of course you go and you look for drugs and something like 20% of all drugs are ion channel drugs and so this is a huge platform of electroseuticals out there that could be potentially repurposed for these kind of bioelectric
interventions, if we if we had a system for for choosing them and so you can you can start to start to play with that there.
And so, so all of this so far has been about how do we get back to normal so injury, birth defects cancer how do we how do we get back to normal but I want as as engineers I want to start thinking beyond that.
And one interesting fact is that development is very deceiving. So, when you, it's deceiving because it is so reliable because it because it works so well, most of the time and when you look at an acorn, and you know that all of the time, the acorns
develop into trees. And this is you get you get the feeling that that what the what they oak genome has learned to do is to make these things nice flat green, same same kind of patterns, all the time.
But in fact, turns out humans are not the only bioengineers. And there's, there's this little guy these these wasps that lay embryos, they lay eggs on these leaves.
And what they're able to do is to hack the surrounding cells to build something like this. This is a goal, these goals have this amazing kind of complex structure there are lots of different lots of different kinds of goals.
And so what you find out is that first of all, the, this idea that what the genome only knows how to do is this is wrong. Actually, it knows how to do something very different instead of flat green.
It makes these round red, spiky things that we would that leads us to the realization that were it not for this wasp we would have no idea what these cells are capable of right we would never I mean nobody would ever guess that these same cells with that same exact genome.
There's no there's no genomic modification here with the same genome that it knows how to do this. The ability of that hardware to go there is we wouldn't know that what and that leads to the question of what else is possible right so so so if we
understood the bio prompting a little better what else can we make these cells do. And, and this idea that that evolution uses this kind of hacking universally it's all over the place.
This is, this is, you know, it's not it's not micromanaging the, the genome, it is, it is in fact, exploiting the competencies of the, it's exploiting the competencies of the material.
One of the things that the material is quite good at is scaling up its goals. So, so again let's let's remember that individual cells have little tiny goals I mean the thing the states that they're working towards our physiological metabolic things things on the scale of a single cell
space. And what what evolution and development allowed them to do is to join together a large goals in anatomical space, but that process has a failure mode that failure mode is cancer and so you can see here when individual cells disconnect from this from this
electrical network, they basically treat the rest of the body as external environment and they roll back to their ancient unicellular kinds of behaviors. They're not more selfish cancer cells are not more selfish than regular cells, their cells are smaller.
So you can see this you can see this kind of inflation and scaling of the boundary between self and world. And so that leads to an interesting strategy that we can use, which is when we when an anti cancer approach which is let's could we
actually reconnect we force the reconnection of cells to the rest of the the body and so here's this experiment we induce a nasty human oncogene care as mutation or something like that.
Typically they'll make a tumor and in fact this is the same animal here. The exact say the the cell the the cells are very strongly expressing the oncogene, but there's no tumor and that's because we also expressed a particular ion channel that forces these cells despite what the oncogene
trying to tell them it forces these cells to remain electrically connected to their neighbors and hooked into the to the pattern memory that we should be building nice skin the muscle, you know, the kidney and so on, as opposed to going off and being amoebas.
And so and so this interplay between the collective goals and the individual goals allows us to start asking questions about how do we reset those goals and where do they come from in the first place.
And you might think that where they come from in the first place has to be evolution I mean evolution over over the eons has set these goals.
So, in the last little bit of the talk where I want to discuss is some synthetic systems where there that are beginning to show us that the things are not so simple.
So, I want to introduce you to this thing, which are called xenobots, and what we started doing was to take some early ectodermal cells off of off of a frog embryo liberate them and put them in a petri dish now they could do a number of things they could die.
They could spread out and sort of walk away from each other they could form a nice two dimensional monolayer. What they do instead is they sort of coalesce together into this into this little little kind of organoid looking thing, and then they start to move
around and so they start to swim around because they have little cilia they have little hairs on their surface that is normally used in by by frogs and tapels to move mucus down there, down their bodies, but but in this configuration they can use it to swim
they row against the water and they swim, and so they can go in circles and they can patrol back and forth like this and they can have sort of collective behaviors.
And that's because Xenopus lavas is the name of the frog and we think they're a bio robotics platform so Xenobots, here's here's a Xenobot doing a maze.
So, so watch, watch what happens so it swims down here at this point it takes the corner without having to bump into the opposite wall, and then at this point for some due to some internal dynamics we don't understand it decides to turn around and go back where it came from.
So they have they have autonomous we're not pacing it we're not controlling it it has autonomous swimming behavior. In fact, lots of really interesting behaviors.
They have this is this is we're visualizing calcium signaling, so we can use all the tools that people use to analyze electrical activity in brains, information theory and so on, but there are no neurons here these are just basically epithelial cells.
But but but they have lots of interesting computations going on that can be read out through this calcium.
They are, they self repair so if you cut them in half, they generate.
Look at all the force that it had to generate through that through that hinge to to fold to fold this thing up like that right so they go back to their Xenobot form is if you give them a bunch of loose skin cells here, what they will do is they will they will
work with both independently and in groups, they will work together to collapse them into these little little little piles and they sort of polish little piles.
And because they're working with an agent material to just like we were when we made the Xenobots, these little piles become the next generation of bots and guess what they do they mature and they go on and they do exactly the same thing and so you have, you have
a dramatic replication right there, they're making copies of themselves from stuff they find in the environment this is Von Neumann's dream, a robot that finds materials and makes copies of itself.
So that leads to an interesting engineering question which is.
So what did what did the hardware learn during evolution me here's the Zenopus genome, typically it goes through a very stereotypical set of steps so here you know here's embryogenesis and then eventually get tadpoles with this behavior.
And these cells when they can also do this they can make Xenobots with its own weird developmental kind of progression they have different behaviors. And so, so, so this is really important.
There's never been any Xenobots there's never been any selection to be a good Zenobot where does this come from where do these behaviors and capabilities come from and so.
We once again remember that it is not just about selection it is, it is about the fact that evolution makes some very reprogrammable very competent problem solving hardware that in novel configurations can do different things I mean, we didn't do any we
didn't give the cells any new genes, no weird nano materials, all we did was liberate them from the rest of the body. And so what you see is that their normal behavior here is the result of them being hacked by these other cells to.
serve certain purpose and have a boring two dimensional life on the outside of the of the animal being a barrier to pathogen and so on, but but liberated from all that they have a completely different type of type of existence and so.
And so, and so, being able to look at your material through its point of view and ask who's who's hacking whom with what and how much is a really critical part of your toolkit going forward I think.
So, next generation bioengineering and biomedicine is going to be using tools of AI and tools from other disciplines neuroscience beyond neurons to really sort of play along this whole.
So, this this this whole axis of, of complexity and and cognition all the way up from from from kind of cognitive kinds of things and you know conscious ones for example, like in Benedetti study where where people are told they're given a particular a
active compound and then they they are their brain chemistry actually shows the effects of that compound even though all they got was placebo. So, so this idea that with what we're going to be doing is really taking advantage of the information processing the memories the the
different levels of the medium, and one one other idea that that that is reveling here relevant here is the notion of having a kind of impedance match between the technique that you're using the intervention and the target that you're reprogramming.
Okay, so so up till now we mostly you know we use we use drugs we use the various materials, and those are those are pretty low agency interventions, but could we could we design higher agency interventions to really match the agency the material that we're trying to deal with.
Could we make I mean we people think about smart implants and things like that.
But I just want to show you what I think of as as a as a really promising platform in the future. And this is towards personalized the gentile interventions.
So, here it is this this little thing is swimming around and if I were to show this to you and ask you what this is, you might think that this is some sort of a primitive animal we got from the bottom of a pond somewhere.
In sequence the genome you find something interesting 100% homo sapiens.
Okay, these are these are human cells, and this is an anthropot. So the way it's it's like the xenobot but it comes from human patients. This is this is what it looks like the basically they come from tracheal human tracheal epithelium donated by adult patients
we have a particular path for them protocol in which they also become ciliated on the outside just like our xenobots, and then they undergo all kinds of interesting behaviors.
So here's, here's one. What it's doing is it's, it's traversing this this scratch that we made this stuff out here is IPS derived human neural cells so this this lawn of neurons, we put a scratch through it so this is like a wound assay where you basically you basically
see what happens if you if you damage a bunch of these nerves. And so you saw that that anthropot navigate. If, if they if a bunch of them settle into this gap. So here we call this a super bot or a bridge bot.
And this is, this is something that we recently found that if you if you if you leave them there for about four days, what they're actually start to do is to knit together the sides of the gap they start to repair this wound in the neural tissue
that's like, once you once you've lifted up the bot and so this is, this is actually a PhD student in my group Gizem Komushka, who did all this, all this anthropot work.
And, and so just just imagine right in the future, your own body cells, no trans genes, no, no, no gene therapy are can be deployed to help repairs, who would have known that your tracheal cells that sit there quietly for decades are actually able to form a little
biobot that moves around on its own actually actually heals neural wounds. And what other kinds of capabilities do they have we don't know this is the first thing we try right so so so they they probably have all kinds of other
competencies and then of course there's issues of who can we train them. Now, can we can we make them smarter and in various ways and so on. So I and they don't require any kind of immune suppression because they're made of your own cells and they share with you.
The priors about what health and disease is, which, which, you know, not low agency interventions like drugs and implants are not going to have that.
So this is this is what I think of as the as the landscape for biomedicine going forward. This is all the familiar bottom up kind of tools that we have today.
But complementing them is this whole developing area of top down interventions, including behavior shaping which we didn't even talk about as far as training cells and tissues and then using a gentile implants and things like that.
And the various morphosuticals including electrosuticals, which are being used to rewire the not not the hardware, but actually to change their behavioral landscape. So the idea is that you're not micromanaging their their molecular state what you're
getting their decision making their memories, their set points, their beliefs of literally the models they make of their micro environment based on the past experience, the responses, you know, are they going to fight you on the things that you want them to do and so on.
So, I think, I think what's going to happen and you can you can see the details all here but I think, I think the diverse intelligence community which are the people who work on understanding problem solving and intelligence in really unconventional substrates have a lot to
say to biomedical engineers and regenerative medicine workers I think these two fields need to come together in an important way.
And I think the medicine of the future is really going to be much more like a kind of somatic psychiatry less like chemistry and bio electricity is at least one there may be others but it's at least one interface that really enables us to do to to exploit the mind of the body.
So if you want to go deeper.
A lot of the kind of more more general more philosophical stuff is in these papers.
I want to thank all the people who did the work so the grad students and the postdocs who did all the things I showed you today.
Lots of collaborators are funders of course, three disclosures so here are three companies that have supported some of the work that I've shown you today.
Jeremy gay is the amazing graphic artists who makes our all our illustrations, and most of all the model systems because they have the hardest job of all and to teach us about all these amazing things.
So thank you so much, and I will take question.
