But where those frameworks without this deep generative model concept sometimes fall a little
short is in dealing with situations where there's uncertainty about the future, but actions are
taken now to ameliorate that uncertainty about the future or to bring body temperature into
alignment again in the future, but not putting on the jacket in the house, but preparing a future
affordance. So just wanted to bring that up because that temperature example, it's both a basic
example used in cybernetics and control theory and homeostasis and physiology. But just by moving
into that example again qualitatively, before we layer on any math or any variables, we can think
about the reality of how temperature is modulated in the world. And that opens up a very rich
discussion about other cognitive features that would be really important to consider.
Yeah, thank you. Yeah, the term allostasis is less well known than homeostasis.
And as you're saying that, Lisa Feldman Barrett has come up with the term body budgeting, which as
I understand it is equivalent to allostasis. And so it's got that kind of idea of budgeting or
forecasting, as you say, planning into the future. And the body bit is about that it's looking after
our energy or resource budget or balance. And as you will use that example of temperature and
putting on a jumper, I was thinking, okay, that's that's for me personally. And then I might build
a house to control my temperature environment for my family. And then we have weather broadcasters
and weather stations, which for you going back to the point about group decision making, you know,
if the weatherman or woman says tomorrow, there's going to be a snowstorm, then that changes the
decision that has an act people will take action on a kind of city or country or nation wide scale.
So would you say that's allostatic control at a group level or active inference at a
national level? Absolutely, the weather person provides a high and a low temperature, let's
just say, but another way that they could share those two temperatures would be like the midpoint,
and then the variance around that midpoint. And so that's still sharing two numbers. So instead of
saying it's going to be between 20 and 30, we could say it's going to be like 25, plausibly plus or
minus five, and it still could be outside with a smaller probability, but 95% or 99% of the time.
So absolutely, what they're conveying is their estimate and uncertainty, which is kind of like
where epistemic humility comes into play. We say things like, I'm not sure about or I'm quite sure
about. And again, that's reflected in that weather report. Is it 28 to 32? Or is it 10 to 40? So what
is the variance? And we always hold space for that mean estimate and the variance estimate.
And yes, the weather report is being utilized as an actionable signal for people who then take actions
from their set of affordances based upon the information they're receiving. So then people
go and buy a jacket if they hear that there's going to be an upcoming string of cold days, for
example. And so yes, it's a great example about how communication at the group level
is happening through information technology and through meteorology. But then also there's that
biological version of like different cells and different organs, kind of like sending weather
reports. And there was a professor at my graduate school, Craig Heller, who made this awesome and
interesting technology. It was like a glove. And there was other variants that had a slight negative
pressure. And then it had cool, but not cold water circulating. And it turned out that that
was able to reduce the body's temperature. And that previously many approaches that people had
taken to recovering people from hypothermic or hyperthermic, entailed putting colder hot
appropriately on like their thermal sensors. And that actually sometimes suppressed the body's
actual thermal response. Because it's like, the body's overheated, and the danger is the core
overheating. But then the thermal sensors, like on the shoulders, would become cooled down. So the
person would immediately feel relief. But it shut down their endogenous vasodilation, actual heat
dissipation, which created a dangerous situation. And so this is like a way of not using active
inference, but of course, could be modeled as such. And working with the ways that bodily and group
systems actually do communicate and make decisions, rather than thinking that we can just intervene in
this one specific way. I love that example. And it sort of reminds me of some of the therapeutic
approaches for dealing with something like anxiety or phobias, where you're wanting to, you know,
stop the overall system from going about its, you know, its normal action perception loop,
and find an entry point, and give it a different way to update its its model or update its action,
so that it doesn't turn into a vicious cycle. And, you know, that that method, I suppose, which
they had a negative pleasure glove or something you said, I guess that's similar to some of these
techniques like the Wim Hof method, or something where the person is training themselves so that
their body doesn't, I guess you couldn't say the set points, the allostatic set points are being
shifted by the practice, or the the model of how dangerous the world is, is being changed
by the practice so that the perception of threat is being altered.
Yes. Entities are taking actions that are aligned with a kind of entity they expect and
prefer themselves to be. And that's something that for sure can be unpacked and explored.
But perhaps methods of training, like the breathing methods that you mentioned,
in the sense they update, I'm the kind of thing that is chill in a cold shower. That's me. I'm
that person who does take a cold shower, who has the discipline to do so, and who sees that being
enacted, not the kind of entity who observes the book being unread on the table about cold showers,
but doesn't feel the cold. I'm the person who's now perceiving taking deep breaths and all that
comes along with that from the Vegas, etc. while I'm also getting that cold water. And that is
where the updating and the development happens, not in the hypothesized experience. So I think
there's some amazing and deep and relatively lesser explored territory with how we frame
our own interception and development. I mean, I'm tempted to sort of go deep in this on the
and go into the free energy principle and
expecting ourselves to be in a state and but I'll save that maybe for another time.
I am aware we're coming up to an hour and this was due to be an hour hour long meeting.
Do you, I wanted to go into some of the terms that you use with your colleagues,
but I think we'll maybe we'll leave that.
If I could give a closing note there, just on a historical and a relatively closing issue,
then we can have her much shortly longer, you'd like. Several years ago, and in earlier
developmental stages of this framework, there was I would say less clarity between what the
free energy principle was and active inference. And so I hope that increasingly it becomes
distinguished and that people can find accessible on ramps onto both. But for those who are listening
this far in, yes, it would be awesome to unpack it in the future. But active inference is about
that action perception loop and free energy sort of meets there and goes in a totally different
direction. I don't know if it's totally different, but it is a different approach. And so like it is
a different way that we can go. Okay, so yeah, if anyone watching or listening to this is curious
about the free energy principle, then there's lots to be enjoyed on that topic. One question
before we wind up, do you have any thoughts about when inter receptive active inference
could become maladaptive to an organism? As I am only an ant doctor, I can only speak to that.
But it makes me think about anteroception. And I think, well, how could it become maladaptive
in the colony if its internal perception, for example, of how much food it has becomes maladaptive?
What if it's continuing to forage and just store up seeds way beyond what's reasonable? What if
there aren't enough seeds, but it isn't foraging because it's not elicited to do so, because
it's colony level interception isn't happening. Or what if it's blocking up its entryway every time
it gets cloudy? And that's actually like a false positive rate that's unacceptable. But it would
be appropriate to act that way sometimes when it does flood in the desert, but it's not that way
every day. And so I think it's a very interesting and important area to understand how different
contexts and different people in different cognitive systems find themselves in situations where
the ball rolls downhill and it all makes sense. Yet it goes in a way that we don't prefer. And so,
again, it both does make sense why the body and mind and spirit are compensating in a given way.
But also, we may want to be part of that process and move it to a different space.
Yep. Those two examples are really nice examples about gathering resources like food. Do I need to
keep hoarding, hoarding, hoarding, hoarding or not? Or let's find to let the cupboards go empty,
will be fine, everything's okay. And the weather one, oh, it's a little bit cloudy,
batten down the hatches for the next month. But nothing actually happened.
Or the other other extreme. They'd believe the weatherman. And then
I'm sure there's analogies at the organismal and at the social level.
Well, thank you so much for your time. And I've really enjoyed this conversation.
Where can people, well, what's on the horizon for the active inference lab over the next few
weeks and where can people find out more about your work? Awesome. Yes. Thanks again. And I
look forward to continuing the interaction in different ways. So to learn more about active lab,
head over to active inference.org. And you'll find a lot of resources there. You can also find our
videos and other content and so on, as well as find out about your affordances for participating
in the lab. So that's definitely the best way to find out more. Some of our next steps just to name
a few include discussions with none other than you, where we'll be with some other authors of work on
osteopathy and the therapeutic alliance and a lot of other fascinating topics. And we continue to
develop some educational materials, as well as work through the textbook, there's a lot of learning
and applying that people are involved in an active lab. Great. Exciting times.
And awesome. Yeah, really fun times. Again, I'm looking forward to continuing it. And
one hour is not enough, but one year is not enough. So onwards we forage.
Onwards we forage. Thank you so much, Daniel. Thank you. See you later. Bye.
