equal clarity, and quite curiously, no blind spot, right? So even just in the visual modality,
before we get to multisensory integration, or some of these more ineffable senses,
we're already quite aware that that Umwelt, that sensorium is not just a signal processing,
it's not just the microphone and then the filter and then the central processing unit
and then the action selection unit. There's actually something quite dynamic where even
when we close our eyes, we can still continue to have a generative model. But when our eyes
are open, that too is a generative model, one that is meeting a compromise with the incoming
sensory information, to be sure, but also is actively generated by the generative model of the
organism. Okay, so just to sort of quote, I think it's Anil Seth from his book Being You,
he says that all of our perceptions are controlled hallucinations that happen
with through and because of, you know, our body. So this, so it's not just
visualized, things we visualize with our eyes closed that are kind of models. Actually, everything
that we perceive is constructed as a kind of to help a model to help us understand things
which are beyond our direct ability to our ability to perceive directly.
Yes, I think we can even explore this notion of perception as active or generative in two
senses. So the first is in this sense of the generative model, for example, of vision, where
there's this generated visual scene, what Anil Seth calls the controlled hallucination, that is
being met with a compromise by incoming sensory data, and that can be modeled using Bayesian
techniques, but we won't go down that road. So that's one sense that perception is generative and
active, just to summarize is it's not this passive receiving, it's something endogenous,
internal, and then being met with a compromise with internal incoming information. And the other sense
that perception is quite importantly active, it's an amazing example that's used in the
recently introduced Active Inference textbook. And I think it also speaks to this map territory
distinction and the importance of action for perception. And so the experiment, the embodied
experiment goes like this, place one's finger on their pants. And so that is-
I'm going to do this now. So on my thigh, just when you say pants in English, sorry, in England
means underpants, but I can do it on anywhere on my trousers. Now I have reinterpreted many of my
previous awkward interactions. No, I'm just kidding. Yes, on one's favorite piece of clothing or
fabric on the couch, if they may. Is the fabric rough? And the answer is actually to even determine
that the finger must be moved because the roughness is a feature that we do active inference on
through actual physical motion. And by reducing our uncertainty through action, we're integrating
action and perception. And so we couldn't just sit there, so to speak, with our finger on moving
and think about whether it's rough or not. So here, the fabric is like the territory,
and the map is how rough is it there? Maybe there's parts where it's rough and there's
parts where it's smooth. But how could we know if all we have is a finger in a dark room,
we need to move it? And that actually has a lot to do with other cases of active perception,
like ocular motor movement, eye motion, when we're reading or scanning, or all other kinds
of things that people can think of where the sensory inputs are not predestined or determined,
but they're actively sought after in a way that is more like seeking and informed foraging
rather than just ad hoc sampling. That's a really simple but powerful example,
so I can't tell if something's rough or smooth. I could guess it if I was looking at it, but by
touch, I have to move, I have to take this active part of the to infer whether it's rough or smooth.
And so that's kind of an easy to grasp physical example, because we all know how to move our
fingers and feel texture. But what we're saying is that that principle applies to all types of
inference. There's an active component. And I guess that makes sense with sound because we can only,
you know, it's the moving between pitches, isn't it? It's the change that allows us to interpret
sound. If it was all just one tone and constant, we would never be able to distinguish between
anything audible. And just one other example. So we've mentioned the physical palpation
with touch and touch receptors. And so it's a yes and with all the biology of the touch receptors.
So this is something that is here to, again, be a yes and to all the molecular biology of touch.
It's just adding in this note that in the organismal context, action is part of the
perceptive process. Then we mentioned the visual scanning. And then a third example might be in
communication, where somebody might have uncertainty about whether their conversant is
on the same pages them or seeing what they're seeing or whether they're grasping or comprehending.
So it's like we already have these visual and tactile and even prehensile or grasping metaphors
for communication and cognition. And we might take an active step of like asking,
how does that sound to you? Or what does that make you think about? Or does that
make sense what we're planning here? Those are an example of communication as action and inference
in the interpersonal. And that's an example about how active inference can be applied
at the cellular and at the organismal level, but also at the interpersonal level, which again
speaks to one of the important aspects of this integrative framework, which is that it helps
us connect the dots with different systems and scales. And that helps me appreciate the
concept of an affordance as well, which you mentioned. So you can't really,
you know, so an affordance from what I understand is that the quality of something. So, you know,
a cup has got graspability, I can hold it, but to, you know, to a fork laying on the table that
the cup isn't graspable, because the fork doesn't ever use cups. So it's the fact that we have to
actively do something that makes the cup have the affordance of being graspable.
And an important piece there is that relationality or the way that you described how the affordance,
it's not like we could just tag the cup as being grabbable by whom, not even by all humans. And
so actually the concept of an affordance and this radically relational nature of affordances and
situational helps us bring accessibility into the picture, bring personalization,
and just other situational context, because there's no such thing as an affordance
that is agnostic to the actor. And so again, it's an example of a qualitative insight,
like interactions are relational or preferences, expectations, affordances, all are conditional
on the situation. Those are quite qualitative felt senses that many people may resonate with.
They might not have on their own connected that to Bayesian statistics and formal models of the
action perception loop. However, we're all increasingly finding that indeed those connections
are there. And hopefully we can hold the space for there to be a continuum of discussion,
again, between those qualitative insights, like context matters, and some formal models for action
and perception in context. Okay. Can we think about I'm looking at your mission statements again,
for the active inference lab. So it's a participatory online lab that's communicating learning
and practicing applied active inference. Can we think about the practicing applied part so
in what ways can active inference be applied once you become aware of the concept,
how can you apply it or practice it? Awesome. Well, I look forward to
a thousand applications blooming. So I have more uncertainty than certainty on that question,
because I think we're just beginning a few areas where active inference has been applied.
If I could list them and then we can see which ones might be interesting. The first is in the area
of bodily physiology, whether interception as well as in mental health and in cognitive dynamics.
So there's a lot of work that's been done in a clinical and in a psychological domain.
A second area is in the group level. So thinking about online teams and communities,
as we and others have and modeling group communication as a case of active inference.
And then the third might be in robotics and embodied non biological systems or systems that we
want to imbue with some natural perceptive, cognitive and active features, but are not
the same type of biological thing as we are. So those would be three quite interesting areas,
would be the organismal and bodily, the community, team, group, communication space,
and the embodied robotics. I find that the second one, the hardest to kind of see how that would
be applied. I can see how, as you said, mental health and in the health domain, it's really
easy to apply or possible to apply and also robotics or artificial intelligence, because
it's all very much about being able to take action and infer and all of that. But for the
group dynamics, can you give a sort of example about how the concept of active inference
applies in a group setting? I'm thinking about your aunts in the field now.
Yes. Yes. Is the aunt the nest mate or is the aunt the colony? Well, aren't colonies just
sets of nest mates? But aren't nest mates just sets of organs? And aren't organs just sets of cells
and so on? And how do we think about collective action? And again, somebody may have no issue
with thinking about an organism as being the locus of perception, cognition, and action. People
make decisions, right? Yet groups also make decisions, sometimes explicitly, like through
what is quite literally called policy decision making in governance or in an organization.
We also call that policy selection in active inference. So sometimes groups make overt
policy selection. And there's some type of internal process of determining that like a vote
or however it's done. So just as we could think about the subunits, whether they're modeled or
unmodeled in the organism, leading to an organismal decision about policy, we could also think about
an analogous process, be it implicitly or explicitly reached for how groups are making
decisions. And then that is that interesting question where, well, I mean, again, groups don't
have perceptions, cognitions, and actions. They're just composed of people who do. Okay, fine. But
then people don't, right? It's just the cells. And that's the reductionist slippery slope. And
then one can also take the train in the other direction, the holest slippery slope. Well,
individuals, be they cells or organisms or groups, they're always in an ecological context. And so
they actually can only be said to be a bit player in their decision making, because they're part of
these extended, enacted networks of action. And so it's like, we know there's a train that slides
us down the reductionist path. And we know there's a train that slides us down the holism path. And
so much work beyond active inference has observed that relationship or tension or dialectic. And
again, active inference is like, maybe in that metaphor, like the train conductor,
helping us do something useful and move things back and forth and have fun and hang out on the train
while we're in a qualified way, and hopefully in a principled and rigorous and accessible way,
modeling these different scales of the system.
Yeah, the policy and politics and group decision making, that makes sense now.
It's reminding me of a conversation I had with Professor of Politics called Laura Cram from
Edinburgh University. So her day job is to, is academic and to look at
politics and decision decision making within politics. But outside of that, she teaches,
she's a yoga teacher, and has created a type of yoga called interception yoga, or that's what
she brands it as. And she cited a very interesting study where it was looking at
decision making in politics. And, you know, as the person, as a person enters a room into a meeting,
depending on what the, what flags are placed in front of them that they see from different countries
will influence the decisions they make in the meeting. So, you know, it's
the, this idea of the symbolism of what's presented in front of us influencing the actions we take,
the decisions or the actions we take, and that's just from a flag, you know, and so fascinating
stuff, mind-boggling stuff. That makes me think about polling, or polling, when there's an
assessment of sentiment, for example, within an organization or within a country, that is kind
of like interception at that group level. There's the, the palpation, that's like the customs are
on the border, on the interface. And then there's the interception, which is like the sensing within
and so as I've listened to your work and seen this area of interception develop,
it reminds me of sometimes that external focus that perception, cognition and action have had.
And now I think we're seeing new ways of balancing, not prioritizing or ranking,
they're just different complementary processes of extero and interoception and wouldn't it would
be awesome to have unifying ways of talking about them and modeling them so this didn't have to be
like this topping of food versus this topping or like sports teams. There are not team,
exteroception and team interoception. There's the organismal mystery and the territory.
And then there's how we model it, our mapping and sense-making process, which is participatory
and collaborative and built on the shoulders of giants and so on. And so to be able to, again,
respect but also have usefulness in that space brings us back to active inferences focus on both
the epistemic and the pragmatic value and how in moment to moment those shift, you're doing
something useful and then all of a sudden you need to go do an action that's useful because
it helps you reveal something, an epistemic action. And so just, again, having fluidity
to talk about those two sides of the interoception, exteroception coin and the two sides of the coin
with epistemic and pragmatic, two sides of the coin with perception and action, it's kind of this
minimum of two idea that pervades a lot of the discussion that gives us flexibility but also
the ability to drill in and do useful things. It's 19. Daniel, do you have any personal
experiences or examples to share of how viewing the world through the lens of active inference
has influenced your own life, changed your behavior or allowed you to see things differently
or situations differently than you did before if you can remember life before active inference?
When I was a young forager, well, there's probably many expressible and ineffable ways to address
that and I think of it as a show not tell, but the example that comes to mind is, again, related
to my aunt research as I was just beginning to study this area. So on one hand, I was reading
and learning, not doing anything useful from the point of view of perhaps some, but I was learning
because I was continually being surrounded by novelty and new information and what was very
exciting and just meeting my curiosity with this endless stream of papers and formalisms.
And then on the other hand, I was there in the field with the stopwatch and the ants. And so I
thought, how can there be a synthesis of the ways that the ant research community has modeled
the multi-scale system that are the ants and this kind of abstract notions that I'm learning
in active inference and I acted. I reached out to authors and I started sketching different models
and that moved onto a path that resulted, for example, in 2021 in an active inference model.
And so that was something where it wasn't on my radar when I started that process of
action and curiosity in tandem. And so I think that active inference through bigger,
longer time scale phenomena like just described, like adjusting one's research agenda or regime
of attention, as we might say, towards applying active inference to a phenomena that I was already
interested in. But then seeing how that plays at a much shorter time scale too, it's just fun to
weave together the concepts and find the patterns across different systems and phenomena.
Yeah, I got a sense of the looping there. So you went from curiosity to action reaching out to
people and that's that loop has kind of snowballed, I suppose, and brought you where you are today.
Wonderful. So I first became aware of the term active inference after reading it in a paper by
Seth and Friston on the topic which this channel is all about, which is interception. And the paper
was called Active Interceptive Inference. So they jammed interceptive in between active and
inference and the emotional brain. And so it speaks to the heart of the inner sense channel.
And the way I understand it is that what we can see is a model where signals from our body,
so these feelings that we sense from inside our body can be used to update our predictions about
the state of the body. So I'm now hungry because my stomach's rumbling, for example, or we could
just leave it there or we could actually lead to an action that helps us return to, helps keep
stay alive, basically, return to homeostasis. So this is, you know, my blood vessels dilate or
contract and that helps me move towards food, for example. So we carry on. If I could give
it on the temperature example and how active inference deals with homeostasis that return to
a normal temperature range or pH or blood sugar range, but also how active inference deals with
allostasis, which is sometimes where stress is actively pursued by an organism or they make
a decision that's anticipatory, like choosing to bring a jacket with the expectation that it will
be colder outside. So in those kinds of settings, which we interpret as cognitive, like if a robot
or an ant did it, we would think that it was thinking because it planned to bring the jacket
along. And so that's like allostasis or planning because it's the expectation through time of
body temperature and actions can be taken in anticipation about future expectations. Somebody
can wince before there's a physical impact and there's probably so many other examples. So just
wanted to add that point that a lot of frameworks deal with homeostasis and the return to like a
control region. And that's very familiar to the areas of like cybernetics and control theory.
