Hello and welcome to the Innocence Channel. Is there a way to talk about how we perceive
the world, act in the world and make sense of the world that also explains how other
organisms, communities and systems operate, right from and colonies to teams of work colleagues?
Today we have Daniel Freedman helping us understand the conceptual framework called
active inference, which may be able to do just that. Daniel has a fascinating academic background
in biology and genetics. His PhD was studying ant behavior. He co-founded the active inference lab.
I really hope you enjoy this conversation and can see how sensing inner bodily sensations or
interception fits with this active inference framework. Please remember to subscribe to
the Innocence Channel for more information about the role of your bodily sensations and tips for
using bodily awareness to improve your well-being. Thank you. Okay, so good morning Daniel. I believe
it's pretty early on in your homeland. Yes. Yes, it is early in California.
6 a.m. or 7 a.m. Okay, so thanks ever so much for taking the time to or making the time so
early on to join us on the Innocence Channel. We're here today to talk about a topic called
active inference. So please could you tell me a little bit about your background and how you
ended up establishing the active inference lab, which is something that I've really enjoyed
viewing. It's an online participatory lab that's communicating, learning and practicing
applied active inference. Well, thanks for the invitation and yes, looking forward to unpacking
a lot of this and I'll just begin with my path and how we all together came to working in this
active inference lab. So I've been a student of biology and genetics, always very curious about
how different living systems worked and enacted in their environments and I went to graduate school,
did a PhD in biology and specifically that was in behavioral ecology in ants and so for five years
in graduate school, I did field work in southern Arizona in the United States and also a lot of
lab work and computational work and all of those experiences are kind of embodied in their own way
and help just show me some glimmers of how many different methods and approaches and perspectives
there were on just one question like how do ants make decisions about how to regulate their foraging
behavior at the colony level. So that's kind of what I've been interested in from a research
perspective and during that time, I was also learning more about different frameworks for
perception, cognition and action and there are many such frameworks but the one that I started
to learn more about in around 2017 and 2018 was the free energy principle and active inference.
So comma there. I'll just leave it there before we go to the next chapter. Yes.
Well, so I'm just curious about ants and how you study them in the field. So literally you were out
but these weren't ants that had been collected in a kind of glass container. These were in a literal
field were they? Yes, they were in an actual open grassy field and ant field work was awesome.
The methods ranged from highly improvised and basic like using toothpicks and spray bottles of water
and stop watches and little flags and a lot of just things that are available objects and questions
that people could ask in their local neighborhood or in their backyard, counting ants crossing one
direction or another on the trail. But then also there was the liquid nitrogen and collecting ants
and labeling them and giving them pharmacological treatments and then collecting them and measuring
different aspects of their gene expression and all that comes with that in terms of like the
molecular biology and the computation. So ants are awesome to study and I hope that we can
continue to tie that in in this conversation because although your wall and some of your previous
discussions focus on the humant, sometimes I just think about things in terms of the ants and the
colony and I think that just shows how when we do have integrative ways to talk about perception,
cognition and action, everybody will have their own systems that they've studied and phenomena
that they've looked into. But there will also be like a higher language that helps us connect the
dots across those different systems. Okay. Yeah. And I think that word language, as you just said,
is sometimes it's key. I think you had, was it Mark Solms on your channel a while back and he
said this phrase, I think it was a avoid, he was wanting to avoid getting into semantic tangles.
And I think that is so, such that, you know, I love that that phrase has stayed with me and it's
so such a useful thing to remember when trying to have these sorts of discussions that, as you said,
we can be coming from different perspectives and have different experiences and different languages
to describe what we think is a useful way to explain our existence. But one person's choice of
words might have a very different semantic reasoning or understanding to someone else's.
So, yes, let's proceed. One thing I wanted to mention now that the theme tune for the active
inference lab is excellent. Was there any particular reason why you chose that theme tune? Was it,
did it represent the free energy principle or active inference or it's got some stochastic
elements and some non-stochastic elements? The theme song was a special request of a friend of
one of the co-founders of the lab, Yvonne. And Dima Shvokov is the name of the musician and
at least I did not provide even any suggestions. But when I hear it, I hear how there's a
a regimentation and an orderliness, but also an energetic feeling and a motivational and maybe
even an action-oriented feeling to it. So, it always is exciting when I hear it. Let me return
to the story of the lab. So, in 2019, I connected with the other people who we would all together
go on to co-found the lab and that was Alex and Yvonne. And we were very interested in
applying active inference to organizational design, especially to online teams and organizations.
They had a background in systems engineering and systems thinking. I had a background in
thinking about complex systems like the ants and also learning about active inference. And
all together, we knew that we had a lot of learning and applying ahead of us. And so,
we thought, how will we rise or meet this unknown unknown and only parts of it we were in a position
to see at that moment? How will we meet this large challenge of applying active inference,
a framework which is still undergoing conceptual development, just like all conceptual frameworks
are, but also one that we believe has a lot of possibilities for application. And so, we thought
we're not in a position to be hiring people to be in an academic lab, getting graduate students,
and the pace on that would be slow, even if that were an affordance that we had, an opportunity
for action. And so, we wanted to take the spirit of open science, decentralized science,
and just participatory sense making and bring some of these threads together by offering this
co-creative space, the active inference lab, where participants from different backgrounds,
different time zones, different levels of familiarity with active inference, and other topics
can come together and be learning, communicating, and applying active inference.
That's really nice to hear the background to that and the kind of the spirit of it being so
open and open to people joining in. And I would encourage anyone who's interested
after they've heard what active inference is to subscribe to your channel. And you always take
time in the first of a series of digesting papers to kind of really slow things down and to
cover all the different concepts that you're going to talk about in a particular series.
So, let's start by just, in a nutshell, can you explain what is active inference, please?
Okay. Well, the first thing that comes to mind with a question about
nutshells is Hamlet, who said, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite
space. So, active inference is very austere in some ways because the kernel of this nut,
the action perception loop, is very pre-application. Let's say it's very general and it needs a lot
of meat to be added and more to that skeleton before there's something there to simulate or use
even as a thinking tool. So, the kernel of the nut is very simple, almost to the point of being
infuriatingly so like language. So, that would be my zeroth pass, would be the nutshell is its own
domain and inside of it, there's so much space to be developing and there's so much that will
sprout out of it. But, yes, go ahead. Okay. So, they're infuriatingly simple bits about
action and perception. What is that? So, if there's someone you've never spoken to before,
you meet them in an elevator, what would you say active inference is?
Okay. So, here's how I would perhaps approach that. It's all in the title. Active inference
is about integrating action and inference. And then if we go one level deeper, we're using
inference, which is to say like cognition or in a computer happens to be computation.
We're using inference as a way of integrating our models and perspectives on action
with cognitive processes that include planning, perception, emotion, memory, anticipation. So,
we have this tremendous diversity of sensory processes. Those could be our visual sense,
our olfactory sense, our interception, proprioception. So, we have many inputs to the system.
And then there's also a diversity of actions that different systems select. And those can be like
the sort of onboard action opportunities, the onboard affordances for bodily action. And also,
they can include extended affordances like using a computer or using a pencil. So, we have a lot
of inputs. And then we have a lot of outputs. So, a lot of sense coming in, a lot of actions coming
out. And then there's a lot of things that happen in between in what we call broadly cognition.
Again, like some of those features or phenomena I mentioned like planning, anticipation, memory,
etc. Now, we could have bespoke narrow theories for each sensory modality, for each cognitive
phenomena, and for each action, affordance. And or we might be interested in pursuing some
integrative ways to unify our formal models and our informal models of perception, cognition,
and action. So, I believe that is what active inference offers. And then we can go into in a
second how it differs from some other frameworks. But I believe what it offers is a way to think about
that input space, the cognitive space, and the output space, as well as in the impact,
which is kind of the fourth quadrant there, thinking about all of those in a unified way,
which at the very least we have to do for useful computational modeling, but also just for useful
sense making. Okay, okay. So, it really unifies all of the different components of our being,
you'd say, of how we experience ourselves. Is that going too far?
Each will use the map to navigate the territory. So, if it's honest in how you say it, then
amazing, I hope so. Sorry, I was just going to say, how does it differ then from other more
classical ways of viewing how living organisms go about their business of staying alive?
Awesome question. I hope for, as we would say, an active expect and prefer that in the future,
there will be a URL that I can provide where these will be listed and enumerated and more
referenced. But just off the cuff, how does active inference differ from other potentially
integrative theories for action, perception, and cognition, whether they be cybernetic or more
system specific like a human psychological theory? So, one key difference between active inference
and some frameworks for biological and computational behavior like reinforcement
learning is that in active inference, action selection is accomplished by always the joint
consideration of epistemic and pragmatic value. Epistemic value means the value of information
or of learning and knowledge like epistemology. And pragmatic value is like utility or reward.
And so, in reinforcement learning, there's an emphasis on the common currency of pragmatics.
Reward value. And then it leaves a bit of this awkward or ad hoc way that curiosity
and intrinsic motivation has to reenter and be translated or transmuted into this common currency
of pragmatics like a curiosity bonus. We'll pay you a little bit to go on an extra epistemic
foraging trip. In active inference, though, we can have a common grounding between epistemic
and pragmatic value, which enables our simulations and our embodied systems to rapidly make decisions
that in one moment are more exploratory and in the next moment can be more exploitative
over multiple timescales. So, first point is it's a way that different than reinforcement
learning, we can bring epistemic and pragmatic value into a common grounding.
Second is short. And that's as mentioned earlier, that in contrast with essentially any other
framework, although I'm open to hearing what else people bring to the table, it integrates
very diverse and heterogeneous perceptual cognitive and action features in at least in
inter accommodating framework. And so very few other theories or frameworks attempt to have such
a scope. For example, there might be a model of just memory or of just action selection,
but then those are like different modules that then have an ad hoc connection. And so active
inference gives a principled set of connections. And then the last point that I'll make in terms of
differentiation with active inference versus many other theories is with active inference,
we can be quite explicit about where are we talking about the map? And where are we talking
about the territory? And so the territory, how things quote really are, and the map,
how we're modeling it. And so I think about a linear regression. And if we did a linear
regression between height and weight, and we found that there was a positive or negative
correlation or however it may be, nobody would think, well, you're saying that height and weight
are a linear regression. Because the linear regression is just a map, it's just a model
of a territory. And so similarly, with active inference, though many times people are interested
in how things quote really are, how the territory is, and may even use active inference to discuss
as if they are discovering how the territory is, we also have this opportunity to be very clear
about map making. And I think that is a tremendous value, because it helps us hold a space
between the observations that we're taking from a system and the modeling that we're doing,
while also leaving some of the mystery and openness.
Okay, some of the mystery and openness. The use of words terrain and map making there,
I think, will be useful later on when we dive into some of the concepts that are used amongst
your colleagues and peers in the lab, especially when it comes to this idea of,
sometimes it appears like the terrain and the map are identical. Day to day as I go about
my daily life, I feel that what I, you know, things happen so quickly that it feels like
I'm actually the terrain and the map are equal each other. But what I'm here saying here is that
active inference gives us an opportunity to understand how the map is formed and how it
relates to the changing terrain. Is that right? Yes. So we're all, without falling into any
simple fallacies, we're all inside of our sensorium. Pick a different spatial metaphor if you choose,
but we are not directly observing lightning strikes in clouds. We're receiving sensory input
in the form of sound and light in that case of like lightning and thunder. And then we're doing
inference on a hidden cause, an unobserved cause. Again, though we observe the sensory
consequences of the territory, and we can take a totally action oriented, realist, pragmatic,
let's get out of this open field because there's a thunder and lightning storm happening. So we can
make useful action while also holding that space and not thinking, well, we won't be able to take
useful action until we're in that cloud directly observing the lightning strike. It's like, no,
we are observing the light and the sounds and we're making an inference about unobserved causes
and we can share that with each other and we can decide how to act based upon that.
And then maybe when we're hanging out in the house, we could talk about what is real
and what lightning really might be. But there's also this ability to be applying active inference
again at the level of mapping, while also holding space for some philosophical questions
about the nature of the territory. Okay, so I think this is getting to a really
key point here. So the sensorium way I understand it is that that's just that's a way of describing
the collection of different things we might sense. So it's a bit like, you know, we have the genome
and the microbiome or collections of genes and microbes, but the sensorium is our
global collection of sensors. So not just the five sensors, as you said,
the intraception, procreception, all of these things, maybe pH, blood pressure, temperature,
changes in air pressure outside of us is anything that we might sense either consciously or
subconsciously. And if I could bring in one term from a field that active inference draws a lot
on, which is ecological psychology. Ecological psychology provided that notion of affordance,
which is like a capacity for action. So it's something that could be selected on the outbound.
And then a sort of complement to the term affordance is Umwelt. And yes, it's a German term or
something like that. And I'm sure it could be looked up and searched more, but it is exactly
referring to that sensorium, which is that integrated perceptual experience. And in active
inference, that is actually an actively generated process. And we can experience that directly
with our visual input. So in the anatomy of the eye, there's actually color receptive cells
that are more concentrated in the center of the eye. So there's higher resolution and there's color
vision in the center of the eye. And that actually kind of drops off in color perception
and in clarity as it goes out. And of course, there's a quite large blind spot in the eye,
which is like where the optic nerve is coming out. Yet our visual experience or at least a
possible visual experience has the felt sense of color in all parts of the visual field,
