I think they have some legitimate arguments, but I don't agree with the
answer they provide to the argument. So what about with Miller Urie-type experiments?
Yeah, so actually, so I made a crack that Lee is sometimes wrong, but we all are. But I think the
thing that he's really good about is pushing the boundaries. And I think something he's really
right about is how much intelligent design goes into current
original life experiments or historically. And what what he means by that is when you're designing
experiment, you purify the reagents, put them in a test tube, you know, exactly what's in there,
you you crank a knob for like if you want to, you know, put the change the pH or you do,
you know, add a mineral, but it's all very controlled and very methodical. And so basically,
the way I think about it is you're putting agency into the system, you're constraining all the
boundary conditions. So when you get a complex molecule out, like say you, you do produce
a molecule that is implicated in life. Is it because that actually is a spontaneous
process? Or is it because you as an agent that already evolved in the universe controlled the
boundary conditions so tightly that you basically predispose the system to generating that complex
structure? Not that we actually make complex things pre-radically, because we make really
simple biomolecules. But this is this is sort of one of the problems. So if you buy if you buy
sort of the set of arguments that life is more about the lineage, and we're all just kind of these
packets of information, or these features of assembly space that are propagating and generating
more structure, then anything you do is basically becoming part of that living structure, because
you're a cause for those kind of things. And so the real challenge of original life experiments
is to remove our biological lineage and all the agency that we've accumulated over four
billion years from the design of experiments. And so this is something that is one of the reasons
that I really wanted to start working with Lee when we first started talking is because
he was the only person that I felt recognized this issue, and the only person that was really
trying to design original life experiments that could do this. And one of the ways he's doing that
is through this automation, this digitization of chemistry to basically build experiments that
are agnostic, they're not designers like we are. And they don't have any predisposition to what the
chemistry of life needs to look like. And you basically want to start from a messy soup of
things and try to evolve it under all kinds of different simulated planetary conditions. I think
of it if we could scale this up, it would be like a planet simulator. And we and I are working on
ideas about how would you actually generate an experiment at scale, like you would do in particle
physics. So my favorite sort of experiment to compare this to is Super Kamiakande, which is
one of my favorite experiments in Japan looking for proton decay. So proton decay has been predicted
by theories never observed in our universe. And every time we don't observe that event,
we can bound the probability. The problem with the origin of life is it's a chemical search
problem. Chemical space is huge. It's exponentially huge. It's beyond exponentially huge. The
combinatorial possibilities of molecules you can get, even for small number of elements,
is just it's larger than you can possibly fathom. So the question is how would you build
experiment large enough to simulate planetary chemistry and explore enough of the volume of
the space that you would expect a high likelihood for the origin of life to pop out. And that's
the kind of way we need to think not as designers of the origin of life, but asking how is this
a process that happens in the universe and how can we bound the likelihood of it? The longer we
don't observe it, the lower probability it is, just like proton decay. And we need a theory to
search it, which is what we're trying to do with assembly theories. So if you put those kind of
experiments together with something like assembly theory, then you have this kind of way of doing
original life science like the way that we explore the early universe in cosmology or the way we
think about particle physics. So one of the things that the characteristic of Super K is, A, it uses
super pure reagents, a huge volume. Sometimes they explode the photo multipliers, and then grad
students have to go on a canoe. We'll put a background footage of Super Kamiakanda here.
But I wonder, when you think about this challenge, it's kind of going the opposite way of Miller
Urie. They literally did it with stuff you got at the chemistry stock room in Urie Hall here at UC
San Diego. You could do it. And of course, now we know that it wasn't like fraudulent data, but
it was far off from what we now know about the origins. And yet, it's still, if you look at many,
many kind of proposals, at least in secular books, et cetera, and even popularizations,
it's always pointed to as, oh, you got Miller Urie and some version of it. Well, it didn't
exactly do it, but we're confident some of it. But no, it's not like we're saying, oh, well,
Super Kamiakanda hasn't seen it, and therefore, but we'll have some version of Super K. No,
all we can do is run it longer, as you say, with a larger fiducial volume, and then you make up for
time by having more opportunities for decay and then the properties of half-life then work in
your favor. But this is kind of going the opposite way of Miller Urie, which is to go, instead of
looking at one proton decay, you're looking now, how big an experiment would you need? And would it
be imposing this purity upon it, or would you even be using physical chemicals at all, or would it
be purely simulated? No, it has to be physical, right? Because we don't know, we don't understand
what physics governs original life. It's not like you can't simulate life in a computer because you
don't understand the causal structure of what life is. If we had the right physics, we could
simulate life in a computer. We can simulate some projections of features of life, like
evolutionary processes and things in a computer. But I think the original life, we can't simulate
because we don't know the principles. But just on the point about Miller Urie and comparing to the
way the particle physics community works, say, and the way the original life community works,
when you look at original life experiments globally, it's always the case that it's like a single lab,
you know, has their favorite molecule that's implicated in life, and they want to understand
if they can synthesize that under quote-unquote prebiotic conditions, where prebiotic conditions
is, again, some kind of pure reagents, not necessarily a mix of soup that would be present on
the early earth, but some purified chemical compounds that they mixed together in precise ratios.
And then they subject it to whatever kinds of conditions that they want to study, the
particular synthesis pathway. And of course, that's an okay mentality for doing science
if you're an organic chemist and you've been trained to synthesize a purified reagent.
But a molecule is not life, and producing a single molecule associated with life under
those kind of conditions is not solving the original life. And then you'll get one, you know,
lab, you know, maybe making amino acids over here under some kind of condition that might be
presumably prebiotic, and another lab over here making a nucleobase, and another lab over here
talking about the energy pumps necessary in early membranes. And there is this sort of rampant
assumption in the field that some people will really precisely articulate. So, Nick Lane is
one of these people that if we know enough of those steps, we'll be able to just string them
together, and then we'll be able to understand the mechanisms of the origin of life. But I think
what that view is missing is that each step is precisely tailored to the particular outcome that
you want for that step, which means that we are putting so much agency into those experiments.
I like to equate it a little bit to like verifying a number as prime. If you want to find the next
prime, that's a really hard search algorithm because you don't know what you're looking for.
But if you already know it's prime, it's pretty easy to develop algorithms to verify its prime.
And so what prebiotic chemists are doing right now is verifying primes by looking for known
molecules and doing it under very controlled conditions. And they happen to be small primes
because they're not very complicated or hard to get to. And what we really want to do is try to
find what's the largest prime and how can we predict that out of priority? It's a much harder
problem for origins of life than as far as it's not even the same class of search problem that
we're doing right now as it should be. Right. And then getting back to this kind of controversy,
which Lee said in his interview with me, although I've heard him take multiple sides of it. It's
like Stephen Hawking. Penrose says, you know, you always want to make a bet with Stephen Hawking
because no matter what side you take, he'll capitulate and you'll always be right because he
always changes mind. Now, I've heard Lee debate intelligent designers and have some very harsh
upgrading and then gentle, gentlemanly Scottish way that he has. But I've also heard him say that
literally chemistry has an intelligent design problem or biochemistry has an intelligent design
problem. You mentioned that you're not afraid. What do you say to somebody by past guest,
Stephen C. Meyer, or perhaps future guest, I've spoken to James Tour, who stipulate that, yeah,
there are these problems of purity of very carefully controlled initial conditions, as you
know from physics training. This is an incredibly important and vital aspect of characterizing
any physical system, let alone a biological system. So is this destined to always have this
ambiguity which drives human beings crazy, not being black or white? But you know, is there a
point, if you had a steel man or steel woman, the points of the ID, the intelligent designers,
the Stephen C. Meyers, what would you say? And then we can look at, you know, countering it,
for example. What are the biggest criticisms in this field of origin of life?
I think, well, I mean, I think there's a lot of them, but I guess the main one is just because
we don't have a mechanistic understanding doesn't mean that we need to appeal to something outside
of the universe. And I'm agnostic on sort of all issues. And I think what I always try to do is
maintain an open mind that any possible explanation is possible. But I see so many roots to actually
having an understanding of the origins of life being something that we can understand from
physical principles within the universe. I think the problem is that we're not asking the questions
the right way. And even the way we ask the questions is actually loaded the dye for intelligent
design to be the explanation because the way we talk about the origins of life is wrong.
And I think we have too many preconceptions about the problem and the nature of what we are
and the assumptions that we understand what we are that make it really hard to work in this area.
And this is one of the reasons that, I mean, I started in when I was a PhD student as a cosmologist,
but one of the reasons I really wanted to work on origins of life is because the conceptual
foundations were so poorly defined. And on some level, I don't even care if the way that I'm
trying to pose the question is right. But what I do with the problem, and what I do with every
problem that I try to look at is look at how people are talking about it, and then just try to turn
it slightly and be like, there's another logically consistent narrative with all the evidence we
have over here that nobody's actually looked at yet. So why don't we explore that one and try
to see where the possibility space is for that one. And then that opens up subsequent pathways.
And I just think that people haven't really been poking at the original life things from the right
angles yet. And we've seen that through the history of human thought that we've had major
breakthroughs as soon as somebody came up with some fresh idea to something. So I think any time
that you want to prematurely say a problem is unsolvable is really limiting the potential of
what humans can do in the future. Because I also, this is sort of a bias of how I think about
constructing theories. And maybe it's a very David Deutchian kind of view, but I really think that
explanations are pretty fundamental. I mean, they're fundamental to the physics of what life is.
My favorite kind of physics is the physics of theoretical physicists.
Talk about going back to like the pinnacle of like, you know, that's like a really egotistical way
to study life. But of course, it's the example of life I'm most intimately familiar with. And also
like cognitively, when I do thought experiments about life, it's the one that I have the most
playroom with. But it's also like a carefully constructed set of experiments because
mathematical physics has done so well, this idea of taking abstractions, mathematical objects,
and using them to describe reality, and then doing incredible things with those descriptions of
reality, like launching satellites into space based on the laws of gravitation or building
experiments like supercondiacondae to look for the decayed proton, or discovering gravitational
waves, which have been passing through the earth as long as life has been on this planet. But we've
never made contact with that phenomenon in the universe before. We actually knew to go look for
it. So I think the idea that we won't have a theory that explains us is, to me, incredibly
limiting about the future potential of our planet and where we're going. Because if we do understand
what we are, then we have control over that phenomenon in the same way that we have an
understanding of gravity and can control motion and understand how to launch rockets and things.
Imagine what it would be like if we understood what life was.
Right. I would say two things. One, these natures under no obligation to make things understandable
to you on the time scale of a PhD thesis, or a 10-year case. But also, I say to my,
I'm a practicing Jew. I attend temples, and I do practice in that sense, and I do read the Torah
every day. But on the other hand, I tell my religiously, much more predisposed colleagues
and friends, if you really believe in God, you should approach it through a scientific lens,
because it might be the only clue. It might be that Yang-Mills theory or Maxwell's equations
or whatever are the only hints that we can ever hope to get of God talking in our language.
But moreover, if you tell your children that life started purely because of a miracle,
then I think it limits their ability to at least search for going back even further to
primary, the primary source material, if you will. You just say everything is done by God,
and every single thing is controlled by some agent that you have no access to, because God
is not revealing himself to us in our modern age. So I think that's incredibly stunting of my
religious friends and the intelligent designers beyond other challenges that I've posed to them.
But I think you had a... Oh, go ahead. No, you just wanted to pick something really interesting
your point, because one of the things that I've always found at conflict that I don't understand
how to resolve is that intelligent design seems to me to be a principle that limits creativity
in the universe. Like, it means that creativity is not a physical thing. And the way I approach the
problem, even when you said, you know, it's not necessarily the case that we should be able to
learn the laws of nature on a university education timescale, right? But we can. So I use that as
observational evidence for the kind of physics I want to understand. And so then you have to
construct the problem. But why is it we can comprehend reality? And what is that as a physical
process? And I think intelligent design misses the ability to even ask that question, because they
assume all of that just came for free. And so it's trying to explain us, but ultimately it really
doesn't explain us. It sweeps any explanation for what we are as special in the universe or different
in the universe under the rug. And I think the one thing that I think is really deeply intriguing
is as far as we know, there aren't any other physical systems like our modern technosphere
and our participation in it as thinking agents that are conscious, right? And in an ability to
explain that, it has got to be pretty profound and really interesting, as far as how we understand
ourselves and our relationships with the cosmos, but also what else might be out there. And so
so I think your point about limiting, potentially limiting imagination is really
the part that I would want to push back on. I'm open to alternative explanations.
Yeah, right. I see you as a very, you know, non dogmatic, very, you know, ecumenical thinker
in that you're you're not going to have an open mind so open as Carl Sagan said, your brains
fall out. But on the other hand, you're willing to strengthen your position by taking an opposing
perspective, which I find, you know, quite quite the hallmark of the best scientists on earth.
I think you had a beautiful statement. I forget where it was originally. But you said you talked
about what's called the Luca, the last universal common ancestor. And you said that it is akin to
my field, the last scattering surface of the cosmic microwave. I thought that was one of the
coolest analogies I've ever heard. Explain to people, what is Luca? Who is Luca? And why is it
so important to study the oldest, most primitive things as we do with CMB photons? But why is it
so important in the field that you've chosen to dedicate so much of your intellectual effort to?
Yeah. So, so I think the actual equation between Luca and the CMB came from Nigel
Goldenthal, and I picked it up from him. Oh, I think he's my new colleague here.
Yeah. Okay. Well, that's cool. Yeah. So, you know, condensed matter physicists working on
origins of life would come up with those kind of analogies. But but I love that. I think it's
another hallmark for you young people. I have to say sorry to interrupt you,
Sarah. Yeah. So interesting. But what Sarah just did is the hallmark of a true scientist.
She gave proper attribution. And it's actually in Judaism is considered a sin. It's called stealing
