I'm an astrobiologist and I study life.
I'm interested in life here on Earth and I'm also interested in life out there among
the stars if we can find it.
And that's really cool, except the problem is we don't really understand what life is.
Hey everybody, you're going to love this interview with Professor Sarah Walker of the Arizona
State University.
Sarah is a friend that I met virtually and she is anything but virtual.
She's an incredible thinker in the real world and a scientific communication space and you're
going to hear an exclusive from Sarah today into the impossible exclusive that Sarah's
writing a book about her travails and travels in the world of the origins of life.
So look for that coming later on in your life and her life and she'll be back on the show.
She assures me when that is out.
Today you're going to learn a massive amount of cool, interesting stuff.
Sarah is one of my favorite, favorite thinkers of all time.
We talked about so much today and just a smidgen of the topics we're going to cover today
involve the question of what is life?
Is that even a good question?
What is time?
Is that a good question?
We even got into things such as the origin of biological systems as relating to the laws
of physics, even cosmology.
Of course, we had a touch upon intelligent design.
I asked her some tough questions about that subject as well as her theory that she's
developed along with past guest Lee Cronin, so-called assembly theory.
You learn about that.
What is that?
How can we detect the imprimatur of life perhaps here on earth, perhaps in distant solar systems,
perhaps if they come and visit us through Omuomua, which we also discussed Abilob and
the efforts to ascertain whether or not the existence of techno signatures in the form
of objects that visit us should be pursued further.
We talked about that.
Charles Darwin, his warm little pond, so much more, her expertise is unbounded.
It's really a great way to continue our mission into the Impossible Podcast.
I'm so pleased to reveal that we've been ranked number one in all of natural sciences
on iTunes and the Apple Podcast ecosystem.
Number nine in all of science.
It's just incredible.
I never thought when I started doing this just a couple of years ago that it would lead
to such great success, and you, my listeners, viewers, are all part of this success equation
I can't do without you.
So please do share the podcast with your friends, share the audio, share the video.
Please subscribe to the video as well because I put in some great B-roll production by Super
Producer Stuart Volkow, member of the PGA, not the Professional Golfers Association,
but Producers Guild, just adds in a magic pixie dust to each and every video and audio
episode.
So that's Dr. Brian Keating on YouTube.
And so today's episode is not one to be missed.
I'll talk to you at the end and give you some homework assignments.
Stay tuned and now enjoy this episode with Dr. Sarah Walker of the Arizona State University.
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
All right, everybody, you are in for a treat on today's episode of the Into the Impossible
podcast with a phenomenal thinker, a brainiac, a deep thinker, a astrobiologist, professor,
theoretical physicist.
She does it all and she does it all incredibly well.
I've been a huge fan of hers for a long time, and I'm just so happy that Professor Sarah
Walker is joining us on the podcast today.
Sarah, how are you today, all the way in Arizona?
I'm great.
How are you?
I'm doing well.
So a quick intro, Professor Sarah Walker is an astrobiologist and theoretical physicist
interested in the origin of life and how to find life on other worlds.
And she is the deputy director of the Beyond Center for Fundamental Concepts and Science,
associate director of the ASU Santa Fe Institute Center for Biosocial Complex Systems and assistant
professor in the School of Earth and Space Exploration.
And that is CC, although I see some conflicting things that you're associate professor, someplace
I see your assistant professor.
It doesn't really matter once you get tenure, and if you don't have tenure, you will get
it and we would, you know, snatch you up in a second if we had a chance here in San Diego.
She does a lot of outreach, especially as I met her at Clubhouse where I've met a lot
of people in virtual space, but not in real space.
And she's prolific, um, uh, engager of the public with scientific concepts, never dumbing
things down, having multiple appearances at the World Science Festival through the worm
hall, NPR Science Friday, she does it all.
And Sarah, I'm so glad to have you here.
Great to be here.
I'm looking forward to it.
Yeah.
So we have a lot of, um, interesting feedback from my audience and we'll get to those later.
I always take the host prerogative when my guests are prolific authors and I ask them,
you know, explain the title and origin and judgment of your cover.
So I had that with Paul Davies and the interview we put out recently, judging books by their
covers.
You don't have a book yet, although I'm sure there'll be many publishers dying, uh, to
get your scrivenings and into the public's hand in a book.
And if not, let me be your agent.
I will only charge 55%, um, but I want to judge your paper, the paper that caught my
attention, uh, so long ago now for almost four years ago, origins of life, a problem
for physics.
I had the question, Sarah, what was the, uh, what is the relevance of the origin of life
to physics?
I mean, I can see for biophysics, but why is it a problem for physics as a whole?
Yeah.
So well, I think people confuse physics with the problems that studied in the past rather
than a way of thinking about the world.
So the, the issue I see there is that because we've come to kind of a deep fundamental understanding
about parts of reality, those are confused with physics as a discipline rather than thinking
about this idea that physics is really predicated on trying to look for deeper abstract principles
that are really explanatory and have a large breadth of explanation.
And so with the origins of life, I think that's really critically important because I find
it hard to believe that life doesn't have some deep fundamental explanation.
Um, and in particular in the field of astrobiology, when we're talking about whether there's
other life out there in the universe, we really need universal principles.
And therefore when you cast it in that kind of framing, it becomes a problem for the mindset
of a physicist as far as how do I abstract this problem to its essence and then how do
I develop a mathematical understanding that allows me to predict features of examples of
the system that I've never encountered.
Um, and I think that's actually really the program for astrobiology is we don't want
to just, you know, have aliens hit us in the head or something, we want to actually go
out in the universe and look for them and predict where we should find them.
And the, some of the research I've seen you involved in particular in the paper is kind
of straddling the interface between information and complexity, as well as, uh, life proper,
you know, life, quality, life.
And I wonder, you know, I don't want to have this, I don't want to ask you this question,
even though people like Lee Cronin told me to ask you this question.
Um, I kind of get sick of, uh, of, of me asking it, although I'd love to hear your response
if you like, but it's the famous question posed, but not answered by Schrodinger.
What is life?
And I just find it, um, a little bit, you know, it's like Wonder Bread or something
like that.
Uh, you know, it's, it's, yes, it's technically a question, but is it a good question?
Maybe we can ask that instead of you defining for the nth time as you've done so skillfully.
Um, is it, is it a proper question or is it sort of like these why questions, you know,
why is their life, you know, is it, is it a different question than what is life?
So what do you make of it?
Well, so first off, I'm not, I'm a physicist that's not afraid of asking why questions,
which is maybe why I ask a traditionally non, or a non-traditional question in physics.
Um, is that I don't think that we should be scared of those questions because I think
by the practice of asking a why question, you ask things differently than if you didn't
consider the why, which means your what questions are better informed, um, because they have
some deeper principles underlying them.
The what is life question I think is ill posed because it makes some assumptions about, um,
as we understand it, being a natural kind or being actually a category in nature.
And usually when, at least if you look at the history of physics, it's not like we were
asking what is gravity before we came up with the idea of gravity, we were asking other
questions like why do the planets have regular motion in the night sky or why does this apple
fall from the tree the way it does or why does this, you know, ball roll down this inclined
plane.
Um, and then we came up with this kind of unifying explanation that we call the laws
of motion and the laws of gravitation.
And I think when we're approaching the life question, there's a lot of assumptions that
because we are life, uh, we know what life is.
Um, and therefore we can just go in and define it and what is life actually makes sense as
a question.
But I think as you dig down deeper into that question, it starts to make less sense to
pose it that way.
So the way that I like to think about the question is what are the laws of physics that
would have features associated to them that explain the phenomena that we call life?
And that's a little bit of a mouthful, but I think what the simple way of saying it is
there's something underneath the phenomena we call life that's probably a pretty deep
explanation.
Um, and we should really be trying to derive the properties of life, not define them.
Right.
And I think maybe we could, we couldn't even start there by, um, you know, recapitulating
some of the notions of, of emergence, which, which you've spoken about before, but I think
my audience would, would get a kick out of hearing it from you.
I always say, you know, life is kind of like the, uh, Supreme Court's, you know, 1950 something
definition of, of pornography.
It's like, we know, we see it and we, but maybe we know it when we don't, or we know
what it is when we don't see it, you know, more likely, but, but I wonder the confluence
of information and life as an emergent phenomena and the concomitant, you know, question of
how does consciousness emerge?
A lot of people may be conflate, maybe erroneously, I don't know, I'm not an expert like you
are, but consciousness as being a prerequisite to understand life.
In other words, can you have life without consciousness?
Certainly there wasn't maybe conscious life, uh, before, you know, human beings maybe or
something like human beings.
Um, and yet there was life.
So can you talk about this emergence and as Morrison said, you know, more is different.
And so, uh, first of all, what is emergence and why is it, why is it relevant potentially
to the origin of life?
Yeah.
So, um, emergence is this idea that you can get new properties at new scales of organization.
So like, if you think about, you know, reality being separated out in scales, which is really
not just that we do that because we have to build models of things, um, you know, there's
the atomic scale and then atoms come together to make molecules.
And then maybe when you're talking about living things, you get cells and cells come together
to make multicellular organisms or people come together to make societies.
And when we're looking at each of those different spatial scales, uh, we see, um, fundamentally
new rules emerging.
And so this is one of the reasons that Anderson said more is different.
It's not the same at every scale.
We actually see new properties.
And one of the things that's probably the most mysterious about emergence is it seems
to be the case that you can describe these scales independently of having to refer back
down to the lower level scales.
So a lot of, so, for example, we can talk about social dynamics without having to appeal
to say QCD or something, right?
So we don't need to have those theories of like how the very basic component parts work
to understand something at a high level like that.
And so, uh, in sort of our traditional concepts of science, that seems kind of deeply mysterious
because people think, or well, there seems to be some conflict, um, as far as, well,
are these genuinely new properties?
Um, or is it the case that if we really had a giant supercomputer and we could run, say
the, um, interactions of all the elementary particles in a social system, we'd actually
really recover those high level dynamics.
Um, and of course this gets into more issues of, um, like, let's say maybe, um, something
like metabolism, you know, like I'm eating, is there a particle description of what it
is for me to be eating?
Um, but then there's also the question, is there a particle description of what it is
