for me to feel hungry?
Um, because feeling hungry seems much more subjective and intrinsic to the scale organization
that I operate on.
So there's some questions in biology that seem much more apparent, that some kind of
emergent, um, description is actually necessary.
You can't really reduce it to the particle description.
And it's interesting because in this paper, you talk about, you know, kind of the emergence
of life, but the first example that you give and, you know, and the history of life's,
uh, of life's emergent properties of life is a colony, are these stromatolites, which,
um, you know, seem to be these mysterious things in Australia, um, that, uh, or collectives.
It's not like we found some isolated, you know, protozoa somewhere by itself, at least
as the earliest form of life, if I'm not mistaken.
And so it seems, yeah, again, even kind of cut it, you know, breaking the egg even more
than chicken or the egg.
Now it's like, which comes first, the collective or the, you know, individual in order to have
a definition of life and, you know,
Yeah, well, I think, I think again, that's not the right framing of the question because
the issue is that you're looking at it as two scales, but really the phenomena itself is a
multi-scale phenomena.
So people think, you know, life emerged at like a cell scale or something and cells,
you know, reproduced and then radiated out across the planet.
But really, um, you know, there's other theories of the origin of life that it was,
you know, like biochemistry emerged from geochemical cycles.
And then you start thinking about it more in terms of ecosystem scale or planetary scale.
And so I think this idea, this very, it's a very reductionist idea that we think life is
about individuals.
And it's not actually about individuals at all.
It's about information propagating along lineages.
So a cell, even if you think about a cell as a structure as an individual,
a cell has to constantly rebuild itself.
And it's using the information imprinted in the matter that it is to reconstruct itself.
And then if you think about that extended over time, the structure that you call life is actually
the structure that's extended out over time, basically the pattern that keeps reproducing
itself in the material substrate.
So a lot of the discussions I have with colleagues, and in particular this idea comes from Michael
Lachman at Santa Fe Institute, is really to think about the fundamental unit of life as a lineage
of information.
And we're all just these kind of bundles of intersecting information if you think about
evolution.
And I think this is really related to the problems associated to emergent.
So just to, because I think people have removed time from consideration in the way we talk about
both physics, because time is supposed to be an emergent property, right?
Time doesn't exist at the fundamental scale.
It has to emerge based on some properties of the second law or, you know, there's all these
arrows of time we talked about, like the cosmological arrow of time, the second law,
the biological arrow of time-wise biology increasing.
And they all tend to point in the same direction.
And that's some big mystery in current physics, because there's no fundamental concept of time.
But in biology, if you put time as being more primary, I think it actually takes care of
some of the issues of emergence.
Because when you're talking about an object that has emergent properties, what you're really saying
is that object has more time in it, where time is actually a physical attribute of the object.
And this is something that we're trying to do in assembly theory, because you think about,
like, a molecule as being all the ways of assembling a molecule, which is basically
looking at the structure across time.
And so then you can stack, you know, that whole hierarchy I did of, you know, going from atoms
to molecules to cells to multicellular things to societies as actually being about how much
time exists in an object.
And that brings in sort of the idea that evolution, sorry, my leg went out,
actually is sort of fundamental to the way that we talk about what life is,
in the sense that time actually has to be a part of the way you construct theories,
that you actually think things exist across time, they're not just an individual instance
that exists at that moment you're observing them.
Yeah, one other question I have about assembly theory is that it could imply if there's some,
you know, end of the historical deviations from a previous state,
you know, let's say we get to the ultimate evolution of society, you know, we become
university professors and, you know, that's the pinnacle of evolution.
Yeah, you know what the proof is, by the way, that we have the best job in the world,
Sarah, you know what the proof of that is?
What?
What did the man who achieved the highest heights literally in history, namely Neil Armstrong,
walking on the moon, what did he do after he retired from walking on the moon?
He became a professor.
So let's stipulate that's the highest form of evolution.
If you then reach kind of a stasis, you know, I can agree that there's more complexity
in Darwin's A Warm Little Pond, which we'll get to,
then there is in just water molecules by themselves.
So assembly theory would say there's more information, more stored memories, etc.
But, you know, eventually that comes to some stasis, but time doesn't cease.
So how can you reconcile those two facts?
In other words, without knowing what comes next after societies,
you know, then our collectives, that time can then continue to progress in a way that
the biological, psychological, cosmological, all the different hours of time would agree
that, yes, time is progressing if you reach some maximum stasis.
So I think part of the, this is a really interesting question.
So one of the things I've been doing a lot of thought experiments on is what does a clock
look like in assembly theory, but I don't have like, and me and I have been debating about that,
but I think one of the key points is if you think that there's an ordering of events,
like I can't spontaneously fluctuate out of the vacuum, which current theories of physics
might say could happen, and I think is actually a logical impossibility.
So sometimes, so where it gets interesting talking about life is where we have had a
tendency in the past to take theories of physics and draw them to like their logical end state,
and then accept that that's actually a real possibility in our universe,
even though it's ludicrous. And then you come at it looking at from the perspective of life,
and you really see why it's ludicrous. So there's like this idea of Boltzmann brains,
or anything is possible to spontaneously fluctuate into existence.
And part of the sort of argument that we would make in assembly theory is no,
that's not possible because you actually need the specific sequence events to make that object.
There had to be causal structure in place, things that you might call constructors,
or however, whatever language you want to use, information in the system to actually
assemble that specific object. So you can't just get a Sarah for free, you have to go through
the four billion years of evolution to get to an object like me. So even if I was static,
and I never changed in the future, you would still have that four billion year time point.
But the part of the point is also, I have to constantly reassemble myself to exist.
So I'm not a static object. I'm a thing that is constantly reconstructing myself,
you're constantly reconstructing yourself right now. So even if you're just sitting there,
and you're not doing anything, your body is metabolizing.
I'm like Madonna. I'm always reinventing myself.
That's right. Material girl.
I'm also a material girl, but Roger Penrose's perspective that he doesn't know what the material
is, and I think that's probably pretty accurate. So I think when you think about it from that
perspective, I don't think that the traditional notion that things can be static in time actually
even make sense. And so part of the way we're playing with ideas is this causal structure,
if you want to call it ordering in time, is the fundamental thing, and that universe is constantly
assembling itself into the next quote unquote state. Although I don't really, I think states are
kind of a weird thing that we talk about in physics for various reasons, but the next thing that exists.
So the universe is constantly moving forward in time, but it exists in the current moment.
So it's that assembled moment. So there's not really, for things to persist,
why does something exist across time actually becomes an active process, not a static one.
So I have a question from an audience member named Lee Cronin and says,
is Lee right about time? Now, I don't want to make this about Lee. Lee gets enough attention.
He's very shy, so it's hard for us.
Yes, we have a question about Lee. He's very shy, yes.
But I'm curious because we are talking about time. When we had a conversation a week or two ago,
he and I on Kurt Jaimungals channel, Theory of Everything, which folks should check out.
He basically says that time doesn't exist and because only chemists have a true proper understanding
of entropy and time is fundamentally a chemical process or entropic process, which relates to
the second law. Now, given that there, and I said there's so many different definitions of entropy
and my friend and maybe you know, Nicole Younger-Halpern as well, his great book coming out,
she'll be at West next month on the podcast for Quantum Steampark. She talks about the advice
that Van Neumann was given, I think, to Sillard or somebody said, when you don't know how to
define something, just call it entropy because nobody knows what entropy is. So I like the fact
that so far we haven't really preferred to entropy or the second law, but I think it is
appropriate to get into that. And maybe, you know, my ratings really depend on drama and battles.
So, Lee, you and I have to speak on behalf of physics, okay? So these chemists are doing too much.
I call them chemists by the way. But is it a fundamental physical concept? You know,
Nicole talks about the elemental fundamental clock, and that you could have a two-state system
that's a clock, and we use, you know, atomic clocks that are, you know, not strictly two-state
systems, but could such a model in your theory have a truly set to be complex, you know,
if you make the simplest instantiation of an object, namely a two-state quantum clock,
and that exhibits and it can do certain things and has certain properties associated with it.
In what sense could we say that that will continue to exhibit, you know, the features of
assembly theory that would lead one in your rubric to account that it has sufficient complexity to be
warranted amongst the pantheon of different discussions of entropy, etc.?
Yeah, so this is very much a work in progress. I don't actually know exactly what you're asking,
because I feel like there were like 10 questions in your question.
There were probably more than that. I guess imagine just a simple two-state clock, you know,
is that sufficient to account for time? And people say that time is emerging,
and, you know, but we all know it again, like pornography, we all know, only say it.
So, you know, a simple clock, how does that fit in in the, just in assembly?
Right, so I think this is one of the places that maybe Lee and I disagree, but I'm not entirely
sure. It's good, yeah, because it is like something that we're trying to develop, right, so you don't,
and part of the reason that you want to work with multiple people on developing a theory is where
you find congruence in your ideas, or when you convince another person, then you start to see
that there's some really interesting stuff going on. So I think one of the, so the one thing I
think that we do agree on is that time is moving forward, whatever that is, and that there's,
and that it's a generative mechanism for the universe. So time is actually the thing that
generates the universe. And then I guess when I think about time in an object, I don't think about
that linearly though, right? So when we think about a molecule existing as a, you know, a certain
amount of time or causation exists in the molecule, maybe causation is the better word than time,
you can think about all the ways of assembling the molecule, which means that
that molecule actually has a very complex structure in time. It's not one way that time,
that causation could have a sequence of events to produce that molecule. It's all the ways.
And so a simple example that I like to do as a thought experiment is just to think of a stack
of Legos. So imagine, you know, I was holding a stack of 10 Legos and maybe like five were yellow
and five were blue, and they were arranged in a particular pattern. In order to understand the
assembly structure of that stack of Legos, I actually have to take the Legos apart into the
five blue and five yellow and then build up the pathways. So the argument I would make is
all of those ways of assembling that object are features of that object. But to resolve those
features, you actually have to observe them across time because they're not features that exist in
any one instant of time. And so, and then if you want to see them in a linear sequence of time,
you have to do that over and over again, but they're all features of what could have happened
if you wanted to assemble that. So time doesn't necessarily have a single strand to it. It's
this very complicated causal structure embedded in an object, but the universe as a whole is
constantly chugging forward in time. So a clock is kind of an interesting object because you want
to ask, well, how much complex time is in a clock? Or is the clock actually tracking the
motion of the universe forward in time? And I think those are two different ways of asking
questions about the nature of time in a clock. Very good. So I guess we'd say maybe Lee is not
quite right, or maybe it's not quite complete. So that'll stimulate him. It depends on what it's
on, right? So some text is clearly wrong. So I wonder if we can, some of the classics,
and walk me through the current thinking of it. As a cosmologist, I'm not nearly as in touch with
the underlying kind of state of play of things, although it's quite fascinating to me. And yet,
I feel like there hasn't been much progress in some of the actual origin of life. In certain
sects there have been extremophiles and so forth, but one of my proofs that there's been
some stagnation in things like string theory is that string theory is like the best theory
ever invented to describe string theory. It has a lot of promise to describe string theory,
but can it describe other things? And I think that's what gives something predictive about
value. Now, if you go back to Darwin's paper, I think it was to Huxley. It might have been a
letter to Huxley or something. He said, like, if life could begin in some warm little pond with
mineral salts and so forth and this thing and that thing and proteins and whatever, then it
could evolve. In other words, that life could sort of kick off in this warm little pond, which
in my simple-minded way of looking at it is not too dissimilar from an experiment done by
the namesake of our chemistry department, Harold Urie, and his student Stanley Miller here at
UC San Diego. They did it in Chicago, but they were later professors here. And that was this
Miller Urie experiment. And in my mind, we haven't made much progress since those initial
kinds of experiments, which were at least intellectually the error of the warm little
pond thought experiment of Darwin. So can you take us to where do things stand in the kind of
replication of life? Not the classification. We moved away from that, but the origin of life,
for ab initio, and then perhaps since you said nothing's off limits, we could talk about some
of the criticisms, even from the intelligent design community, if you're willing to go there.
