thought. Like when I hear somebody say, oh, I'm going to steal that joke. That's actually like
a pretty big sin. Because people are going to attribute to you the credit that's owed to other
people in academia. We don't get away with that in our papers, but you could have easily gotten
away with that with me. I wouldn't have known. But it's a sign of an expert scientist to do what
Sarah did. So for my young audience, I have a huge, very rabid young audience. That's a lot
of edu addresses in my mailing list, which you should all subscribe to. But I just want to point
that out. Keep going, everybody. Keep going. Yeah, to go ahead. So what is this analogy?
I love it. So Luca, what is it? Luca is an abbreviation of last universal common ancestor.
So the first sort of problem with that name is it's singular and most and really we should be
thinking about it as a population of cells on early earth. And I think one of the people that
spoke about this most eloquently was Carl Woes, who discovered, co-discovered the third domain
of life with George Fox. But he made a lot of arguments about collective evolution in early life
and this idea. So Luca comes from tracing phylogenetic trees. So if you look at all life on earth,
it has shared biochemical component parts. And if we trace those histories back in time,
it kind of converges in what we call the last universal common ancestor. And I guess my point
of bringing up Carl Woes' ideas is a lot of people think that convergence means we're talking about
a single cell that lived on early earth and everything radiated out of it. But what he really
pushed was this idea that Luca might have been itself a collective phenomena. And this is actually
really how I think about it. I don't think that when some collective feature, just as if we like
kind of zoomed out and looked at life today, there would be common biochemical component parts
in every organism on earth today. And that's a phenomena that exists across all known life.
So the reason for equating it to the CMB is that because we're using genomic information
to reconstruct the last universal common ancestor, it's kind of like the last surface of information
that we can look at. And so going past it requires different tools in the sense that
the genomic tools are not adequate. It's like the photons give us information from the CMB,
but not earlier because they were scattering too much. And so we have this kind of boundary
if we want to do these phylogenetic reconstructions. So one of the things I'm really interested in
scientifically, and this is something that I spent a lot of time working on with my students
in postdocs, is trying to not look at genomic reconstructions of life, but look at patterns
in biochemistry, like statistical patterns. So just like in statistical mechanics developed in the
1800s, we realized we could predict more features of engines and things by talking about temperature
and pressure and work and these kind of macro scale variables that coarse grain, you know,
the exact position and momentum of every particle in a gas. So far in biochemistry,
we've been talking about the exact component parts. Luca had to have DNA. Luca had to have,
well, we don't know if I have DNA, but like how to have ribosomes, how to have certain
metabolism, and people are trying to reconstruct the specific component parts.
What we're trying to do is say Luca was a statistical pattern in print on early biochemistry,
and let's reconstruct what that pattern was and try to predict chemistries and environments
associated to that pattern. And we do that by using scaling laws and all kinds of other things,
but we don't have to get into technical details. But then the idea is to try to understand
when life became universal in the sense that there's these shared biochemical component parts,
how do we understand the patterns in those chemistries that we can actually extrapolate
further back than Luca just based on those patterns, which don't require genomic information.
Excellent. So now moving out from our vantage point on earth, I do want to talk to you about
more controversial topics like aliens, extraterrestrial intelligence, UFOs. But before we
get there, I understand that one of your, I think it was your PhD thesis, as a matter of fact,
involved what's called homochirality and the existence, and I'm going to probably get this
wrong. Here's how I remember it, Sarah, and I'm looking for you to the world's expert perhaps on
this, but I always remember that DNA is right-handed, is a right-handed helix?
I don't know actually.
Well, because it has sugars that are dextrose, right? The sugars are right-handed. I know that.
So like I was working at the level of like small molecule symmetry, right? The sugars are right-handed,
and for amino acids, it's left-handed. You know why I get confused on DNA? It was wrong in some
textbook, and I never remember which orientation was right because it was like, it wasn't that one,
but now I have in my mind, anytime I hear which one it is, it wasn't that one.
I'm going to teach you a mnemonic to remember it. So DNA is right-handed because life finds a
way to be right. Oh, I see. Okay, that's the way I remember it. But neutrinos are left-handed,
ordinary neutrinos. So that's how I, so if somebody asks me, is neutrino right-handed,
I think DNA is the opposite of a neutrino, so therefore if DNA is right-handed because life
finds the right way, then neutrinos, okay. Anyway, we'll probably have to edit this out. This is so
boring, but anyway, but imagine you're looking out into space, and somebody tells you that they
just returned, and they got some ancient stromatolites from planets that orbits around
Proxima Centauri B or whatever, right? You test it, and it has equal amounts. It's hetero
chiral, I guess. Do you say this guy's a fraud? This is nonsense. In other words, what is essential
about the chirality to the nature of life, if anything? Yeah, so there are some arguments that
only homo chiral, so one chirality biopolymer, so like when you take those right-handed sugar
genes that link them together, or amino acids, only those would be functional, but it's actually
really hard to test that experimentally because synthesizing, you know, populations of hetero
chiral polymers is hard because all of our enzymes for synthesizing polymers were derived from biology,
which has a particular orientation to it as far as, so it's easy to make like a left-handed
protein, you know, left-handed amino acids. You could maybe make a right-handed one because
you could imagine reversing everything, but doing something in between is actually quite hard.
So there's kind of this implicit assumption that functionality in life requires homo chirality.
I'm actually really interested in a kind of different feature of chirality more recently,
so when I was a PhD student, I was working on symmetry breaking, so physicists love symmetry
breaking problems, right? So if you have two things, they're left-handed or right-handed,
and you only deserve the left-handed one, and otherwise equivalent, that's, you know,
a symmetry breaking problem, and it turns out you can make that problem kind of equivalent to like
an icing phase transition, like when you have an up and down spin, and so I was working on models
of how you get that symmetry breaking prebiotically, but the thing that I've gotten more interested
in recently is actually thinking about chirality as a system-level property, so if you think of
like a biochemical network, like the small molecule chemistry that biochemistry catalyzes,
all of those molecules are either achiral or they have some chiral orientation to them,
and one of these things that we've been doing with this kind of statistical mechanics of biochemistry
is looking at patterns in life's use of chiral molecules versus achiral molecules, and it turns
out there's very statistically rigorous scaling laws, like if you look at a biochemical system
and you look at the size increase, its increase in size, the number of molecules that that organism
uses in its biochemistry, there's a scaling law of how many of those are chiral versus achiral,
and the reason to me that's really interesting is one, it doesn't require appealing to these large
macromolecules to talk about chirality as an interesting feature, because this is small molecule
chemistry, so this is getting at the original life scale, that somehow chirality is actually playing
a role in the structure of networks that become living, and if I want to get to the deeper physics
of that, I think that's actually deeply associated to what we're doing in assembly theory and also
thinking about time, like we were talking about earlier, because if you think about a chiral molecule
and you have these two handednesses, basically it's like a symmetry breaking in time if you
choose one over the other, because now you're talking about not just that molecule, but all
the assembly pathways for making that molecule and all the ways that it interacts with things in
the future, so chirality I think is playing this really interesting way about funneling
biological systems down specific kinds of trajectories in assembly spaces or in time,
and that's some theory I'm trying to work on that's motivated, right now we're working,
we have these patterns in biochemistry that we've elucidated and we're writing a paper on that now,
but in the long term I'd really like to think about a more fundamental theory for chirality,
sort of like how chirality was brought into like QFT and all these other things at some point,
like you know chirality always comes up as interesting in physics and I think about it more
like a physicist, because I'm more interested in like in those kind of questions and I don't
think we've gotten to the point where we can ask those yet, but I can see hints of where there's
really really interesting physics happening with chirality. Right, yeah exactly, so and I think
yeah that maybe connects back to where we were in the very beginning, but in at least in the
context of cosmic analogies what we want to do is look out and see gravity, see the forces of
nature when they were you know what's called a linear regime, and you know my my simple
mind way of thinking about it is like what's the analog of the biological linear regime you know
about which we could do perturbation, but maybe that's not the right way to think about it.
Yeah, that's interesting, I like that, I will dwell on it.
Okay, don't steal it. I won't steal it, I'll catch you right handed, sir.
So you spoke in this paper very passionately, also the original Life Problem for Physics,
about the James Webb Space Telescope which recently not only launched but made it to the L2 orbit
and also assembled itself like origami or some living you know structure. You talk about that
in the paper and what we could see and and and so forth with with planets you know maybe going
in front of these stars and I wonder you know could we really see you know evidence, you're
probably familiar of this of this discovery, this announcement you know touted so highly
recently by past Sarah guest on the podcast Sarah Seeger and other colleagues Jane Greaves and others
the phosphine on Venus you know I don't know how pertinent that is to your particular research
but at least the James Webb Space Telescope prospects for detecting life on other skies.
You linked that in sort of a Bayesian framework, I wonder could you could you talk about what
excites you about the Webb Telescope and what do you think we're likely to learn and how much
could we really shrink the Bayesian confidence intervals by discovery from Webb alone?
Yeah these are great questions so I have thought a lot about exoplanet biosignature science
and in particular using Bayesian approaches where and part of the the whole set of arguments there
is if you're assessing the significance of a biosignature so biosignatures are you know things
that we can associate to life but they tend to be for exoplanets really simple molecules like
phosphine is an example on Venus but phosphine was developed as a biosignature for exoplanets
because they're remotely detectable so other examples are things like oxygen and methane
and this becomes very problematic as it did in the case of Venus because there's a lot of
possibilities of false positives we can't exhaustively get rid of all the possible
abiotic explanations for those kind of biosignatures so this kind of bothers me on a few levels
one of them is that I really am interested in trying to encourage the astrobiology community to
move more toward having motivating theory we're not looking for a biosignature we're looking for life
and if you can't connect that signature of life to a fundamental understanding of what life is
and you're not learning something new about life by testing some hypothesis about what life is on
an alien world and getting you know some feedback about that phenomena that you're looking at I don't
think that it's quite the kind of science astrobiology should be doing yet so I think I think the way
we're doing biosignature science right now is by analogy to life on earth so we're taking molecules
that metabolism produce on earth and looking for those in exoplanets and we don't know the
mechanisms of how they could be produced abiotically or biologically on those planets and it's a
little analogy I like to make is like we don't take geological maps from Mars and expect them to
you know apply to earth or vice versa right so we don't take you know the Grand Canyon and expect
it to explain the morphology of of ballast marinara however how is that pronounced mar mar mar
okay so there's this implicit assumption we could take the chemical map from earth for biochemistry
and apply it to a different planet and I think that's really a mistake but if you want to do that
there are rigorous ways of thinking about it and you can ask well what is the likelihood of an
abiotic mechanism generating that versus a biological mechanism and the problem is that we don't
and then you could kind of plug those likelihoods into a Bayesian framework and if you had a prior
you know model for the original life on that planet you could actually you know get some
probability of assigning that as a biosignature and so it gives kind of a framework for asking
questions about you know am I really detecting life or not that's quantitative and statistically
rigorous the challenge we have is we don't know what the abiotic probabilities are or the biological
ones or the prior for most biosignatures so I think James Webb will help a lot because it's
going to give us a lot more of a baseline of what planets are like beyond our solar system and give
more detailed um detailed observations but I think the kind of thing that I'm more excited about is
like you know there's this whole proposal for a little boar have x and they're doing these more
statistical types of surveys of planets and I think that's really what we need to do we need to have
a better baseline of what exoplanet properties are and we need to build better theories and this
is one of the reasons I do this for predicting non-ambiguous biosignatures because if you look
at like Bayes equation for detecting life and you have like some probability that the signature
you're looking at is actually attributed to life there's a couple terms that matter one is is it
possible to be produced abiotically if it is you have a false positive scenario and then you need
a really strong mechanism for the original like you need a really really big prior you really have
to be really confident that it's actually produced by life or you have to have a really strong biosignature
that's not subject to false positives and so that's the reason that I think assembly theory is very
promising because if you have a high assembly object there you know the structure of that is
such that we don't expect there to be false positives um and so if you don't know the prior
for the original life and you want to go survey the universe for life without knowing that prior
then you have to have some kind of signature for life that has that structure it doesn't
have to be assembly but right now I think that's the only candidate we have and is it is assembly
you know going to potentially be the drake equation of biochemistry and alien you know
biochemistry the drake equation is a way of organizing ignorance right so the drake equation
is supposed to be filled in by other science right and so a lot of people still want to use it to
make estimates because we have a lot you know that was proposed in what 1963 by Frank Drake
so if you think about um you know how many discoveries we've made since then we know the
likelihood of planet formation we kind of have some bounds on the likelihood of birth like planets
but that probability for the original life term is completely unconstrained because we don't know
the mechanism for the original life um so uh I think what assembly will give us is if we could go
say if you could go and survey a bunch of planets and say did the original life happen on this planet
then you could bound that as a bell right um and and that's the way astrobiologists should be
thinking about it I think is how do we actually infer the likelihood of life from the data sets
we're given not having an aha moment where we're going to immediately see some signatures and and
it's going to just be like right not how science works yeah I often point that out you know just
riffing on what you just said you know science is not about like getting the answer and then just
submitting the answer you know there's uh there's uh you know 2000 planets in our in our you know
galactic spiral arm no I want to know the uncertainty on it and the problem with the Drake equation is
that it's always presented as here's the number and there's never error analysis associated with it
so is that true of assembly theory too is it just going to give you a number you know probability
or is it going to give you some bounded error bars and some Bayesian interval confidence oh no so
yeah so one of the things with the whole like Bayesian approach to biosignature science is it
allows you to invent new kinds of biosignatures that fit in that formalism and assembly theory
is structured that way because it's a it's a theory that naturally accommodates probabilistic
assessment so the whole idea is like with this so empirically um you know Lee's lab identified
that if you have more than 15 steps to produce a molecule in the shortest assembly pathway
then it's exponentially unlikely to be produced and if we see it then it becomes a signature of life
and that was like empirically validated against experiments and right now we have some theory
