Uh, well, so so speaking of market advantage, let me, um
Ask you about this question, which is
Uh, as as you know, we've had we've had, uh, professor fristen on the show a couple of times
We talked about the free energy principle a few times and and there seems to be, um
A lot of uh, let's write what I say this, you know
Misunderstanding or even negative press, you know, if you will not, you know around the free energy principle, right?
Like like just kind of push back against it as either
Something of of of trivial trivial interest or, you know
A a tautology that's that's of no value and we talked about some of this too in our in our intros
So like what if any what do you think the biggest misconceptions are
About the free energy principle and or
Act of inference that that really acts, you know, potentially just intellectual barriers to the adoption of the technology
And this is your paper. I believe is, you know, the map fallacy
fallacy, right, which is this
this enduring kind of, um
difficulty in understanding that
A system can can follow these dynamics. Okay, it can it can
It can behave as if it can behave as if
it has
Beliefs right about the world and a model about the world and it can behave
In those ways, um, and it's okay to point that out like it's okay to say yes
This thing is behaving as if it has beliefs. I'm not literally saying that it's like a conscious mind
You know that has has beliefs. What we're saying is that
If it continues to exist, it must have have these behaviors so that it doesn't dissipate into equilibrium
Right, so like your finger on one of the products
Yeah, I think that that's really
Maybe the the the most
Important confusion that people have is they think of the free energy principle as some part of like philosophy or metaphysics
But it's not metaphysics. It's just physics. It's physics physics
Uh, it's mathematical physics in some sense. Uh, so, you know, uh
This isn't really a statement about the way that how how things really are in some kind of deep
Kind of philosophical sense
It's about how we can come to know them given the kind of the kinds of modeling tools that we can deploy
Uh, you know, so it there there is this kind of deflationary aspect to the free energy principle
Like it it is a way of writing down
Canonical models for the dynamics of systems that we find interesting given our state of knowledge about it
It's it's not it's not necessarily going to tell you about the ultimate nature of mind or something like that
Unless you take a super deflationary approach and you think that physics in at the end of the day
We'll be able to tell us everything we need to know about the mind
Uh, so yeah, what what makes this do you think that?
um
Yeah
The the the physicist in me wants to say yes the philosopher in me wants to say there are still a few issues that we
need to sort out
Like, uh, you know, where does consciousness come from but we're working on it again using the free energy principle
I think one of the things that makes this difficult is the the free energy principle
is um
ontological so it's about
things
But it's not
Metaphysical in the sense that it's not about like these fundamental philosophical principles
That tell you about thing this it is a it is a theory of
everything
Without being a theory of everything. Do you see what I mean? Um
Right. Well, I think you hit upon this earlier, which is um, I don't know if it's the only example
I but as far as I know it's the only one I know of an example that directly ties
physics to
To inference or to you know, belief updating like this. This is the first example that
That that I know of so like you just said, you know, it is it is a physics
principle and it just so happens to correspond to
Bayesian updating that's right. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, or approximate Bayesian variational stuff
Which is to say basically the same thing. Um, I'm I'm being a bit cautious here because I don't
for those of you who uh
In our audience follow me on twitter. You'll know that I have
To put it diplomatically some reservations about some of the recent literature
That's been published on the free energy principle. I think a lot of the issues with the literature is sociological
um, it's you know, and
It's difficult to talk about this without seeming like
you know
a bit like
deprecating or
negative, but like a lot of this work was
Written, especially the critical work was written by early career researchers
um, who did not necessarily have the
formal
Familiarity with the free energy principle that might have been required. So I mean look
For example, um, I I heard a lot, you know circa 2017 2018 2019
you know, uh
People say well, you know, the free energy principle can't be true because uh, some systems maximize
Their entropy, right? They they move towards more entropic states
uh
Now from the from the perspective of our conversation that might seem nonsensical because we've just spent like, you know
About an hour and a half talking about how the free energy principle is a way to write down maximum entropy
But um, yeah, the the the free energy principle says something very specific
Right, it says that if I maximize the entropy of my beliefs then I can keep the thermodynamic entropy of my physical states at bay
But these kind of sophisticated kind of hinge statements are not necessarily fully appreciated
So it can lead some people to right just say false things about the free energy principle
Um, well, you just you just made another statement that I don't I don't know that it's hinge, but it requires
Paying careful attention. You said something to the effect of you know, the free energy principle
Is a theory of all things, but it's not a theory of everything
And and I think and the way I interpreted you there was to say that like
The free energy principle applies to all things, but it doesn't necessarily tell you everything about all things
That's right. Right. Is that is that what you meant?
Yeah, and um, you know, like, uh, I think that there there are some states in the fairs
uh
That are just not
That are not directly free energy principle adjacent
So I still don't know why you know the so-called hard problem of consciousness, right? Why does
Red feel like red? Why does a middle C sound like a middle C?
But it also seems to act as a kind of lightning rod that can get attracts, you know
multidisciplinary criticism
Let's let's say it that that way and in fact, um
You know, so we we over the course of it's kind of studying up on the free energy principle
You know, we've we've read critiques, right?
Of it, you know, so for example, um those by Beal and and others and I'm wondering like what you think about
The criticisms of it, you know, do you do you find validity in them?
Do you find do you find the quality of the criticisms to be good?
Has has the FEP just moved on from it? Like what's what's kind of the state of the art if you will of
Of criticism of the of the FEP. Well, the first thing to say is that we appreciate
the critical engagement
That the free energy principle has received and you know, like any good scientific framework
It stands to benefit from serious
adversarial engagement
Uh, I think the quality of criticisms varies quite widely in the literature
So to take the example of you know, Beal and colleagues
Uh, I I think the paper you're referring to is a technical critique of some parts of the free energy principle. Yeah
Uh, it it was a very I think important paper when it came out. Uh, it pointed out some of the um inconsistencies
Uh in the way that the free energy principle had been formalized circa
2012 2013 or so
um, and I mean since then, uh, the mathematics has been
Corrected. Um, and I think we've moved uh beyond the criticism. I I have this directly from martin beal himself
He says, you know, my paper the the lesson to draw from this paper is that you should incite
Friston's 2013 paper life as we know it to make claims about the free energy principle, which is fair
Um on the flip side, I would say that we have moved
Beyond the formulation as it was as it stood in 2013
One thing to keep in mind is that uh, so the f.e.p. Is sort of like brain physics or mind physics depending on how you want to think about it
And uh physics and mathematics have a strained relationship
That I think is important to think about so, um
The history of uh, you know developments in physics often, uh goes as follows
A physicist, um, you know borrows some tools from mathematicians more or less, uh, you know rigorously
Applies the tool to explain a bunch of interesting phenomena
Uh, but then that leaves mathematicians wanting. Um, so for example, you know, uh, the dirac delta function
Uh was introduced in the context of quantum mechanics
Uh, and the the delta function is this weird probability function, uh that concentrates all of the probability mass under one outcome
Uh, so you got like basically a probability of one for one outcome and then zero everywhere else
When dirac introduced, uh, this measure into the literature statisticians were not pleased
It just didn't seem to them to be a well behaved object
And it took a couple of decades of work in mathematics and statistics to make sense of and kind of tame, uh
You know the dirac measure
And uh, yeah, you often get this you can think of a lot of recent the history of recent theoretical physics as this kind of back and forth
between like sloppy
Mathematical physics that gets then tightened by uh, some rigorous mathematical work
And I think you know, we're in a kind of similar back and forth here
Um, where you know, the f.e.p. Was effectively developed as a kind of brain physics or math physics
And uh, what we are witnessing now is an attempt to
Rederive all of the core theorems in terms of more well established mathematics
And it effectively recapturing all of the core intuitions
But within a kind of mathematical or receptacle that uh, you know passes the
mathematical smell test as it were
But like what's interesting too about uh, the the dirac delta function and correct me if i'm wrong here
But I think um, I don't know if it was the first but it definitely helped to push along
What later became known as generalized functions, right? So so that at least spurred
Some significant, you know work and research in mathematics, right? Oh, absolutely
And the f.e.p. Is similar in the you know, we're now working out
You know some some cool stuff having to do with you know, generalized coordinates
And uh things like maximum caliber, which are which is like maximum entropy but over paths
And all of this investigation is in effect opened up by the free energy principle
And by the can of worms
So I've never heard I've never heard of maximum caliber, but let me see if I can guess what that is
So if you have paths going through, you know, some state space, I guess it's like the
the you know
The uh, the cross section the cross sectional area the paths that they traverse or or what it's it's more like um
Well, it's similar to that but you're what you're basically doing is uh, you're considering
um
The entropy not of individual states, but of the entire paths throughout the system
So it's it's actually the entropy of the whole path
Okay, and so yeah, uh, it's an extension of uh, you know, james's principle of maximum entropy
But in such a way that uh, we can talk about like the counterfactual histories of the system
That is like all of the different paths that it can take through its state space
In terms of their entropy and then the principle of maximum caliber
Is that the the real path is the one that maximizes entropy?
So it's not just about finding yourself in a in a low entropy configuration
It's about finding yourself along a path that has has the lowest entropy
Yeah, and and this uh turns out to be important
Um, because the the free energy principle, uh
evinces all of these interesting dualities
Uh to the space that james is describing
Um, so in the literature there are roughly speaking two main families of application of the free energy principle
Uh, the so-called density dynamics formulation
Uh, and the uh path based or path integral formulation
In the density dynamics formulation, what you're considering is uh states and how surprising those states
are per se, so uh
When you're trying to talk about that what you do is you appeal to this construct called a generative model
Um, and the generative model is basically a joint probability density and what it describes is the relations of dependence
Uh between the variables
in the flow or dynamics of a system and so in the
density dynamics formulation
What what the surprise is about like I was saying is how implausible is some configuration of states of the system
So this is different from the
From the path based formulation
In the path based formulation you're considering the trajectories of system over time
and given the kind of thing
That uh, you are for example
Then you're going to have an inertial path through your system
Just given the kind of thing that you are, you know
I'm the kind of thing that wakes up at 6 a.m
And has some coffee and then gets progressively more tired and then goes to bed at like 9 or 10 and then you you know me so well
So if you're that kind of thing then there is a characteristic or inertial path that you'll take
And in the path integral formulation the surprise will score is the deviation from the inertial path
So, uh, yeah, these are slightly different objects and you can think about
