contribute to making this area more useful technologically and more accessible empirically.
But at least we have a picture of how these different areas fit together.
So that's it thank you very much for participating in this class.
Andrew will be doing
this.
Sorry could you just repeat the last like 30 seconds from Andrew will be
Chris?
Awesome. I don't know if I didn't get that kick up.
Andrew will be his last discussion session on Saturday the 20th of October at the usual time
8 a.m. Pacific time and the interactive Q&A is open. I really appreciate your questions. I try to
answer them and thank you very much. Awesome. Can I ask a question or do you want to call it here?
Sure go ahead. All right.
Inks wrote, Chris spoke last time introducing the mechanisms of scale transition.
I'll read your question then I'll fix the cropping on the live stream. Chris spoke last
time introducing the mechanisms of scale transition of these essentially semantic theories
about how one scale embeds in another scale. I would love to learn more about this especially
in terms of natural language semantics and human cognition semantics versus machine learning.
Wow well that's a that's a very good question.
I think that's a very relevant question given the sorts of machine learning that we see deployed
in systems like chat GPT and especially as these systems start to associate language with images
for example and as such systems are embedded in robotic systems that can actually move around
in the world and interact with real objects. I think one of the one of the key questions in
natural language semantics is to what extent does it depend on reference? To what extent
do the meanings we attach to words or the usages that we allow for words depend on
our ability to connect words to external objects and to what extent do those abilities
rely on connections between words themselves? So if you think of an LLM like chat GPT by itself
it's just a statistical model of relationships between words as used in some corpus of text which
is large of course but we can debate its representativeness and so that's a model of semantics
that's entirely self-contained it's entirely relations between different pieces of language
whereas when we start to connect those words statistics to images or better yet to actual
objects that are interacted with not just visually but haptically for example by a robot
they start to be connected to external reference and that transition I think is going to be very
very interesting to watch and it's just starting so we all have ringside seats on an incredible
experiment in semantics and so that would be my response really to that question is
keep your eyes on this experiment and see how it goes because it's bound to tell us something about
how semantics really works and I suspect that there will be enormous opportunity to start
relating the results of that experiment to what we see in in developmental psychology for example.
Wow awesome all right Tucker asks areas of macroscopic quantum mediated phenomena in
biology that get Chris Fields excited? I think the one that excites me the most
right now is just this question of how cells are managing to do the information processing that
they're doing and how much of it they can accomplish or I think the right way to put it is
how can they get away with so little classical information and I don't think we have the cell
biology yet to answer that question but I think asking the question may help us design the right
kinds of cell biology to look for an answer and our cell biology has been organized around the idea
that the structures that we see are essentially static that they're classical
and that they're constructed in a way that's thermodynamically irreversible
but if we think of what we measure as not necessarily reflecting a static structure
I think we'll start to conceptualize it differently and build models of it differently.
I mean clearly when we look at things like protein structure we're looking at snapshots
of something that's very dynamic and when we look in a chemistry textbook and we see you know
pictures of this confirmation that changes to that confirmation we think of those as static
stable structures that that's kind of a switch but it's not actually a switch the way a light
switch is it's a much more dynamic process and the kinds of molecular dynamic simulations that
allow you to study that process are incredibly complicated and time expensive and uncertain
and resolution problems and other things but I think thinking of these as
kind of fluid reversible processes is going to change the way we think about them.
That's a great point and it reminds me of the more physics based way of thinking about the
paths that could happen between observations or the statistics based way of samples of a
dynamical process and in biology we know that even if we take a snapshot okay this organism is
one centimeter today it's two centimeters tomorrow something changed so we know there
was a developmental process then we know there's an ecological process and then there's an evolutionary
context eco-evo-devo and then from that more biological understanding of contextual developing
organisms all of these different biological phenomena actually help us expand our space
of measurements and analysis for material that on one hand some people may have called inanimate
but then they have their own dynamics different time scales and so bringing some of those
like the challenges of measuring and observing intervening in historical and biological
things gives us a big understanding even on measuring and summarizing analyzing
ensembles or scales that that don't immediately appear to have that kind of
historicity like pieces of silicon or carbon.
Yeah that's well put and I think we have the same problem as we go up in scale also.
We tend not to think of things like societies as living systems
but in one sense they clearly are and to the extent that we can think of these structures
that are much larger than we are individually as living systems cognitive systems etc I think
we'll understand their dynamics better. Okay final question upcycle club wrote
how can a quantum system detect and respond to quantum context shifts switches which are
changes in the measurement basis or the entanglement structure of the system?
Well the answer here is is simple and not very informative it's by making measurements
which is all that quantum systems can actually do and making measurements that follow probing actions
that try to push the boundaries of the model of a context.
You know when when having this discussion I I always like to go back to the frame problem
in artificial intelligence which is the problem
formulated in the late 60s of predicting what what won't change as the result of an action
so it started the inverse of the problem of predicting the side effects
and if you could predict all of the side effects you can predict what doesn't change so it's
equivalent to the question of predicting all the side effects and context change is a side effect
and it's often an unobserved and maybe unobservable side effect but if you have a model
that says I'm working in this context then you can intentionally probe the boundaries of that model
and see if you can actually alter the context you're in as a way of discovering what context you're in
and no humans do that in social settings all the time
but I I think this is something that we need to to think about happening at many different scales
I suspect that cells are doing this all the time we just don't know how
there's so much to say there it just makes me think of the the paradox
or the tension between expecting the expected expecting the unexpected
and life needing to expect both of that right so thank you Chris it's been an amazing lecture
series many people in the live chat are very appreciative and and we'll look forward to
their submitted questions and their participation in the final discussion coming soon so thank you
Chris till next time okay and thank you all bye ciao
you
