Cell division is incredibly expensive when it comes to energy. So if you take that energy
and apply it not to cell division, but to protecting the stem cells,
you can allow the stem cell population to expand. And that's what these other
simulations show. The blue cells are somatic cells that have very varying ability to protect the
stem cells. And if they're fairly good at protection and they're fairly hard to kill
down in the right bottom quadrant, you can actually get a population expanding well into
the highly lethal part of the environment. So this shows you the FEP in action.
What the stem cells are doing is constructing a very predictable neighborhood around themselves
in the environment by dividing to make progeny that don't themselves divide, that just
sit there and help protect the stem cells. So the stem cells are now living in a safer,
more predictable environment. And that allows them to invade more and more of their physical
environment by having this fairly benign informational environment. So this is the FEP in
action, driving the expansion of life at the expense of the physical environment.
So that lets us go back to this question that was raised last time about the mechanism
of these scale transitions that we see ubiquitously in life. Life gets bigger and bigger
as time goes on phytogenetically and as time goes on developmentally. We start with some
molecular pathways that somehow get assembled into a cell. That's the origin of life question.
How does that happen? And about 2 billion years later cells start to group together to make
multi-cellular organisms. Now bacteria group together to make facultative multi-cellular
systems like microbial mats 3 billion years ago, very, very early on. But we don't see the emergence
of obligate multi-cellulars until much, much later before the Cambrian explosion, but still
less than a billion years ago. And from there things get more complicated very quickly. So
one has large multi-cellular organisms. They develop complicated social relations
that probably first emerged with social insects but are certainly well developed in invertebrates
including in mammals. Organisms group together in very complex ecosystems and recall here that
it's now known that all multi-cellular organisms have obligate microbial symbionts. So all of our
bodies are in fact very complex ecosystems populated by many, many different species of bacteria.
And that's true not just for us but for trees and insects and worms and sponges and everything else.
So
organisms from a body point of view are themselves ecosystems and organisms
organize themselves into ecosystems and these ecosystems come into contact
across the entire biosphere. So process is as simple as the wind
disperse organisms as small as bacteria all over the planet. So this scaling of life toward
larger and larger organizational structures is in a sense the major thing for biology to explain.
And the hypothesis that we floated last time was that this transition from very small scales
to very large scales uses the same mechanism over and over again or a mechanism that has
the same structure over and over again. So the the renormalization group is is trivial
basically it's this it's just the identity operating at different scales
or mapping from one scale to the next. So the question is can we can we approach this in any
way? Does this make sense? And to try to make sense of it we can go to the the one real developed
theory that we have in biology which has been formulated by Dawkins and others as universal
Darwinism. This is just kind of an abstraction of the of the modern synthesis between Darwinian
evolution and genetics. But universal Darwinism is incredibly simple it it's and very obvious it
says if you have systems and they can copy each other they can copy themselves and the copies
can diversify. Then if you want to know what's going to happen at the population level
what you will find is the systems that copy themselves and diversify most efficiently
will win because there'll be more of them so they end up dominating the population.
And winning gets called natural selection but natural selection is not an extra part of the
Darwinian process it's just the outcome of efficiency of the systems that copy themselves
most efficiently coming to dominate any population. So there's no sort of kind of
hand of God or whatever reaching down and selecting some organisms and not others.
And of course when Darwin put the idea of natural selection together
he was he was thinking very explicitly of the analogy of a gardener or a farmer
selecting the the crops or the animals or whatever that that the gardener liked best
and keeping those and that's where this selection metaphor comes from. But there's no real process
of selection in evolution by natural selection it's just copying and diversifying.
But this clearly is just the outline of what a real mechanistic theory would be
because we need to have a story about what copying is and what diversifying is
and what efficiently means. And in particular to address the question that we raised a couple
of slides ago we need to know whether these mechanisms are the same or at least isomorphic
of the same form at different scales. So that's what I want to talk about for the next little bit.
Let's start with copying.
Up until the 70s copying in biology really meant DNA replication
and to some extent cell division but the focus in evolutionary theory was on DNA replication.
And in the 70s it was realized that whole genes could be duplicated so whole genes could be copied
and then shortly after that it was realized that particularly in prokaryotes where genes
functionally related genes are next to each other and chromosomes often
in what are called operons that operons could be duplicated and so entire pathways could be
duplicated. And as genomes began to be sequenced and structures of genomes were understood
it became clear that genomes could be copied. And of course we have two copies in each of
our cells with the exception of red blood cells of our complete genome but some plants for example
have six or eight or even more copies of their genome in each of their cells.
So there's large-scale genome duplication. Cell division is clonal duplication of cells,
organismal reproduction works by cell division in all known systems.
Colonies or societies of organisms reproduce themselves in part through cultural transmission
and entire niches reproduce themselves. For example in processes like
forest evolution or desertification or even urbanization we see humans reproducing the
same sorts of niches in city after city for example. So these forms of copying
have the kind of hierarchical dependencies that one might expect. So to duplicate pathways
you have to duplicate genes. To duplicate cells you have to duplicate the genome.
To duplicate organisms you have to duplicate cells. And this suggests that this copying operation
is indeed scale free. That each level, the copying operation at each level enables the
copying operation at the next level. Now with diversification we see much the same thing.
In the early days of the modern synthesis and still in the work of people like Richard Dawkins
diversification is generally thought of as random. So mutation for example is thought of as random.
And here I have Barbara McClintock who is kind of the hero of non-randomness
in doggedly over decades pointing out that much of genome diversification is not random at all.
And that genomes actively diversify by moving whole clusters of genes around
and duplicating them or just changing their positions so that they're under the influence
of different local control. So at the gene and genome level you have active diversification
by various processes. Enzomatic processes as McClintock showed us transposed on
mediated mechanisms which are enzymatic at the bottom.
Cells actively diversified by lots of different mechanisms and in the 70s
Carl Lowe's was in part personally responsible for pointing out that in the microbial world
there's a lot of horizontal gene transfer and again no one believed him for quite a while.
But now it's broadly accepted that microbes exchange DNA very frequently and across
large distances phylogenetically and this is how things like microbial
resistance to antibiotics spread so quickly or one way that it spreads so quickly.
And it's a tremendous agent of essentially speciation to the extent that that even makes
any sense in the microbial world. Of course in our cells we have functional differentiation.
As mentioned earlier there are lots of symbiotic interactions that lead to diversification in
cells by radically altering their local environments and of course sex is a mechanism for diversification.
Organisms actively diversify in many different ways the most obvious one is just by moving around
by moving to a different environment. The organism is exposed to different inputs and
is allowed different outputs and so it can it can move into a different direction
morphologically genetically etc. Organisms can regulate their own evolvability by
altering things like DNA repair systems or activating transposons.
Again these are sorts of things that
went very much against the grain when they were first discovered but are now pretty well accepted.
And of course organisms can learn and so can diversify their behavior by diversifying
their computational capabilities. And social groups of course actively diversify in many
different ways and organisms are increasingly non-human organisms are increasingly regarded
as having cultures that they pass on intergenerationally by intergenerational learning
and can exchange with with other groups. So diversification is active and occurs at every scale
and again diversity although this is a bit less clear than in the case of copying
diversification mechanisms at one scale enable diversification mechanisms at other scales.
So for example transposon mediated mechanisms enable horizontal gene transfer in microorganisms.
And the FEP tells us that efficiency is actually about intelligence
because the FEP drives systems to build good models of their environments or the behavior of
their environments. And what a good model that's a system do is reach a single goal by many different
means because it allows in a sense planning and it allows flexibility and adaptability.
And I put William James here on this slide because he was the first as far as I know to define
intelligence as this ability to use different means to reach the same goal. Now in evolution
that's that's long been known and it's called convergent evolution when you see two lineages
adapting to a single environment with very different genetics and very different morphologies.
And often the organisms will end up with similar morphologies that work well in that environment
but very different genetics and very different biochemistry.
So throughout evolution we see this phenomenon of functional convergence
balancing structural divergence at many many different levels. So we have multiple genes for
very similar proteins. We have multiple pathways that do more or less the same thing.
We have different cell types that support the same basic functions. We have tissues that have
that are fairly different but that have the same functions for example eyes and different
kinds of organisms that allow vision but have very different structure. And of course we have
functional convergence in social relations. And if we look at how cells interact traditional
evolutionary theory really focuses on competition but we now know that cells cooperate that they
exchange resources in various ways even across vast differences in phylogeny for example the
interchange between plants and fungi or between bacteria and us. We know that cells in a sense
persuade each other by secreting things like hormones that cause other cells to do different
things. Cells deceive each other for example microbes that are trying to escape the immune
system and cells coerce each other cells even kill each other and they detect for example genetic
defects. So these sorts of social and economic and even political ideas are useful for describing
living systems from the level of cells on up. They were developed in social settings
to describe what goes on in human societies and then extended to other animals and now it's very
clear that they extend to individual cells. So when we think about social intelligence
we can think about social intelligence even at the level of individual cells and we see these
sorts of competition, cooperation, resource exchange etc even at the level of microbial
mats so biological structures that are three billion years old. Now of course intelligence
is necessary but it's not sufficient for being selected. It won't protect you from
impacts of asteroids that happen to land on your planet which has happened often in the
evolution of the earth and we're now trying to figure out how to predict and prevent such things
but it's you know who knows whether whether we'll be successful at that
but this intelligence is necessary when it's viewed in this FEP sort of way. Intelligence
is what lets you build models that enable you to predict the environment.
So where does this leave us? By thinking of evolutionary theory in terms of scale free
mechanisms we seem to have a picture in which we start with quantum systems with a certain
level of complexity and the FEP actually gives us scale free biology or something very close
to scale free biology and that's very interesting because the FEP of course is a generic principle
it just says that systems do what they need to do to keep existing
and this way of thinking gives us some predictions.
One is that we'll find compartmentalized problem solving everywhere
because the FEP drives compartmentalization and the reason is just non-commutativity of
measurement processes. It predicts that we'll see hierarchical organization everywhere
in the same way we did on that first compartmentalization slide where once you have a number
of compartments you need a meta compartment that if nothing else distributes free energy
so some sort of very basic attention system and we see attention systems of course throughout
biology. It predicts that living systems will have very limited classical data structures
so since they have to write classical data on their boundaries and their boundaries are
much smaller than they are then they'll and because writing classical data is expensive
that living systems will tend to use as little classical data as they can get away with
since classical data is needed for thermodynamic irreversibility
where we see thermodynamic irreversibility that's where we look for classical data.
We saw that organisms will be able to detect time first before they can detect space
so we can expect organisms to have clocks even before they can represent space
and of course we see things like diurnal variation throughout biology
and finally the the FEP predicts this asymptotic collapse of separability
back to entanglement so it predicts that living systems will eventually degrade
and become indistinguishable from their environments and we know that happens at the cell
level and the individual organism level you know we call it death. So the FEP seems to give us a
lot of the features of biology and it gives us these features in a scale-free way and it derives
them from this very basic physics. So where does that leave us? I think it leaves us here with a
challenge not just to thinking about the FEP which is what this course has been about
but to quantum information theory in general
and that challenge is to evolve from the kind of conceptual and theoretical utility
that we've been discussing in this course and which is is very well developed in the physics
community to some sorts of empirical and technological utility
and I've listed three areas here where QIT is very active, one in quantum gravity and cosmology
and you're probably familiar with things like string theory that sort of
barely famously seemed not to be empirically testable and the quantum gravity community is
enormous of many thousands of people working in this area but coming up with theories that could be
tested empirically at the scales that we can actually do experiments so at accessible energy
scales for example has proved to be very difficult. So this is a real challenge to the field is somehow
getting not just to empirical testability but to some sort of technological utility
and you can imagine that if the main prediction of quantum gravity is that spacetime is emergent
that there could be enormous utility in that
some ability to manipulate the way spacetime emerges.
The second area of course is is quantum information and computing and here massive resources are being
put into technological utility and I think it's reasonable to expect that we'll have useful
quantum computers within a generation at any rate. So there I think the field is going quite well
and the last area of what we've talked about here is quantum biochemistry and biology and
this I think is an area with enormous practice of promise that maybe some of you will actually
