Hello and welcome everyone. It is October 12th, 2023, and we are in the final lecture,
session 6 in Physics is Information Processing with Chris Fields. So Chris, thank you for
this journey. Exciting to get to this final lecture, which will be followed only by the
last discussion for this go-around, so it's really awesome. And to you for this lecture.
Thank you Daniel, and welcome everyone to this last session that I'll be doing
with a focus on biology. And just to give a brief review as usual, we've focused in this course
on generic quantum systems, by which I mean just any quantum system that has some number of degrees
of freedom. And we really haven't made any assumptions about these systems other than the
assumption that both interacting partners have sufficient degrees of freedom that they can be
considered separable. So their boundary is small with respect to the total size of each of the
interacting systems. And I want to emphasize again that the approach we've taken is completely
topological, so we haven't assumed anything about embedding in space. And as we've characterized
these systems, we focused really on two things. One, the amount of information that the two systems
can exchange, and that amount is determined by the size of their boundary. It's determined by
this number N, which is the Hilbert space dimension of the boundary. And as we've discussed now on
several of the sessions, we can think of this boundary as a collection of N qubits, via which
the two systems A and B communicate. The other feature of the interaction on which we focused
is the reference frames that are used by the two systems to interact with this set of qubits.
And it's these reference frames that assign the information that flows between A and B
meaning or functional significance or actionability or however you want to
refer to the idea that when a system gets some information, it does something useful with it.
So those are very generic kinds of ways of characterizing an interaction.
You can think of it as a qualitative characterization, the semantics of the information,
and a quantitative characterization, the amount of information. But other than that,
we've left the nature of these systems open. And this characterization allowed us to reformulate
the free energy principle in quantum information theoretic terms as the principle that interacting
systems behave in a way that will asymptotically align their reference frames. And we saw that
full alignment of reference frames is equivalent to entanglement. So the FEP drives systems toward
entanglement, which is not surprising because that's what happens to generic quantum systems.
They may start out separable, but if they interact long enough, they'll become entangled.
So we've had a discussion that is really very generic.
Now, we showed a couple of sessions ago that under these very generic assumptions,
we got some interesting outcomes. And one is that if systems have sufficient degrees of freedom,
under the action of the FEP, they will be driven toward making
a diverse set of measurements of their environment because they're trying to get
information about it so that they can predict what it's going to do.
And that as they add ways of making measurements, they'll come up against
non-commutativity of their measurements. And this may be due to intrinsic mathematical
facts about their measurements, and it may just be due to their limited supply of free energy.
So either way, what this induces is compartmentalization and the requirement for internal classical
communication on internal boundaries. So I just wanted to reemphasize that this is a result of
basic physics, and we see compartmentalization, of course, ubiquitously in biology.
But this suggests to us that features of biology that are very familiar
actually follow from fairly deep physics, and compartmentalization is one of them.
We then talked last time about space and time and the computational requirements
of on any system that is able to perceive an external clock or perceive an external spatial
layout. And we discussed this these from a very kind of developmental psychology point of view.
We discussed it using essentially the kinds of terms on the right here, as opposed to
the kind of language that's much more technical and mathematical that's used in physics to
derive space time as emergent from information transactions.
But we at least hypothesized that both of these are ways of getting to the same sense of emergent
space time. And one important outcome of this discussion was that systems can perceive external
clocks. So external periodic behavior with fewer computational resources. So before they're able
to perceive spatial layouts. And we'll get back to this later. So organisms and maybe other
complex systems seem to manage a collection of capabilities that are all mutually dependent.
So memory depends on having layouts of persistent things that can be distinguished.
So it depends on space. And it certainly depends on time.
Space gives structure to persistent objects. Memory allows you to identify persistent objects.
And objects in turn give structure to space by being located in different places.
And objects enable the fundamental requirement for memory, which is some form of error correction.
So that one has enough redundancy in the memory to check to see whether a memory has been degraded.
So organisms seem to manage a physically very important process, which is the use of space time
and memory as a basis for cognition. You'll recognize these four functions that are mutually
interdependent as underlying complex cognition across the board. And you can't really do complex
cognition unless you have these capabilities. So today we're going to put some of these things
together in a discussion of biology and end by looking forward to future directions,
not just in biology, but in all of quantum information theory.
So let's talk about biological systems, living systems, which of course includes us,
but also includes all other organisms and communities of organisms and so forth at multiple scales.
And I want to put forward a fairly radical hypothesis that living systems are just generic
quantum systems that the FEP has driven to a high level of computational complexity.
So what does this really say? It suggests that living systems are just quantum systems
that have enough degrees of freedom and a sufficiently complicated internal dynamics
that the FEP, by requiring them to predict what their environment is going to do next,
has driven them to make complicated measurements and complicated inferences on the basis of those
measurements that enable fairly complicated actions on the environment. So these are systems
that you would characterize as computers, essentially information processing systems,
with a high degree of computational capability. Now this is clearly as much a philosophical
hypothesis as an empirical hypothesis, and that's due in part to the fact that we don't
really have a good definition of what a living system is. We can just point and say, you know,
that's a living system and that thing over there isn't. But beyond that, we don't have much of the
theory. And of course, people have worked on a theory of what is life for decades,
but there's not a lot of agreement. And so this is in a sense a definitional
kind of hypothesis. And we test such kinds of hypothesis by seeing if they're useful conceptually
to help us understand what living systems are doing. Now as soon as we put forward something
like this, inevitably the question comes up, are living systems really quantum systems?
Or are they classical in some intrinsic sense? And this question is really an artifact of two
things. One, the continuing association between quantum systems and microscopic systems,
which is of course traditional. Quantum theory was developed to deal with microscopic phenomena.
It was first tested as a theory of microscopic phenomena. And it's only in the past couple
of decades that quantum theory is being applied to big things, to cosmology, for example.
So there's a long tradition of association between quantum and microscopic and living
systems are mesoscopic, much bigger than atoms, bigger than molecules. And they're not nearly
as big as cosmological systems. So they're somewhere in between. And those systems have
traditionally been regarded as classical. And even chemistry, even biochemistry, is still taught
in a very classical way. So we're not used to thinking of these things as quantum systems.
But at least in the approach we've taken in this course, all physical systems are quantum systems
and classical information exists only on boundaries, only on boundaries between systems.
And it only describes their interaction. And I want to emphasize, I mean, I've said it before,
but since this is the last class, I want to say it again, that this is not a universally held view.
It's a view that's becoming more common. And I think a generation from now will probably be
the dominant view of things. But it's not fair to say that it's the dominant view now.
It's, I think, quite fair to say that it's a view on the rise, especially in the quantum
information and quantum gravity communities. But from a strict empirical perspective,
we know a number of things. We know that accurate molecular dynamics calculations
require quantum theory. We know that a lot of biologically important molecular processes
use quantum coherence. We know that things like hydrogen bonding can only be understood
using quantum theory. We know that cellular free energy budgets are way too small to support
fully classical information processing. If we think of information processing in terms of what
proteins are doing or what other molecules are doing in terms of changing shape, we know that
shape changes in proteins and other molecules underlie all cellular information processing.
So if we think of them as actually implementing cellular information processing, we have way
more information processing than could be funded classically. And finally, we know that human
cognition exhibits contextuality. So human cognition uses quantum coherence. It's not
a classically, a classical causal process in all cases. But this is still a very nascent field.
And it's a field with a lot of potential. And I think, again, a generation from now,
quantum biology is going to be regarded as a very mainstream endeavor,
even though it's something of a small emerging field now. And I'll just show you one picture
in support of this third point. This is a plot of measured free energy usage converted to
numbers of bits processed at one kilohertz, or a number of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells,
all that I could find a few years ago that had good teleometric measurements,
versus the log of their area, their membrane surface area. And the thing to note here is that
these cells are processing classical information at pretty low rates, kilohertz to gigahertz rates
for a thousand bits at a time. And we know that a lot more is happening in cells than that.
Cells have many more than a thousand proteins, and those proteins are all moving all the time.
And if that motion is processing information, then there's not nearly enough classical,
not nearly enough thermodynamic power to power all of that information processing.
So let's now talk a little bit about life and living systems, and what they look like.
Here's a view of living systems from the point of view of genome diversity. This is a few years old,
so it's out of date by now. But it tells us a lot qualitatively.
It tells us that almost all genome diversity is microbial, that the sorts of organisms that
we're familiar with, medium-sized organisms like us, animals and plants, have only a tiny amount
of genome diversity. So we think of ourselves as pretty diverse. We think of ourselves as quite
different from other animals, from flies or worms or sponges or something like that.
But in fact, we're not all that different from them. We share many, many proteins with all of
those other organisms. We share the same cellular organization and so forth. We're not, in fact,
all that different from plants. And we're much more similar to the fungi than to the plants.
So we get a very biased view of genome diversity when we just look at familiar, large types of
living systems. Most genome diversity is buried down there in the microbial world.
This isn't the only way we can look at life as a diverse set of organisms. We can also look at it
in terms of a cell lineage. The fact that we're all related at the DNA level
tells us that we're all descendants of a common ancestor, which is usually called Luca, the last
universal common ancestor. And Luca is generally modeled as being a cell, more or less like a
bacterial cell, so fairly simple with not very many pathways, with maybe a DNA genome. And if Luca
didn't have one, then they arose fairly shortly thereafter because all organisms that we know
of have DNA genomes. But the point of looking at life as a lineage is that we get a diagram
that looks very much like the cell lineage from an embryological situation, much like the cell
lineage of our own bodies growing from a fertilized egg. And in particular, looking at life as a
lineage shows us that not only do we share DNA with all other organisms, we actually share a
membrane, a cytoplasm, that's continuous in time all the way back to Luca. And so continuous in
time between us and bacteria. So if you look at life this way, you realize that life is in a sense
all one organism, all one connected structure that's developed over time through division, cell
division. And so we're very closely related to all other parts of life in the same way that
different cells in our bodies are closely related to each other. The time span's just longer, I mean
here the time span's three and a half or four billion years between us and Luca. These lineages
have been diverging for that long, but they're still continuous. And in particular,
they form a continuous cell membrane. So when you think of life in this way, we realize that we are
reasoning from just one example when we think about terrestrial life. And this strongly limits
what we can say about living systems, what we can say about biology, that we really only have
one example, the lineage that descends from Luca here on earth. And at some point we may have more
examples, and there's certainly groups working on artificial organisms that aren't part of this
lineage, that are constructed from parts derived from this lineage, but aren't members of this
lineage themselves. And that may tell us something new about life. But if we think of life this way,
we see something very important, which is that as life grows, its boundary gets bigger.
And since the boundary of a system constitutes its informational environment,
its dimension getting bigger means that more information flows into it from its environment,
and more information flows out of it into its environment. So as life develops from Luca,
it gets a larger and larger informational environment, and this dimension of its
boundary grows and grows. Now what that means if you go back to our original picture of two
interacting systems, is that the number of the dimensionality of the physical environment is
decreasing. And we think of the physical environment as increasing in size, we have the expanding
universe and all that. But what's increasing in size is space. And if space is emergent,
then that increase is not a real increase in degrees of freedom. What we're really interested in is
the Hilbert space of the physical environment as distinct from the Hilbert space of life.
And as life gets bigger, it literally, quite literally eats the physical environment and
it turns it into more life. So there's less physical environment around. So the trajectory
of life is toward a bigger informational environment, a smaller physical environment.
And as the physical environment gets smaller, you might imagine it gets easier to predict.
And as the informational environment gets bigger, you have more information with
which to predict the behavior of the physical environment. So this all hangs together very
nicely with the free energy principle. Here's another picture of this same thing.
If we start with some boundary here on the left labeled B around some system
labeled S and it's embedded in an environment E, then as S makes copies of itself,
through some process like cell division, then it starts to fill up more of E. It's actually
converting degrees of freedom of E into degrees of freedom of its copies that it's made of itself.
And if we think of some larger boundary drawn somewhere in E, here on the right side, I've
labeled that B prime. What happens is that B prime gets slowly filled up with copies of S
and it starts to look like a large organism. And that's what life is doing in the physical
environment. It's making a bigger boundary for itself at the expensive degrees of freedom of
its physical environment. So we can ask, what drives this process? Why is life doing this?
Why is it making copies of itself? And the answer to that question, at least one answer
to that question, is the free energy principle drives it to do this. And I'll just show you
some simulations from several years ago of a cell population in this upper left panel. The
green cells are stem cells that divide and they've been embedded in an environment that's safe on
the left side and 100% lethal on the right side. So they're embedded in an environment that's
that's conducive to life on one side and very dangerous as you get toward the middle.
And the purpose of these simulations was to study what happens when the stem cells are able to
divide and create not just other stem cells, but create specialized progeny that don't divide.
So somatic progeny that don't divide and hence have free energy resources,
thermodynamic resources that they can devote to doing something other than dividing.
