One, that I think peaking, like hitting the best you can ever do,
probably take some of the fun out of whatever it is you're doing,
because part of the fun is getting better.
And once you've gotten as good as you can get,
or as good as is possible for you,
then it's like, well, now all the fun of getting better is gone.
Then it's just trying to maintain.
I knew it was pretty short, too.
It was only about 45 seconds, and then I fell out of that,
and I had to think again.
Sure.
But just the fact that I had those 45 seconds was just...
And the more that you did it, the longer those seconds would probably be.
But then I've got to think, too, like with professional athletes,
they probably hit that point for a little while,
but then because it's so hard on them physically,
by when they're in their 40s, they can no longer play.
Yeah.
So they don't have the time to put into where they can hit that,
where they can peek long enough for it to stop being fun,
I would guess, because they just destroy themselves.
Well, I think it is fun for a lot of people.
They refer to it as flow or something, or being in the zone,
where you just...
Everything that you want to happen just happens
without having to be consciously dictating things.
I think flow is a little different,
but it is similar in the sense that you're not active like you described,
but you're not necessarily optimal.
You're just flowing.
When I was in Atlanta about three years ago,
just a little over three years ago,
I was competing in a magic tournament for Magic the Gathering,
and it was the biggest win of my career,
winning first place at this pro tour.
And I trained for several weeks.
I actually took a couple of weeks off of work,
and I was really, really focused on this particular...
the new cards and the new strategies.
And the way I play, I try not to think about my plays.
I try to train myself as much as possible
when I'm going up to a competition
to be able to make it so that my body knows how to play.
And I save my brain for things that my body doesn't know.
There's triggers that my body will indicate
that this is a spot where my brain should think about something.
But I have found I only have so much processing power to begin with,
and it is best to think about the things that my body can't do for me.
And in the course of this tournament,
I played some of the best I've ever played.
I also got quite fortunate.
Things broke my way and ended up winning,
but throughout the tournament,
it was a very, very different kind of fun than the preparation.
I typically enjoy the preparation more than the tournaments themselves.
The preparation has all these problems to solve.
There's ideas to try.
Most things fail.
You get excited about the things you're learning and the ways you're growing.
You don't want to be doing the learning and the growing in the tournament.
You want to just be a robot who is executing the task.
And there is a different kind of joy to the flow state
that you get to almost of when it works well.
You're not always in a flow state,
but there's a certain...
That perfect execution.
You do it right.
It's so hard.
It's like you get challenged with a thousand things.
And when you can do those thousand things,
you can do those 998 of the thousand things, right?
And you can just feel that you're in the rhythm
and you're just doing it.
You're getting exactly the right amount of...
You're presented with new problems and you can solve it.
And it's exactly the amount of problems that you're prepared to face.
You're like maximally pushed.
That's pleasurable in a very different way.
I see. I see.
I'm thinking I guess I couldn't have it that way in a game like Rock Band
because that's just a game
whereas something like this where you're competing.
Well, they're all games.
It's just even the ones where you're competing with yourself.
Because it doesn't have to be about taking home $80,000
and smashing the opponents.
It can also be about the realization
I have never been this good at Guitar Hero.
And I wasn't even there.
It was like I was just in the zone and I was doing it
and for 45 seconds I was the Alpha Go of Guitar Hero.
My entire life is going to be chasing those 45 seconds again.
Well, one of the things that you do is you develop new puzzles,
new challenges to go on to.
It's really tough to keep trying to chase the previous things
because the highs that were high before
they don't satisfy the same way in the future.
This might be worth Googling for anyone who plays Dark Souls
where there's all kinds of videos of people beating Champion Gun Deer
with just throwing dung piles and parrying every move
and then doing a 720 spin and doing a gesture.
Or I saw a girl beat Pontiff Sullivan.
These are just bosses in the game.
But beat him blindfolded.
Oh, you told me about that.
She could hear him make the move
and as long as she thought she was locked on,
she could parry and attack.
That blew my fucking mind.
So that's the next step, right?
And I've also seen people play that game with a Guitar Hero guitar.
You can always up the difficulty for yourself
if you're looking for somewhere to go.
The amount of dedication,
the following that Dark Souls has is inspiring.
I've never seen anyone beat Pontiff Sullivan blindfolded
with a Guitar Hero guitar, so there's still room.
I'm curious your thoughts on tool-assisted speedruns.
There's this relatively new phenomenon in gaming
where people are challenging themselves.
Speedruns have existed in everything,
since humans have been doing anything,
is how fast can we do it?
And the way a speedrun effectively works
is you're just doing something ritualistic
very, very quickly, such as beating Super Mario Brothers
or something. How fast can you do it?
There's a relatively new pursuit
of some people, tool-assisted speedruns,
where when you're playing,
they use a device that effectively makes it
so that when you're playing, you can rewind time.
If anything goes wrong, if anything bad happens,
you can rewind time to any moment previous.
So it's like you keep getting to go back
over and over and over and over again
to try to make the perfect run.
And if you actually could reset time infinitely,
like as often as you like,
how fast are you capable of chaining together
all of your perfect executions of every element of the game?
And it takes on a very, very different texture
once you know that you can rewind time
as much as you want.
That's okay now.
One of the really impressive things
about unassisted speedruns is the fact
that someone had to practice this
until it was perfect,
and any tiny minuscule mistake means
they have to go all the way over to the beginning
and start over.
So the amount of time that they put into it
is really impressive.
With the tool-assisted, I was slightly less impressed,
although I could still see some of the artistry behind it,
and some of the stunts you could pull are really impressive.
But things that you would never have been able to figure out
just without the tool-assist,
the various ways you can chain,
leaping off of shells and other things
to do the most crazy shit,
which is literally impossible, not just impossible,
but you could not have had the idea to do it
if it wasn't for the tool-assist.
But the thing that really I enjoy about tool-assist
is now people make special levels,
like hell levels,
specifically for people who use tool-assist,
that just...
fuck the player.
Things come out of nowhere, impossible to see,
and the fact that you have the tool-assist
means you just rewind, and it's almost like
a real-time puzzle that you're trying to solve
as you're going through it.
And that, I think, is pretty impressive.
It's fun.
Using the technology in order to find new ways
to new artistic expressions,
new puzzles, new challenges, new games,
I mean, if you look at, for instance,
some of the biggest games in the world now,
like League of Legends,
and Heroes of the Storm,
these games are
a style of game that is
derivative to some degree of Dota.
And Dota...
They're still known as Dota games, aren't they?
There's Dota 2.
Dota 2 is a game that people are still playing now.
But Dota 2, Heroes of the Storm,
and League of Legends
are all descendants.
Basically, the three people working on Dota
split up into three different...
made three different...
Is that literally what happened?
It was a whole confusing thing
