There's so much randomness in both.
I think that StarCraft would be harder.
Assuming that we set aside the whole, you need to have a body and you need to move.
If the AI is just able to...
If we hand wave the whole controlling all the humans on the field part,
I would guess that football is easier than StarCraft.
I would assume it's much easier to simulate than a StarCraft game would.
Manly, because there's so many fewer moving parts.
Yeah, exactly.
There's a lot of just random number generator things where if you just know the correct math,
you can just leverage math and then whatever utility functions you're optimizing for,
such as lift, weight, or have energy, or be able to move fast, or whatever the thing is.
Actually, a lot of teams are experimenting now with technology for improving their athletes' abilities.
For instance, Steph Curry, one of the absolute best basketball players in the world.
So he's only like 6'2".
Most of the best basketball players, very, very tall.
Giant, freakish, abnormal sized humans.
Steph Curry, aggressively normal sized human.
Do you know that 1 out of 6 people that are over 7 feet tall are in the NBA?
Or 1 out of 6 Americans that are over 7 feet tall are in the NBA?
Yeah, that's not surprising.
It's insane. It's like right now.
It's like the number of people.
So no, Steph?
Yeah, so he has a neural coach.
There's a guy who used to work at Facebook that worked on a lot of AI stuff there
that does some training with different athletes.
There's a variety of other people actually who are getting into it now too.
But Steph Curry, the way he works, he has these goggles, or glasses of sorts,
that have flashing lights.
And he goes through the motions of certain drills,
and they have staff that are helping, that are actors,
that are all playing out the parts.
You know, a bunch of people who, maybe they played college basketball,
or maybe they played in the European League, or maybe they're...
Whatever, they're having a bunch of people, or it's the farm system.
They're just people who are going through the motions,
who know what they're supposed to be doing, and they re-enact it,
and they play the simulations over and over and over again.
And Steph will know which simulation he's doing,
which routine, which practice route,
and the light will flash, and he does it in the light flashes,
and he does it in the light flashes, and he does it in...
And they do a variety of these, and there's a separate one they do
of training where the light flashes without him knowing which one he's going to have to do,
and then he just has to react as fast as possible and do it.
And then they just go through over and over again without him knowing which one it's going to be,
and he just responds to the light over and over and over and over and over again.
He does this so much, and eventually he sees the flash of light without the visor.
Oh, cool.
So he just... And he doesn't even react.
I mean, he doesn't even think about it. He just is reacting.
So are these situations that he's training on ones that occur often in the game of Bahama?
Yeah, they are the ones that are the highest leverage, most common,
and ways for him to gain advantages.
And after he does his training, he actually sits in a sensory deprivation chamber,
because apparently they ask him about it.
It's like, you know, some people only do it once in a while,
but Steph actually stays in for much longer than a lot of people,
and they're like, are you going crazy? You sure?
I've been spending a lot of time in the sensory deprivation chamber,
but supposedly he's like, you know, you can only...
Like, he does X amount of reps in an hour of neural training,
and he says he does twice as many in the half hour he spends in sensory deprivation,
because your mind has nothing left to do,
and so it just keeps replaying the patterns over and over and over again
of the things that are in your short-term memory.
Jesus, that sounds almost like he's getting to the point of a sort of a
Jiro Dreams of Sushi kind of basketball playing robot, you know?
What was this guy's name? What else is he...
Steph Curry, so he's so off the charts breaking the model.
I mean, actually, 538 have written quite extensively about he has broken basketball.
The entire game of basketball has been revolutionized in the last three years
because of some ways that the Golden State Warriors, the team that he plays on,
and certainly this year are the best team any team has ever been, ever.
They are way ahead of certain types of metrics and using, you know, valuing things.
They're very much, it's a bunch of Silicon Valley, and they're really into math,
and they're really, and they have a very futuristic look at the game.
He completely changed the game with regards to shooting, like, for instance, three-pointers.
In basketball, if you shoot from far away, you get three points,
and this is a rule that has only existed for about 30-something years.
They added it to help make the game more interesting, make more swings,
but for most of the history of basketball, there haven't been that many three-pointers,
even close to as many three-pointers as there are now.
One of the challenges is that they're so hard because of how far away you are.
However, people now have gotten so much better at training, they're so much stronger,
and also they have been spending their entire lives shooting three-pointers.
Whereas the people before were learned as adults, now the people have learned
since they were small children, they're so much stronger, so much better,
and one of the big things that happened just recently that Steph Curry almost accidentally discovered
was that weightlifting can actually help you tremendously.
It's kind of counter to a lot of the existing things.
Like, if you lift weights in the short run, it's harder to shoot three-pointers.
It throws off your arm strength, your balance, your depth perception,
not depth perception, your sense of how far to throw the ball or how hard to use.
But, Steph Curry's case, he's a very gifted player,
but his ankles kept giving out when he was in college,
and when he goes onto the pros, he's having all these ankle injuries.
There's all these giant people, and when he hits them, he goes down,
and he goes down hard on the ground, and he's running so fast,
and he keeps having ankle injuries that are going to be real problematic,
and one of the things they try is having him lift weights,
and he lifts more and more and more weights with the idea of being if you're just stronger,
and also you learn how to fall.
And if you watch Steph, he falls like 20 times a game because he doesn't try to land.
His ankle's a break because he's going so fast and so hard.
He just flops down and lets the people knock him around because they're so much bigger than him.
His strength has gotten so high that he can shoot from much, much, much, much further than other people.
For instance, he can actually make the majority of his...
If he just shoots from half court, he can just make it.
And I think last year, half of all the shots from a certain distance back
in the entire game he made, he was making,
and it's like the equivalent of, I don't know which sport would be the correct analog here,
baseball of hitting 117 home runs when the record was in the 70s.
It's like by so large of a margin that it doesn't even make sense what we're watching anymore.
That's really awesome, and like you said, AlphaGo for basketball,
but I'm interested that so many of the details of his training methodology are known,
because you'd think if it's getting that much of an edge, you'd want to keep it on the down low.
It's only after a few years, and I think enough other people are doing it now,
that they started talking about it.
It's interesting though, there's lots of ways that are rapidly expanding,
like Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks and other basketball team,
he's been working on technology, like for instance, he's got visors,
that when you're wearing the visors, when somebody, the glasses of sorts,
when somebody shoots the ball,
instantly it starts giving you probability assessments, one on the right,
one on the left, and one on the middle, of whether the ball is going to bounce to the right
when it misses, or bounce to the left, or if it's going to go in, you know,
and they've improved the technology to such a degree that by the time you let go of the ball,
when the ball is only just a few feet from your hand,
it already is off the board certain of where the ball is going to go.
It already knows if you've made it or not, it already knows which way it's going to bounce.
Because that's determined as soon as it leaves your hand,
it's just how soon can you, with the technology, tell.
There's so little interference because of the air, it's predictable, it's very predictable,
it all cancels out so much that by the time it lets go, it's already done the calculations,
and if somebody were wearing the glasses, they would, as soon as the ball was shot,
they would be able to tell where they need to go to get the rebound, or if it's going to go in.
I'm assuming those sort of glasses would not be legal for play though.
Correct, no, no, there's lots of rules about which kind of technology you can use or not,
but I wonder sometimes, you know, with sports, there's so much money on the line,
there's so much prestige, there's so much, like, win at all costs at times.
I wonder who's going to come up with contact lenses to do this.
That was my first thought too, because they already have contact lenses that can project images
in a way that isn't blinding or doesn't even light up your eyes,
but I guess we're going to put the camera up, but that wouldn't be that hard either
once you're already putting stuff in your face.
Yeah, I mean, I'm assuming that's not too far from now though,
be able to just have those from cameras watching the field,
and so commentators will be able to say as soon as it leaves someone's hand,
oh, that's not going to go in.
That'd be funny.
I also would watch the hell out of a game of both teams all wearing these glasses,
just to watch the entire, like, dynamic, it would change the game completely.
That'd be awesome.
Imagine if underneath your shorts, there was just a couple triggers that indicated to you,
if it was going to be on the right side or the left side, or if it was going to go in,
and you just felt it.
You wouldn't even need to have anything in your face.
The camera could just be doing it.
You just feel the tap, and then you behave and react accordingly.
That is the sort of thing that sometimes...
So I know this is the ideal that you strive for when you are working in a physical art.
The one I most often think of is the martial arts,
where if you have to think about what you're doing,
you're going to lose against someone who just reacts on instincts,
who has drilled so much on it that when a punch starts coming at them,
their body does the thing without any conscious thought needing to get in the way.
And that was, you know, one of the really cool things I thought about the Matrix,
when they uploaded Kung Fu into Neo's head,
and he said, I know Kung Fu.
It's not like he had any physical, like any actual idea, mental knowledge before.
He was really surprised that now, when a punch came at him, his body would just do the thing.
And I had that experience before playing Guitar Hero.
And it's basically when I stopped playing Guitar Hero,
because always before the notes coming on the screen, you know, I would play on my guitar,
and I got to the point where I'd been playing long enough,
I noticed at one point in a particularly tough song when it got to the solo,
like the notes were just being hit.
And I wasn't present.
I was just watching what was going down,
and my body was doing the thing for me,
and it was kind of awesome that my body could translate what was coming into my eyes
and do what I wanted to happen.
But on the other hand, it felt like I wasn't involved anymore.
And that was when I stopped playing, because I was like,
well, now it's just my body playing the game and not me.
Were you playing the hardest levels?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, I was going to say, because there's still room to go,
to go to the madness levels or something, right?
Oh, well, I mean, and after I stopped playing for a few weeks,
then my skills deteriorated to the point where I could now play it for fun,
but I don't play it as intensely as I used to,
because I know that's where you want to get with almost everything,
but to me, it feels like you're almost subtracting the human at that point.
And so when I see athletes like that,
that just their entire life is just training, reacting, doing the thing.
I was like, what is their internal experience like?
I want to weigh in two things really quick.
