Welcome to the Basin Conspiracy, I'm Eni Ashbrotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have a guest.
Hi, I'm Patrick Chapin.
Whoa, putting on a sexy voice for the audience.
Yeah, hello. I'm a professional magic player, game designer, and writer.
And we are having Patrick on with us again because there is more AlphaGo goodness to talk about.
For people who have not been with the series from the beginning,
Episode 4, we talked with Patrick about AlphaGo and it's legendary.
At this point, I'm pretty sure we can call it legendary.
At the very least, historic five-game series of Go against...
He wasn't a world champion, yeah.
Yes, Lee Sedol was the 18-time world champion, and the most recent match that just took place is against KG, the best Go player in the world.
The two of them have been head and shoulders above a lot of other people, so it's a little tricky because one of them being the world champion and one of them being the highest ranked.
KG is a bit of a prodigy. He's much, much younger than...
He's very young for such a... There aren't very many Go players remotely as good as him, but he's very young.
And definitely humanity's last help with Lee Sedol going down.
Right. So it was very big news and it was a fascinating and exciting episode.
One of the few episodes of our show that I can actually say was exciting to listen to.
So go back and listen to that if you'd like to because we probably are going to reference it a bit.
And there's going to be a test after.
Yes, huge test. But a short version is AlphaGo beat Lee Sedol 4-1, including a move that a lot of people have described as a move that no human could make.
It is just an inhuman move that no one really understood but ended up winning AlphaGo the game.
And that was when people really started to realize that this neural net deep learning thing was a very big deal.
And recently, by recently I mean was it last week or two weeks ago?
Oh yeah, just a couple weeks ago. Just like it just finished.
It's been going on at the Future of Go Summit in China.
It's kind of resolved... I mean after Master's performance, Master was AlphaGo's kind of identity during a secret test that was halfway between current day and Lee Sedol from a year ago.
Yeah, we should mention that AlphaGo has been training in the interim.
Yeah, it's been thinking a lot about the game.
Actually though, this AlphaGo... So they actually ended up blowing up the entire way they went about it.
Like they learned a lot from the original AlphaGo.
But by the time AlphaGo adopted its Ulterigo Master briefly, it was actually kind of brand new.
It was starting from... Yeah, it was starting over because AlphaGo's strategy...
It was novel compared to other computer programs because of how much it was making its own strategy.
It studied games, but it was its own strategy.
By the time it was Master, it mostly just thought about Go.
And then developed strategies from playing against itself a lot.
Instead of looking at previous games...
Instead of just being trained on all the games that all the humans are playing and so on.
Like it's learned more and more and more and more from itself.
It's just built a lot of its structure.
It's a lot of its understanding of the game based on its own just thinking about the game,
like playing against itself a very, very large amount of times.
Master, if I recall the story, no one knew at first that it was AlphaGo,
that it was a software program when it was playing on the Internet.
Because this was all Go that was happening online.
Oh yeah, there's a popular message board where the best Go players in the world could play.
And this is the message board. This is absolutely the most elite people could play here.
And a mysterious character that nobody knew who it really was,
but it was listed as Nindon, which is like the highest rating anybody can have,
called Master showed up and just started playing some games against other top players in the world.
And at first people didn't think too much of it,
but after a while it goes on this win streak,
Master's going on this win streak that was unrivaled and people started becoming suspicious.
And it was also clear from Master's play that there was a very good chance
that Master had to be at the very least computer assisted, if not a computer,
but it didn't make sense because Master first of all, Master just plays too fast.
Second of all, Master was making legendary moves multiple times per game,
where it's like the kind of move that this would be the greatest move of your year
and you would talk about this and this would be a whole big thing.
It was doing that multiple times per game and it was like,
it became such a thing all the other best players started just coming into play against Master,
except Lisa Dahl.
That was interesting.
So Master just basically 100-0, just beats everybody.
There was one match that for a little while actually displayed as a draw
because on the message board, if somebody times out or something,
there's certain conditions where if the game hasn't gone on long enough, it just lists it as a draw.
And one of his opponents was unable to continue and so temporarily it was a draw,
but they later redid that one and Master won that as well.
But after Master was so convincingly strong, it seemed as though,
eventually Google reveals, yes, it was actually us all along and life goes on
and from that point they announced Future of Ghost Summit
and they want to get everybody together and talk about what's next and go
and talk about the implications of AlphaGo and other people's programs
because there's a lot of other companies that are starting to make extremely good go-playing programs as well.
For instance, China actually has a program now that is so good that it's beating other high-level players.
It wasn't at the space of AlphaGo, but it actually, they did not compete against each other.
I think one of the terms, it was really strange.
I think the Chinese government had some, the Chinese government and Google have a,
they're trying to ease back into a positive relationship with each other.
Google left the country after the Chinese government allegedly raided their location there
and number of years ago Google left China because of, according to Google,
violence by the Chinese government that they were responsible for.
I had missed this.
Oh yeah. It's been a very uneasy situation. They just left, everything got out.
What did the government want from them?
Information. They just wanted primarily information about all of the, everybody in the country
and everybody's contacts, everybody's connections with everybody else, everybody's,
every message they sent, they basically just want all the information about all the Chinese citizens.
But in any event, it's been a while and they've talked it out a little bit
and they've kind of come to a place of trying to repair relations and move forward in some way.
And in this spot, one of the things, a lot of people ask,
oh, did you have the Chinese program playing against AlphaGo?
And it's, no, no, no, we don't think, we don't want to have just computers playing against each other.
Wait, why don't we? I think that would be awesome.
Between you and I, it's pretty clear that it is because of the strength of AlphaGo.
Right, but in the future, it'd be kind of interesting to see which country can make the best build playing in.
I think it would be extremely interesting.
One robot is wiping the floor with another one, robot fight.
Yeah, but in this spot, one of the robots is owned by the Chinese government who is hosting the event.
They actually cut the feed after AlphaGo's first game against KG or Dearing It.
It was massacring KG.
It was so brutalizing KG that they cut the feed and stopped broadcasting it and censored it.
Wow.
And they still put on the event and everything and they put out their own press release.
They just stopped showing the game in question and so on.
The commentary, because the commentators were being honest about what they were watching and what they were witnessing.
And even though the game ended up only half a point in favor of AlphaGo,
and the Chinese government really held on to how close he kept it and so on, but it was never close.
It was already 100-0 effectively. It was just off the board much, much, much earlier.
It's just that AlphaGo does not care about the margin of victory.
It only cares about maximizing the probability of victory.
Yeah. Did we ever get to see the end of that match?
Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah. Everywhere else except China got to see it.
It was only censored internally. It's on the internet. You can just go get it.
It's just, yeah, actually all the matches out.
So they did a variety of events.
The headlining thing was three games against KG where the winner gets $1.5 million
and the runner-up gets $300,000, which is, you know, a pretty good deal for KG.
But he knew going in that it was going to be extremely difficult.
He was very outspoken about how he could beat AlphaGo a year ago,
like witnessing, particularly when Lee Sedol actually won a game.
By the time Master rolled around, KG was of the opinion that there was a good chance
that AlphaGo would be too strong.
And in the course of this match, during the first game, you know,
they asked him beforehand about what his chances were and he said,
this is the match he's prepared the most for in his life,
but he thinks it will be very, very difficult. He's going to try.
It's going to be very difficult.
And after the first game, he said that he will not play against computers
after these next two games and that there is no more competition
and that there are no good Go players except AlphaGo.
AlphaGo is the God of Go.
Well, I take it the games, all three games, went very poorly for the humans.
Although, interestingly, I mean, AlphaGo won all three.
But the second game, according to AlphaGo's metrics,
the second game is the most perfect it's ever seen a person play.
Oh, cool.
Like, he actually 100 moves into the game.
I mean, first of all, his first 50 were effectively flawless,
but even 100 moves into the game, it was still competitive.
And it sounds funny to use that as a metric,
but almost nobody has ever lasted more than 25 moves
and still having good chances.
And here, he's 100 moves in and still has chances.
Typically, AlphaGo has already long secured the victory.
You're just going through the motions.
And so...
I think that's a perfectly valid metric to make when, like, you're this outclassed.
To say, I kept up for this long still really counts for a lot.
Oh, for a while.
I mean, he might have had the floor soup to them at the end,
but to know that he went down as valiantly as any human possibly could or ever has,
that's probably, or maybe not necessarily possibly could, but ever has,
that's still something to celebrate.
Oh, absolutely.
His performance was absolutely marvelous,
because part of the thing that makes this match so different than a year ago
is that when Lisa Dahl played against AlphaGo,
AlphaGo was merely playing stronger than any human ever has.
This AlphaGo...
So AlphaGo a year ago, stronger than any human,
by the time it was master, it was making brilliant game-changing moves
that you would write books of theory about multiple times a game,
but it was still playing go.
By the time this event rolled around, it was no longer playing go.
It's alien.
Its strategies are ineffable,
where AlphaGo before was, there was this golden period for a little while
where people were watching and it's like every single game they watch,
AlphaGo is just pioneering new strategies, new styles,
opening up all this exploration,
completely flipping the table of so many different,
so many paths are being opened by AlphaGo,
but now watching AlphaGo, it was so alien, it's hard.
You can find moves and things that you can use,
but it's very difficult to understand what it's doing,
because its strategy doesn't adhere to its actions, its behavior.
It's like there is no rhyme or reason that we can grok yet,
and people are trying to put the pieces together
of why do you make a move here sometimes, why do you make a move there,
but it's so alien that it's hard to know what you're even doing.
It appears to be just random moves,
but somehow always ends up being a huge blowout victory.
Well, it's not just pure random, it's like...
No, but from our perspective.
Whatever the order is, we can't see it.
We don't know what the patterns are.
We don't know, because there's all these heuristics
that people use for point-and-go that AlphaGo doesn't play
go the way that people do.
It doesn't seem to...
So many of the things that are basic tenets, it doesn't adhere to.
It does so many moves that humans should never do,
and we don't know why you can do them some of the time,
and when we try, we fail,
because we don't know whatever later things that are happening
that make this work out, and we're trying to put the pieces together,
but at this point, actually, this match was so decisive
that AlphaGo has retired and is no longer playing anymore,
