because what if you just looked at everything a different way?
Playing with the framework sounds like a different order of problem.
I thought of impossible in terms of impossible and principle,
which is faster than light travel,
unless that turns out to be wrong,
then that's just impossible, like, in principle.
But then there's impossible in practice,
I don't know, me getting to the moon for 15 bucks, right?
For like an afternoon trip.
Like, that's currently impossible in practice,
but not impossible in principle.
So, the first type, it's like getting to the moon for 15 bucks.
Maybe eventually you can.
I know that, like, in almost all of human history,
it would have been really weird to be able to get from Denver to Chicago for 15 bucks.
I've done it for 19, you know, not too long ago.
Like, one way on an airplane.
$19?
Yeah.
Wow, it's a hell of a deal.
Oh, yeah.
But in terms of the type two possibility,
you know, obviously technology improves.
Teleportation, actually,
teleportation is a great example of one that right now we have,
it's just, we don't have it in a practical way.
The teleportation is increasing
and we're improving our teleportation all the time.
Like, already right now, we can teleport things.
Okay.
It's just, you know.
No, I have no idea what you're talking about.
Oh, yeah.
So, look, this up too.
Dude, technology is happening really fast these days.
Okay.
But you can actually teleport,
you can teleport, like, the phase of electrons and information
and get it from one place to another without it having to move through that space.
And it's very inefficient.
But the amount of power and the amount of processing it would take
in order to be able to transport much larger things,
it's not even remotely feasible yet.
However, things are going to get better,
we're going to get better technology in the future,
almost assuredly, you know.
I mean, it'd be very unlikely for us not to.
But the type two possibilities,
the type two possibilities would be like,
for instance, certain forms of time travel,
where it's like, we have,
it's very hard to even imagine how it works taking negative energy
and using it inside, like collapsing a black hole or any sort of,
but it's not actually forbidden.
Yes.
Well, so, so the next question is,
reversing entropy actually bridges into it nicely.
Things that are forbidden by our physics,
like entropy always increases and you can't go faster than light.
Wait, are you of the opinion that time travel is not forbidden by our physics?
Definitely it's not forbidden by our physics.
Okay.
Yeah, oh yeah, in my opinion anyway,
based on all the physics I know anyway.
I don't know all that much physics.
It's not forbidden.
Okay.
There's a lot of things that are very difficult,
highly convoluted, but the universe might be a very big place.
The faster than light, however,
I don't even know what it means to go faster than light
because the kind of the definition of light involves this
in a way where you can't or you would need a new definition.
It just by definition doesn't.
You can get from one place to another faster than light.
In fact, we,
some people would say that there have been,
definitely people would say this,
but there are some who say that they have successfully achieved
reproducible faster than light speed communication
in certain experiments with being able to transport information
through quantum entanglement where.
Oh, is that the transportation you were talking about?
No, actually there's more teleportation than even just that.
Okay, that is what I had heard about and I had my doubts about that one.
That one, it's tricky because the margin of error is large enough
that it could be still in the realm of information could have traveled fast enough.
So, yeah, it's really confusing how the world works or how the universe works.
Besides, I mean, for all we know,
maybe it's connected in, you know, a tightly furl dimension
and things are much closer in a different axis than what we're looking at.
I just know that no one comes to Stephen Hawking's time travel parties.
Aw. Does he keep throwing this?
I know at least he did once, but it takes his once, right?
He sends out the invitations afterwards.
And so, like, if anyone could have come down the line when they heard about it
after, you know, when it was announced, they would have shown up if they wanted to
and maybe future mindsists don't like it.
Maybe there weren't enough cool people at the party so they didn't want to go?
It might have just been him to keep the secret, I don't know.
Yeah, but the thing is, don't you think that, like,
if you literally have a time machine,
it occurs to you that maybe a person who's publicizing this very, very widely,
like, maybe the universe, there's a selection effect.
The universe is where the time travelers go back to that spot and go to the party.
That's the one where the time travel terrorists put a bomb in that party.
Right.
Time travel terrorists.
Why not?
Yeah, right. Someone's going to get their hands on that tech.
Besides, are you telling me with the events of the past year
that you have it totally out of the range that somebody isn't using time travel right now?
Just to troll us?
Oh, God.
Let's see what happens to the Americans if they get the Trump.
Oh, God.
That ups my simulation hypothesis a little bit.
Definitely, as the numbers, I was watching the numbers in 538 on November 28,
or November 8, and I'm like, every time when it switched from, you know,
when Trump took the lead and didn't fall back down, I was like,
oh, okay, this could be alternate history, infinite numbers,
whatever, let's see what happens to Trump won in 2016, hit enter.
I mean, that crossed my mind.
Right.
I don't know why that event specifically would increase your odds, though.
Like, I mean, how crazy is it that World War I started?
Okay, something would have sparked it off eventually,
but you heard about how unlikely the assassination of Archduch Ferdinand was, right?
Sure.
I guess this was the first, like, I don't know,
A, it was my mind rebelling against reality,
another part of how my brain coped with it,
but another part was that I thought the odds weren't astronomically low.
This wasn't like, he becomes president and immediately gets killed by a meteorite,
and then his body gets struck by a lightning 50,000 times.
It wasn't like the LHC got shut down by a donut or something.
Yeah, I mean, he's got to be on your list of top 100 people, most likely,
every four years for the last 12 years, right?
If you were making a list of 100 people...
That's true.
I mean, he's run before.
That alone gives him a bonus point.
People who have expressed an interest, go to the meetings,
go, like, have political connections.
It's like, how big of a pond is it when it comes to the people who are making major plays at these things?
I mean, maybe not top 100, maybe top 300, I don't know,
but certainly there are 300 million people,
like the vast majority of people have a substantial...
They'd be way lower on my list.
Like, right now, pick somebody.
Mark Zuckerberg, he's way high on my list compared to most people.
No, no, you're totally right.
This wasn't my brain doing the speculation.
It was more just like my brain freaking out at the moment.
The next morning, he'd wake up and be like,
well, one in five things happened.
It was 20% was what roughly 538 had him at.
And I was like, well, that happens more often.
About 20% of the time.
Exactly.
So that was not the kind of universe-shattering,
everything I believe is false observation
that it would take to shatter my reality.
But like I said, that was...
I'm like the Patriots.
The Patriots come back,
the single greatest come back in the history of football this past.
The number of off-the-board...
Oh, I don't know, I didn't watch the thing.
So there's a game in America called football.
But I hear they don't actually use their feet on the ball very often.
Well, I don't know about very often, I'm not one to judge,
but mostly you touch it with your hands.
There's important points that involve the foot.
You're mostly running on your feet is the thing you're doing with your feet.
Then you could call any sport football.
Of course.
But if you call them all football, then you get confusing.
Except for water polo.
And regular polo.
So the Patriots are one of the best football teams in history.
They just have won many championships.
Very, very prolific team with arguably the best coach in the history of football,
or one of the best coaches.
Certainly the best current coach.
And they were losing by an enormous margin versus the Falcon.
They were losing by just such an enormous amount that no team has ever come back
from this much in a Super Bowl to win.
And they actually did.
They rallied late and it was...
They called up AlphaGo.
They were like, what do we do, AlphaGo?
I mean, you know, I don't know.
There's a lot on the line.
A lot of people would have made a lot of money.
I don't know if AlphaGo knows how to play football yet.
No.
I don't know.
Do you think football would be more complicated than StarCraft?
So it's confusing.
