partly because watching it's not the same thing anymore,
but partly also because at this point, they have proved their case.
It's so far beyond...
One of their things wasn't...
I was kind of saddened when I heard that,
that AlphaGo is retiring now.
Like, it could just keep continuing being more and more alien
and ineffable, right?
AlphaGo existing makes there no robot-vers-robot fights
that anybody cares about,
because they would want it to face AlphaGo,
and AlphaGo is so much stronger at the moment,
and they don't want there to be a perpetual arms race
for winning this against other...
There's going to be an appetite for robots that face other robots
and other companies to do that,
but I think that is outside the scope of what Google
and DeepMind want to do.
What do they want to do? Why would they retire AlphaGo?
What interest of theirs does it serve to stop AlphaGo now?
They're moving on to other things.
AlphaGo has played many games other than Go,
and is going to be playing many other games.
They just want to move more of their focus to some of the other games,
because in this spot, their premise wasn't just that
they could make a computer program, that they could make AlphaGo beat humans.
They also wanted to demonstrate their ability
to convert processing power and CPUs into ELO.
And use ELO as a measure of intelligence
and demonstrate the relationship between an increase in power
and an increase in processing centers and intelligence.
We should really quickly clarify for people,
ELO is the ranking system.
Yes, ELO is effectively a way of describing the skill.
What are your chances of winning?
And Google, one of their things was that it's not just
we can make something better than a human at this.
They wanted to demonstrate we can increase electricity
and we can increase how many computers we put in the network
and demonstrate a math formula of the function
of how much more processing power do you need
to get each unit of intelligence more.
They also were improving their efficiency,
whereas AlphaGo a year ago had thousands of local hubs
connected in a giant network.
They brought a laptop to beat him this time.
AlphaGo has become so good
that they could just bring it with them.
And in this spot they were able to demonstrate.
They said we actually know exactly how good it is
with this much processing and this amount of efficiency
and this whatever.
Currently, this version of AlphaGo is playing at a 4,500 ELO,
which to give some context of what it means.
Effectively, it's a logarithmic scale of sorts
and the amount better that AlphaGo is
than the best player in the world is...
No human is even remotely close to that.
I was slightly sad to hear that it was so...
On the one hand, it's amazing that there's an ineffable God of Go among us.
On the other hand, in our previous episode,
like I said, it was actually exciting
because you relayed the games to us
and there were really interesting parts
where it was human versus machine
and there was the one legendary move that everyone talks about.
There's like less to talk about because it's awesome.
That's only in the match against KG.
See, the plot thickens.
Wait, really quick, I have a quick introduction.
You mentioned that it was making crazy moves a lot
when it was playing online as Master.
Were those moves as ineffable as the legendary move against LisaDoll?
Was it like those five times a game?
Yeah, it's like the moves that it did against LisaDoll.
I mean, it was playing brilliantly,
but one of the moves that it did against LisaDoll,
it's like it was doing that multiple times a game
instead of one time in the whole match.
Yeah, it was like it was doing that multiple times a game
where it's like, oh my God,
this is like a paradigm-changing move,
but it's doing it multiple times.
That's awesome.
I think I see Enoch's point that it makes it seem less special
because it's doing it flippantly all the time now.
Oh!
I remember that time, I don't know,
I did this crazy magic thing.
Well, now I'm just doing that casually.
I can do that with one hand with my eyes closed.
Every single move is like that.
There's really not much to talk about anymore.
It's just like, yeah, God came in and did his magic.
But, see, the plot actually thickens.
AlphaGo may be so much stronger than a human,
but the best human versus the best computer
was only one of the events at this Future of Ghost Summit.
They also had a match of AlphaGo versus
six of the best players in the world,
or five or six of the best players in the world,
and teaming up, which is actually relatively efficient.
You would think, you know, it might be challenging,
but there is a way you can be efficient about go
together as a team that isn't just going to slow you down
and make you worse than some of the parts.
Interesting.
And perhaps even more fascinating,
which AlphaGo, by the way, routed him.
AlphaGo is still just too strong compared to even humans teaming up.
But the part that I found particularly fascinating,
AlphaGo playing on a team with an expert level player,
not even a professional level player,
somebody who would be, I guess they would be somewhere
in the ballpark of 100, they would never win.
They could never ever win a game against KG.
Ever.
They could never win a single game,
and like when an expert player plays on a team with AlphaGo,
they actually crush AlphaGo.
They actually win five out of six times
against AlphaGo without a teammate.
Even though they're a human that's so weak of a human,
they could never beat the best human player ever.
They're so helpful because humans are so much better
at coming up with ideas of what to look at and think about
that when the human, instead of the human deciding what move to make,
if the human's job is to point to areas for AlphaGo to think about,
suggestions, ideas, if it's providing seeds and feedback,
humans would appear to be monstrously more effective
at coming up with ideas and suggesting things than AlphaGo is.
That is super interesting.
And so now there's this question of there's this new era
because one of the big things they unveiled is just how real of a sport
go tandem with a computer is because go tandem with a computer
is actually very meaningfully different than humans playing with chess.
When humans play chess with chess robots,
the chess robot just tells them what to do.
When humans play with Go, there's a new skill set,
a new strategy, area for strategy of how to most efficiently
provide suggestions to AlphaGo.
And AlphaGo can actually record how useful the human suggestions were
and give points to people that it plays with based on how effective
they are at providing suggestions and it can provide feedback
so that the humans can learn how to provide better ideas,
like it can reward the human for which types of ideas
we're giving the AlphaGo the right ideas of where to look at.
And meanwhile, AlphaGo is also learning from the humans,
like trying to figure out the pattern of where do humans suggest
looking at in circumstances and so on.
So it's trying to replace us anyway with little mini human simulators.
So there's this brief window now where cyborg fights
will be more fun than just robot fights.
Oh yeah, I think right now the fact that a human playing with a robot
versus a human playing with a robot is actually incredible
because when a human plays with a robot,
they play better than any human on Earth,
but it still looks...
And this is without AlphaGo playing is even better
because of how much it looks more relatable
when they just have other people's programs playing,
but when people are playing with a robot on their team,
it's like the difference between two people running
to the end of the 100 meter dash or a sprint or whatever,
a mile run or whatever.
Two people are running this race versus two people in cars.
It's a different sport, but it's a new sport.
That's sort of the mental model I was picturing,
except I was doing it with gladiators.
I know robot isn't necessarily the best word for this,
but it's just what I'm picturing just to make it fun for myself
and I think it's relatable.
But when I was picturing two robots fighting against each other,
I was thinking robot wars,
whether they build robots with saw blades and stuff like that.
And it always turns out to be either a spinner or a flip pot that wins.
Right, but then I was thinking, oh cool, cyborg fights.
And then I was picturing gladiators with augmented arms
and shields and stuff,
but I know that's not super helpful.
What I was thinking of is it ties into,
a car is an augmented person in the sense that
it just enhances our ability to go fast,
kind of torturing the analogy.
Maybe bicycling is the better way to put it.
In some ways, it's like bicycling.
Yeah, there's got to be some, there's no good mid-ground motorcycle.
Do you know enough about how this team-up thing works
to talk about it at all?
What does the human do?
Suggest moves, stones,
just provide ideas of possible moves
or possible sequence of moves.
It just keeps feeding it ideas of things to think about
or things to look at.
And why are humans so much better at that than the computer?
You would think the computer could do that too, right?
The computer's approach to how to come up with ideas,
it's somewhat cumbersome.
Even though the computer's strategy,
