guys, I'll actually post and yeah, like quartered alongside Aubrey degree.
Yeah.
I'll post a blog of his that, where he talks about this specific thing.
And basically everything I said just now comes from his talking points about it.
Uh, but of note, he takes N M N and not N R.
Yeah, I was going to say, um, and he at least thinks it's better.
Provide a little bit of free advertisement, but Natropics Depot, um,
it was a very good company.
Has nicotinamide mononucleotide tablets for 26.
99 a bottle for how many for 30.
So, uh, I believe that's a month's worth.
Do they have the N R there for substantially less as well?
Well, let me not quote that.
Um, all I know is that I was bummed when they stopped selling a DraftNL pills.
Um, oh, they did.
I think, well, I think so.
I know that they sold the powder for a while.
Oh no, maybe they still sell it.
I've got annoyed cause it's like, it's like 35 bucks for 30 of them.
And I like with you were just saying it's like, I barely noticed.
I get more benefit out of a quarter of a Madaphnil pill than I do a 300
milligram pill of a DraftNL.
Yeah.
They only have the N, N, N, N, the NMN, the, the nicotinamide.
Um, and based on what, I don't know, um, research that I've done, like on and off.
I've been following this too.
And I am convinced that the, or like I, I don't know, my suspicion, I'm not
going to say I'm convinced by like, well, I don't know.
The, I'm updating more in the direction that the N M N is more effective.
Uh, and I've been taking the Niterpix depot one.
I had actually, in fact, when I'm dealing with people selling it were Elysium.
Uh, I had like made a deal that I was going to start taking it at 35.
Cause that seemed like kind of expensive.
I think there's just the one that's like $50 or more.
Yeah.
Um, and it comes in the fancy bottle.
Yeah.
But then Niterpix depot got it for cheaper.
And I was like, yeah, heck, seems like, why not?
I'm going to be taken.
And the, uh, Charlie, who, you know, does a fair bit of research on this
sort of stuff and she also takes N M N.
Actually, the notes that I was just referencing, we're part of our
conversation and, uh, yeah, naturally it takes the N M N and, uh,
depends on how conservative you are.
I think I'm going to stick with the, they're both going to provide benefit.
It's just one might be like slightly better.
Um,
and there's no way for like a doctor to look at a healthy human and be like,
they're 90% within the age range of 39 to 41, right?
No, especially because that varies so much between individual humans.
That sucks.
Cause then that would be that don't, cause you've taken this for five years,
right?
Uh, more than that.
I think it's been six, six and a half.
So like, if you were biologically exactly 38 or something, that would be so nice to
know.
Yeah.
Elysium is doing a clinical trial.
Um, they started it in January.
So it's been going for about a year now.
Um, yeah, hopefully we'll see some results from that, but I don't know how
long it's going to go.
I'm looking at the article, but it was not say the duration.
Okay.
I've got the clinical trials.gov identifier though.
So we can link to that too.
If somebody wants to dig through it,
excellent.
Can find out more info.
They could probably just find out info about the like study design though,
because they're not going to publish all their details on.
So I don't know really what else much to say here other than I,
I wish we were experts and could have given a more like technical,
technical deep dive.
The episode description slash website for this episode will have tons of links
to further reading and all these cool drugs that we're talking about.
And if anyone is an expert wants to talk about it, I'd be super interested
in having them on.
So if anybody's in the field and knows anybody that can help me get in the
field, perfect email me.
I would say to recap, make sure you get at least two hours of good exercise
a week, uh, make sure you get as much sleep as is needed for your body to
feel rested, uh, have a social life of some kind, even in coronavirus times.
Join the rationalist singing thing.
Yeah.
Web app.
Yeah.
Somebody made it.
Yep.
Link to it.
Uh, and maybe supplement with NR.
Yeah.
I mean, that seems like the best you can do.
Oh, I guess also moving away from polluted areas.
Yes.
Oh yes.
That can help.
We forgot to mention that.
Yeah.
Managing your stress can help too.
Stroke.
Low stress is good.
All the things.
Pollution is terrible for your brain and your longevity as a whole for your
healthy brain.
Cars are bad for you.
Cars.
Yeah.
I mean, in the car, I probably don't consume that much exhaust.
No, I'm talking about just car accident risk.
Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
We can speak back about that, that I wanted to touch on before the episode.
I was hoping that when I moved here, I'd be able to like sell my car and just take
the trains.
I was like, yeah, there's a train system in Denver.
This is great.
And then like after being here a bit, I was like, uh, it's not very, it's not very
practical.
Better than anything in Texas, but it's not saying much.
I can't use it day to day to like, without it being ridiculous.
It's great if you work downtown or in an ever text center and you don't want to
drive there.
That's about the extent of it.
So yeah.
All right.
So we had some feedback on car stuff, you said.
Yes.
We did have a quick feedback that I wanted to hit.
Um, when we were talking about the, uh, I think it was just last episode about
the high cost of getting a, um, driver's license in Sweden, uh, it turns out that
their accident rate is quite a bit lower, like I think a third of the U.S.
rate or traffic fatality rate, mild driven anyway.
And so, um, I guess that was a victory.
Ha from Jayce.
Yes.
Yes.
I quiet little ha like too polite to just laugh and point at him.
Yeah.
No, I feel bad about doing that.
No, no, no.
I mean, when I learned that, I found that was like, I was like, okay, maybe this is
like really justified and a good idea because wow, that's a big deal.
But literally the same guy who wrote to us and was complaining about how much it
costs in Sweden, um, said that, uh, he doesn't think it's necessarily worth it.
So the cost is too damn high.
Lots of jobs require a license and it's basically an anti-economic mobility thing.
People don't die as much.
Yeah.
But that said, like, if you need a car to get to work, but it costs $4,000 to get
your license, that would kind of like really fuck a lot of people, right?
Yeah, I'm not saying it's a, it's great.
Like, I don't know, but it's hard for you to put utilize on like things, you
know, preventing people from dying.
Yeah, anyone, but money also prevents people from dying.
Like if you have money to go to a doctor and you put the utilize in dollar
amounts of how many like lives are saved versus how much like inconvenience, the
amount of money and time, that would be really hard.
The hard death is that it's not just you who, who you're at risk, right?
It's whoever you hit.
Or whoever hits you.
Yeah, exactly.
So like if, I mean, I could be doing everything right and then some dipshit,
you know, as drunk crosses the, the meeting on the highway and slams into me at
a combined 160 miles an hour, right?
So like it's, that's, that's the bummer.
Well, like to me, that's, that's the only time I used to get angry when driving.
I'd delivered pizzas through college and then I realized that the difference
between like rage driving to a place and like just chilling was like three minutes
per trip.
And so I was like, you know what, I'm going to just take it easy on the road
all the time forever now.
And I'm almost exclusively due.
The only time I get stressed, so I get to live longer.
Exactly.
The only time I get annoyed to the point where I will like, uh, express it or you
have like my, basically my pulse change on the road is when someone does something
dangerous, if they're going to be stupid, like, and I, you know, I was driving four
Collins yesterday, it's a 70 mile drive, somebody, the left lane over 10 car lengths
ahead cuts off this big white truck and without signaling.
And I just kind of went and like, look at that idiot.
And, uh, you know, it all worked out fine.
If it crashed, it'd have been, my reaction would have been different.
But when people do things that are risky to me and other people, but mainly like if
I don't see it, it doesn't get my blood going, but that's when I get mad.
And I'm like, you almost fucking killed me.
You're inconsiderate on behalf of other people.
Like if I'm on the highway and I see so to cut somebody else off, I'm like, oh,
Dick, I, I probably say it, but it doesn't, like, it doesn't stress me out really.
But like, I, and I'm not an angry person and I'm not like a, let's call people names
person, but even just like imagine the situation.
I'm sitting there like, motherfucker, but because there's so much responsibility.
Yeah.
And it's, because again, it's not just you.
We need the self-driving car future where everyone can have full mobility and not
kill each other.
It's just, we just really bad at long-term, we're bad at long-term
