But it's like, no, this is supposed to,
it's supposed to copy that revenants or reverence and stuff.
It's supposed to look like it should be chiseled on a stone tablet
and put on a capital front lawn.
It bothers me that he chose 12 instead of 10 though.
I do not have 12 fingers when I'm trying to list the virtues.
I run out of fingers.
Well, when you go through it, we'll see if there's any that we can chop.
Okay.
This reminds me of George Carlin's bit from complaints and grievances where he
compiles down, or yeah, where he reduces down the 10 commandments to two,
which is always be honest and faithful to the provider of dinooki
and try really hard not to kill anybody unless the person believes in a different
visible person than the one you believe in.
If you break down all the commandments and throw out the useless ones,
that's what you're left with.
Yeah.
I did enjoy the few that he just threw out.
He's like, that's not envy.
Our whole economy is based on envy.
That one's going out.
Right.
Yeah, I don't know.
Maybe like for solstice, we can come up with the 12 virtues of rationality
as opposed to like the 12 days of Christmas.
And sing it?
Yeah.
That could be fun.
That'd be a way to actually remember them all.
All right.
What is evidence?
I was just trying to imagine the beat to that song.
It would be really hard to crunch into.
Yeah.
But it would be really fun for somebody, not me.
Sure.
Hey, somebody do this.
There's definitely, there's a rationalist choir.
And we should link this.
I'll add it to our links.
But somebody in the Bay rationalist community made a like rational sing-along chat room
thing.
And you can log into it if you like singing to sing with people either.
I'm guessing like whatever songs you would want.
It could be like the songs that people sing at the various rationalist parties or...
How does that work with the latency?
They, it's explained in the post and I'll link it.
Okay.
They built a thing for it.
And it doesn't have video, I think.
But the latency apparently is, there's a built-in mechanism for handling it.
Remember back in the day when we had high quality landlines and there was no latency
at all.
You could like literally hear the other person taking a breath to say something?
I felt so much more comfortable doing phone calls on a wired phone.
It was basically like having someone in the same room as you, but there being a, like
you were blindfolded.
It added so much more data to conversations that like it made me less anxious.
Like I have really bad phone anxiety or anxiety over any kind of like calls because I need
to see people's body language, facial expression, tone of voice.
See, I didn't know that because I don't even like looking at people when I talk to them.
You're probably looking at them out of the corner of your eye though.
And like, you get a lot of data from that.
And if I'm missing all that data, I get really like insecure about whether I'm interpreting
people correctly or if they're interpreting me correctly.
VoIP is really hard because a lot of times like if someone wants to signal they want to
say something, they do it by intaking a breath.
And by the time you hear that on VoIP due to the second or half second of latency, you've
already started the next word.
So then you're talking over each other and it's just, it's awful.
I've noticed since coronavirus that a bunch of podcasts have gotten worse to listen to
because people aren't recording in the same room anymore, which we probably are doing
the same thing, but there's just a lot more people talking over each other.
I think about the last nine killers we talked over each other quite a bit.
I think the quality of the ones that we record in person is probably better than the ones
we do online.
Definitely.
At least for our show.
All right, so we have what is evidence next?
While walking along the street, your shoelaces come untied.
Shortly thereafter, for some odd reason, you start believing your shoelaces are untied.
Light leaves the sun and strikes your shoelaces and bounces off.
Some photons enter the pupil of your eyes and strike your retina.
The energy that photons triggers neural impulses.
The neural impulses are transmitted to the visual processing areas of the brain.
And there, the optical information is processed and reconstructed into a 3D model that is
recognized as untied shoelaces.
There's a sequence of events, a chain of cause and effect within the world and your brain
by which you end up believing what you believe.
Evidence is an event entangled by the links of cause and effect with whatever you want to know about.
And I'm pretty sure this isn't like unique tele-esser, and maybe it is.
I'm sure someone has thought of this or said it before, but I really liked this being put
in such concrete terms because I hadn't seen that before in my readings.
Like this description of evidence being the entanglement of your eyes and your brains
and your shoelace.
And then he goes, I'll just specify, not quantum entanglement.
Right, right.
But yeah, you have to have eyes and a brain, which again, not literally, because if you
ended up in the same state regardless of what light entered it, then you'd be blind.
But that's what he means by blind.
Yeah, and you can have beliefs about other sense inputs too, right?
But the idea is that, yes, there needs to be something that happens in reality that
impacts something in your brain.
Yeah, so this is why a rationalist put such a heavy premium on the paradoxical seeming
claim, a belief is only really worthwhile if you could, in principle, be persuaded to
believe otherwise.
That's, yeah.
I like having, and it's really good that we're reading back through the sequences, but I
like pulling things like that out because I do occasionally run up against somebody who
doesn't think evidence is a good reason for something.
You get this a lot with creationists where it's like, why wouldn't you believe in God?
And I was like, there's no evidence, or why don't you believe in X?
There's no evidence.
And they're just like, well, and then they'll just keep arguing.
I'm like, but that's the end.
The best ones are like, maybe you don't understand what I mean by evidence.
You give like the problem of evil.
And they're like, well, yeah, sure, logically, that makes sense.
What do you care so much about logic for?
And it's like, well, all right, have a good day.
Goodbye.
And on one hand, that sounds dismissive, but it's like, I can't argue you into believing
the laws that govern organized thought.
And the thing is, you believe them too.
You're not you believe them.
You operate that way.
You turn your car wheel left to move left every time because that's...
If your child gets sick, you take them to the hospital, you don't just pray.
Unless you're one of those insane people who does just pray and then their child dies.
Well, I'm just thinking of like everything else they do.
They set things down rather than toss them because they'll break or whatever.
Their entire life they operate in logical evidence based ways.
But then they pretend like they've got this exceptional area that they don't touch, but it's like...
That's because I don't know what logic is there.
That's why I feel like you could just street epistemologize them from first principles.
Like, okay, do we both agree on what logic means or what evidence means here?
And once you get them all the way up to saying yes, then you can go back and say, but there's no evidence.
I want to pursue that further.
But before we do, I wanted to also read this other thing he said about evidence,
which I thought was an important consideration.
He says, not every influence creates the kind of entanglement required for evidence.
It's no help to have a machine that beeps when you enter winning lottery numbers,
if the machine also beeps when you enter losing lottery numbers.
So the light reflecting from your shoes would not be useful evidence about your shoelaces
if the photons ended up in the same physical state, whether your shoes were tied or untied.
So for it to be evidence, it has to happen differently in a way that's entangled
with the different possible states of the target.
He's just like, rose path walking us to like the Bayesian definition of evidence.
Yeah.
That's why you shouldn't place lots.
Yeah.
He also says this, that if photons reflect off your shoelaces and hit a rock, the rock won't change much.
It won't be detectably different depending on whether your shoelaces were tied or untied.
This is why rocks are not useful witnesses in court.
A photographic film will contract shoelace entanglement from uncoming photons so it can act as evidence.
If your eyes and brain work correctly, you will be entangled with your own shoelaces.
Yeah.
Rational thought produces beliefs which are themselves evidence, which, and then I goes on to say,
if your tongue speaks truly, your rational beliefs which are themselves evidence can act as evidence for someone else.
I was like, that kind of, and then I was thinking about, if either of you read like Heinlein Stranger in A Strange Land.
Yes, that's good.
Yeah.
There's like the character of the true witness who's like somebody whose job is to like just
be a professional rationalist and always tell the truth.
It's somebody who can act as, what is it, first person testimony can act in the place of evidence.
I think there's a good example of this.
I'll cut you off, but like a month or so ago when you mentioned on the air that global warming was not a significant impact on the giant wildfires that are probably still burning,
but everyone got bored with so it's not in the news anymore.
At least the smoke's gone.
So like, I think it was reasonable for me to update in the direction of global warming was not that impactful on the wildfires when I heard that from you.
Because I assumed that you had done your homework.
Because in general, you're a reliable person, which is fine.
And I am now more inclined to believe the next thing you say, because as soon as you learned that you were wrong about this, you corrected it.
So the next time you make an assertion about something, I'll be like, okay, he's not going to make that mistake again.
Right?
Well, I try not to.
And we all try not to, but it's like, I think that if you have a source that updates based on like new evidence and or admits that they're wrong,
that makes them a way more reliable source.
Like if someone, it just says they're right all the time and you point out that they're not and they just ignore you.
Then it's like, all right, well, why would I ever believe you again?
This reminds me of a, I had a boss who just liked every movie and every movie, like we'd come out of it with him going, oh my God, that's the best movie I've ever seen.
I got to buy the DVD like right now.
And, and I just got to the point where I was like, I can't trust you for video for movie recommendations.
Yeah.
Or like, you know, you can generally like, you can trust certain people by reputation of like person who, yeah, like has discernment in some sense.
That's why Simon Cowell's opinion is actually important.
Yeah.
As opposed to Paul Abdul, who loves everybody.
I don't understand why they always have that dynamic on shows.
Because you need someone that the audience can relate to because the audience wants the people to win and to be nice.
I guess.
And Simon Cowell has to be like the dad who's like, no, not good enough.
Go back to your room and practice.
I'm going to use an example of a, of a show that isn't garbage like American Idol because I recognize the name Simon Cowell and how much in the Great British Baking Show.
Where the judges are both like, one's more Simon Cowley than the other, but they're both harsh and like, you know, very judgmental of it.
But they have two non-judge comic relief people that are there to be like, I think it looks great.
Oh my God, that's awesome.
They're there just being super supportive.
And so like that's, that's the way it should be.
Right.
