That's the one.
Send us a comment or put something on the Discord or...
I definitely see emails more than I see comments.
Send us an owl.
Yeah.
If you just don't ping me on Discord, there's a 0.1% chance I'll see it.
If you do ping me, there's a 95% chance I'll see it.
But email is the easiest way.
But any other medium where you say, hey, listen or ping me or whatever, or ping one
of us and get in touch.
Anyone who sends a literal owl gets all sorts of internet points.
Right.
And we will make them a rationalist bishop someday.
Right.
I'm plugging things.
I meant to do this last episode and I forgot.
Plug a thing.
It's not mine.
It is...
Also, please don't actually send an owl in a cage that I will have to care for.
I hear owls make terrible pets.
Yeah.
But if it not want.
If it flies here and drops off something, that'd be tight.
Exactly.
And then flies away.
Yes.
Okay.
Gianluca, I hope I'm saying that right.
I've listened to a handful of episodes, is, or is doing or finished the official audio
version of the replacing guilt sequence.
Yeah.
It's ongoing.
I've been listening to it.
It's really good.
I've never got around to reading it, even knowing how valuable it was because I'm lazy
and hate reading things.
And so I've been listening to this and I said I'd plug it last time and I forgot.
This is great.
So you can search for the...
We should totally link it on this episode.
Oh yeah.
We'll go ahead and just link it too.
But if you're just, if you're going to search it in your thing, it's just called replacing
guilt find it in any pod catcher and it's awesome.
How many episodes is it up to?
Let me double check.
I've been listening in order, which I listened to one out of order because the way this thing
does it is newest to oldest for some stupid reason.
Yeah.
Like re-listening to it, which has been really valuable even though I've read it already.
Because with a lot of, well, I guess with most complicated, long things, you don't remember
everything or you don't like process everything correctly the first time.
And especially I think with like psychological things like this, where it's, here's like
a model about psychology that you have to kind of struggle with to like watch how you're
interacting with this thing and then like see if you can put like the intervention in
play and then kind of check, did I do it right?
Like, but I don't know, I've gotten a lot of value out of just going back and then being
reminded that, oh yeah.
The word should.
Considered harmful.
Like, yeah.
Should considered harmful.
That's epic.
If you catch yourself like being like, yeah, I should go to the grocery store.
Then like you'd be like, oh wait, it should's bad.
I need to go to the grocery store so I can get food so I can continue to live there.
I've traced my values all the way up and now I can say I'm anticipating that more strong
and motivating.
Yeah.
I'm anticipating that internalizing the messages of this sequence will actually make me more
productive and doing the things I want to do, which I'm excited about.
Yeah.
It's you have to dig through some kind of hard like entrenched shit for some of these though.
Like this is really a, I don't know, I was raised Catholic Catholic guilt as a thing.
As far as I know, I don't have a lot of guilt baggage.
I mean, I have some stuff I carry around, but you got to look at your like actual behavior
because like a lot of the stuff you do is invisible to you.
I guess let me say that I know that it's possible to be aware of like how heavy your
guilt baggage is, right?
Or at least have some idea.
I'm not carrying around what I am perceiving as a lot, but I probably carry around some
that I could lose.
And I definitely do think I think I could benefit from framing things better and be more accomplishing
that way.
Like I feel guilty for the amount of like, I remember when, well, I was asked at some
point like a year ago, what's like my guilty pleasure?
And I was like, well, and they even the person asking gave the caveat, like, I don't think
guilty pleasures are a thing.
You know, if you're having fun, that's all that matters.
But if I had to pick one, it's like watching reruns.
I watch several hours of reruns a week and like what, you know, even as useless as it
is to watch American dad, I've seen all of cutthroat kitchen twice.
Like, you know, so as useless as it is to watch those shows, you know, even if you're
getting utilize out of the fun of it or whatever, fine.
But like, there's probably better uses of my time.
There's definitely better uses of my time than watching, you know, I don't know.
I'm trying to think of the show I've seen the most, but whatever, seeing the show three
or four times, like that's a complete waste of time.
And I feel bad about that.
So I should stop feeling bad about it.
And just as long as I'm plugging again, the replacing guilt episode 30 came out on October
29th.
And it looks like they're every week, but if it is every week, they missed a week.
So when you're watching reruns, a lot of times you aren't watching them anyway, though,
they're just happening in the background.
And there's the other perk with reruns is that like, it's, it's relaxing terrain for
your brain.
So it's a great way to unwind because like, even if you're, you're watching Seinfeld,
you know, for the second time or something, it's like, you know, what the joke is coming,
but that means your brain doesn't have to work, you're not, you don't have to follow
it.
You just get to tune in when the laugh comes and then tune back out.
It depends if it's something complicated to or like something you've watched so long
ago that you've forgotten it.
Yeah, there's some things that definitely benefit from rewatches.
And you like, you pick up little jokes that you missed the first time.
I rewatched things that like I watched in my childhood and that was, that's been really
interesting.
That's a trip sometimes.
It is.
And I'm rereading like, I've been reading some stuff aloud to Phoenix or like other
people that enjoy being read to that is things that I found personally like.
Who does into being read?
Nementous.
I don't know.
Some people don't have the attention span, but I love it personally.
I love reading aloud and being read to and like that's something that's been in human
culture forever.
Like people would sit around a campfire and they would sort of retell the stories of like
the heroes of, you know, like story of Odysseus, the other epic stories of the old man.
And now we have like Superman, Batman, et cetera, which provide the same role, but there is
like some desire for repetition.
Like children want to hear the same story before bed because it has that same sort of
like there's something calming about hearing it again and again.
Tell us the one about the trolls, Bilbo.
You know how for some whatever bizarre reason, the music that you listen to as a teenager
imprints on your memories and emotions different than any other music really?
That's the most emotional period of your life.
Yeah.
I was just thinking like for at least the last century, we've had the thing where there's
constant new music and so, you know, teenagers always have their own different thing.
That's where like, oh yeah, hippies have their 60s music, which was great and all, but it's
not my music, right?
I was just thinking like 500 years ago, when literally the only music you had was what people
in your village could sing and play, like literally everyone would have the same songs
as their teenage songs.
Like how uniting would that be across generations if everyone had the same feelings about the
same songs?
Hmm.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
And then, you know, your old Lola Bife when you were a kid was your nostalgia music or
something, right?
It's weird because there's some things like I remember recommending the Billie Eilish
album a little bit ago and it's beautiful and amazing and I love it.
And nonetheless, still like even songs that I know are objectively worse that I heard
when I was a teenager.
They have that sentimental value.
They have a different quality to them that it just, it feels a little different.
I think it's really healthy to have both a bunch of songs or a bunch of artists that
you have that sentimental value like, oh, this is my childhood favorite song or this
is my like my middle school jam and also be able to appreciate new music.
There's a lot of people that sort of the the songs they listen to growing up in their
like twenties and thirties are just the only thing they want to listen to for the rest
of their lives.
Oh, yeah.
And that seems so sad.
That's the age of hippie.
Yeah.
All he ever wants to do is listen to the doors, man.
That is like a universal human thing that like large populations of people have, though.
And I was I got really worried that I was starting to have that where like every time
I realized that like, oh, no, I don't like any of the new music.
Is it objectively bad or am I becoming old?
The thing is, most of the music so far were objectively bad too.
But some of the really good stuff is still around.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I tried to Billy Eilish album.
I can't understand what she's saying.
So I need to just read the lyrics.
I'm bad at that.
We've talked about this.
When I first met you thought I hated music, but it was really just that I don't listen
to it because I can't understand song lyrics.
Well, no, I usually can't either.
I have a very hard time with most lyrics, but like Billy Eilish specifically, I found
very easy to understand.
I'm not sure why.
If you listen to the same songs over and over, you get better at picking stuff out.
She mumbles a lot of it, which is fine.
It's like it sounds cool.
But like it might as well be in Korean.
I think what it is with her is she oftentimes says an entire word when she says the word.
Like, I mean,
That helps.
Yeah.
Like Kesha is really good at that.
I can understand Kesha music.
