Welcome to The Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, I'm Jay Sticky.
And today we have a topic suggested by one of our patrons, which we'll be diving into,
not until after our sequence posts, because we always do those first.
And we always have.
Yes.
Well, you know what?
We've always been at war with Eurasia, so same thing.
We've always done the first.
Our first post is called Burden Some Details, which is a continuation of the conjunction fallacy that we've been talking about for the past couple episodes.
Yes.
It starts off by reminding us that the conjunction fallacy occurs because we substitute judgment of representativeness for judgment of probability.
By adding extra details, you make an outcome seem more characteristic of the process that generates it, even though that makes it less probable.
And I wanted to start out this with going into a little bit of feedback that we got, because in the less wrong posts, specifically, it said that this is one of the most controversial findings and people are always denying it and arguing against it.
And I was like, hmm, that's interesting.
I guess that's why it's been researched so much, but I don't know why it would be so controversial.
And then on our discord, just hours after we posted the episode, someone was arguing against it and saying, I like how this is why it doesn't make that much sense, which I thought brought up a really good example.
So I'm going to read that.
Oh, you're interested.
Yeah.
So the user who was, again, why weaker says that the conjunction fallacy actually makes sense, doesn't it?
It's like saying Superman will violently murder 10 people.
Who are terrorists about to murder 10,000 people?
Technically, the second example adds extra information that makes it less likely.
Just Superman will violently murder 10 people is less likely than Superman will violently murder 10 people who were terrorists about to murder others, right?
Well, because there's many reasons you could murder 10 people.
Right.
If you told me that Superman murdered 10 people, I might find that implausible.
If you told me that you murdered 10 terrorists, I'd find that more plausible because that's how Superman rolls, right?
But if all you told me is that he killed 10 people, they could have been supervillains, they could have been bank robbers, they could have been terrorists, they could have been whatever space aliens that were invading.
So if all I knew is that he killed 10 people, I would guess that they were bad people, right?
And I think I would be correct in guessing so because I already have the character of Superman, right?
Like, I already know a lot about him.
Yeah, like, except that he doesn't kill people, so I think it's very unpopular with it.
But, like, with the examples and hypotheticals.
The way he did kill people, didn't he?
You know.
It's Batman that's never killed anyone.
Superman also is supposed to not too, yeah.
But I think they both were forced into it every now and then in the comics for dramatic purposes.
And in Man of Steel, the movie.
Right, but that one was the most terrible movie from what I've heard.
You know, I, maybe because I never cared or knew about Superman, but I liked it.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Okay, I never saw it because I just heard it was so bad.
It was like one of the fun Superman, like the only thing that, I never liked Superman because, and as Batman very well puts it in the Batman or Superman movie.
Because Batman's so much better.
Because, no, no, Batman, in those, he's, eh, whatever.
He's a less fun Tony Stark, but the, like, Superman's not brave.
You know, if you're literally invincible, you're not interesting to watch you take down the enemy.
You can move at the speed of light and are impervious to all damage.
Like, it's not fun watching you solve a problem.
Right.
When Spider-Man jumps in front of a car and has to catch it, you see him put the force into stopping it, right?
Like, he could get killed.
Well, most of the good Superman stories are ones that don't focus on can he punch the other guy and survive.
Yeah, it's like a moral dilemma between you have to make like two bad choices and...
Like the whole, the original Superman movie with Christopher Reeves, the whole thing was like,
is he going to save this town from being killed by a nuke, or is he going to save Lois Lane?
And...
The answer is obviously both.
It turned out to be both.
Flying back in time magic, yes, but...
Oh, I didn't know it was the, I didn't know it was the backward in time one.
So he's fast enough to fly back in time, but he's not fast enough to catch Lois Lane falling off a building
and whatever house he is going to die and catch the nuke.
I really want to interject that music, that magic.
Explain such a good consistency clip right now.
Should we get a sound bird?
But to address why we create this actual point, like, I think with, was it Linda, the feminist librarian or something?
Like, we don't know anything about her character.
We only know what's been provided.
So like, I think that, granted, it set it up like the kind of person that was going to be active in the feminist community,
but I, maybe at this point, it's worth just like actually looking at the math, whatever you look,
if you draw it out and you say, here's the space possibilities where Superman kills 10 people
and I'm going to draw another circle for where Superman kills 10 terrorists.
It'll have to be inside the one where he kills 10 people.
And if I were to throw a dart at those two circles, I would more likely hit the big, you know, you said what I'm saying?
Yeah, yeah, I do.
I think there's a slightly like higher probability that Superman would have killed 10 terrorists than 10 people, generally,
but I think it's such a small blip in the math that it still is just like so much more probable for A than B.
I also love how you use the man of steel to steel man this position.
Well, I did say that I think the fallacy is that instead of reading the literal meaning that Superman killed 10 people
or Superman killed 10 people because they were terrorists, the way it's read when you read the statements is
Superman killed 10 people for no reason or Superman killed 10 people for some reason
because in real life, no one would just say Superman killed 10 people and not say anything else.
You might see a news headline like that.
So I think it's more about how our brains process it because if it doesn't have the explanation in the end, it's applied for no reason.
I think that's why newspapers do that too because there's a compulsion to be like, but why pick it up?
So what you should always think is that append at the end for any possible reason we can think of as opposed to for no reason.
I think that's a good point about human psychology.
Like there's something really unsatisfying about A versus B.
I think just like as creatures that like to gather as much information and hear complete stories.
And because like you said, no one would just say the first one and not tell you the caveat unless there was no caveat to give.
Unless it's clickbait.
Well, I'm raising that because I was catching up on the backlog of the mind killer podcast and you guys mentioned the headline which I heard about that one of the people involved in the one of the largest vaccine trials for COVID vaccine died.
And I remember seeing that headline.
What I didn't remember doing or no, I must have seen this because I saw it on Reddit and I always click the comments on anything that is interesting, but not in the headline.
It was on the control group.
But it was reported left and right that somebody died in the vaccine trial.
And so you can bet if we had a Superman and Superman killed 10 people, that would be on the front page of every newspaper that you could click and get ad revenue on, right?
And you'd have to go to Reddit to find out.
So Stephen, when I hadn't heard that.
So when you said the beginning of that, like that somebody who was involved in this trial died, I thought that the punchline was going to be but not of COVID.
So like I was like already just so suspicious of that headline.
Right.
Like as soon as you said it, I was like, okay, but I'm waiting for one who's I'm waiting for one yet in the in the experimental group who gets hit by a car.
And they're going to report that someone in the vaccine trial who received the vaccine died of a car accident.
The vaccine maybe makes you less able to control cars.
They would actually probably have to put that in the adverse events effects rather.
The one of my jobs when I was doing clinical research is to just you collect every bad thing that happens to everybody who's on an experimental drug.
So you could be on like a drug for diabetes, but like you break a nail and you're like, my nails are breaking more easily.
You got to write it down.
You don't know if it's a side effect, but there was a really funny.
This is such a decide.
Nevermind.
There's a funny story about something.
Is it short and really funny?
Yeah, I can try it.
It's both short and really funny.
It's totally worth it.
Yeah, I was going to have to drag it out of here.
I forget some of the details anyways.
I'll just shorten it.
But there was some CRC was collecting ACE for a drug and one of them was there was a guy who came in and said, dogs are following me around.
And she's like, I had to write it.
I had to write it.
You had to put it down like legally.
And then it turns out that was a real side effect of the drug in males.
It like changed your sweat to create a scent that was attractive to dogs.
Holy shit.
She's like, that was one of my instructors actually at the research boot camp.
And she used those as an example of why you should always record all the AEs.
That is a wonderful story.
And I think that's awesome.
And now I need to ask, was it what it made dogs follow you in an aggressive manner?
Or because like you smell like another playful dog.
Because if that's the case, where can I get this drug?
Because I was just thinking that.
I mean, what if it makes you sexually attractive to dogs?
I would not want that.
If it just made me seem like a playful dog.
And I'm like, oh my God, every dog wants to play with me now.
I don't care what else this drug does.
You can mark it as just that, right?
I think it was a heart attack drug, but I don't remember.
I don't want heart attacks either.
Perfect.
Yeah.
Like double bonus.
It stops heart attacks because you feel so happy for the dogs.
I was just thinking that too.
It's like, maybe that's how it really works.
I think that's a mechanism of action.
But I do like the takeaway from my Curious Thing that if you don't include any details,
the brain might autofill for no reason.
And I think as long as we're careful to safeguard against that,
that sounds like good wisdom to take from that.
I would want to test like, that man killed 10 criminals for some reason.
Versus this second one.
But then if you know about the conjunction fallacy,
you might be like, clued into what they're testing for.
I feel like the statements Batman killed 10 people
and Batman killed 10 people for some reason have equal probability.
For some reason encompasses all possible reasons.
Unless for no reason.
Unless for no reason is the default thing that people think.
Sure.
Yeah.
I think you'd have to ask two different groups.
Probably.
Yeah.
Which they usually do, I think, in these anyways.
That's why I'm not designing jokes.
That would be a fun test, though.
If we can find some way to ask a bunch of people
that somehow aren't on the Bayesian Conspiracy Discord,
because I'll have heard about this.
I mean, if we have a listener that goes to Comic-Con
and wants to just randomly ask people one question or the other
and record all the results.
But no, it's no probability.
We should ask people who don't know what the conjunction fallacy is.
So, yeah.
Alright, yeah.
Anyone who can get this information for us, I'll send you 20 bucks.
The first person who gets it, I can't do it to everybody.
Right.
Yeah.
It just reminds me of the thing where comic book-cons
bring really good business to restaurants nearby,
because nerds tip well.
But if you're in a casino area, the casinos lose business,
because nerds know statistics.
Cool.
That's why they probably do have Comic-Cons in Las Vegas.
I think LA Comic-Con is the biggest.
Yeah.
The world or the New York Comic-Con might have been.
LA is where it started, so I would imagine.
