LA or San Francisco, it's in that.
Damn it, it's one of the California ones.
As a non-Californian, I just have San Diego, San Francisco,
and Los Angeles all as one big city in my head.
Yeah, me too.
It's surprising how far apart they actually are.
But to me, I don't care.
Right.
They're on the coast, they're in California, they're the same damn city.
Like, Jayce, if you told me your friend worked at Burger King,
and then you told me today they moved to a different Burger King,
I don't bother picturing a different Burger King, right?
To me, it's like they work at an abstract Burger King that I don't care where it is.
So your incremental image of California is like generic beach with palm trees.
Yeah.
High rises and like a highway.
A bunch of very attractive but shallow people that want to act,
some orange trees.
but are doing waitressing instead.
That, yeah, that definitely was in LA.
There were some very bizarre people in LA when I visited.
I think the reason I don't think of that about San Francisco is because
now I know San Francisco is where all the nerds are.
There's some different weird people in San Francisco.
But they're probably just between a few blocks of Los Angeles,
so there's a lot of intermixing.
In the next generation, we're going to have very attractive, very smart people
because San Francisco and Los Angeles are the same town.
You're counting on the smart people breeding with pretty people.
That's true.
Yeah.
What are we talking about again?
I mean, the pretty people are busy being waiters
and the smart people are making tons of money,
so they just hook up with the people who don't have that much money.
Perfect.
They just automate all the waiters' jobs.
Aw, shit.
We've solved that problem.
I had to start getting jobs as house husbands.
I want to get a job as a house husband.
Anything else on why we encourage feedback?
Because I found that valuable, but if there's anything else there,
I want to dig it out.
That was basically the whole gist of it.
Nice.
Well, thanks for that.
That was awesome.
Look how good Stephen got at segueing us back on track.
My segue was like, what were we talking about?
Yeah, let's see.
Conjunction fallacy.
This reminds me of methods of rationality
when they were talking about the overly complicated plots.
I realized that that was probably
as you're trying to put conjunction fallacy explanations
in the universe.
And playing with what I think is called the Batman's Gambit on TV Tropes,
where you need like a number of things to line up perfectly for this to work.
Yeah.
You know, like pitch meeting makes fun of like the Joker
having all the crazy luck in the world.
But I kind of just see that like as his power, right?
Maybe you just don't see all the things he's trying in the background that don't work.
He actually has superpowers.
He just doesn't know it.
Or like the thing is he's not trying because he's like, fuck it.
I don't care if any of my plans work.
Like that's the thing is like I'm just fucking around.
So, you know, like the guy with the cell phone bomb in his chest
and the prison that he earned the jail he happened to be taken to or whatever.
It's probably a dozen things he does that don't work out that we never hear about.
Exactly.
Maybe he had a cell phone implanted in a prisoner in every jail across the city
and they all blow up at the same time, right?
It would be such a good movie.
Like from the point of view of the Joker.
Just seeing all the stuff that like Batman never notices or something
because he didn't advertise it right.
I'd watch that.
So we were just talking about one way to avoid the conjunction fallacy by saying
in our head of all possible reasons rather than, you know, for no reason.
And this post is basically the same thing.
Like how can we avoid the conjunction fallacy?
And what Eliezer says is that forecasters would have done well to
would it could have avoided the conjunction fallacy by noticing the word and
and being very wary of it and not just wary but leaping back
and even not knowing that they were going to get tested afterwards
about the conjunction fallacy or anything.
They should notice the conjunction of two entire details combined by the word and
shocked by the audacity of anyone asking them to endorse such an insanely complicated prediction.
I mean, yes, but like I like the general theme of it.
But then it could say because of or due to, right?
What you need is just like you just need to be able to notice
that there's two different things being assertive here.
That was what made me think of methods of rationality where there was the like
as soon as somebody starts talking about a plot that has like more than two steps
or what was it or like more than two details that have to go right.
They were like, uh, like complication.
What was it?
Penalty for complexity.
More epicycles.
Yeah.
That was when he was arguing with himself.
I have my memory of it.
But Draco's father said the limit on how complex something can be is three
things going right at once.
And since you never want to wish things all the way to the limit,
the practical limit was actually too right.
So like, I feel like if you could just get some kind of word like complexity penalty,
which might also, you know, apply to this, that'll just jump out as soon as you see
like probability of this and this.
You just like, whoa, wait, complexity penalty.
That's what makes communities so helpful.
Cause unless you're as, uh, able to bifurcate your brain as Harry is, um,
like if I'm talking with my other rationalist friends about my steps to accomplish something,
they'll be like, wait, hold on.
That's actually, you know, you're, you're conflating that these all things will
line up this way.
Having an outside view is super helpful.
Right.
Yeah.
And he literally says what we just said.
So maybe I was remembering him saying this, but, uh,
Eleazar says regarding the US and Soviet Union suspending diplomatic relations,
the scenario was not the US and Soviet Union suddenly suspend diplomatic relations for no reason,
but the US and Soviet Union suspended diplomatic relations for any reason.
Yeah.
As we were saying.
And so like, it ends with that thing about, um,
futurists and universes where like there was a,
some friend of Eleazar's was really impressed by this futurist who was saying like,
this will happen and that, that'll lead to this technology.
And then like making all these complicated predictions and Eleazar just like,
tried to just say, um, I think that's, you know, conjunction fallacy.
The person didn't get it.
So he's like, okay.
So, and then, uh, I don't have the article open,
but what was the thing you said about universes?
Uh, is it here?
I can find it.
Okay.
Universes replicating is simpler than universes replicating for these reasons.
Yeah.
The futurist gave or something.
Hang on.
I've almost found it.
It's more probable that universes replicate for any reason than that they replicate
via black holes because advanced civilizations manufactured black holes
because universes evolved to make them do it.
And he said, oh, I like that.
This is where a whiteboard just comes in handy.
And like, I mean it, you just draw a circle and be like,
here's all the reasons universes replicate.
Here's the three epicycles where it's your theory, right?
It doesn't mean it's wrong.
It just means that it's necessarily less likely than happening for any reason.
The point I think he's hammering on, and, um, it should have been stated more explicitly
in this post, in my opinion, but, um, what, what he did say is that they,
people need to feel a strong emotional impact for Occam's Racer.
Feel every added detail as a burden, every single extra roll of the dice.
And yeah, I think that's, if humans could feel Occam's Racer as a littler,
literal emotional reaction, that would help a lot.
It's too bad that we can't like program that in.
Yeah.
But we can try.
Yeah.
I mean, like you could try through propagating the idea of conjunction fallacy
and then people like knowing to say, oh, complexity penalty,
but like people in the rationalist sphere know that people outside
not only don't know that, but don't want to hear your explanation.
Plus they'd be like, what the hell is a complexity penalty?
Well, that's what I mean.
Isn't it a complexity bonus?
Yeah.
That's what I mean though.
Like that's, you can say that to another rationalist and they'll be like,
oh, like catch themselves.
Yeah.
And you can do it much more quickly than pulling out the whiteboard
because in most like, you know, in dinner with your family,
if you pulled a whiteboard out, like, well,
maybe other people's families are different, but my would be like,
we don't care.
Stop talking about the science things at the table.
I like the, the end here.
It says forward is written.
If you can lighten your burden, you must do so.
There is no straw that lacks the power to break your back.
Which reminds me, I haven't made this assertion for months.
We need to do at least, not at probably an episode,
but we need to maybe we'll sub out the sequences for the 12 virtues of rationality
at some point.
It's very artsy and fun.
Like it's written in like this height.
If you haven't, I imagine most of our readers are familiar with it,
but it's written in this like high pros kind of language that if it was your
only exposure to Kasky, you'd think he was some nut job.
Why did he talk like this?
Was with all this flowery language.
