It's largely genetic, and you will see like the people that, you know, are 120, you interview them and like they're not like shining examples of doing all the right things.
Like, I remember there was a Cuban woman who lived to like 110 or something and she smoked a cigar every day because they were asking like, you know, like what, what, um, I think they actually interviewed her and were asking like,
what things do you do to preserve your good youth?
And like it was like, she's like, oh, yeah, you know, I, I go for walks and I talk to my friends and I make sure I always smoke a cigar.
That's sad.
Just keeps me young.
And I was just like, hmm, you can really improve your odds by changing things because like the smoker with amazing genes, a third of them are going to get lung cancer.
So you can have the amazing genes, but the smoking is still going to stop a third of them.
Yeah.
And that, you know, just at the, that one woman's woman's point, like one cigar a day is more like a treat than it is like a.
That's a significant accumulation of carcinogens over time.
She just had good genes.
It's a lot less than, especially like the way you smoke cigars is not how you smoke cigarettes.
Right.
Assuming you don't actually inhale.
And yeah, you, if you do inhale, it's usually a lot less, but like.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, like the same thing with people eating like bacon for breakfast every day, though, like.
Or she said that she smoked like John Wayne.
Then I'm like, okay, no way you made it to 120, right?
110.
How did John Wayne smoke?
Famously five packs a day.
Holy shit.
Which is if you crunch the numbers, doable, but hard.
Yeah, that's chain smoking as long as you're awake, basically.
Right.
You know, if you can burn through a cigarette in about three minutes, that's fast.
But in high pressure times, I think a regular cigarette smoker can burn through a pack in
an hour, which is one about every three minutes.
Right?
Yeah.
I guess.
There's 20 in a thing.
So I just, I remember like when I was smoking would take me five to six minutes to smoke
a cigarette.
Yeah.
So you would have to practice to get John Wayne speed.
But in any case, like, I think there's a lot to be said about like your own, like physical
well-being, whether or not like you're alive or not.
Sure.
I guess I'd rather be decrepit and alive than healthy and dead five years ago.
If those are my options.
If being alive meant that I made it to longevity escape velocity, but the tradeoff is like,
it turns out in most, according to Aubrey de Grey, is not substantial in your own life
expectancy.
If you average out across people who like work out and stuff in terms of just years alive.
But like, I'd rather my last decade be alive.
Like my great grandpa up until his nineties was climbing onto his roof and cleaning out
his gutters.
Yeah.
Like in shoveling snow and stuff.
Like, you know, he was not bedbound for his last decade, not even close.
Just three days ago, I was talking to someone whose grandmother, if she ends up lying down,
like if she slips to the floor or something, she can't get up again.
She has such bad arthritis that someone needs to help her up.
And that was a problem when in the evening she slipped down to the floor and not until
her caretaker showed up the next day, like 14 hours later.
Yeah.
That's why you have one of those like medical cull life alert.
But and yeah, she's, she goes everywhere in a wheelchair and basically just spends her
entire day sitting in a recliner watching TV because that's all she can do.
And yeah, she made it to 90, but it's not a great existence, man.
Yeah.
I would definitely try and maximize like the amount of fun I could have sitting down.
But you know, if you're talking about people born 90 years ago, though, like the other
assumptions are going to be that like other things are going to improve along the way
as well.
Yeah.
Certainly.
And the velocity is like you're like 85 and on the edge of death.
And then suddenly it's like, oh, here's the thing that'll, you know, yeah, the people
who are in their 90s now lived through the age when we burned lead in our gas, right?
So all of us are born after that.
So that's helpful.
I do think it's a really good idea to still try to be as healthy as you can to maximize
your chances and to make those extra five years that might be what you need to push
you over.
Well, and to maximize your like quality of life in your late years are almost separate
arguments too.
It also living is has its value and then like being in good health has another value.
But I think they're both.
Yeah.
Well, it also may be the case that like if you make it to 70 with a decent functional
liver and two kidneys, you might be able to take some of these treatments.
Yeah.
Whereas if you're at 70 and a lot of your organs are already like starting to fail, the treatments
that are available won't help you anyway.
And so you won't get those extra 10 years that will get you to the next treatments.
So I think just being healthier when you're older is good for reaching escape longevity
regardless.
Agreed.
I would say, you know, getting enough exercise and decent diet and enough sleep are all really
important aspects.
Yeah.
I think it was just a good idea.
Like that's going to make your quality of life better.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I would like I'd like I'd said I'd rather have 90 years of good health than 110 years
with the last 30 years sucked.
Right.
So I know we've hit this on previous episodes.
So I don't think we need to get too far into it, but definitely a good exercise routine
and sleep routine is really good for quality of life and life and general health and maybe
longevity.
There's a lot of things that could go on that list.
Yeah.
Well, there's another thing which I have not really thought wasn't that important until
Corona virus hit and I saw it taken away.
I think like connection, right?
Yeah.
Like social a social exercise regimen.
I think it's also very important.
Like if you are disconnected from other people, that's just going to I think it's going to
make you live less long in general.
It does.
They tested this.
Yeah.
It seems to be a human need.
So like even if you have social anxiety or something, go out there, consider it like
you consider exercise.
This is something I have to do in order to have, you know, a longer life and a more
healthy life.
There's an interesting thing.
I feel if I've talked about this on here, but I was trying to look up benefits versus
like drawbacks of drinking alcohol because I drink alcohol and there was this like theory
going around for a while that like resveratrol and wine or like some other thing in beer
that I forget like because they were trying to figure out why drinkers and non drinkers
like why I forget if they if drinking barely affects your lifespan or if it like doesn't
seem to or maybe in some populations.
And drinking encompasses a wide variety of behaviors that's probably important to caveat
that you don't mean, you know, killing 24, a 24 pack a day is drinking.
We're having a beer a night is also drinking, right?
But I'm talking about just drinking it all versus quitting alcohol entirely.
I see.
Neuro toxin.
But it turns out the what is actually making the difference is that like alcohol does damage
you over time, but it's not like resveratrol.
It's the fact that people who drink are more likely to be social than those who don't.
Son of a bitch.
Yeah.
Drinking is a social activity.
There's a difference between, you know, somebody who stays at home and just like solo drinks
and watches TV and like somebody who goes out to bars or like, you know, goes out to
breakfast and gets mimosas or whatever, you know, social thing, have a party and has some
drinks.
So it's clear evidence that socialization, like, you know, getting out having a social
life, having friends is pro longevity.
This is something I picked up just via osmosis versus with my wife's line of work where now
she's in hospice, but she was just in like nursing home care and stuff.
And the one of the pivotal things of people having longer or healthier later years is
having a social network and talking to people.
Yeah.
Like I know that my grandma, it's a bomber because she doesn't get to hang out with her
neighbors as much.
I think they still kind of do sitting several feet apart and stuff outside, but it's called
my grandmother.
We don't get along, but like COVID happened and she was like in a nursing home or in like
a fancy nursing home.
But like they had clubs and they would go on the bus and go to like Trader Joe's and
learn cooking and like go to the aquarium and stuff.
And now everybody's locked in their rooms.
Yeah.
It's part of the reason that religious people have a decent quality of life and longevity
as well because they have those in quilting communities, built in social aspect every
week and community.
That's why we need a rashless church, which I will someday get around to doing something
about.
We'll call it the Bayesian conspiracy.
Perfect.
I'm glad that your opinions about that have come back around.
Well, like the, what I was going to say is that, you know, people will market, oh, play
this game, play Sudoku's, do word searches.
Those are good for your brain, you know, what's really good for your brain, modeling other
humans as you're engaging with them and trying to anticipate what they're going to say and
what they're going to interpret about what you're saying.
Right.
So this is a very cognitively demanding task and if you're going to, if you plan to work
your brain, do that.
And so people do when they're socializing, I think that's really valuable.
My great grandparents lived through their nineties, they played, they played bridge
every, every, either once a week or twice a week with their neighbors, like, and granted
those are all anecdotes and stuff, but the, the data from my wife isn't, this just happens
to be the case.
And Jace corroborated some compare, I'm, as far as I'm concerned, it's established
in fact, that, that having social, having social networks as, as a, in your older age
is just beneficial for you medically and cognitively.
I'm realizing that I'm not equipped at all to answer, how do we say Lucas's name properly?
Wukash?
Probably Wukash.
Let us know how we did.
But I don't think I'm much more equipped to address anything like more science-y than
any of that.
Like this, I did do a little bit to try and get up to speed on it, but there's a lot.
Other than like just reading the pop side books or reading the Wikipedia pages of people
mentioned in the email, like there's not much more I was able to do in this amount of time.
So I mean, we're not done with the episode, but before I, before I forget to plug this,
if anybody, if anybody listening knows a lot about this and wants to talk about it, email
us at, I just had a Bayesian conspiracy podcast at gmail.com.
