If it's just straight politics stuff, then, you know,
David plays his role as the obstinate,
like I refuse to concede one millimeter of ground on anything about government.
But I get the impression he's kind of playing a role.
He might actually believe everything that he's saying as strongly as he does,
but if he's that confident, he seems way confident.
I think he's having it up a little.
Exactly. I think he's having fun.
But if you guys are arguing about some actual effective, whatever, particular real thing...
What I've seen as rationalists on either side of political divides
tend to agree on facts, but they have different opinions about moral weight of things.
Like someone, like, I don't know, I think guns are bad,
and somebody who is all like pro-guns,
or, you know, same with any issue that gets divided along political lines,
where it's not really that they disagree about the fact that, like, this is happening this often.
It's more of how much of a problem is this, which sort of...
Yeah, that plays a big part. They don't disagree about the data.
It's not like arguing with, you know, it sounds like we're harping against religion,
but it's just an easy, giant target.
It's not like arguing against somebody about how old the planet is.
It's like, because, I mean, that's just...
We can look at the available truth there.
I didn't want to, like, make it about abortion, but, like, I was just thinking,
like, the best example really I could think of is, like, somebody saying,
like, they both agree on how often abortion is happening,
but a democratic rationalist might say, and I think it's fine,
because I assign more moral weight to a woman's choice,
where a red rationalist might say, like, I, like, actually am concerned with these, like,
proto-humans being killed, and I think that it doesn't weigh out morally that way.
I find myself comfortably in the middle there.
I think every abortion is a bummer.
Yeah.
Even in their events to save someone's life or whatever, like, it sucks.
You know, humans, I think, are a special kind of animal.
And I was going to say being, but yeah, like, and every time a life gets extinguished,
that's a bummer.
Now, that doesn't mean that it's wrong to have abortions.
And the least bit, you can have something where it's both like,
the truth can be a bummer, right?
So, or, you know, the best choice can be a bummer.
As it is, this is by far the best choice.
Easy access to abortion is the way to do it.
I absolutely agree, but I can see how I don't expect someone who's even,
even a rationalist on the right side to necessarily be infected with that belief.
And I don't know, does that make my belief less legitimate because I don't expect it to be contagious
in some cases?
On the other side, like, I have seen Democrats say that,
or, you know, leftists who believe in abortions say that, like,
not only is abortion, like, fine, it's great.
I'm pro-abortion because I don't think that fetuses have any moral weight at all.
Like, they'll go really far to the extreme and make things up about, like,
they can't feel pain, like, they can't, you know, like...
I think they've just been mind-killed.
At that point, they're refusing.
And then people on the right that are saying, like, you know,
a soul is imbued on conception, which, like, I wouldn't expect a rationalist to say either of those things.
They would say, I don't know whether or not it, like, when it has sentience.
It does suck that something that might have sentience or even, like, a conception of pain
and doesn't want to experience pain that sucks.
They, like, I would never imagine somebody saying,
nah, it's fine, they have no soul, therefore, they, I don't know,
or somebody to say the opposite that, yeah, there's a soul.
I don't know.
It felt like that was explaining what I was trying to say more,
but it might have just made it more confusing.
I mean, rationalists are just less extreme in general because they take other people...
Well, rationalists are definitely more extreme on things like AI risk, like, I think, uh...
But that's because we're right on that one.
I think we do tend to be more moderate just because we assign less probability to things,
like, people that are able to say, I 100% believe that this is true,
versus, like, me personally, I don't know when sentience appears developing fetus,
and I'm, like, comfortable saying I don't know that.
And therefore, there's ambiguous moral weight on killing it, depending on what stage it's in.
Yeah, I think...
And the likelihood that it's at the, you know, it develops at this stage versus this stage.
Right, it's not going to be at exactly 62 days or something, right?
Like, who knows, but it's, I mean, maybe it is, but it would be weird to say, oh, we found it.
It's this exact second after fertilization or something.
But it's, like you mentioned that...
I forgot how it came up, but SJW is not liking Rationalist or something.
I think part of that might be because we tend to have moderate beliefs in a lot of things.
Yeah, exactly.
Both sides read us as being on the enemy's side because we, like...
Right, because...
We can't fit us into either category.
Well, yeah, exactly.
If you're not 100% in our camp only shooting the other way, then you're one of them.
I was just going to say, like, the weakness that they see is the strength that I see is that we're able to, like, actually see the other side of the argument and admit that there's merit to it.
That's what I was going to say.
Yeah, I mean, so there's merits to positions I disagree with.
It doesn't mean I agree with them.
It means that I can acknowledge the merit of it.
Hey, I see where you're coming from.
I think that's a good point.
I think that the cost-benefit analysis still comes out this way.
Yeah.
Even on positions where, you know, someone may be on the extreme side, they still are willing to talk to people on the other side, which is seen as a no-no by a lot of people.
Yeah.
They're just monsters.
You can't talk to them.
Exactly.
If you talk to a monster, you become a monster.
That's how vampirism works.
The other side is vampires.
Anyway, are we done with sequences?
I think we had one thing at the very end.
I'll go ahead.
Okay.
So try to explain the kind of thought processes you use to systematically produce beliefs that mirror reality.
Explain why you think you're rational.
Why you think that, using the processes like the one you use, minds will end up believing snow is white if and only if snow is white.
If you don't believe that the outputs of your thought processes are entangled with reality, why believe the outputs of your thought processes?
Processes.
I really struggle with that word every time.
Yeah.
If you don't believe that the output of your thoughts are entangled with reality, why do you believe your thoughts?
I shudder to think that there are definitely people who feel that way.
I don't know how I think things.
I mean, I think that if they're really like, I can't trust my thoughts, they're in some sort of psychological crisis.
A lot of people might just be like, I feel it in my gut.
I suppose.
Yeah.
But part of their evidence for their thought is their gut feeling, right?
Which actually, people's gut feeling is pretty good when they do various...
Well, yeah, it depends.
You get nurses that can be like, oh, shit, that person's about to have a heart attack.
For no reason, anybody who's not a nurse can discern because they do have that much experience.
Or also, we just have a bunch of general heuristics as evolved beings about if you feel nervous about a person.
If somebody's giving you a bad vibe, you might trust that.
Or I don't know, that's a bad example because then that gets into like, but what about if black people give you a bad vibe?
Like, you will be more satisfied with your meal.
They have tested this.
If you look at a menu, order the first thing that looks good and then just close the menu as opposed to if you read all the things.
Oh, that's cool.
Because of option paralysis.
I've kind of made that...
Comparisons to...
Unconsciously, my own way of doing it.
Because once I've made the decision, it's like, well, I'm not going to sit there and like, you know, oh, I should have gotten this occasionally.
But then I've never, I don't know, maybe I've never tried to operationalize like, how much did I enjoy what I got?
But then I'll just get the thing that I saw that, you know, that I thought I might like the next time or something.
Remember when you used to go to restaurants and go out to eat?
Right.
It feels like ages ago.
In that case, I should randomize where in the menu I start.
Yes.
Because otherwise I'd always end up with something near the front of the menu.
Or go to one of those expensive restaurants that only has like five things.
And they hand you, it's like a placard.
It's got a nice printed thing.
And it's like, here's the three or four or five things that we have.
Pick one.
And it's like, well, I've seen everything and I don't like these two.
So yeah, get this.
I tend to look at a menu like just by sort of blurring my eyes and skimming around it.
And the first thing that jumps out, I guess you do get tend to get more things like towards the beginning of the menu if it's got several pages.
But like, that's fine though, because it's still me getting a thing I like.
It depends where I'm going to.
If it's a breakfast place, I'm like, where's the pancakes made?
Yeah, you go to the section that you know you're going to like something.
Exactly.
Anyway.
So for next time, the two sequence posts we're going to read is the lens that sees its flaws, which is one of my favorites.
And how much evidence does it take?
Yeah.
How much does it take?
Find out in two weeks.
Exactly three evidences worth.
Evidence units.
Yeah.
All right.
Our main topic was we had our patron who was apparently a patron for like three years.
Long time.
Lucas or Lucas Z.
It's L-U-K-A-S-Z.
I think I remember this one.
Is it the L with the line through it?
Maybe.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's probably Wukasz then.
Oh, gosh.
Because I think he's a Polish listener.
And my Polish is really, really terrible, particularly.
I'm barely literate.
When I was a kid, I could kind of read some kazoic metoic, which is like Matthew the goat kids, kids stuff.
But I think that would be pronounced Wukasz.
All right.
I'm glad that you knew that because I did not.
I was going to say either like Lucas.
I kind of trusted that you don't know how to say it because S-S-Z is also how your name ends.
Yeah.
So I'm like, okay, this sounds like an Inuyashi understandable word.
Put that together.
So he wrote in, or they wrote in asking about immortality.
Does somebody have the email if we want to like pull out?
I just have the, the patron messaging that I was having back and forth.
Okay.
In short, we can find the email in a minute too, but it was current longevity efforts would be a good conversation topic.
Aubrey de Grey, Davidson Claire, Michael Fossel.
