Yeah.
But I, but I understood intellectually that I would.
If I wait long enough or do like some interventions, I'll get back to Stephen who wants to live.
Exactly.
And so I mean, granted, some people's lives are a bummer, but like that's the thing is I think that I think that is also fixable.
Yeah, it's because they're alive.
You're a bummer.
But at the end, at the end of the day, if, you know, somebody wanted to die, they should be allowed to, right?
Right.
But that have to be like, I would like it to be a very exercised choice.
You know, this sounds like a, you know, where they, some of the states where it's like, you have to get one of those invasive wand ultrasounds or something before you get an abortion.
Like I kind of want something that extreme before you're allowed to kill yourself.
Like in that, it's an ugly parallel, but it's like, I, because this is for sure, man.
Like, you know, because again, imagine like a future.
It's like, are you sure you wouldn't rather just have your mind wiped of most things and we can drop you off in a different country and you can start, you start scratch, whatever random shit.
I think the difference that you could point to.
It's basically his death if you have your mind wiped.
Yeah.
So maybe, maybe most of it or something, right?
But I don't know, whatever it is.
Like, my other thing too is I never got like, suicidally depressed.
And I, which is lucky, which means my depression never hit that far on the scale.
But I always had this, like, I guess when I was first getting depressed, I had like just this understanding that, hey, you know what, if anything ever gets that bad, I can just, I'll get out another way.
I'll throw my phone in the river and take a boat to another country.
And like, then I won't have any of the problems I have now.
This guy, I was this ice cream shop owner that I worked for when I was a teenager who used to just have these deep thoughts.
And one time he was like, you know, I don't ever, I don't understand why anyone would ever kill themselves.
Like if I, if I ever got to the point where I just felt depressed enough to kill myself, like that you're just throwing everything away, then like, then you're totally free.
Like, throw away all your belongings, hop on a bus, go, like, go do something crazy.
Like, you know, if you're going to die, that's like literally the worst thing that could happen.
So go, go try whatever.
Lots of cocaine or whatever.
I think that, that you're.
I think it is just a misunderstanding of how depressed brains work.
It is.
That's what I was going to say.
Yeah, but you got that.
Once you're that depressed, you're not going to do that.
I think the thing that gives you the will to do stuff, just there's no, there's no engine, there's no gas.
That message was out there more though.
Like the, if you're that suicidally depressed, what you probably do need to do is do something drastic, like quit your job for several months, like put your life on hold, or like go say the thing you really need to say to that person.
Do a different state or a different country.
Just change things up.
I wish like society supported that more, you know, like that that was first of all the message that like if you're suicidally depressed, that means you're free.
Go do the thing.
And then also there was like services support systems for people doing that.
There's also the fear when you're depressed that like wherever you go, there you are.
So I will go to a different state or a different country, but I'm still going to be me there and I'm still going to be depressed there.
And now I don't have someplace to sleep.
And this is even worse now.
I think that, I mean, like the things that fix depression that like they've studied are things like diet, exercise, sleep.
And like,
Drugs were going to talk about when we get to the actual longevity part of this podcast.
We were going to have a subject.
I will say that when I was at the peak of my back pain, if like I knew it was just a bad day and I just had to get through that day and the next day would be better.
Like if I knew for a fact that every day would be like that, I would not want to live because I mean the pain was really high.
And also I couldn't do anything that was enjoyable because the pain sapped all my energy.
And I would have been like, no, this, this isn't worth going, going forward.
That's totally why I think euthanasia is like acceptable.
But like in a future where nobody was ever in that much physical pain, maybe that would be different.
But like, yeah, there's definitely like things that can make your life miserable enough that it's not worth the amount of suffering.
It's weird because I know there's really good drugs out there, painkillers, narcotics and like lots of old people are on them.
And that like-
I don't want those lungs.
I know, but I mean that makes it better so then you don't have that pain and you can live again, but you don't live normally.
You're kind of foggy and can't do as much stuff.
So I don't know how I would feel about maybe trying those instead of death for a while.
I would try it first.
Yes.
Definitely give it a shot.
Yeah.
But that said, I'm glad you found other tracks to, to being-
Me too.
Better.
Yes.
And all that.
It's, yeah, I guess I could find a way to segue this back into the longevity thing, which is like you mentioned old people, like part of the issue with dealing with this is that people view the symptoms of aging of just accumulating damage for too long from being alive as like distinct from other problems.
And they are, they're distinct in that they have different causes, but they're not, they, they, they're not in this like separate magisterium of, well, this is the kind of things that we don't work on.
And I think that I had a more articulate way of driving this home, but I dropped it.
So I'll let someone else pick up the wheel.
I think, okay, so his, his primary concern seems to be at 40, and I am also at 40 now.
Do, is there going to be, can I get on this not dying thing?
Like, will technology advance fast enough that we will hit escape velocity before I reach 85 or 90 or whatever, where my body actually gives out.
And like, I just, I don't know.
I don't think anyone knows.
I'm not even sure that people at the very high end research places could say that with a pretty great says the most of the fundamental knowledge needed to develop the anti aging medicine already exists.
And we, yeah, we know which specific things cause death related aging.
And we have the knowledge that we need, we just need to, it's, it's about like, are we going to put the money towards this or, you know, as big pharma going to keep.
I personally think he's over, overconfident on that because there's a lot of old people with a lot of money that would be putting money towards that if, if that was as optimistic as he.
I think that he's saying that the, the separate pieces are there, but the, the working machine isn't put together.
Yeah, it's, it's not until like, we can provably, you know, fix these this list of issues.
Like we, we know what they are, we know how to fix them now, but like, is it going to happen in our lifetime?
Yeah, it depends on, again, whether there's enough of a push by governments and like the private sector and whoever is needed.
I think to make sure these things get made in a timely manner.
Yeah, I think a few years ago, his estimate was something like 50% of this being a thing in the next 25 years.
50% of what being a thing?
Longevity technology.
Okay.
So maybe he's optimistic, maybe he's not, but maybe he's pessimistic, maybe he's perfectly calibrated.
I don't know.
I'm worried it's going to be a lot like cancer where they think they found the thing that causes cancer and they fix it,
but then they just find like another deeper problem.
So they solved some cancer, but there's other stuff that needs to be solved too.
And it always spirals like that where they get a little better and they solve some things, but there's always something just out of reach.
But that's kind of the thing is like, yeah, we're not going to solve aging in one swoop.
Right, right.
We're going to get better at it.
But that means you don't know exactly how many steps you need and so you can't say for sure that you'll get them in the next four decades.
I think that's why it's an estimate and not saying, I've got a timeline for this deliverable.
Right.
There was, sorry, you were still talking.
I was just going to say, I think that a major factor of it is the lack of funding.
I know that as of, I want to say two or three years ago, his organization was managing about $5 million a year.
Which when you think of aging and aging and aging related deaths as like the leading cause of suffering across the entire planet.
That's nothing.
It's nothing.
$5 million can't even pay for a very large staff.
Right.
Not to mention the facilities and the supplies they would need.
They staff about 30 people that work under, like that they are, that's on their payroll.
They work in conjunction with other communities and other centers.
But like the scope of the problem is just completely not acknowledged by the budget.
And it comes with no national budget.
Right.
You would think that, hey, if I would just imagine that China would be putting forward 0.01% of its GDP towards solving this problem.
Because if they got life extension technology first, what a boon, right?
They could sell that to the rest of the world.
They could hoard it for themselves and be immortal while the rest of us all die.
And that goes for insert any country, right?
This seems like an easily self-interested goal with enough self-interest to motivate just about anybody to do it.
That's why I'm not as optimistic as Opry to Grey is on how far along we are.
Because other people would also see that and be like, I could make bank.
I am because I'm cynical enough.
I've been in the clinical research industry.
There's not a guarantee that any particular company trying to find the answer to one of these things would find it.
It's just game theoretically, I guess.
If you're trying to calculate the payouts for some private medical organization,
you're going to make much more money, much more reliably if you knock a molecule off of a Zoloft and make a Zoloft knockoff
and then rebrand it as a new antidepressant or some bullshit like that.
Yeah, part of it is that there's no short-term money to be made here.
There's a lot of people in government and in high-level organizations that are religious and don't think that death is a problem.
So you have to first of all convince people that death is a problem
and deal with the fact that culturally we're largely death-ist and largely religious across the world.
And then secondly...
I think it doesn't help matters at all that because of stringent FDA testing,
it takes at least $100 million to bring a new market to the drug.
Yeah, $20 million, $100 million.
I've heard up to a billion sometimes.
Yeah, our FDA is ridiculously conservative, I think.
And if there's a drug that'll expand someone's lifespan by one year,
in order to recoup that cost, you have to charge a lot for that drug
and people aren't going to pay that much money for something that'll give them one more year of life.
Yeah, that's another thing. I think people are that interested on the stuff that'll provide marginal benefits
because it's all going to look like stuff that provides marginal benefits right now.
And that's all it'll ever be, just marginal benefits stacked up on top of each other.
I'm curious how...
But if it costs too much to make a small margin, then it won't come out.
I really think that this over-regulation making things too expensive to have small margins is going to be a major problem
because the margins are going to be small.
There's not, in my opinion, going to be one drug that just automatically expands your life by 20 years.
No, there's like... I forget how many things...
Like, there's at least three therapies.
Or never mind, I should find the entire list before I just start saying things, but there's...
That's also why I'm more thinking it's going to come in a different country than the US.
That's what I was going to say.
Country with less regulation.
There's other countries that have much less conservative FDA's or like, no FDA analog where they could totally do this.
India, China, Mexico.
That's why you use China, my hypothetical, and not the US.
China or India. India makes a lot of pharmaceuticals.
But I mean, they also have a lot of brain drain right now, which is going to make it harder for them to progress.
Maybe like Korea, Japan.
Could be Korea.
Korea is really on the cutting edge of medicine.
How is their regulation though?
Conservative, but I think there might be some fewer restrictions.
Actually, I would want to look that up. I'm not positive, but...
I know Mexico is pretty liberal, but again, Mexico loses a lot of its intelligent people to the US, especially since we're so close.
Yeah, it's a really difficult country to optimize for like...
I was going to just kind of pivot a little bit because you mentioned like diet and exercise and stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
At least according to Robert DeGray five years ago, the benefits are basically negligible on longevity.
Now, I think on life quality, it's definitely a factor, and I don't think he hit that point hard enough.
I listened to his episode on the Joe Rubin experience from like 2015.
Like, well, here's an example he gave.
So like, Japan is the longest-lived country in the world, and in 2015, the numbers were different than they are now for the US.
But if you guys had to guess, what is the average life difference and life expectancy between here and Japan?
So...
Five years?
I heard this before. I don't remember the exact number, but I think it was something like seven years.
It was four in 2015.
So you guys guessed a lot lower than most people guessed.
They usually guessed around 10 or a dozen.
Yeah, well, I mean, you regularly see like people who lived 120, and I think that would probably skew people's like ideas of how long the average Japanese person lives.
Right.
I think one of the surprising parts about that is also that Japanese people smoke a ton compared to the US.
Well, that's part of what Stephen's saying.
It's diet and exercise.
Yeah, like staying healthy to an old age has like individual benefits, but like in terms of centenarians, centarians, what do they call them?
Centerians, I think.
