terrible right now, but we're still open.
It was stuff like that.
Oh God, is that Leviathan?
I wonder if welcome to Nightfield, when they did their commercials, they were
like always real companies, but it was not a real commercial sponsored by any of
them because they were just weird surreal shit about how like Nike sneakers, they
make you float upside down.
But like the thing is, if, if a corporate, if a corporation was to sponsor
welcome to Nightvale, I could see them being like, okay, we'll agree to sponsor
you, but only if we can say anything we want and just attach your name to it.
Yeah.
I mean, if a advertising company was smart, that seems like a win-win.
Absolutely.
I found there's like, there's a few people that managed to make advertisements.
Not terrible.
I tend to like the McElroy brothers and I think they usually do funny enough, like
gags about the ads.
Um, but six, this YouTuber, wheezy waiter who like, thanks, Jen X.
I like a YouTuber now.
Watching that like a TV show now, but like, he did a ad for Blinkus that was in
the middle of, um, he like, one of his things that he and his wife try things
and that they have the series, why do people like X and they were doing, why
do people like meal planning and in the middle of it is like, okay, so now I'm
going to give you a, you know, ad for our sponsor Blinkist, but also I'm going
to try to do as many food puns and over the course of this ad as possible.
So it stays in line with our cooking thing.
And it was just like the pun counter was going like once a second.
Like somehow he was managing to put, he put like 47, like food puns into this.
There are definitely ways to make it less annoying, but, uh, make no mistake,
our real sponsor this, this episode is dental person.
Thank you so much for your support and everybody who helps keep the lights on
and lets us pay for hosting bills, equipment and a little extra for us.
Yeah.
At the end of the day, um, for the most part, you know, like it goes, I used it
to buy the, uh, the mic I use at home for, we want more, um, you know, so it's,
it's, uh, it's, it's appreciated.
Thank you.
You guys all rock.
Yeah.
I want to shout out to, um, Lou, somebody else has to say that.
Oh, Wukash.
Yeah.
Wukash as well, who, uh, is also a patron of ours and gave us our topic.
Wukash, thank you for both your patronage and the topic dental person.
Uh, you are the reason that all the rest of our audience didn't have to listen
to any ads today.
So maybe where they have any real ads, any real ads.
Yes.
And maybe why I saw some of them have a good teeth.
Nice.
Okay.
Uh, thank you everybody.
We'll see you again in two weeks.
Awesome.
Good night, everybody.
Bye.
