Is there any chance that our age, I'm 40, will reach the longevity escape velocity?
Right.
I guess we should briefly say what the longevity escape velocity concept is.
Longevity escape velocity is the idea that at whatever, at time X will invent some technology, will popularize some technology that will increase the average healthy human lifespan by some number of years.
At some point in those number of years, there may be other life extension technologies and lather rinse repeat.
You know, if every five years you're finding technology that increases the lifespan by eight years or something, you're going to live for as long as you want.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right now, I don't know how fast we're discovering life extension technologies.
I'm assuming it's less than that.
That every, maybe every 10 years we can expand life by one year.
Right.
So we're not, we're not at a escape velocity yet.
Yeah.
But we also don't know because we don't know which things we've already like discovered or helped.
Like we don't know how long, well, that's the exact question.
We don't know how long we are going to live as compared to our parents compared to our grandparents.
But we don't have enough data yet to really sort of plot it.
Can we reach the point where the average extension in life discovered every year is more than one year's time?
Right.
And that's the million dollar question, right?
Like I wanted to put this one off a little while so I could do some homework and I didn't become an expert in two weeks, but I had to try and learn some.
I mean, and none of it's the scientific stuff.
I basically just sort of assumed Jay, so I know all that.
So I came out of another direction.
Like, Aubrey de Grey is my go-to figure in this community.
I think he's in his 40s, but he looks a lot older because of his awesome Gandalf beard.
He's kind of like, wait, he's in his 40s?
No, I think he's in his 50s now.
Well, now he is, but you're right.
But in any case, I remember I was watching some interview with him a few years ago and he was like 45.
He's 57.
Okay.
So this must have been more than a few years ago.
In any case, he was.
And his name is Aubrey David Nikolas Jasper de Grey.
That's awesome.
What?
He looks like Albus Percival Wolfric Brian Dumbledore.
He looks like Dumbledore too.
Look at him.
Like, this is our Dumbledore, you guys.
Yeah.
So sorry, Stephen, go ahead.
No, no, you're good.
So, like, I think he rightly points out, so he's the chief technical officer at the Methuselah project or foundation.
I forget what it's called.
The Sense Research Foundation.
That's right.
Yeah, he dropped the Methuselah thing then, right?
Society for engineered negligible senescence, I believe.
And also, vice president of new technology discovery at age X therapeutics.
Well, I was going to say, you guys know more than I do, but you're looking at his Wikipedia.
You're cheating.
But no, that's helpful.
I'm glad you got it right.
In any case, he's the CTO over there, or he was at least a few years ago.
My information might be out of date.
And he has to spend most of his time kind of basically evangelizing for getting the message
of what they're trying to do out and trying to get money.
But I think he makes a very compelling case that this is an important problem to solve, which, like, to us, it's like, no shit.
But to a lot of people who some people think don't exist, Brian, but a lot of people don't see this as a big problem.
They see it as the way life goes.
Oh, yeah, you live, then you get old, and you get decrepit, and then you die.
Or they even think it's a good thing.
I, all the time, hear people, like, death is advocating for, like, death is really important and great.
And it's a, it's, we should celebrate death.
It's what gives life meaning.
Yeah.
I just, Brian has read Lord of the Rings, right?
Yes.
He's the Lord of the Rings nerd.
And, I mean, fucking, what's his name?
J.R. Tolkien wrote that death was the gift given to mankind.
Yeah, I know.
Deaths are cursed to have to live forever unless they die of sadness or slain, which, I mean, that's a big loophole right there.
Like, if you don't like your life, you can just kill yourself.
But, um, but yeah, the gift that humans got was that they would shuffle off this mortal coil more quickly.
Yeah.
It's a bullshit gift.
In just a few decades, where you get, like, an optimal four decades.
How can, how can someone who's read Tolkien, who says death is a gift, claims there's no deathists?
I think that he thinks that they exist in the same way that Flutterers exist.
I'm not, I'm not going to try and sit here and either poke holes or steal man Brian.
But I do think, I don't think he would argue that they don't, that they aren't real.
He would just say that, like, this is, this is not a majority enemy.
Okay.
And he might be right about the majority part, right?
Like, I think most people would say, yeah, death sucks.
I wish it didn't happen.
You know, anyone who's lost somebody would probably say I wish that they didn't have.
Well, they would say that specifically.
Yeah.
Right.
But at least when I was young, the whole death gives life meaning was still a comment talking point.
And it still is now.
It's still now.
I thought it was starting to be less so.
I guess most of my stuff is 10 years old.
But I remember even watching a talk from Sam Harris during, you know, the, the peak of the new atheism thing.
So this would be like 15 years ago, basically making that case.
A lot of the new atheist stuff, like the part I had trouble with was, yeah, a lot of people were like saying that death is great as like a way to sort of, you know, when they're listing all the benefits of being an atheist and versus like being religious.
They're like, and you get freed from this idea that there's such a terrible thing as like an eternal pit of torture.
And like, you know what?
Death is natural and fine.
And we like this is just people's people who are scared of death, like come up with these crazy ideas in order to deal with their fear.
But we atheists are strong and we can face death with stoicism and respect and dignity.
And I was just like, not me.
I don't want it.
I think part of the knee-jerk reaction that you get from other smart people about saying, Hey, I think death is bad.
We should stop it.
They get like that same sort of like, Oh, I've heard this argument before.
You're trying to slow me on an afterlife.
Yeah.
And so like, that sounds like magic.
Right.
So I can get where they're coming from.
But at the very least it's a common enough place or common enough idea where like, most people don't see this as a problem that we should be working to solve.
They might, they might say it sucks, but they're not like, and we should do something about it.
Have you seen all of the good place yet?
Yes.
So spoilers.
Have you seen all of this?
I have not, but I don't care about spoilers.
All right.
Massive spoilers.
Anyone who doesn't want to know how it ends, skip ahead about a minute, maybe two now.
But from what I heard, I'm still working through the final season.
At the end, it goes full depth.
That's where they're like, and dying is great.
At the end, you choose oblivion rather than getting to live forever in the good place.
Basically, the way it ends is that they get to the good place and everyone there is kind of just like, not exactly wireheaded happy, but they're basically that and they're bored.
Okay.
They've done everything, which seems weird because they weren't creative with everything they did, but etc.
I'm given, you know, that's fine.
If you got a lame utopia, that would suck.
And then they're just stuck there.
And so like the architects who worked on the good place, they've all like, they were all stoked to quit their job when, when the new people are moving in, the protagonists to take over because they're like, we've never been able to figure this fucking thing out.
No one here is really happy.
Oh, okay.
So the solution they come up with isn't, let's give them the opportunity to like, respect or start over or, or whatever.
The way that they did it is like, hey, you know what, like at the very least, here's an exit.
If you guys want it, you guys can leave.
Like now you're not stuck here forever.
Well, I mean, I'd rather have the suicide option.
Right.
Existence was more horrible.
This is what they got was the suicide option.
Okay.
But it isn't like this is the best choice in the end and everyone's going to choose it eventually.
No, I mean, I think not necessarily, but it's not like the second they made this doorway to no, no one knows where like everyone ran through it.
Okay.
But now it was an option.
Okay.
So it was, it was, but it was still death esteem.
Right.
I feel like, I feel like there's more optimal solutions, but I do agree.
The thing that's deathest about that is, sorry, I finished your thought.
Oh, go ahead.
It was like, I think that's the same argument that people make when they say, well, why would I want to live forever?
You'd get so bored.
And I was like, but like people on their deathbed, when they ask them if they want to die, like that, or like they always say one more day, people who commit suicide are depressed, like they're living in a hell.
I could see, yeah, if you were forced to live in a hell, but I don't think like reality is a hell.
Reality is excellent in a lot of ways.
And like, if you're somebody that's just going to die because you get bored, like, does anybody ever commit suicide because they're bored?
Unless they're like being artificially kept in like some, you know, I mean, I'm situation like they're in jail.
There's some people who commit slow suicide, like drinking themselves to death or something.
That's like, because they're not happy.
Yeah.
I mean, that's because they're going wrong in their life that could be fixed.
Or their brain.
Like depression is a solvable problem.
And I think that like the main thing is that like right now I have a backlog of easily 200 years of things I'd like to do.
My current trajectory, I'm not on track to finish all those things.
Mainly because I make no effort to getting through that list.
I mean, so like, but if I had 200 years to do these things, you can bet in the next 100 years I'd have a backlog of if I did the math properly.
I'd get a different number, but 1500 years of things to do.
I don't think we're ever going to run out of stuff to explore problems to solve.
And that's the thing is like, you know, right now there's 1000 books I'd like to read.
And by the time I finished reading them in 200 years, because I'm a slow reader, there'll be 5000 more books that I want to read.
Lather, rinse, repeat until I'm, I'll never run out.
As long as you keep writing books, then I'll have books to read.
I absolutely agree with all you guys.
But I do know that there's some people who are just like only doing the same thing over and over and are bored of it and are just ready for it to end.
And you don't, I know you.
But for some reason, like they just, they don't find the ability to just do something different and not be bored.
I understand.
And that, and I mean, that's a bummer.
I think that's probably partially depression too.
I think that's not normal.
I think that is basically depression.
Like whether it's like clinical and fixable with therapy or drugs, but it's like your life is not doing whatever it needs to to make you give you that.
But that is also like something that can be fixed.
Yeah.
Like I think I talked about, you know, my recent jumping on the antidepressants and stuff and I found that beneficial.
It's weird.
Like even in my most depressive phases, like there were days where it's like I would get up and be like, and not exactly have the thought I wish I wasn't alive.
Because I knew intellectually that like, no, I want to be living until I can fix this.
Yeah.
But I don't have the energy to want to keep doing that, right?
