Just fine.
Awesome.
Her album Rainbow was beautiful.
It was great.
I think Kesha, I think she's one of those artists who like actually has a degree from
Harvard or something like that, and like just like they play a persona.
Like Maynard from Tool.
He makes the most amazing music and some of the lyrics are just shockingly like emotional.
But like the words, the lyrics are stretched to match the music.
Sometimes one word will be spread over several different beats.
Sometimes several words are shoved into a single measure and it, you know, it makes
it a lot harder to understand.
I had to listen to some of those songs many times before I got 90% of the words and there's
still some that I don't know.
That is a trainable skill, by the way.
It's like the same thing with when I first got into doing EMS.
I couldn't hear anything anybody was saying over radio ever.
And like the more you listen, the more you get better at picking that out.
I think it's, you know, the same with foreign languages.
It's the same with listening to music.
EMS.
Oh, gotcha.
Oh, picking stuff over the radio.
Now I get it.
I thought you're saying music again.
I'm like, well, hold on.
What music are you listening to?
Okay, yeah.
Well, I do listen to some music.
No one listens to music on the radio.
No, not on the radio.
I listen to some music that like some people wouldn't classify as music.
I remember.
I really like industrial.
Industrial is totally music.
I love industrial.
Yeah, but I mean like, you know, coil, not lacuna coil, coil the British band where like
it's bizarre phrases.
Yeah, I stretched out strangely, dubbed on top of like a thumping noise that they sampled
from the subway.
Dude, I went to see a band here.
Really artsy shit.
I went to see a band here in Denver where the percussion was an oil drum that had a chain
on top of it.
The guy would bang on it.
Is this blue man group?
No, no.
Because they're awesome.
This was a...
What was it?
Echo beds.
And it was...
Echo beds.
It was like really well done.
And I was like, this is...
Most people wouldn't like this, but they found something and they've managed to make it music.
And this is pretty fucking impressive, especially because the venue where I saw them was such
a small place.
I was literally standing about four feet away from the band.
And there wasn't a stage or anything.
I was just right there with the dude watching him do his thing.
I was like, this is an intense experience.
Yeah.
Anyway.
So we have gotten way off topic.
I have a couple of less wrong articles that were released recently about the subject of
aging.
Okay.
Hit us up.
So we have What's Our True Life Expectancy, which was asked in the like questions section.
I'm really short, so I'll just read it.
Okay.
Adam Zerner says, I recently learned that, and recently learned as a link to the Stupid
Questions October edition 2020, that when they talk about a life expectancy of EG 80
years, it's assumed that the future looks similar to the past, but with exponential
progress in technology, that doesn't seem like a good assumption.
For example, according to Bostrom's survey, which links to just Bostrom's website, 90
percent likelihood, the median pessimistic year for AGI is 2075.
So taking into account technological progress, what do we expect life expectancy to be?
2076 for everybody.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And then like...
2075 and three days.
Yeah.
So I can't really like read all the comments, but there is a bunch of very smart people
in the comments saying like what, you know, sharing what things they know as far as evidence
goes or like sharing their own predictions.
So I recommend reading through that one.
And also there's some good arguments too.
What was it called?
Yeah.
I'll link to both of them.
It's what is our true life expectancy.
And then there's another one, which was three open problems in aging that was posted even
more recently by John S. Wentzworth, which is a longer article, so I'm not going to
read the whole thing, but it's talking about atherosclerosis and how much oxidation.
And the mitochondria senescence by stable switch.
So it's a brief description of each of these open problems.
And then some questions about, for example, well, maybe I'll just read like the beginning
of it.
Um, so aging has a surplus of excellent experimentalists, but a shortage of good modeling slash analysis
slash theory less wrong in the adjacent community of a surplus of people with great modeling
slash analysis skills, many with an outsider's interest in aging.
So this post outlines some problems which could fit that skill set.
I expect all of these could be solved to a reasonable degree of certainty with careful
modeling and some beyond high school, but not revolutionary statistics using already
existing data.
So this is sort of a call for that, which, uh, since this was posted so recently, it
was on November 7th.
There's currently eight comments, but I'm keeping an eye on this one because I just really
like the idea of coordinating the community to see like, which people, you know, can like,
do we rationalist have anybody who could just grab at this low hanging fruit here?
And how could we like sort of coordinate or fund this?
And I'm, yeah, I'm really hoping to see some movement in the comments here.
But yeah.
So sort of the answer to, or yeah, you know, the answer as far as we know, um, for WUKAZ
WUKAZ WUKAZ again, probably I'm not entirely sure.
And also assuming that he's Polish.
Yeah.
Um, for a pal, who are, yeah, um, is, we don't know, like nobody knows right now.
Um, we know, we know what the questions are and we can maybe make some predictions, though,
how long we think that these problems will take.
So yeah, I don't think that they're hoping that we could find, you know, the right answer
on Google and deliver the, the, the answer.
I think they're just saying what's the, like that they're trying to see if we know what's
the consensus and like the consensus is that different people who have different levels
of background experience give different predictions.
But, um, we didn't, from what I, from what I know, and I want to get into a career in
this field at some point, that would be my ideal, but it is looking pretty hopeful.
There is a generation.
I think it is certainly, I mean, it's hard because everyone's going to have that sort
of like bias where they're thinking, Oh, it's going to happen in my lifetime.
Like I don't think it'll happen in Ray Kurzweil's lifetime, despite him saying it will his whole
life, right?
Um, it might.
Uh, I hope it does.
Um, but I think that, you know, some people are, it's easy to be motivated and not even
notice the motivation that it'll happen now.
Like no one's thinking probably 2150, right?
No, I don't think anyone's saying that because we don't know what the world will be like in
150, but there, there is another avenue towards longevity that we didn't talk about much or
at all yet, but there's not really much to say, which is, you know, we've talked about
uh, protecting and preserving our meat suits, uh, if there, if you could move the, the important
moving parts of your brain to another substrate, um, that is more reliable and doesn't deteriorate
like, like your body does, like I'm talking uploads and or robot bodies or something.
Um, that is another way to live longer.
And there are several projects working on that.
And uh, I think the, the problems there are obviously distinctly, uh, different kinds
of challenges than they are of like, how do we keep our bodies working?
Right?
Um, before we go like into the more esoteric stuff, can we, do we want to talk briefly
about NAD plus?
Is that the drug you take?
Uh, no, but the thing that I take supports NAD plus production.
Okay.
Let's, yeah, I'm glad you reminded me because that was on my short list of things to ask
about.
Okay.
Uh, well, the, um, NAD plus is one of the primary things used in our mitochondria to
power our bodies and ourselves.
Is that November alpha delta plus?
Or is that, okay, gotcha.
NAD.
Yeah.
I wasn't servicing N80 plus.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Um, but yeah, it's, uh, and it decreases as we get older and there was a lot of promising
research in 2013 or so.
A new promising research just came out.
Yes.
Uh, this is when it first like hit the scene and everyone started talking about it.
And, uh, it was, it was like, and still is, sorry, uh, one of the most promising avenues
for at least slowing down the impacts of aging and possibly getting, uh, a few more
decades out of things.
Uh, does this work on, uh, polymerase tails or, um, no, no, it works by, uh, these cells
not degenerating as quickly.
Uh, and it's, it's still an ongoing, um, ongoing research project.
So I don't want to like overpromise anything or say that like this is definitely the thing,
but it has a quite a number of, uh, Nobel laureates and specifically Nobel laureates
in physiology and, uh, chemistry and such, uh, saying that this looks like probably
our best path forward right now, considering what we know.
Um, and, uh, the NAD plus levels, they support the mitochondrial health, but, um, you
can't like supplement it directly.
Uh, the best you can do is make a lot of the precursors, uh, bio available in your body
so that your body can have all the materials that needs to make more of that stuff.
So, uh, there are two supplements right now that are common precursors to make the NAD
plus, and that is kind of like what the big push has been, um, lately among people who
are excited about this kind of stuff is these particular supplements.
And the one I am most familiar with and who has, that has the most research behind it
right now is called Nica, oh, how do you, thank you.
It's, I don't know exactly how to pronounce it, but yeah.
All right.
I'm going to just put in the show notes to put in the, I'm going to put in my little,
I take notes during the episode of what to put in the show notes.
I'm not going to put that.
I'm going to put supplements and you guys, I'm not going to try and spell that.
Yeah.
