calculus is that's why I like don't think we should be driving.
It's somebody being late for work one day, like is not inadequate, like, you know,
risk to measure against dying or killing somebody else.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, we certainly shouldn't if there's other options.
It's like, oh man, I'm going to be late to the birthday party.
Yeah.
Or like, and like, it just seems like such a, you know.
Well, what got me was his comment saying that it's an anti-economic mobility thing
because like, that's a big deal.
That'll impact GDP.
If like, you don't have the option to change to a better job because you don't
have the mobility needed to like go to a different part of town, that the
difference between longevity now and longevity 50 years ago is that we have a
lot more wealth and more productivity now.
So less people need to be working in the coal mines and the factories.
And those people can instead be working on, you know, high tech stuff or becoming
researchers or something.
Like GDP really is important for everyone's lives and, and progress to
continue progressing.
So yeah, I don't disagree.
Yes.
That's a different thing.
Like how many people are we willing to trade off dying in car accidents to get,
you know, another half a percent of GDP and maybe get to longevity escape
velocity a decade sooner?
I don't know.
If someone wants to try to do that math, feel free.
Yeah.
And how many people and friends did we lose along the way?
At the very least, I'm confident that where the needle is pointing now is not
the optimal position.
It's definitely two lacks in the US.
Well, no, I mean, just like the, like you mentioned, oh, I can't be a minute late
to work.
Well, like a lot of people can't just look at fire because they've got stupid
jobs, like that norm should change.
Be like, sorry, you know, they're like five minutes.
Yeah, a couple of times.
And it's like, like, oh, you need three write ups that the woman just hated me
and wanted to get rid of me.
So she was like three minutes late and I was just like, geez.
And those people suck, but that's a lot of people's jobs.
So like, you know, if, if there's an accident on the way to work and I need
to, you know, speed the rest of the way to get there on time, a lot of people are
in that position, right?
So that's definitely, so some norms about just like society needs to change
around that and stuff.
But, you know, you also probably shouldn't have gotten your license when you
said that you, you didn't stop at a single stop sign on your test.
Yeah, I guess apparently I rolled on all of them.
And so like, and what's funny is a little two lacks here.
Well, and my wife had a similar situation where I can't remember exactly what
she did.
She said something about, like, I think there actually may have been a dog on
the road or something and she swerved erratically around it, you know, because
the first time you all sit in an animal is terrifying, right?
And she's still passed or something, right?
And like, but her handling of that didn't result in anyone's injury, but it
was reckless or something.
I can't remember the specifics.
So when she got back to the DMV and like, yep, you passed.
And she's like, wait, really?
She was looking at somebody who was upset and that person didn't pass.
And she's like, what did you do to fail?
Like, I, I can't remember what again, Rachel did, but it was just like, if
apparently it's really hard to fail and somebody did.
So it should be harder.
I do agree.
You should, you know, like everyone, probably not quite to the point is right.
$2,000 of training before you can get this license.
Maybe like, if there's wonder, does it have to be that expensive?
Like, can they just make the test harder?
I mean, I think that's why you need the $2,000 of training because the test is
now you can just drive with your parents more.
Like right now you get like the way that the way that it worked for me anyways,
you get your, uh, your learners and parents get it.
And then, well, but the way I can say it worked for me is then your parents will
drive with you for a dozen hours and then let you make up the other hundred and
just write them down and say you did them.
My dad tried to teach me to drive in like his stick shift Jeep, which was
terrible and he was so anxious that he like wouldn't let go of the little
hang, hangy thing above the door and was yelling, Oh my God, you almost hit that.
So like, and then my mom is a terrible driver.
So she taught me how to drive incorrectly on my driver's test.
I actually also passed because I parallel parked incorrectly.
And like the guy was just like, Ah, okay, where'd you learn that?
It was like my mom taught me.
He's like, why don't you try pulling out and then why don't you do it?
And he talks me through the correct way of doing it.
So I did it.
Right.
He's like, okay, I guess you pass.
Don't, don't do it that way.
That was dumb.
I don't know what the hell your mom was thinking.
I was just like, I know, right?
Like my dad taught me to drive a stick on like one of his co-workers, like 70.
It was, it was a co-worker at the transmission grinding.
Well, what was fun is like this thing was like a some 70s truck and it was,
it was definitely already a junker.
Like it had, I want to say 15 degrees of play on the wheel where like you had to
turn the wheel just like that had no response for several degrees before it even
catch and so straight.
So we practiced in the field, not like a gravelly field in the middle of nowhere.
And he's like, we're practicing on this because you can't hurt this car.
So stalling it and rocking it back and forth was totally fine on it.
Can't hurt the car.
Can't hurt the field.
Right.
I mean, you can hurt the garage.
You also can't tip this, this vehicle.
So go nuts.
You're fine.
Yeah.
I unfortunately have a couple of friends who just like never learned to drive and
don't have anyone to like, I've been the person offering to be like, Hey,
if you ever want to like go drive some donuts around in a Walmart parking lot,
get your license.
You can do that.
Don't do it in Walmart.
Go somewhere else.
There's usually better break in areas.
You know what I mean?
Oh, no, yeah.
It was the first large parking lot that came to mind.
But yeah.
Oh yeah.
I'm just thinking like that because I think that while practicing donuts is
probably reckless.
I did also a driving lesson with my dad of, Hey, here's how to drift in the snow.
Right.
And so this will.
And yes, while it will be fun because now you can show your friends how to drift.
The important thing is like now the car's out of control and now you know what
that feels like and here's how we're going to get out of it.
And so now when my car goes out of control in the snow, as it does reliably every year,
I don't panic.
I don't slam on the gas.
I don't slam on the brakes.
I find the, find a way to try and get traction and occasionally hit a curb,
but that, you know, happens once every four years, right?
On average or something.
So point is, is that like the way to get good at it is to practice the basic shit
of just how cars work, how roads work, all that, but then do some deliberate
careful practice under bad condition.
You know, the first time it's raining a lot out and there's the opportunity and
you haven't done it before.
Go with your friend and say, Hey, we're going to go driving the rain when you
can't see in the roads or slippery, like practice, practice, practice, practice.
And that is probably generalizable for a lot of stuff.
That's why I hit the point so hard.
All right.
Alrighty.
Uh, shall we think our patron?
Yes.
I got this week.
Wait, can I do a bit?
I just want to like be like, this episode brought to you by me.
Hey guys, let's talk about, no, let's not.
Let's talk about this, this person.
Oh, okay.
Okay, cool.
Okay.
Yeah.
Do we want to provide it of the beds of ads again last time, which was like,
I mean, I almost want to go in and actually beep out the word.
The company that you said, so no one gets anything.
Actually, this episode wouldn't be possible without dental person, which is an
awesome internet handle and yes, presumably a person in the dental industry or something.
Um, anyway, dental person is the, our, yeah.
So we tried to put together a little sketch where we're going to pretend like
we had a sponsor.
I'm not sure that went that well.
Maybe we should cut that.
We'll, we'll see if it makes it through the, we'll, we'll see if it makes it
through the cat.
Cause like, it'll be for patrons only.
Now I could just imagine like somebody coming across.
Oh, no, that just reminded me of, uh, Phoenix has told me about a podcast where
somebody tried to put some fake advertisements in their thing.
And they were actually funny, like advertisements that had to do with the,
like there was like three of them.
They're like, this, this thing brought to you and they did a little joke each time,
but like what happened was the people listening to it weren't used to
advertisements and like Phoenix had the same thing where as soon as they started
to like do the spiel, they just skip, skip, skip.
And I'm like, man, why are there so many advertisements that skip, skip, skip.
And they, they didn't even know that they were funny jokes.
They just automatically were like, no ads.
The right way to do it was how we, we've got worm did it, which is they did
commercials for Fugly Bob's burger shack, which was like, I think a place actually
mentioned in the book at one point and they just like pretended like it was
commercials, but like, it was like the very beginning.
That was where like Taylor met up with everybody when they were interviewing
her to be a super villain.
And then like they're, that was really great.
Cause God was just like, what would I wonder what's going on with Fugly Bob's
right now, like with, with the merchants in town and like the, the slaughterhouse
nine come in and so all the commercials would be like, and things are pretty
