It's, it's, I would imagine it's pronounced Nica, Tinnamide, right beside because
that's how it's spelled, but I don't know.
Maybe I'm pronouncing it not.
I believe that is the pronunciation.
Okay.
Uh, and that is the main one that has been, uh, people have been
supplementing with for quite a number of years.
It is, uh, can go, go into your cells pretty easily through cell walls and
they're from there be turned into NAD plus, uh, problem is really it's more of a,
you won't know until decades down the line if this is actually helped slow aging
by some percentage.
So it's, it's a hard thing to measure.
There have been a lot of tests, uh, both with cell cultures and test tubes and on
mice, which are very promising.
And the few human trials have been, most of them have been positive.
I mean, like you said, it's, if this thing was invented 15 years ago or seven
years ago, we're not going to have the data on how it works in humans yet, but
mice don't live that long.
Yeah.
So how much did this, how much did this improve, uh, mice, uh, life spans a fair
bit, but the problem with mice and with all animals in general is that they are,
well, they're different from humans.
Um, the problem with mice is that not people, data doesn't transfer neatly.
Like it's, we've found a lot of ways that we can, um, increase mouse life spans
ridiculously long.
I want to say like nine times as long, but like they don't work in humans
cause mice are, there's some systems they have that are simpler than ours.
Interestingly, and I don't structure differently.
I don't remember where exactly I read this, but almost all animals have a,
like the smaller an animal is generally the fastest heartbeat is.
And you know, I think I don't know where you heard this and I think it's bullshit.
I think you heard this from, was it David Brin who joined you on the
immortality panel?
Maybe we're all animals have more or less the same number of billion
heartbeats. Yeah, was it billion?
That's the only place I've heard it and that sounds made up to, no, I don't
know if it's, I don't know if it's true or not, but it sounds too neat to be made
up or too, too neat to be true.
Right.
Right.
Right.
So I'm not buying the fact that a mouse with an average lifespan or a guinea pig
with an average lifespan of five years has a billion heartbeats.
It might.
Yeah.
I mean, let's Google really quick.
How long, how fast is the guinea pig's heart rate?
From what I've read, well, not from what I've read, from what I Googled
right now, that mammals at least all get about a billion heartbeats per lifetime.
Okay.
Well, I walk back on, was it David Brin that was on that panel with you?
It was David Brin.
Yeah.
I apologize, David, for putting you in my, this is obviously bullshit list
person.
I doubt it.
I don't think he's listening.
August 1st, 2019.
Okay.
And yeah, there's a nature article says about a million.
So, I mean, but that sounds kind of like if you can work out and get your heart,
your, you know, good cardio and get your resting heart rate down to 60, then,
then you're going to live, you know, like, well, what?
Third or 20% longer than someone's resting heart rate is 80.
Well, no, here's the thing.
The exception to that is humans.
Humans have significantly more than a billion heartbeats.
And well, that makes sense because a billion would be about 33 years.
If you're, if you're resting heart rates about 60.
Okay.
Yeah.
I, yeah, the, the there's about 33 billion seconds or about a billion
seconds after 33 years.
Oh, so if you're, if your heart rate is a ballpark 60, then we're, we're crushing
that number by people are regularly hitting their nineties.
Yeah.
And that's with occasional spikes in their heart rate, you know,
and one of the, one of the, um, uh, I'm going to get, you get the side eye
from Wes here for Evo psych because, uh, one of the, uh, ideas is that humans,
a lot of our comparative advantage comes from having knowledge and the ability
to use that knowledge.
And that just basically increases as we get older right up until we start
actually hitting, you know, senescence and dementia.
But so, uh, humans are already optimized to exploit everything easily biological
available to make us live as long as possible, which is why, like things
like extreme calorie restriction will more than two and a half times
expand a mouse's lifespan.
Uh, whereas with humans, it does almost no, like those, those pathways may
already be unlocked in humans to get us where we are at this point.
There is, um, heart rate variability, which does correlate to a lot of, um,
health and like mental health stress type things that can increase longevity.
There's actually this one that I've been using the elite HRV monitor, um,
which has an app paired with it where yeah, the heart rate variability.
Um, I thought you said HIV gives you a comprehensive non-invasive snapshot
of your autonomic nervous system, which is profoundly involved in your physical
and mental functioning.
And, um, that's different though than the having a certain number of
heart beats per time, which all I can find is there was a, uh, there's a Danish
study, um, that was in the journal BMJ heart that did show that, uh,
and also a billion, it's not like, it would be amazing.
Wouldn't that, that would be proof of intelligent design.
If a billion heart beats, there's some relationship between heart rate and
overall life expectancy.
And that makes sense.
I think that lower heart rate, lower resting heart rate within healthy bounds
is associated with good cardiovascular health, which is associated with longevity.
Higher pulses correlated with a greater chance of dying.
But, uh, there's like the, the more, you know, breaking down the complications
of the, yeah, it's, it's more complicated than just how many heart beats.
But that is why lots of animal studies don't necessarily translate over to
humans because humans already have unlocked possibly it is theorized have
unlocked a lot of things that other animals haven't.
So things that work on them may not work on us because we've already got
that going for us.
So, um, yeah, the, but NR is the, the, the supplement in our, uh, that's what
it's usually abbreviated at.
Nicotinamide, right?
That that one.
Thank you.
Is the, is the one that, uh, people have been using a lot of people have been
using, um, in hopes that it'll work.
There's a sexy new kid on the block, uh, which is N M N, uh, is the abbreviation
for more letters.
Yes.
Right.
Um, do you have the, yeah, that's, um, nicotinamide mononucleotide.
Thank you.
And that is what, once the, uh, an R is in your cells, it, it gets combined
into the N M N and then that, uh, is used to make an AD plus, uh, which runs
the mitochondria or which helps fuel the mitochondric reaction.
Anyway, my country is the powerhouse of the cell.
Yes, it is.
Uh, the thing is, um, in animal studies, the N M N can't get through the cell
barrier, so your body first has to break it down into N R, then the N R goes
through the cell, then it's made into M and M again.
And, and, uh, so a lot of people thought that just supplementing and, and, and
directly is, doesn't really particularly matter because your body's going to
have to break it down into N R anyway.
That's, that's what I'm hearing from just everything I've heard so far.
That sounds like it makes sense.
Yes.
It takes more sense to take the more bioavailable version.
Right.
The, the one that's further down the chain already, like the same
way that, um, a, a Draftanil is a pro drug for modafanil, but you have to take
much higher doses of a Draftanil to get, and you don't really get anywhere near
the same effects.
But there are two things.
Uh, the first is that N M N has a phosphate molecule with it that N R does
not have that has to be somehow, um, brought in through your body.
So maybe eat a lot more bananas or something.
Uh, whereas if you took the N M N, they would have the phosphate in there already
and they would break it down and be there and ready to use.
Um, so which one's better?
That I don't know.
Like I said, this is the sex thing on the block.
Also, there's a study that suggests that intestinal lining in humans might be
able to get the N M N directly through the cell barrier.
But then there was another study that said, eh, we're not so sure about that.
Plus it might be only in the intestines.
So, but, but it seems like we're fairly confident that M N N R, uh, might work.
That, that, that has more grounding currently than the, than around longer.
And it's been studied a lot more.
So yes, that is why that is more confident.
So I'm going to go home and buy that one.
It's me personally.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it is up to you which one you want to buy.
Either one should get you there.
Eventually, uh, I, like I said, the N R has more research behind it.
So that one is probably the better bet.
Um, also the, uh, N R is significantly cheaper.
Uh, it's about, uh, three times as much to get the N M N.
So, and it's not like a lot, a lot, but it adds up over the course of a lifetime.
I think what's it cost a month, about $50 for the N M N.
Whereas the N R you can get for 20 ish.
Oh, good.
Okay.
I was going to say, I mean, 50 bucks wouldn't make a break at the bank,
but it would be annoying.
20 bucks is a couple of couples of, you know, that's like one going out to dinner,
right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I mean, so this is, this is how I kind of do my, my, my literal, uh, budgeting on
these sorts of things.
Like my membership, the Chronix Institute is now paid often or I've got a life
membership, but back when I was paying month to month cost four bucks last month
my Netflix subscription, and even though there's pessimistically a 1% chance,
optimistically a 50% chance of it working or something, the, the expected
benefit of that is way higher than me having Netflix.
And so why would I spend, why would I not be willing to spend less than I do on
Netflix on it?
Um, you know, over the, over the course of the next five years, I'll probably
spend more on Netflix and Hulu than I, than I will on my lifetime membership for
Chronix.
And so I'm not sure if you've heard of Dr.
Sinclair.
He was mentioned in the email, but he's another one of the, um, aging research
