the idea of living peacefully in a society
with people who disagree.
In other words, punchin' notties?
Yes.
That would be among, yeah, among one of them, yeah.
Yeah.
Among many others.
So the guy on Tinder that was talking to Katrina
was trying to lump all people who have similar views
about gender into the category SJW,
which is a little like comparing
all Second Amendment people to Timothy McEvoy.
Mm.
Mm.
It's a fun comparison.
Yeah.
Also goes on to say it's really hard
to have consistent definitions of anything
with respect to the culture war
because people will try to bend definitions
to make their friends seem better
and their enemies seem worse.
It's probably best to avoid buzzwords
like SJW, alt-right, MRA, etc., all together.
Yeah, I think you could just stop saying
social justice warrior and call them a regressive left.
Yeah.
Or just an asshole.
That's a word that we can all agree on the definition of.
Well, yeah, some in some of them are.
I think it's good to point out regressive left
as meaning they're on the left,
which generally aligns themselves with progressivism,
but they're asking for regressive options.
I'm drawing this horseshoe in the in the air with two hands.
And I think the regressive part is when you.
Because when it curves back.
Is when you get curved in right next
in your bumping shoulders with the KKK, right?
No, I think that's an important distinction
because it's like, man, you guys are kind of operating
on the right wavelength, but you're doing it so badly.
You're doing it so wrong.
If the things they're crying for were taken literally,
in other words, if what they argued for became policy,
it would actually have a negative effect overall.
And it would be non-progressive.
Exactly.
Like, I mean, we talked about like none of us like it
when Richard Spencer opens his mouth and says,
you know, asshole things, but none of us have.
We can't just punch him.
None of us are prepared to hit him over it.
So that's what you're trying to get at, right?
You're basically saying, well, then we if we kept that law
and sent that law back in time, we'd lock away Galileo.
Or took it forward and we'd lock away
really anyone who ever made the law does a read with, right?
Right.
So that's that's sort of the problem.
Anyway.
On Reddit, Zeke Aaron says,
if you want to have something to remember a charity gift with,
you could always print out the receipt
and fold it into a small paper crane.
Everyone has a shelf somewhere.
Eventually you might have a whole shelf
of origami representations of donations.
I thought that was a wonderful idea.
It's cute, but you'd have to have enough different shapes.
Otherwise, you have 10 cranes and like I don't remember
what different colors these are.
Different colored paper.
Yeah, they make different colored and patterned
origami paper.
I mean, you can't.
I'm just like, I love the idea of every of having a shelf
of cranes and every single crane is another donation
that someone made for me to a charitable cause.
And like that would be really cool.
I would like that.
Oh, was that for donations or was that just for any gift?
I missed that.
No, no, no.
It was specifically for charitable gift donations.
Oh, I think that's awesome.
Donations that you've given?
No, no, no.
No receipt.
I've given to you.
Oh, okay.
Hey, instead of giving you a $25 gift card to Walmart,
I donated $25 to the ACLU and here's the receipt.
I printed it out.
Sure.
You could put that up on the wall and frame it,
but that would be kind of tacky.
Yeah.
Or the cranes sounds prettier.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I got you.
Isn't there, I only, my only source on this
is the Ghost in the Shell series,
but isn't there some sort of old, not superstition,
old story that if you fold 1,000 origami cranes
in your life, you get a wish?
That's certainly outside of gifts.
That's not, there's a short story.
Sudaku and the thousand paper cranes, she has cancer.
She's this girl who has cancer, she has leukemia,
and she dies before spoilers.
She dies like two cranes before or something.
That's some really small number.
Okay.
I probably got her name wrong.
Is it 1,000?
That's not a lot.
I thought it was.
I can do 1,000 before I die of leukemia pretty quickly.
It might have been.
It was 1,000 Ghost in the Shell.
I'm assuming it was probably 1,000 in the story as well,
because it sounds like they took it from something
that already exists.
Yeah, it's like a short story, I'm pretty sure, right?
Yeah, I think I heard about it before Gets was an anime.
I don't know, 1,000 is a fair amount.
You could do 1,000 in your lifetime,
but it wouldn't be fast.
Even counting to 1,000 is a pain in the ass.
Well, I think she was doing it herself
and her hand, she was in a lot of pain all the time,
so it was laborious and very difficult.
It was like, you know,
but she had to be the one to do it,
otherwise she didn't get her wish.
Okay, so if we just gave her cyborg arms, she'd be fine.
Yeah, but I mean that's-
Well, like the Ghost in the Shell,
that was the thing, she was still learning
how to use her cyborg body.
That's why I-
Okay, I totally plan to have a shelf
of origami crayons someday.
I think that's a great idea,
and I thought that the original proposition
was just for gift receipts.
Like you said, you don't remember what people give you,
because it's mostly garbage.
So it's like, well, a shelf of garbage paper
isn't going to help either,
but of knowing, being able to look at it
and be like, oh, this is all life-saving money.
That is a great idea, I'm very much in support of it.
Yeah.
Elk12429 says, on the subject of gift cards,
I remember hearing about a psychological phenomenon
that helps it to make more sense.
The anecdote I heard is,
a father wants to buy his daughter and her husband
expensive tickets to a baseball game,
but it's too close to the date of the game
to get the tickets and have them shipped to her.
So he transfers the money equal to the amount
of the cost of the tickets to her,
with a note saying, use this money to buy the tickets.
A week passes, he calls her up,
turns out she didn't buy the tickets with the money,
because once the money was in her account,
the tickets seemed too expensive to use that money on,
even though she'd received the money unexpectedly,
and she thought she'd just keep the money instead.
This phenomenon is used to justify gift giving,
as opposed to giving cash.
It lets you buy something for someone that increases
their utility that they would not have bought themselves.
And gift cards are a useful middle ground.
Giving a person a gift card to a specific store,
rather than cash, gives them a restriction
on how the money can be used,
that enables them to bypass the,
I can't justify using money to buy this thing,
even though I would enjoy having it filter in their brains.
That's a compelling point, if that's what you're going for.
For me, if I was given $50 gift card to GameStop,
I'd go buy whatever video game.
If I was given $50 in cash, I'd hold onto that,
because $50 right now would be awesome.
Not like, you know, but it would just be nice
to have like an extra $50, right?
So, I guess depends on what the gift giver is going for.
Do they care more about like, what you actually want,
or what they want you to have?
And if they want you to have another video game,
but they don't know which one or whatever,
then get them the gift card.
But if they just want you to get whatever you want,
or be $50 happier, they could just give you cash.
And you could be one of three people.
You could be scrounging so much
