always ask, did it replicate?
Well shit.
Because I feel really bad about the things
that I spread in the past.
I think Scope Neglect is replicated among enough things
because now I'm thinking of the one that I brought up tonight
about that girl and the brother and family.
That's the one specific one I can think of
but there's also the one, you mentioned the seagulls
but this was the one in Canada where it was some other oil
spilled some decades ago or something.
Scope Neglect has been replicated quite a few times.
Fair enough.
But any individual study I'll be more careful about
and that is a good lesson for me to be more guarded
about what I take for granted from hearing smart people say.
I'll be more careful.
That's kind of a bummer
because now it's going to put all this extra research on me.
Right.
I'd like to be able to shoulder all off onto them but oh well.
Hopefully that won't be as much of an issue going on
since people do consider that now
and everyone is aware about it.
But still good to be careful.
Well and I mean like a lot of these things too
especially the social science like oh 40 college kids from Yale
had this happens therefore it's true of all humans on earth.
That's sort of I think been a recognized failure since
but I mean it just happens to be that you know
a lot of psychologists work at schools.
Populations that have to participate go to the school
and you don't have to pay them.
So they're really easy targets for study.
So like it makes sense that a lot of stuff is done to them
but then generalize it is to I think to be careful
but I could just hear somebody talking fairly seriously about
a study that involved either 10 people or two groups of 10
and they were talking about it like it was this discovery
and I need to find this.
I don't know if I could dig it back up
but it was just in the last couple of days
and I was wondering the entire time like this was 20 people.
Yeah your sample size is too small.
Way and why this was somebody smart.
I'm struggling and saying that I can't think of
where to place this but this did happen.
So yeah be aware your sample sizes and fail failure to reproduce.
So where do you draw the line between being global
and repeating everything you hear and being so skeptical
you have to fact check every single thing that you hear.
My typical I mean so like it depends like I realized
when you mentioned like being gullible on the internet and stuff
I'd never really had a problem with that.
I think maybe I was introduced to skepticism shortly after
the advent of internet in my house.
So I lucked out there that in my early teens
I was already kind of calling bullshit on everything
which is a great way to kind of sometimes be right
more often.
I guess it's a way to not be gullible
but it's also a way to like be a conspiracy theorist.
You contrarian.
Yeah but.
Well if you say something so contrarian
that you get a response from a bunch of people
who give arguments that you yourself find believable
then you've done something to fact check yourself.
Right I guess it's not like so much of a line
as it is a process.
You know one of it would be investigate when I can
be confident in the expertise of the person I'm listening to
if they're not an expert on it or if they have a reputation
of being outside their consensus of their field
you know take them with skepticism
make predictions ask people put on public forums
or even if it's just Facebook and say anyone hear about this
or whatever.
So I mean there's ways to do it.
It's not so much just about what my filter process is
it's also about like my process after the fact.
But like as far as things they get buried
like I don't remember why I first heard about that study
with the girl and their brother and the family right.
So if that's not true I've heard it either so many times
or from the first place that I've never bothered
to look it up again.
Any more feedback.
I have two on the punch mouses.
All right real quick.
Okay.
The mic and it is the mic says there is a false
equivalence between the German Nazis of the 40s
and the Nazis we have around today.
Absolutely.
Using the using the actions of our grandparents
in this case as a moral center is inappropriate
and hypocritical.
The German Nazis were a group of people who were in control
of a country had an army and more importantly
were committing acts of violence against many people.
Whereas today's Nazis are a group of morons
who yearn for the old days.
Despite the neo-nazis being violent they do not have an army
nor hold office nor influence law.
So I thought we kind of acknowledged that they weren't
exactly equivalent.
We just kind of referenced them in a very limited fashion.
Then you planned out there's like 200 of them?
Yeah.
Or they share an ideology.
Like Richard Spencer has the power to why he like
you can rent out a hotel conference room
like a couple times a year.
I didn't know this when we recorded the episode I found out
more recently that he runs his think tank.
The National Policy Institute that everyone keeps mentioning
that oh my god he's running this think tank
that tries to affect policy.
He runs that out of his apartment.
So I mean these numbers might be a little bigger
than the 200.
They can fill a room of 200 but someone wrote
in a really good comment and we talked about
in the last episode that hasn't aired yet.
These numbers might be considerably higher
but as far as people who are ready to travel.
Just considerably.
Somewhere maybe north of the tens are possibly
hundreds of thousands.
Unlikely to be hundreds I don't think.
But probably tens of thousands.
And I mean I think the number of these like it depends on
idiots.
I just picture some 15 year old with an unshaven child
mustache sharing frog memes right.
Hey don't bring frog memes into this.
They did nothing wrong.
So I mean I think that that probably counts
for some of these people.
But and then there's also like they don't hold office.
They don't they don't have an army.
There's the concern some of these people that people call
Nazi Esk are definitely in high office currently
in the United States.
And so that that is why there's some people that are being
you know raising alarms about this.
So I feel it's really weird to call Richard Spencer
a Nazi.
He's not part of the Nazi Party.
And as he says a lot of me Nazis hate him.
And I kind of think that's legit.
He's a white nationalist.
He's definitely white nationalist.
Right.
And and yeah like people are just kind of.
Nazi's shorthand for that.
Yeah.
Well yeah.
And it's and it's yeah you may be more to Nazism
than just being a white nationalist.
Well I think white nationalism is definitely
a important part of it.
But I think Nazism goes beyond just that.
Well and people I would agree.
I'm just saying people.
Definitely from the short hand.
Definitely from historical context.
Absolutely.
I would when people I think love using that word
because anyone that they can brand a Nazi
is therefore subhuman.
And it's a way of othering.
Absolutely.
It's a way of like not.
I mean yeah othering to a level.
You know I think we talked about this was it on that episode
where like they're they're they're subhuman
once they're Nazis.
They're not just we did.
They're not other groups.
They're they're non people.
Right.
So then it's no matter what happens to them.
It's OK.
So it's very politically advantageous to you
to label your enemies Nazis because then
if you can get people to agree then they agree
that your enemies don't matter.
But that's that doesn't make it accurate.
Right.
Albionic American says people keep missing
the alt-rights real message.
And by now I think this has to happen
because of perverse blindness.
Oh I remember this comment.
Yeah.
And the alt-rights racism doesn't really upset people
but rather it's rediscovery of our ancestors
tragic view of man.
