Social progress can't happen
because man has an obdurate nature.
I don't know if that's how you pronounce that word.
Obdurate.
OK.
What is what is the meaning of the word obdurate.
Is it a stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion
or course of action.
So okay.
OK.
So stubborn.
All right.
Yeah.
Because man has an obdurate nature
that you can't reshape like clay
into the arbitrary configurations
demanded by the political correctness
of the current year in all in caps.
We have inequity hierarchy and patriarchy
because of this reality.
We have to construct the best lives we can
under these constraints.
Not long ago our ancestors would have called
this realistic view of human condition
something like wisdom.
Compared with our elites childish utopianism
which denies this reality.
The alt-right people sound more like the mature adults
in the country these days.
Yeah.
So so my dad actually told me about this book
called a conflict of visions written by Thomas Sowell.
I'm probably saying his name wrong.
I think it's like solar cell.
But it's it's S.O.W.
E.L.L.
And in the book he posits that there are these
philosophical differences between it.
They're called visions.
But basically one of them one of the visions
is called the constrained vision in which
the idea is that man is not perfectible morally.
It's like human or mankind humankind
tend to be selfish and self centered
and just smart enough to think
that they can rise above their station.
But they ultimately can't.
Thus we must rely on things like traditional
like religion and stuff like laws
and like to kind of keep people in check
because otherwise they'll run rampant
and kind of do bad things.
And then the other side is this unconstrained vision
which is basically like man is morally perfectible.
I'm abbreviating massively here.
And like we can become enlightened.
We can overcome our nature.
We can overcome our impulses
and use our rational big brain still like improve our lives.
And that eventually we're going to
delegate those kinds of these high level decisions
to experts who can kind of kick down what's best for everyone.
Isn't that literally the enlightenment?
Yeah. It's like people like I would even
I would almost say that like the rationality community
I would assume is largely unconstrained.
Very much like yes man you know
mankind can improve itself.
It can elevate itself.
But the constrained vision is very much like
in despair of humanity in terms of their ability to be
altruistic and good.
They kind of think that people are inherently not great.
People are people.
That's literally what he just said.
Yeah. It just reminded me so much of that.
Because people are shitty.
Yeah. It reminded me so much of that.
Like and I haven't read the book.
I've watched summaries on it
but that's kind of what came to mind.
I thought that was kind of interesting.
I think that is a fascinating difference of opinion.
Like I didn't even know that this was something people thought.
Yeah.
Until just recently like when he says
because of perverse blindness I dispute that
because I don't think I am being you know
perversely blinding myself.
I simply had no idea that there were people who thought that
that people are so shitty that we can't make progress.
It's and it's maybe it's not even like
oh people are so shitty.
They're awful. They're garbage.
It's more like their limits right.
Their limitations to how much we can.
I don't know. It's a perspective.
I don't think I entirely agree with it.
It's just it's like I definitely would consider myself
more unconstrained in this case.
But those that ended up itself could be a kind of a false
dichotomy of visions.
It's supposed to be kind of a spectrum
but you're supposed to fall on one or the other.
The the world view that he laid out and it's
you give out a charitable version where there's like this
spectrum but the one that the right end gave like
that seems to me to be factually incorrect.
If this is the result of perverse blindness
it's not perverse it's just incidental blindness
but I really don't think it is.
We there has been progress over the last centuries
that either you're saying either you're saying
isn't there is bad because it goes against the state of
nature or just because it's it's
unsustainable because it goes against the state of
nature but it's not I think written into the stars
or written into our genomes that we one race would
would dominate another.
It happened to be an accident of history that
some had technology faster than others
and were able to subjugate and other factors obviously
but was that your interpretation of that as well
that it seems to deny the fact that progress has happened?
Yeah well I basically agree with you that I do think
progress has happened that we don't for the most part
we don't torture people anymore we don't have slavery
we don't burn kittens for entertainment
but I guess it also kind of depends on your point of view
like there's a number of people who would say that
we have regressed and things were better before the
Enlightenment.
I've literally read arguments where people saying
the reason people call it the Enlightenment is because
they are perverse and they're trying to hold onto their own
power and they're profiting off this world even though this
world is worse so they're trying to paint it as this
wonderful thing like oh the Enlightenment saved us when in
reality the Enlightenment has brought mankind down into
hedonism and purposed less existence and has just made life
worse in general for everyone on the planet.
That sounds like a different demographic of people than the
one that that person's describing.
I mean so that that is not the alt-right position.
No that that hedonism yeah so
if that's the case fine those people are welcome to unplug and go
scratch in the dirt like our ancestors right?
Nah I'm serious.
Wow.
Like I mean I hope you won't I want everyone to be happy but
like if that's really your position cool try it for a week.
I think go outside without without clothes or bring you know or
wear whatever you can catch right like that's some bullshit.
I think they want to keep the the technological progress
but it's the social quote unquote progress that they
disagree with and say has been social regress rather than progress.
Like they want to go to more like tribal society kind of?
Progress like what like what model do you think is?
I don't I don't think that if I had to guess I would say that the
alt-right communities so far as it exists as a community is probably too
diverse to say that this is what we're support right just like the
the progressive community probably has different ideas about progress means.
You know some of us when they talked about reshaping
men to be better or something whatever the phrasing was in the
write-in some of us wanted that literally with brain augmentation with
computers and others want to do it with drugs or with thoughtful
contemplation or whatever right so being intellectual.
Yeah so like there are different avenues to go about making people better
so the saying that all the all people who are progressive want to make people
better isn't like a unified statement in so far as like there are a lot of people
want to go about that differently.
I think what his intention is is that by trying to live in this ideal world
where humans are perfect and not respecting the fact that we are
constrained by various biological impulses we make things worse.
That if we were to accept the fact that people are naturally a little bit racist
and a little bit sexist then we could work within those limitations to forge
a better system than one that ignores that and pretends that it's not an issue.
Oh I think we do do that and that's what we're doing.
That makes sense like like the way you just presented like that or like that
makes that makes sense I I'm not saying I agree that I'm saying
the way you presented it makes sense as far as what they're saying sorry.
None of you you're you're you're welcome to bask in the in the light of a steel man argument.
So but that's not the world we live in right.
We live in a world where people are aware of our implicit bias
and we make efforts to to correct for them.
We talked a long time ago about getting more female musicians
by just not looking at who's playing the music.
It's like people are aware hey you know what there's no reason for us to select
against women let's so because for some reason we keep doing it let's just make
it so we can't and then we'll just pick the best players.
We're we are acknowledging this failure and correcting for it.
Not not just acknowledging it and running with it.
And it feels like a cop out to just be like this is how humans are so we
should just deal with it we should just allow that to be the case and not
challenge the status quo which it kind of feels like that's what that's saying.
No I think the counter argument would be with that the progressive social left
believes that all humans are intrinsically equal more or less
and they see that the population is let's say two thirds white one third minority
and so they say well since that is the composition of the population
there's no reason that that shouldn't be the composition at every workforce
