It's like two pages.
That's cool for entertaining it just for the sake of thinking about it.
To me, there'd be a big difference if like you knew what you're going to go
look at and you had to live with that knowledge the entire time you're in
this utopia.
I feel like that would kind of detract from the fun of it.
Well, I mean, given that everyone's not having a bad time.
Once you've seen it and it's implied that it's like sometime early in your life,
sometime within the first two decades or so.
So it can't be your last week.
No.
Oh, OK.
So that's what I was going to say is like, if you're told at birth, early
adulthood or something, maybe it's like, whatever, you can just speculate randomly
when you turn 18, when you're ready to vote or something, whatever.
OK, so that makes sense.
I was going to say it's kind of a rite of passage.
Yeah.
Right.
All right.
So that changes it.
That's interesting.
So then this that's the dustbecks conundrum at large, right?
Yeah.
So it sounds to me like if you weren't living with the knowledge that somebody
was suffering the entire time, because that would detract from your
presumably from how happy you could get.
I wouldn't I wouldn't want to be the kind of person who would be happy
knowing that someone was being tortured for my happiness.
But assuming I didn't know it and I just found it out, you know,
in the last week or something, I'd still have a pretty good life, right?
By the measure of the book, the best life possible.
Pretty much everyone who's read the story wants to think that they would be
one of the people that would walk away, at least from what I've heard.
So does that mean they don't buy cell phones anymore?
Because the microprocessors, you know, I do know where you're going with this,
yes, but no, no, that's that's remote enough.
Could they probably they probably wouldn't visit a cell phone production
factory in the third world, right?
Well, and even if they did, it's hard to opt out of life.
Yeah, but you could become a hermit in the well, they do make ethically produced phones.
They're just ridiculously expensive and they're also like shitty as hell compared
to actual phones that are more harmful to the environment.
So there's that, too.
And again, that's one phone.
Do you still drive a car?
Do you burn oil?
Do you go to McDonald's?
Do you exist in a society where this is the foundations of everything
that make us the society we are fair enough?
So would you stay?
I get the impression that you're going to say you'd stay.
When I first read it, fuck no, I also thought of myself as one of those people
who would walk away from a mallice because that's horrific when you read that.
You're like, yeah, it's a very emotionally impactful thing to have to witness.
Right? How bad is like bother you just so much?
And this this cannot stand.
I will not be party to this.
So if 50 percent of the people of the whole society all at once left
because of that reason, would it make a difference?
Oh, it's implied that very few people actually leave.
But if if 90 percent of the people of that society
left because they didn't tolerate the child being tortured,
would it change anything about the child being tortured?
No.
Then what's the point?
Right.
What the thing that finally changed my mind a little bit
was reading Scott Alexander's post on those who walk away from a mallice
or Omalas or have repronounced it.
Yeah, those walk away from omelettes, right?
Which kind of a monster walks away from an omelette.
Son of a bitch.
At least while it's still warm.
We have a world where children are tortured in basements
and live horrific lives for their entire life.
And we don't get a utopia in return.
No, we don't. We get we get I actually learned recently that Thorn
Ashton Kutcher is the CEO of Thorn.
And what's Thorn?
It is software that helps combat human trafficking.
Like, OK, how?
By scanning the dark net or the deep net or whatever it's called.
It's dark net.
It's it's it's supposed to monitor the dark net for information
so they can hand it off to like authorities to intervene, basically.
That's all I know about it, because the only reason I even know about this
is because I saw a video like a two minute clip of Ashton Kutcher
talking about it.
Does it actually work?
I could not tell you for sure.
I know that they're hiring.
But a minor thing that I want to interject there.
Yeah, the point of the post is that we do have
the kind of world with those children in it and much worse things besides
on just orders of magnitude, more scale.
And we certainly haven't gotten a utopia out of it.
So when you're walking away from a malice, you're walking into a world
that is much, much worse.
And if you were to stay in a malice, there would only be one child
being tortured forever.
And all this other good stuff comes because of it.
I think intent has a large part to do with that, though.
Yeah, intention based morality.
It seems that omelets deals with the purposeful intent
to untorturing the child to maintain the utopia or at least being complicit in it.
Yeah, I think it has more to do with complicity.
Yeah, ours is just.
Well, but I don't even know.
Again, I'll read the whole thing.
It's two pages.
We should just stop while we all read it for three minutes.
But since we're not going to do that, I'll just speculate that
you're not really complicit.
If you you're not making a decision to make it stop if you walk away,
which was my point about if 90 percent of the people walked away,
would anything happen? No.
So like, sure.
But like, and you're not complicit in the fact that like you just have to go
look, you don't have to pick up a knife and go help for two minutes, right?
So you don't you just have to look at you just have to look at what's happening.
Yeah, I think there was something like you're not allowed to say anything nice
to the child or like, consult or make it's like better.
You're you're you're you're supposed to look.
Maybe you don't have to actually actively contribute,
but you can't intervene in a way that alleviates anything.
What a great thought experiment to control for that, too.
That's really interesting.
I get that it's two pages.
They don't specify what life is like outside.
Oh, Malus. Yeah.
The story is two pages.
It is a short short.
Yeah, the first page and a half is basically saying how wonderful their
society is. And then the last the second half of the page is describing
how awful this child's life is.
And then the very last paragraph is some people walked away.
Yes. So I mean, like if they walked away and they managed to recreate
all the utopia without the without the tortured kid, obviously
they're doing the right thing. Maybe.
Well, I guess I mean, it's implied that you kind of need the torture
for some reason, right?
That there's some magic engine that's being turned on this kid's suffering.
And it seems to me like it'd be tough knowledge to bear.
And I mean, I guess like you just have to take for granted that there's no way
to fix it, that there's no way to correct this problem down the line or something
or that you can't work your whole life to make this kid's life any better
no matter what. So you'd have to either like, well, are you going to stay here
or are you going to go forage for dirt in the desert?
It's like, well, I mean, I might as well stay here, you know, given that
there's literally nothing I could do with my entire life to change this circumstance.
He's going to be there whether or not I go to the leave or not.
And am I an asshole for deciding that?
No, OK, because no, well, no, no, like, like, like, I wouldn't say you are.
But I think it's reasonable for some people to be because like if it's
if it's such an uncomfortable and torturous thought for them to
acknowledge that they're part of this, but I feel like they're as much of a part
of it, whether they live in the city or not.
Like, it's just a fact of nature, it seems like.
But they aren't profiting from it if they're not in the city. Right.
Oh, OK. That's right, right.
So I think there's some degree of complicit being complicit.
Well, then that kid's suffering is just going to waste if you're not if you're
not feeling good about it, right? It's true.
So if Omelettes is in a solar system with two planets right next to each other
and both of them are Earth like and full of greenery and the one planet Omelette
is magically fueled by the torture of this one kid.
And the second planet is just like Earth minus humans.
If the option of leaving means you have to go to that other planet,
you're actually causing suffering in some way in that if you're going
to live there, you're going to have to hunt animals and eat them and dig up
the dirt and build a house and start polluting the area and not live in utopia.
Right. Where if you're in the utopia and being there has literally zero
influence on the bad part of that utopia, then it's should be your moral obligation
to stay there. That's sort of what I'm thinking.
And the other thing is that you mentioned the profiteering and I wanted to clarify
that as long as the kid's suffering is a fact of nature and if it's nowhere
known or implied that the suffering and stop assuming everyone left because
and that will give you a way to alleviate the kid's suffering.
You could get everyone out from now would have to leave.
So. Yeah. But I mean, let's I mean, for the sake of making it hard,
we could say that the kids are going to be there suffering, making this perfect
omelette planet forever, whether or not you're there or not.
So it's like, well, as long as the kid's suffering, we can offset the balance
of the universe, the unilands writ large over the course of everyone participating.
If more people stayed in utopia, right?
Well, but I mean, but isn't that kind of diffusion of responsibility where it's
like, well, there's going to happen anyway, I might as well stay.
But if everyone thinks that then.
But there's no responsibility in this thought experiment, right?
That like, it's not like there's anything anyone can do about it,
even if the entire world ganged up to try and stop it, like it's just going to happen.
Yeah, they don't really.
I mean, again, they really don't get into it's not like a huge world building
scenario where they have this sophisticated, like well-defined society.
It's just it's all very, very abstract and very like Ursula does not go
into a lot of detail about it.
It's just an allegory.
It's like, well, I think it is.
And to bring this back to the last episode you were on, it's kind of like
