which is kind of an abstract measurement in the first place?
It's like, so why even add people?
Because if they don't exist, they have no...
I'm going to ask you personally,
does it seem kind of like a dick move
if there's a million people on the earth
for you to say, I don't think I'm willing to take
a tiny decrease in my quality of life
so that there can be another million people
having this wonderful life?
I mean, would you be willing to take
just a tiny decrease in your quality of life
so that another million people have great lives?
Well, certainly.
But in this...
And then you just keep repeating that step at Nazion.
Oh, right. No, no, like I see where you're going.
I'm just thinking in a very specific situation
where it's like, here we are, snapshot of this world.
We have a million people.
We have to make more people in the first place
to elevate them to a certain level of happiness
that is an average of everyone in the world
or whatever it is that...
If there are a million people at level eight
and you add another million people
and you decrease that to like 7.5 for everyone, right?
Obviously, you'd be like, oh, yeah, that doesn't sound bad at all.
But I mean, I'm just thinking in terms of why...
Where do the extra people come from?
Why would there be more people?
I don't know.
They teleported in from the dimension of non-existence.
I mean, they're there for the thought experiment to exist, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Kind of like where do these aspects come from?
Sure.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, that's why it's called the Repugnant Conclusion
because eventually people are like,
well, that's a shitty conclusion.
I'd rather have the first one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, right.
You're very slowly raising the temperature
and decreasing the temperature.
But every single step along the way makes perfect sense.
Oh, yeah, the baby steps make sense, of course.
It's really not very contentious, right?
Because it's just...
That's why it's one of my favorite ones.
It's not one of those ones that you can just shoot a hole in
if it's delivered right.
I think you have to see it ahead of time.
You'd be like, oh, you're going to keep doing this.
Like after the first step, you're like, oh, yeah, totally.
Totally do it.
And then the second step, you're like, oh, he's going to keep doing this.
And eventually, I see where you're going with this.
Oh, I'm on.
I see you.
As long as the lives are worth living,
as perceived by the people that are living the lives,
I would assume that it should go on indefinitely
until you get to the point where it's not worth living and then stop.
You're taking that bullet then.
So you're going to write it all the way to the bottom
and say lives that are barely worth living are...
If you ask the people at the end of their life,
would you rather have never existed or have lived this life?
And they're kind of like, meh, I guess.
As long as it was on the yes spectrum?
Fair enough.
So yeah, you're going to write that slope all the way to the bottom.
I like it.
Right, but I'm going to stop at that point where the bottom is.
Yeah, I think that's where you're supposed to stop.
And on the other side of that bottom is being tortured for 50 years.
Right.
At the other side of the slope, you get dustbecks
and then you go all the way to Erum being tortured forever.
Well, you go from your 10 out of 10,
but the people after you are 9.99 because they're getting dustbecks.
Right.
Fair enough.
Aren't any of you raised in the Christian background?
I know you were.
Yes, vaguely.
I was definitely...
Kind of Catholic, but I never really bought into it.
After I learned of the utility monster, I kind of had the intuition
that it feels like God is the utility monster.
He matters so much that all of humanity doesn't really matter.
We're here just to praise him and feed him mutils
because he's the only being that matters in the universe.
I've also heard the same thing about a singularity.
It depends on what kind of singularity God you're trying to make,
but I also don't like using the word God for the AGI.
But as far as the God of Christianity,
I think that's kind of the point in that you get a large percentage,
with the Christian God example.
I think that's kind of the point that God does matter that much.
That's why you can't indulge in your petty pleasures like masturbation
because look at how much that'll make God sad.
And his happiness matters so much more than yours.
I'm pretty sure Christians would argue that you cannot make God sad.
In any case, we're getting kind of off track.
Yeah, do we want to listen to feedback?
Do we have any?
Yeah, I got some.
All right, let's do that really quick.
Nice, you guys can chime in if you want to be fun.
So Eddie says on our Punching Nazis episode,
the Superman radio series Clan of the Fiery Cross
is well worth listening to if nothing else than for the old tiny radio ads.
It was hosted on the Superman homepage for a while,
but I couldn't find it.
It is easily found on YouTube.
Thank you, Eddie.
All right, econ detective on our signaling episode says,
in response to the idea that cash is the ideal gift,
I have an alternative theory.
When computers are trying to solve complex maximization problems,
one feature many algorithms have in common is randomization in the early stages.
Without randomization, they tend to get stuck at local optimum
while missing out on some other global optimum.
In our consumption decisions,
we're trying to optimize across the space of all consumption bundles
with a limited knowledge of what's available.
Consequently, we might get locked into a local maximum
without discovering some better option that exists out in the world.
Consider the case where someone discovers a lifelong love of painting
because someone bought them art supplies as a gift.
The value of that discovery could be valuable enough
to cancel out hundreds of useless gifts.
So my theory is that it might be worthwhile
to put up with many suboptimal gifts
because the random factor they add to our consumption decisions
actually helps the discovery process.
I can see the benefit to that.
And it does kind of, it would make Christmas kind of fun.
I could give my entire family 20 bucks each or whatever.
Or I could go out and just throw an arrow
and just like grab something random off the shelf
and be like, you're getting a beach ball.
You're getting an air horn.
I don't know, whatever it is, right?
So I think the random discovery thing
is actually really important.
And I love that he brought that up
because now I am feeling much better about gift giving.
Perfect.
Random discovery is really cool.
I, uh, at least two times in my life,
I have decided that I need to change something.
And so what I did was just with some minor exceptions
for things that are really just obviously terribly stupid ideas.
Anything that I get asked my answer is yes.
Can I have 20 bucks?
I'm not in one of those things.
Damn it.
That's basically a random number generator for life events
because you get asked things at random,
especially if you're on Facebook every now and then,
someone would be like, oh my God,
can you drive, can anyone drive me to the airport
or some shit like that?
And I'm like, yep, right here.
And it has led to experiences that I never would have had
and thrown my life on very different directions.
And I like it.
I strongly recommend everyone try some random number generation
in their life at some point.
You're also choosing which gifts to receive in that example though.
Which gifts to receive?
Um, the gift of being stuck in a car
driving someone to the airport?
Oh, no, I mean, it was literally policy of
unless it is something that could be severely harmful for me,
I don't know, do drugs with me.
Would you help me bury a body?
Anything that isn't that massively negatively impactful
on my life, I just say yes to.
If it's something that I would really hate
and sound shitty as fuck, I'm like, whatever.
I say that.
I'm saying yes to everything, so I'm saying yes.
So that's what you mean by RNG is saying yes to?
It's like-
All of the things.
No, not necessarily, but I mean,
if that is one great way to make an RNG in your life,
no matter what you hear, say yes to it.
Even if you're sure it's something that you will hate,
say yes anyway, because fuck it.
I'm actually convinced by what you just said
and I'm definitely going to try that.
Because that sounds, I don't do a lot.
I pass up opportunities to get out all the time.
If I just did a month or I'm like,
I'm going to say yes to everything.
