That's convincing to me.
I'm going to give it a shot and I'll report back eventually
when I get around to doing that.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Hey Steven, can I have $20?
I haven't, I haven't started.
Will you let me know when you have?
Don't let me know.
I haven't started, so I'm going to say no.
Yeah.
Call me.
Ironclad, you're not falling for anything.
Yes.
All the list of things that I'm not going to do,
it's going to be everything Matt asks.
Do we have any-
I think we had a few more.
Sure.
When you and me and Katrina were talking about this,
how the term social justice warrior,
I thought wasn't negative at first.
You didn't- oh, like whether it's like kind of pejorative?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was my impression that originally it wasn't,
because I liked that term,
but it turns out I'm kind of a stupid head or something.
Before people more often I think use it as a pejorative,
but like some people do where it is a badge of mind,
like yeah, I fight for social justice.
Anyone who-
I'm a social justice cleric.
Anyone who would pejoratively be called a social justice warrior,
that person would likely not have called themselves that.
Oh, a challenge.
I feel like a lot of people you can get online
where they can be like, I'm doing social justice,
that's why I'm harassing this person.
It happens sometimes,
because people like to do the whole like, you know,
signally like, oh, I'm a social justice paladin.
You know, they'll make like the,
they'll throw in other D&D classes and stuff,
but that's kind of like jokey too.
I would like to use myself as an example,
because back when I was more into social justice,
before it became what it is today,
I actually did use the term social justice warrior
for myself, because I was like, yeah, that's a good term, right?
We're fighting for social justice.
Why wouldn't we be social justice warriors?
It's because it's done off,
it's an offshoot of like keyboard warrior, you know?
Yeah, exactly.
Which you talked about in the previous one.
Yeah, okay, so I didn't actually listen to that one,
that was just...
Yeah, so it turns out that it was actually always pejorative.
I'm just dumb.
Well, I mean, you took the obvious interpretation,
just not the popular one.
I guess, kind of like the same way that I thought,
when Neil deGrasse Tyson was saying that
7% of scientists still believe in God, and...
It's probably more than that, isn't it?
Well, no, no, 7% of at the very highest level,
at the National Academy of Sciences.
Gotcha.
Still 7% of those believe.
And my interpretation was that he was saying,
what the fuck is wrong with these 7%?
When it turns out he was saying the opposite,
that as long as these 7% believe,
you still got a problem on your hands, atheists.
And I like my interpretation better.
And I don't necessarily know if that's his interpretation.
I think what he's saying is that,
you can be as versed in science as you want,
but that doesn't mean that you're necessarily going to be an atheist.
I don't think he's saying checkmate atheists.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't think he's even saying check atheists.
I think he's just pointing out that
some people can literally call it business.
Check yourself.
It's more like check yourself, atheists,
rather than checkmate atheists.
Yeah, I interpreted completely wrongly is what I'm saying.
I kind of have a record of interpreting things
that make me happy.
I think most humans do.
Yeah, okay.
It's called bias.
Yeah, yeah.
I have a pro happiness in my life bias,
and it's not served me well.
I have similar issues that we can dive into another time.
Okay.
I don't have to be super gullible.
All right, so we'll dive into a quick example.
Like when I was a kid,
I remember watching on TV some reenactment
and I didn't know it was reenactment.
Someone was being attacked by a dog or something.
It was something that just happened to me on the TV
and my parents didn't screen what was on when I was in the room.
And I'm watching this and I'm like, I don't know.
I was under seven because I think I vaguely remember it being
in my first childhood home when I moved when I was six.
I'm watching this and I turned to my mom and I'm like,
why isn't the person in the camera helping?
Why are they just watching and getting this on tape?
And she's like, they've recreated this for TV.
They're dramatizing it for people to just show a story
of what happened.
And I was like, oh.
And the idea that they would fake it never occurred to me.
I also used to think that when they would do flashbacks
to childhood and TV shows,
that they actually filmed that scene with that actor 20 years ago
and then waited 20 years to film the rest of the movie.
Damn, David.
Like the boyhood movie.
I guess I have this weird compunction for like
assuming that there's no trickery involved.
Yeah, I've been very gullible.
What you see is what you get.
Yeah.
Child logic.
Yeah.
I mean that is child logic,
but even as an adult, I tend to believe people way too much.
Even sometimes when people are just joking,
and I'm like, really?
That's fascinating.
And they're like, no, you dumbass.
You're just not snarky enough then.
I guess.
I'm getting more jaded.
So, hey.
Yeah, we're welcome.
Whereas now we have to fact check everything.
Everything you read is just like, yeah,
I don't know if that's true.
I don't know if I believe that,
no matter how plausible it may seem.
But Econ Detective also says on the SJDW thing,
the way I understand it,
SJW isn't a blanket term for everyone
interested in social justice,
but a specific term for the people
who violate liberal norms of political discourse.
So they're more focused on the warrior
than the social justice?
Right.
As in they're being racist by hating on white people?
Or they're making extremely emotional arguments,
or they're like, they're pro-violence,
or something like that?
Or like, I've seen like a, you know,
again just like picturing the extreme examples
just to make it an obvious case.
Like I saw things picking on the person who played Luke Cage.
Luke Cage, okay.
I think he's married to a white woman,
or dating one or something when this show came out.
And people were like, oh my god,
how could you turn on your people?
And these were like social justice warriors.
What?
So like, you get this horseshoe of people like,
on the KKK.
Those are like the extreme worst people.
Yeah.
So like, but what I'm getting at is that
at the extremes, they tend to share the same bigotry.
Yeah, they're against interracial marriage,
just like racist slave owners.
Right.
Yeah, well, like I think a lot of the problems
with that has to do with,
and I'm gonna be very brief about this,
is that a lot of people conflate the idea of systemic,
like systemic racism or systemic sexism
with like individual level sexism or racism,
and that cuts in all directions, right?
But they conflate those two.
So they're like, oh, whatever,
cry me some more white tears, or you know,
even if they're talking to one person
that they're insulting or berating a lot, you know?
And that's kind of like, well, you're directly,
you know, dealing with one person here
that you are being that way.
So yeah, his entire paragraph is basically examples,
very much like you guys just made.
So I'm gonna skip that paragraph,
and move on to the summary that social justice warriors
are people who think their political and social goals
are so important that they need to jettison
