that it's almost insulting to receive $50 for GameStop
when you could spend it on money so that you could survive.
Or you could make so much money, $50 doesn't matter either way,
and being given the game would still barely matter.
Or you could be the majority of people in the middle
where you're not dying of starvation,
and you could definitely use that.
But maybe you wouldn't use it for the GameStop product.
Yeah, and I think that's where this is targeted for,
is that large middle section.
And I think that makes a lot of sense.
And you should buy the Steam gift card anyway.
Right, assuming you own computer games.
Like GameStop is good for console games, but not so much...
The key is that they know enough about you.
This is downloadable.
The key... I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt,
but I think the key is that they know enough about you
to get you appropriate gift cards.
I heard you like video games, so here's a gift card for GameStop.
It's like, oh, I do all my gaming on Steam.
Then it's kind of a waste, right?
Then they've missed fired,
and then you have to find some way
to exchange that for money that you can turn into Steam money.
I just wanted to clarify.
I'm not keeping a list of what constitutes
the Ubermanche in my mind.
One of them is HasRed, those who walk away from the malice.
The second one is Use a Steam rather than GameStop.
The third is Facial Hair.
Software delivery system.
Exactly.
One of us has a full beard right now,
so that's the person who said that Facial Hair counts for Ubermanchery.
The other one on the couch has some sweet sideburns.
Mudden chops.
Got the chops going.
Where the other half are...
Baby-faced.
Well, we've got one clean shave and one baby-faced.
Yeah, I look like...
Lomp, lomp.
Yeah, I look like a child.
I got carded for a rate at our movie last year.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
That's amazing.
Wow.
I'm 27.
Dude, I don't...
Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on to that one.
I don't know theaters that card people,
unless they're literally children.
They're like, you look like you're 14, but whatever.
I was carded at 18.
Maybe they were just being funny,
but I haven't been carded since I was too young.
It's not like it's a law.
That's someone who's underage into a rate at our movie.
There are no legal repercussions.
Well, there's the potential repercussion of getting fired,
or whatever, right?
So there's those repercussions.
They're not going to jail, but yeah.
Yeah.
What's the likelihood of managers going to look on someone
who's serving you and be like, oh, you're eating carden?
I don't know.
I mean, maybe that...
I think it's about preventing angry mothers from yelling at you.
I think...
But it's entirely possible.
I don't look 10.
So it could be that the person behind the counter was just having fun.
I don't know what it was, but it did stick out.
I'm going to go ahead and absolve your concerns.
You don't look like you're 10.
Great.
Did it look like that was their first week at the job?
I honestly don't remember.
I just remember looking at my ID and I'm like,
seriously, how do you think I got here?
Like, you know, there's two of us.
You think that...
Whatever, it was just a thing.
She's not my babysitter.
Right.
Unclog mission on Reddit just a few hours ago,
says, regarding our EA episode,
you got at least one person, me,
to finally take the giving what we can pledge
after much needless procrastination.
Nice.
Sweet.
Good job, dude.
Sam Harris did that for me.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Well, fuck yeah.
That's awesome.
So that's exactly what I was talking about on the show,
was that on the one hand, there's this societal norm
where soliciting your gift giving and how charitable you are
is seen as like dickish somehow.
But if you post every time you send a donation,
you post the receipt to Facebook
and text it to your entire family or something.
But there's...
I think there's a fine line to walk between,
like, I guess being in everyone's face
and about it all the time
and just kind of doing it super quietly,
never telling anyone unless they ask or whatever.
But the idea is that, you know,
if you can break the taboo about talking about it
and get more people, you know, engaged,
again, we've got one more person doing it,
even like a day, right?
That literally adds up to a percentage of a life saved
or possibly an actual person who's not dead, right?
Yeah.
So there's like, Patrick Ruffus had like a world-building,
like, stream-eated ones
and he started talking about Heifer International
and he made a really good case.
He went into detail about what they do and everything
and I thought it was so cool that I was like,
okay, I'm gonna give him some of my money
and forked over some money and it was like...
I gave $100 to Tostan after reading
Ozzie's blog post on Thing of Things
about how it helps prevent female mutilation
and seemed pretty effective.
Uncloggin also says,
late in the episode, you brought up money priming.
The finding that subtle reminders about money
can prompt people to become more selfish
and not donate as much to charity.
One of you, that would be me, asked about replication.
In fact, this effect has not replicated in well-powered studies.
Good.
It then provides several links, two links specifically
that demonstrate and discuss this repeated failure to replicate.
The reason I ask nowadays about replication
for social study, for social research
is because there have been at least a few people
who've said we should start considering the year 2016,
year zero for social research
and anything that happened before year 2016 asked,
did it replicate?
Because there were so, so many things in social research
that someone managed to find an effect once
and published it like crazy and blew it all out in proportion
and no one bothered to replicate
and now that people have started trying
to go back and replicating, they just don't replicate.
One of my favorite ones was the finding that
if you give someone a warm cup of coffee to hold in their hands,
they become warmer emotionally than people are talking to.
Whereas if you give them a cold drink to hold in their hands,
they become more distant and cold.
I really liked that one and I repeated it several times
and then it turned out several years later
they tried it again and it did not replicate.
Sounds like something Socrates came up with.
It does, doesn't it?
Well, it also seems so.
The thing is there was actual research to support this,
data and everything.
It's just that it was one of those data mining
we managed to find an effect by coincidence
and it is this huge thing that we make a big deal out of
that is why everything needs to be replicated
and anything that hasn't been replicated,
I always take with a huge grain of salt
and always ask, has it been replicated?
That's a really important point.
I'm glad that they brought up that this hasn't been replicated
and I didn't actually read the primary research on this.
I had heard it repeated by lots of smart people
and the fact that they all took it and ran with it,
I assumed that there was something to this.
I think smart people like,
I think Will McCaskill and Peter Singer
and I can't guarantee that it was either of those
but definitely in the philosophy literature
about effective altruism.
There's been at least a couple studies
that Eliezer cites in the sequences.
Some of them strongly in one case
which did not replicate more recently.
Did the comments point that out?
No, because I don't think that was a thing at the time in 2007.
People weren't really thinking about that.
It's been more something that's come up more recently
and so yeah, I also have been very often in the past
repeating things which it turned out later did not replicate
and that is why nowadays I kind of have this aversion
