it to be the correct one, right?
And anyone who works at a hospital, actually, I guess anyone who works with
the budget at a hospital has to make trolley decisions.
Every single time budget time comes around.
Sure.
Sure.
That makes sense.
So if you put a number on a human life and we do, then you're saying that these
numbers are important and that we should maybe shut up and multiply how many
lives we can save per dollar as opposed to going with these squishy intuitions.
And if we are saying that, yes, the math is the best way to do things because it
gives us the greatest benefit, then we shouldn't all of a sudden abandon the
math as soon as it says something that we think is not to our intuition.
And if this were in written form, shut up and multiply would be a link to
another podcast.
And it will be, it's like a catchphrase or something.
Shut up and multiply, yeah.
Okay.
From less wrong.
Oh, is it, is it like expand the, the problem to figure out if it's like, if you
have an idea about a small scope problem that you multiply or something?
You shut up and multiply means trust the numbers.
Okay.
Don't, don't go with your.
All right.
So just do the math.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So like, I have a problem.
I do have a problem with that in general.
Okay.
Like an example with the hospital that you know, she was mentioning, say if like one
little girl needed a liver and the hospital director could buy one for eight million
dollars and that would shut down the hospital or have money, how many
dollars a hospital needs to not be shut down or the director could, she could keep
the hospital running and save all the other lives and let the little girl die.
Well, a lot of people will be like, well, you got to save the little girl because
the children and because life and you can't put a price in our life.
But the idea, one of the ideas of shut up and multiply is just, look, you can and
you, you have to and you can.
So let's, let's just not sit here and wring our hands needlessly.
Let's just realize, yes, this little role is going to die and the exchange, the
hospital is going to stay open and do all the great things the hospitals do.
Right.
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
Right.
Like, so, so I understand the concept.
It's just that, like, and then there are probably many, many, many situations in
which doing the math makes a lot of sense and they probably will yield them the
optimal outcome, but aren't there situations in which it wouldn't?
I believe that is the argument that whenever someone gets to a point where
there's something they're not willing to accept based on their squishy feelings,
they say, well, this is one of those cases where the math doesn't apply.
And the, the response which I personally give because I would not put these
words in LA is there is, fuck you, prove it.
If you say the math always works all the time, except for the one case where your
emotions are so important, they overrule the math.
Well, not even just one.
I mean, I'm willing to, if you can, I don't want to put you on the spot, but if
you can think of something like one, we can try and develop a case or we
had all willing to throw out the numbers.
If the whole conclusion of this is that we should trust the math on
utilize in that.
Assuming we get the utilize calculation right, that we can figure out how many
utilize torture actually is.
Sure.
Yeah.
Assuming that the conclusion is we should trust the math on if a
utalon is a thing we can measure, we should go for the more positive
utalons or for the least amount of negative utalons.
And I think I can scale this up and argue against his entire dust spec
versus torture conclusion.
So if all humans have a perfect 50 year lifespan and the starting of this
theory is a 50 year or one entire lifespan of torture versus a huge
number of dust specs, then keep the torture where it is and scale up the
dust specs to everyone getting two dust specs.
Oh, scale it the other direction.
So you're saying like increase the number of dust specs to reduce the
amount of torture you'd have to offset that.
Right.
So what if everyone has to be tortured and everyone like actual
torture to not dust spec tortured, say it's real torture for one year.
I'm pretty sure everyone would argue that being tortured for your entire
50 year lifespan is not a life worth living.
And so if life worth living is a different metric, not directly related
to the utalons from the dust spec argument, then you could reframe the
argument of three to the third to the third to the third lives worth living
versus one life not worth living.
Say everyone has to have dust specs in their eye.
It's just going to happen.
Okay.
Would you like to live in that world where dust specs flying to your eye?
I'm assuming yes, seen as you are in fact here.
Yes, definitely.
Would you want to live a life where you were tortured for 50 years, which
happens to be your exact perfect measurement of lifespan?
No, of course not.
So is there somewhere in between where you draw the line?
Like where you would accept more torture than dust specs?
No, where you would accept being tortured for a good life?
Like most people, I'm assuming, would not be willing to be tortured for 49
years to have one year of wonderful life.
Oh, I see.
I'm going to draw the line at 10 percent just to get the conversation going.
Give me what you can.
Yeah, exactly.
Minimers on my head.
Giving what I can.
I'll give 10 years.
You can get me to the table.
Oh, right.
10 percent.
So it'll be five years.
Well, I imagine living longer than 50 years.
But yeah, you're right.
So I see what you're going up.
I feel like that's a different problem.
It's a different problem, but it attacks the same conclusion.
So where does this leave us?
So it brings us back to you.
I remember while we were talking at the meetup by you.
I am pointing at Sean.
Sorry.
Hi.
Sean at the meetup is one of the people who has read those who walk away from
Amalus.
I don't know if that's pronounced.
Yeah, it's well, I always said Amalus or I think it's a bit of a say,
Omeylus, which is how to tell that Sean is one of the better kind of people.
I guess.
I mean, it's so, yeah, for those who don't know, I mean, most people
probably are aware of the like short story written by really stupid now.
No, no, no, it's not one of those things you either know it or not.
You don't.
It's trivia, right?
It's just a shitty person.
According to trivia gets a free beer.
Ursula, Ursula K.
Le Guin wrote this short story called those who walk from Omeylus or Amalus.
One of the most famous short stories in science fiction history.
Yeah.
Which is the reason all that long.
Oh, sure.
No.
And it's just this allegorical story about how America exploits third world
working wages, basically.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Well, that's what a lot of people think.
And that's what a lot of people speculate on.
You are putting a lot of stuff onto that story, which is not in the story at all.
OK, OK, OK, well, let's let's forget I said that.
Those who walk from Omeylus is about a utopian society in which
everyone has lived this perfectly happy life where there's no there are no
inconveniences and everything.
Everyone, it's just peachy keen and awesome all the time.
And it's not like one of those shitty utopias where it turns out to actually,
you know, people aren't really happy.
This is one of those utopias that if you were to make a utopia that is actually
perfect for human flourishing and everyone would want to be there without any
catches, it's that utopia.
Basically, yes.
And and the only way that's what your utopia is.
Sure.
The only way in which it is possible for this utopia to exist in its in the way
that it does is that there's this child, this tiny child that is locked away in a
basement and just basically tortured all the time, just constantly
treated very, very, very poorly.
Do they stay a kid the whole time or do they age?
This is a snapshot of a particular but but I mean, I they don't really cover
that exactly.
But however, the one thing that happens is that I believe everyone in the
utopian society has to go down in that basement and look at the child and see
what happens to it one time in their life, one time in their life.
And some people go down there, look at it, are so disgusted that they walk away
from Omeylus.
Most people don't.
Most people look at and they go, hmm, well, that's unfortunate.
And they go about their lives and they just continue living in a utopia.
It is an acceptable price to pay.
Two quick things.
One, I have heard of the premise of this about even if I didn't know the name.
And two, do they know what they're going to go look at?
And I don't think so.
It's so they do they just say, hey, once in a while, if you have to make a
pilgrimage to my basement.
Yeah, but like it's no there's no like it's the they don't look that it's not
like you're not coming to look at my book collection or coming to look at
something scary because as someone in my book club once pointed out, this is a
story rather unique in that it has no characters and no plot.
And yet it is still a very good story.
It's like everything's spoken about in generalities.
There's no, yeah, exactly.
There's no protagonist.
There's basically just it's just a snapshot.
The author, it's a very conceptual thing.
The author is not specific about anything.
So any of any of the questions you have about like the specific conditions, I
am really unable to answer.
I'll need to read the whole thing, but I guess just for it's really true.
