the average citizen of Berlin going to there in the 1940s, going to their desk
job doing accounting every day and realizing that there's Jews being
gassed somewhere.
I don't know.
Do we want to make excuses for for that?
Like, well, it's happening anyway.
I might as well stay in the society.
Right.
But you can have everyone have left.
You what?
You can have an effect on that, no matter how small.
It is a non-zero effect where I think the assumption for Omelette was that
there is a non-zero effect you can have on the child, no matter what.
Or there is a zero effect.
Well, you're not allowed to, as long as you want it, as long as you want to be
a part of the utopia, you have to have a zero effect on the child.
So you can help them.
You can help the kid by leaving.
You're going to attempt to help them?
Like, could you get kicked out of a population of, I don't remember if
there's a part Germans, if one, you were to leave, would you make a
difference to all those Jews that are being gassed?
Potentially, yeah.
How?
Cause that's, so that's actually an interesting question.
Cause they're, I didn't like the original comparison because, yeah, in the,
I'm sorry, I don't want to say omelette.
What was the actual name of the story?
Omelette.
It's O M E L A S.
Right.
But if you say omelette, we all know how to say omelette and we don't
waste time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's omelette, that's fine.
And in omelettes, I liked math solution.
I'm picturing it just as the worst possible, as the least convenient possible
world, right?
Where, and I'm imagining just you're, you're forced to look through this
window where you see into another dimension that you can't access this
kid being tortured and you're told this kid is fueling omelettes or this kid's
feeling, feeling the utopia, you leaving or you doing anything, there's
nothing you can do.
You can either just stay and enjoy the utopia or you can leave.
Although it's interesting how it can still be utopia when everyone knows
it's run on torture, but that aside, the situation in Germany, you could hide
Jews, you could smuggle them, you could fudge numbers to say, yes, we've
shipped all ours out or something or whatever.
Or you could drag your feet and make the bureaucracy more inefficient.
Right.
But so there are things you could do.
Now, if your only choices were life as normal or leaving, that's actually
an interesting situation, but that, that has to change so many factors, but
what was actually possible, right?
That's a false like common, but given that, with me being contrary, and as
soon as you started saying, you know, I think that since the world is going
to be the same, you have a duty to stay.
I, I, I right away thought, well, do you have a duty to stay in Germany?
Because they're going to keep doing things whether you're there or not, and
your life is better in Berlin than if you were to become a refugee somewhere.
Jumping back to what, what you were jumping back to dust specs.
If you are willing to walk away from all the less, then I think you are one
of the people that chooses dust specs, right?
You might be able to make that comparison.
The only thing I would say is that those who work from Amalus is a microcosm,
like a very condensed microcosm of this thought experiment with a dust
specs versus torture, like to the point where I don't know that you could
actually make that claim.
But conceptually, the people who walk away from Amalus, like, I have a moral
objection to the idea that we should torture someone instead of having
everybody have dust specs in their eyes because I reject the math.
And coincidentally, that would roughly, you know, be equivalent to
someone walking away from Amalus, right?
Do you believe that in principle, there is a certain amount of distributed
suffering that could be worse than 50 years of concentrated suffering?
Probably, yeah.
Okay.
It's just that dust specs, and maybe dust specs is just not a good example
because I can just count as zero for you.
Because it basically, yeah, because it basically counts as zero.
And I feel like that's one of those things that like, and maybe I'm just
projecting my sensibilities onto other people, but it's, but at the same time,
it's like, I think of whatever the equivalent is of an extremely
minor inconvenience, you know, like you said, point zero, zero, zero, zero,
one, you know, negative utilize or utils or whatever.
If you distribute suffering in such a way that everyone's just
going to get over it in two seconds, that there you go.
Like, and done, slimed down.
Do you not think that someone with an infant lifespan couldn't get over 50
years of torture at some point?
Does that apply here?
Because, well, cause, cause, cause are we talking about human lives that,
that have us a finite span for which 50 years is very significant?
I think that as long as we're talking about more humans than can possibly exist.
Okay.
Even if every atom was a universe.
Okay.
So you're saying the perspective might be so different in that case for each
individual human that has these incredibly elevated lifespans, perhaps that
50 years is just like whatever.
That's like two minutes for us.
Not necessarily whatever.
50 years is still 50 years, but if you have a long enough lifespan,
you can get over that, right?
If 50 years isn't 75% of your life and it's 0.1%, then maybe.
Yeah.
Then, then that does change the math, right?
Then you're not talking about destroying someone's entire existence.
You're talking about inconvenience or making them as an uncomfortable as
possible for a small amount of their life, but a large amount of time.
But Matthew, you had a way to rearticulate the way that you're thinking
about comparing what you were saying earlier.
I don't want to paraphrase you poorly.
So the dust spec versus single person torture seems like a false
dichotomy because we are only measuring negative uterilons in which obviously
if we are only measuring negative uterilons, we want less negative
uterilons rather than more negative uterilons.
But in this case, would the 50 years of torture just be so exponentially
more that it's not even comparable to dust specs, even if you multiply it
by this ridiculous number?
Well, I mean, that's, that's not possible for talking about numbers, right?
At some point, unless you're talking about literal infinities, if you multiply
a small number by a large enough number, it gets bigger than a certain other number.
Which is where my argument of life worth living metric comes into play.
If I prefer any number of lives worth living over making one life,
not worth living, then that counters you'd see his argument about dust
specs versus torture, because dust specs is very easy to live with.
I have a way that I was trying to think of how to flip this.
Does anyone know if Zimbabwe dollars are still are worth literally more than zero?
Wasn't it like they were so much less worth in the paper they're printed on?
Was it Zimbabwe dollars or what was it?
I know some currency crash last year.
I wanted something way less than American pennies.
But there have been a number of currencies throughout human history that
have gone to the point where the paper that they're that they're printed on is
worth significantly more than the currency that's printed on.
Wasn't there something just like a year or two ago where that currency collapsed?
Let's let's imagine one where it's worth a thousandth of an American penny.
Just the tangent I remember hearing not too long ago about a place where people
would rush the supermarkets and try to get and stay in front of the guy who's
putting the prices on things because inflation was so rapid that they would
have a guy going around constantly putting the price of things up throughout the day.
And if you got to the thing before he came around to put the higher price on it,
you could take it to cash register and pay the lower price.
You would think if it's that bad, they would just go back to the barter system full stop.
I've probably a lot of it.
I'm assuming that there was a big gray market that wasn't a barter as well.
But it was a podcast that was specifically tackling that econ problem
and how they eventually got over it.
And it was just one of the examples they used was the inflation was well over
100 percent per day. Sorry.
Oh, no, that that was a fun thing.
This was what 19 1920s, 1930s.
Which one? The this one I'm talking about.
Yeah. No, it wasn't even that long ago, like a decade or two ago.
Oh, but not South America.
Oh, OK, yeah, not in the US then. No, no, no.
Or in Europe, there's another big crash like that.
They remember hearing about where there was like there's pictures that exist.
So I know it was not too long ago.
People came in and we all got some money.
Yeah, I believe that was by my Germany or the reasons of toilet paper probably is
where it would have been. Right.
Anyway, so I guess to give I wanted to give a reverse of the dust spec experiment.
So let's say we can give everyone on Earth, whether they have a bank account
or some way of keeping track of how much money they have.
I know a lot of people don't have like a lot of people on earth don't have money.
They barely have an equivalent of money,
but let's say they could get one extra calorie of crop that you know,
that day or something, whatever it is, right?
Or one extra calorie of crop yield.
We could increase their spending power by, let's say, 100th of an American penny.
We could do that to everybody on Earth today or we can give one person
ten billion dollars.
And the assumption is he's going to spend it on himself rather than like donate it to.
Oh, you're using positive utility.
I was trying to think of positive utility, but that's that is the difference
and that I couldn't think of one in the midst of the conversation
without losing track of what you guys are all saying.
So distribute like a like tiny, tiny, teeny bit of like money
versus one person gets ten billion that could do a lot more of that ten billion.
Well, but people getting it as a Googleplex and not seven billion.
Yeah. And I guess the other difference, too, is that it's hard to spend ten billion
dollars without it making someone else's life better.
I mean, you're buying a yacht from somebody or you're buying an island or whatever it is.
So I guess I I was trying to think and maybe I failed to generate a positive
utility example of this.
No, I believe in the comments, there was a positive utility example
where it was a one second cat video was the smallest positive Utah.
And and I don't I don't remember what the maximum Utah was like a life of
an hour long cat video.
You just you just like the entire lifetime of orgasm or something.
I don't know. Yeah.
Basically, you have a harem of cat girls X and that every sexual need, basically,
for your whole life, just jumped a wire heading.
It's simple at that point.
Just, you know, don't just inject a bunch of dopamine into the brain.
I mean, not really.
But you know, so let's say you could just be the very best at the thing
you like doing most because that's an actual orange pill in his.
