I think it's a slam dunk and like, why would you even like, sure, we should think of everything.
But in the scenario in which every and this like almost unfathomably large number of people
get a speck of dust in their eye, nobody's tortured.
It's just a bunch of people who get this momentary like speck of dust in their eye for like three
seconds and then for one second or split second or whatever it is.
And then like five seconds later, the whole all those people are fine and nobody gets
tortured.
That is that seems like a very obvious that's better than someone being tortured for 50 years.
And you'd have these point is that feels obvious because our stupid ape brain has a problem
with scale.
I mean, I mean, so the problem with scale works to make this just a problem that we
should know that we can't intuitively address, right?
It can't be, well, intuitively, I would think the tortures the worst, I'm going to just
go with that.
The correct answer isn't to go for the other solution because you know that your intuitive
answer is wrong.
You should look at the other answer and say, well, I can't really intuit that answer either.
So I don't feel like my intuition is a good guide to this problem.
That doesn't mean that you can't solve it, but that doesn't mean that I think you can't
intuitively solve it.
When I first read the post, I was very much against the conclusion as well.
And my reasoning was that I would volunteer to take a duck spec in the eye if it meant
that someone wouldn't get tortured for 50 years.
And I imagine that every person who is worth having around on the planet with me, or even
in the same universe as me, would also make that trade.
It doesn't matter how many of them there are, if everyone would be willing to make that
trade, then obviously it would be better to have that happen than to have the 50 years
of torture.
First of all, I don't think Yucowsky picks a side.
I think he just says the answer is obvious.
He does.
In the post, he only says the answer is obvious, but he does think...
In a comment.
In a comment, he says...
In a discussion, yeah.
Down the line, yeah.
But at the beginning, to make it kind of a thought-broken post, then he just lays out
the conundrum and then said the answer is obvious, right?
And I thought that was a fun way to get the discussion going, and it has some of the
most comments on a lot of these.
So the way this sort of thing starts out, and I don't remember if this was the exact...
I'm pretty sure this was not the exact example used in the post, but it would be something
along the lines of, is it better for one person to have both their legs broken, or for 10
people...
Okay, so this is like a reduction of that big, all-encompassing thing with the near-infinite
people and one person being tortured.
It's just condensing it down to a really small example.
Yeah, a good way to break it down.
So one person having both their legs broken, sorry, and then...
Or 10 people having one leg broken.
Right, so you're supposed to say that one person having both their legs broken because
that's two legs versus 10 legs, right?
Exactly.
Okay.
Okay, and if you keep drawing that out, is it better for one person to have every bone
in their body broken, or for everyone on the planet to have their wrist shattered?
Well, okay, right.
So obviously you're supposed to choose the former.
Mm-hmm.
And would you, though?
Yeah, I mean, at that point, if it's everyone in the world that's six billion people currently,
or more than that...
I think it's like seven billion now.
It's seven billion, right?
Isn't it six billion?
We're closing it on seven.
Okay, we're closing it.
So seven billion people get their wrist broken versus one person having every bone in their
body broken.
Yes, including those really tiny ones inside your inner ear.
Right, so that would cause a lot of problems for the world at large if that were to happen.
Let's assume no knock-on effects.
That's what I was going to say, is that, like, imagine suddenly everyone on Earth is...
It's an upper hand for whatever is really important.
Okay, so there's nothing...
So nothing...
We're still going to be able to go to work.
So it's better to break it down starting out further than breaking one leg versus two
legs, where you say, should one person break one leg, or should a hundred people stub their
pinky toe in a minor enough way that they don't break the bone?
They kick the table and they go, ow!
And then, uh...
And they forget about it ten seconds later.
It hurts them for, like, ten seconds, or ten minutes even.
Well, in that case, I think I would rather go with the toe.
Stub the toe.
Yeah.
Stub the toe, absolutely.
Right.
Because I think the one leg is more than the stubbing the toe.
Right.
And as you expand that to, okay, what if a million people stubbed their toe versus one person
breaking their arm?
Yup, stubbed toe.
What if it's ten million people?
Stubbed toe.
Is there any level where you would not go with stubbed toe?
I mean, if it was the entire population of the earth, and we had colonized the solar
system, so there was, like, a hundred billion people.
I see where you're going with this continuous extrapolation of the problem and expanding
it, but it's like, when you get to a point where it's just, it's a speck of dust in your
eye for, like, two seconds and you forget about it forever, for everybody, versus someone
being tortured for 50 years, that, like, that to me is an insane comparison.
Like, there's this underlying assumption that, like, all of suffering is on, like, a single
spectrum, right?
So we take the furthest point over here and the furthest point over here, right?
But it just seems like a really naive view of, like, utilitarian ethics in general to
say that, like, oh, yeah, of course we should torture someone for 50 years, because math,
like, that just seems like a really...
Well, that is kind of the point.
That's my biggest problem with it.
It's just, it's like, but no, but no, like, you pick the dust specks because then nobody
gets tortured for 50 years, that's insane.
So to give the argument that convinces me to steel man it against the thing that I'm
agreeing with, would I say I prefer to torture one person for 50 years or break both legs
of a million people?
Not torturously, just their legs suddenly break and they get anesthetic, but their
legs are broken.
So that, that to me is how to make this problem interesting.
I didn't find the dust specks original thought experiment too torturous to me.
The dust specks is largely part of the problem.
So that, that was it for me was that to me it is, it's not, it's so small as to be as
to be equal to nothing.
And so, especially if you forget about it three seconds later.
Right, so think of the next...
No, I know.
That to me is that's, that's when it becomes interesting.
So if the original proposition is too weak and easy to dismiss, you've got to scale up
the suffering to something that's not point zero, you know, zero, zero, zero.
It was supposed to be something that is on the same continuum, just the smallest possible
you can get on that continuum.
So, but for me, the key thing is that you forget about it almost immediately with no,
like intervention to forget about it.
And so like, if that's the case, it might as well have never happened, you know, like
even a stubbed toe is kind of on the order where I'm, I probably stubbed my toes a hundred
times in the last 10 years, but I don't remember any single time to me.
The idea that it's easily forgettable and maybe the timeframe, something to do there
as part of this kind of gets shaky, you scale it up to, all right, fine.
A broken bone versus torture.
And like that, then you kind of, at least if that's how hard you have to go for me,
I think you could draw it lower.
But if you, if you put it at almost literally nothing, that to me is exactly literally
nothing, the dust spec, right?
So the two main issues with the argument that I'm thinking three of us have is,
one, dust spec is just negligible.
Yeah, it's supposed to be really close to zero, but to us, it feels intuitively as if
it were zero.
Yeah.
I mean, I would, I would pick dust specs over torturing someone for one year or like
six months or three months or one month or like way less time, like any amount of
time, five minutes, five minutes.
Yep.
Nope.
Versus every being in your, in the universe, getting a dust spec.
Yep.
Nope.
Dust specs.
Well, not just every being in the universe, every being for every atom in the
universe, and then every one of those atoms having an equal amount of beings in them.
And if you're not willing to go with dust spec, then go with, you know, paper cut,
make the problem fun.
Yeah.
Right.
But I do have a problem with Yidkowski's attachment to the dust specs.
He never suggests, well, if you have a problem with dust specs, go to the next thing.
I mean, not in the post itself because he wrote the post and then he put it out there.
But later on in the comments, I said, go ahead, go with stub toe.
If that's your lowest, right, that's still painful.
The second problem we probably have intuitively, and I'd argue rationally, is whether
or not something of a certain magnitude can equal any number of that thing.
And his large argument is his point is that utilans reduce to a metric.
And that's the metric.
And it doesn't matter whether or not it happens an infinite amount of times.
It's still a standard metric and they can be compared.
So something a thousand times worse happening once versus something happening
versus the other thing happening a thousand times are perfectly equivalent.
That is the root of his argument, I believe.
I don't know that I can get behind that one.
And I can't.
I really agree with it as well.
It just seems like the thing that's a thousand times worse than the really minor thing,
in some cases, at the very least, is so many orders of magnitude worse that, again,
it just seems like a slam dunk where it's like, no, it's literally three orders
of magnitude worse if it's a thousand times worse.
OK, OK, sure.
Yeah, but I think if you find something that's actually a thousand times worse,
then you would agree that a thousand one one thousandth of that is the same
multiple multiplied over a thousand.
Because when you think when I think of like a paper cut versus breaking
an arm, they don't seem like they are comparable.
But that's that's because like I'm not saying like a paper cut is one
and breaking an arm is one million.
It would be more like a paper cut is one and breaking an arm is like 27 quadrillion.
And at that point, once I've gotten 27 quadrillion paper cuts,
I may prefer to have a broken arm rather than 27 quadrillion paper cuts.
Is there enough space on your body to have that many paper cuts?
He's a model and it takes 10 seconds to heal.
Yeah. Oh, nice. So he's Wolverine. OK.
I mean, it's just that you're not using the right numbers.
You're comparing something that is not one one thousandth to the one thousand.
