Very cool. What are some of the other areas that are important to talk about? So now to
summarize, we've talked about the gut brain, the emotional regulation, we've talked about
movement, systems approaches to measuring and understanding what is going on in your body
before you're going to go and mess with it. What are some other areas of neurohacking that are
really important pillar areas? We didn't talk about altered states of consciousness yet.
All right. Let's wait for that one. So psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy,
psychedelic-assisted spirituality, psychedelic-assisted neural repatterning,
super fascinating field. Even though that field started with people like Stanislaw of
Groff, etc., back in the day, it has been accelerating a lot recently and I'm very happy
to see this. When I think about the role of psychedelics, entheogens in human development,
I think about three distinct categories. You can use it as a personal development tool. You can
use it as an interpersonal tool and as a transpersonal tool. So as a personal tool, we can talk about
the role in addiction recovery. So you've seen the results of Ibogaine and 5MEO-DMT
being used along with psychotherapeutic processes for addiction recovery for people
on opiates, on benzos, on all kinds of things. It's a fascinating field. It shares some things
with ketamine's approach to depression. So you can look at addiction recovery, work with PTSD,
with end-of-life anxiety. These are areas where it seems to be having an effect
that is either more than or different than any other therapies and so very fascinating.
This is for working on pathology. For just more psychotherapeutic growth,
the role that psychedelics can play in shadow work and integrating parts of self is really
fascinating. When you realize that we don't remember, when we're remembering memories,
we don't remember the memory. We remember how it's consolidated in our brain,
factoring all the times we've remembered it and changed it. That's a big insight
because it means that if you can re-remember a memory and remember it quite differently,
you can actually affect how it was stored and all the future times that will be referenced.
Say someone is on MDMA and so they're in a pretty euphoric state and then they think about
some negative experience of their past, but they can't feel negative while they think about it.
So it would always be in the past that they would think about it and feel negative. They had that
associative conditioning. Now they're thinking about it and feeling great. That means that the
regions of the brain and the chemistry that's involved in feeling great and that specific
thought are co-wiring together. Then the next time when this person is sober and they think about it,
they remember the last way they remembered it and it doesn't have that same charge that it used to
have for them. This can be about a traumatic memory of the past. It can also be thinking about parts
of themselves that they're ashamed of or can't love or whatever and instantly, like in a fairly
short amount of time, one or a small number of sessions, radically change the charge around
psychological topics. This is something I've been really interested in and thinking about
and partially why I brought up the whole idea of the gut brain and asking your gut how you feel
about something because I'm trying to separate how I feel and what I think about memories and
about how I look into the future. This has been an extremely useful tool for me because
I separate the memory into its two components and then process the emotions on their own so
that I don't have to continue feeling negatively about an event. This has worked really well.
You have the memory of just what happened and then you have all the meaning making around it
and the meaning making can change while you still remember the event that happened. When the
meaning making changes, the somatics and the emotions can change accordingly. You experience
some event in childhood and the meaning was something about that you're a failure and you
should never try stuff and whatever. When you reprocess and say, actually, that's not a realistic
meaning. I was a kid and I have actually done well at those things later, etc., you can still
remember the event but it doesn't have the same associated meaning about self and about reality
so then it doesn't have the same charge, the fear charge that's trying to protect you from that
painful possibility in the future, etc. You can do that without psychedelics. Psychedelics just
happened to be one very fast way to change that association. I think psychotherapy is another
one and also hypnotherapy because you can induce somebody into trance and then re-imprint a certain
experience so that exactly like you were saying, the processing of it changes how your brain processes
that. When you talk about hypnotherapy and inducing trance, if we're going to try and
change the way that someone has stored a memory or changed their association with a phobia or
whatever it is, then we want to get them into a state that is amenable to change. Psychedelics
are a good way of doing this largely because they actually increase neuroplasticity. We talked
about neurogenesis, developing new neurons, but developing new synapses and cleaving old
synapses might be even more meaningful, which is what in the brain interconnects with what.
Old synapses that are no longer relevant get cleaved mostly during deep sleep by microglia
and then new synapses get developed. It's called synaptogenesis through the learning process,
so that zing up example as you go from can't find it at all to find it, that's the process of
synaptic formation. Then healthy synapses that are doing something effective get
re-supported through something called the long-term potentiation process that says,
yes, this is still a good synapse and we want it to keep operating automatically,
so let's keep strengthening it. One of the things many psychedelics do from a neurophysiologic
point of view is increase neuroplasticity. That's one of our best understandings of one of the things
that's happening, and that would mean increased ability to actually change neural structural
associations with whatever you do next. If that's the case, it would make a lot of sense why when
someone has a bad trip, it can be so lastingly hard for them, and when someone has a really powerful
trip, it can be so permanently changing for them is because what was happening during that time
was having more net impact on their brain than is usually capable of happening per unit time.
Right, right. Interesting.
Psychedelics can do that. Breathwork, like the holotropic breathwork, can create a state of
increased susceptibility. You can use strobe lights to try and drive specific brainwave patterns.
Sleep deprivation creates increased susceptibility, which is a technique that militaries use,
and even some conferences use. I would say in general, different forms of psychotherapy are
trying to change our information processing, change our meaning making, our semantics, our
emotion. When you start to work on the brain side and the psyche side together, you can get
synergistically compounding effects. So think about this. This is a fun example. If you do
psychedelics and then you are in a set or setting that is not appropriate and you end up just freaking
out and then you kind of wire that you're unsafe in a dangerous universe, that's lame, right?
Which is why set and setting and super lame can matter, which is the difference between just
tripping and actually doing psychedelic assisted psychotherapy or personal development.
But if you take psychedelics and so now imagery is very intense, well, you can do better guided
imagery work. And you can be in some image, so you're going to go back and do regression work,
think about childhood, but when you're visualizing it, you can actually visualize in its sensorial
and real. So it actually rewires more powerfully, plasticity is increased. And you can even do a
micro dose, right? A micro dose where you're still pretty much sober, but plasticity has increased,
which is why people use micro dosing when they're going to go learn new athletic capabilities or
language or whatever for just rate of learning is a plasticity. Say you micro dose, then you do
some psychotherapy or EEG neurofeedback or anything that's going to be changing
neural patterns. And then afterwards, you do things that chemically increase long-term
potentiation and help lock in those new patterns so that they actually
stay. That would be like coal energics. And there's a handful of things that support the
long-term potentiation process, but we can just say mostly coal energics for now.
That sequence of things is going to have synergistic value beyond what any of those things have on
their own, right? Increase plasticity to change old patterns, put in input to change old patterns
to new patterns, put in chemical inputs and then lock in those new healthy adaptive patterns.
So this is just starting to scratch on what interesting neural hacking can look like.
That is fascinating. I mean, this kind of multi-tiered approach to psychedelic therapy as
opposed to tripping, like you said. I wonder how this relates to the shamanic and
initiatory practices of the past where it was a kind of a multi-tiered approach to this profound
consciousness change that they were trying to achieve, where on one hand, you have a shaman
that is guiding you. Then on the other hand, you have the herb, the psychoactive ingredient that
you're taking. And then on the other hand, you have some sort of stress testing. So you have
sleep deprivation or physical exertion or facing dangerous environments. And then
after the person goes through this, you have the integration practices where everybody hugs.
And the person comes back to the tribe and you kind of have this supportive environment
that probably releases some brain chemicals for integrating this experience and retaining it.
I wonder how we can take this sort of multi-tier approach and apply it to modern life with better
technology. It's the same as you were mentioning that it sounded like yoga had some of the similar
properties to what I was saying with the Zing Up Neuroscience. For 250,000 years,
give or take the same brains as we have now. So there have been smart people around for a long
time. And as they were paying attention to what worked and didn't work and then being able to
pass that information down over a long period of time, they figured out stuff that worked.
And so there's certainly some stuff in the ancient traditions where we've figured out
much better stuff. And there's some stuff where their methods are still meaningful in ways where
there's nothing in modern life like them. And so obviously the integration of understanding
our evolutionary biology and just our biology of the ancient past, understanding what the ancient
wisdom culture has figured out that was meaningful and then being able to not override that but
add to, enhance that with what we know and are growing to know from all of the disciplines of
science and advancing technology and exponential technology is a right integrative approach.
So in your opinion, which aspects of this kind of shamanic initiation practices do we have today
that we can enhance with modern technology? And what are the aspects that we have seemingly lost
that should be brought back or kept as in the same way that they were doing it before?
All right, well, let's start with things that some wisdom cultures, indigenous cultures had,
and I don't want to over-romanticize that their versions of these were perfect or that all cultures
had them. There was obviously a whole mix of things, but there's some very meaningful stuff
that we have lost that needs to be reincorporated in some way. Rights of passage is an example.
So the right of passage, there were many different rights of passage that happened, you know, in
childhood when a child became self-sufficient in some ways that could be a right of passage to
recognize it. Sometimes they got a different name at that point, right of passage of
puberty and acknowledging what that meant. Our children growing up through puberty are experiencing
their interest change, their body change, there's so many things, and we just don't do anything to
acknowledge it. And what we do do to acknowledge it usually just makes it feel worse, right? We show
them videos of gonorrhea and call it sex ed. You know, and all the rights of passage,
the rights of passage in menopause, I have a friend that is one of the top evolutionary
biologists, and he was saying that in his assessment, one of the interesting ways to assess
the wisdom of a culture is the role of postmenopausal women in the leadership of that culture.
And that women after menopause who can't give birth, who can't make more babies, but who are
still wired towards, you know, so have evolutionary wiring towards mothering, have a unique capacity
that neither premenopausal women or men have, which is to be able to hold a mother energy
towards the whole. That when you have young kids, it can still be easy to be a little self-centered
to you and your kids, but when you don't have young kids anymore, and yet you still have a
mothering energy to be able to hold the whole, whether it's the whole tribe or expansively,
the whole biosphere, et cetera, you know, so like that's a right of passage that we mostly just
think of as a bummer that, you know, she needs Botox now rather than any meaningful kind of thing.
So how we just understand life and the phases of life and the roles rights of passage, pretty much
all of the wisdom cultures did something better than we do. And I don't mean that there was nothing
barbaric, but there were some really beautiful things too. That's one example. Another key
example was they understood that there was a difference between comfort and happiness.
And they understood that happiness oftentimes required beings that were resilient to discomfort.
And here's my narrative for this. After the Scientific Revolution, science was just awesome
for so many things, but one of the challenges became, so what's real is what's measurable,
and if something isn't measurable, we can't do anything really with it. And comfort was an
easier to measure thing than happiness was, right? We could kind of objectively measure
how comfortable mattresses were and how good the shock systems and cars were and transport,
be able to measure evolution in those ways. But measuring individual human happiness is a much
trickier thing to do. And so you can see how much we, like people have physical comforts now,
even just average people that kings didn't have in the past. And yet we have rampant mental illness
that we also didn't have in the past. And one of the interesting things that you know
most wisdom cultures is that they had practices that intentionally induced meaningful discomfort
to teach people to be resilient emotionally to discomfort. So when you think about what a
sweat lodge was, or what a vision quest was, or even what Hatha yoga is, like yoga, I don't want
to say this is all yoga is, but if you just think about yoga through the lens of get in a really
awkward pose, and then find your breath and find peace, and then get in another really awkward
pose and find your breath and find peace and get bent out of shape and all these different ways
and realize that wherever you are, you can find your breath and find equanimity, find peace.
You're actually semantically imprinting that no matter what kind of position you're put into,
you can find your breath and find peace in any of them. That's an amazing insight.
As people learn that their inner state doesn't have to be affected by the environment as much,
that leads to more resilient, happy people. As you have people that are only focused on making
their environment as comfortable as possible, you can get people who are profoundly unresilient,
right? Psychologically. So this is another thing that I would say wisdom cultures had that we have
largely lost is the distinction between comfort and happiness and the importance of
optimizing for happiness so that we don't have to actually have a lot of real suffering. You
have to actually just induce non-damaging discomfort. That's another example that is just
really not part of our wisdom. There are so many things. If you think about the fact that they were
all 150-person tribes, right? Dunbar number of tribes, from an attachment theory point of view,
you had secure attachment to 150 people. Those people weren't leaving no matter what.
And so you didn't grow up and we're all alone in the world and try to find all of your secure
attachment in one person called a romantic partner and then completely freak the fuck out if they
don't want to be with you because you actually had really secure attachment across a lot of people.
And so, again, modern life, nuclear, family homes, private balance sheets, people are very lonely
and very disconnected and very overwhelmed in trying to meet their social and connection
and attachment needs in way too few of places. So there, I mean, we could go, we could do a whole
show on what aspects of indigenous wisdom need reincorporated in the modern world without regressing,
right? We're not talking about giving up technology. We are talking about reincorporating
some things that were lost in the transition to a new kind of world structure that is different
and better than either modern or pre-modern. Right. And so on the other side of the spectrum,
what are the things that the ancient cultures figured out that we can actually do better or
enhance with currently available technology? So many things. So for instance, let's take
Ayurvedic medicine or Chinese medicine or any ancient system of medicine.
They were developed in a time, in a place with some people, right? And so even if they were
amazing at that time, they were going to apply to the genetics of those people and the kinds of
things in their environment and the health issues they faced. So for instance,
I happen to have a celiac, right? Genetic predisposition to severe gluten intolerance.
I had some pretty severe gut issues. I didn't know what it was about and I was about 18.
I went to see some of the top Ayurvedic doctors in the world and they had helped a lot of people
