I knew. They saved my mom's life when medical doctors had diagnosed your terminal. They had
done great things, but they diagnosed me with a vata disorder, which was the worldview that
they see through. And so one of the things that I needed were heavy foods and they gave me as an
example, chapattis, flatbreads with a lot of oil. Well, the flatbreads were made of wheat and they
would have killed me if I was eating lots of them. But there was no such thing as Indians with
gluten intolerance. It was a genetic thing that was outside of that whole worldview, right?
And simultaneously, if we start looking at heavy metal exposure or exposure to plastics or PCBs
or styrenes or phthalates or pesticides, all the kinds of toxic exposure we have that can affect
cancer, neurodegenerative, endocrine issues, the ancient systems aren't going to know what to
do with those things because they weren't part of their environment. So I would say,
you know, knowing what the genome is is kind of a big deal. Having clinical chemistry, being able
to do imaging, like these are really big deals. There's, we don't die from infectious disease
for the most part, acute infectious disease anymore, because just hygiene and antibiotics and like that
actually serve a role in medicine. Pain killers, you know, like you, it's important that people
can endure pain, discomfort sometimes to have emotional resilience, but pain killers for dentistry
are pretty awesome, you know, compared to not. Simultaneously, we can say like following Western
prices stuff that the indigenous people didn't need as much dentistry before they got Western diet,
that's also true. But there are heaps of places where we have, let's even take EEG and neurofeedback.
There are many Buddhist monks who've went and worked with neurofeedback and found two things.
One, they found that students could get trained to go into certain states of experience much faster
with the neurofeedback than they could with just traditional Buddhist practice. And they even found
that some of the very advanced Buddhist meditators got insights about their meditation that they
hadn't had in decades previously. So, I mean, I don't think almost any of us would say, all right,
let's trade and go live in indigenous culture, even though there's so many upsides, right? Because
there's also so many upsides to modern technological life. But to be able to advance and integrate
both is a great thing. Along the lines of rights of passage that you brought up earlier, I think some
of the basic ones like the rights of passage to become an adult, becoming a teenager are pretty
obvious. But what would you say that are in the context of our modern technology and world would
be a good idea to create as a new rite of passage? For example, like the day you're allowed to use
your cell phone or something, being a cultural thing to be using social media in a responsible
and effective way that you're not addicted to notifications and that sort of thing?
I would say it is a great inquiry for us to think about. The rights of passage did have a lot to
do with both making sure someone was prepared for a certain kind of responsibility and predisposing
them to handle it well. And so, as we have the technological capacity to be more affected by
our tech and to affect more in the world through our tech, we both need to prepare,
we both need to build the tech better itself. So Tristan Harris and others are talking a lot about
how we're building tech that is actually really mostly bad for humans, that is optimizing blue
screen clickbait dopamine addiction for people with really shitty attention spans and distraction
issues. And we actually need to build the tech differently itself because, again, this is a gaming
mechanics thing. If I'm focused on how do I get the most number of clicks and the most time on
site, that's not going to make the happiest people. And the happiest people are going to come do their
shit and then probably leave and do different kinds of behavior that are not focused on
driving clicking on ads. So if I learn how to hijack their dopamine opioid response,
this is a bad thing. So part of it is that we actually just have to develop the technology
differently. And again, that gets back into the theory of incentives, right? So just like with
the pharmaceuticals, if the incentives of the tech developers are not exactly aligned with the
well-being of the people that the tech is being developed for, we're going to get a deep mismatch,
right? So anywhere that incentive and well-being is misaligned, that externality gap is a problem.
And with exponential tech capacity, that externality gap becomes a catastrophic problem.
But I think also preparing people to handle the responsibility of tech better is a meaningful
part of it. And so I would be very curious to see what the rights of passage in the future might
look like. This is why blockchain has become such an interesting thing for us, because it's a
different way of looking at building these technologies while removing the incentives
to optimize for a single entity, for example, clickbait, time on site, that sort of thing.
So I picture using the blockchain to develop an operating system for a phone
that would be open source and people could develop something like maybe making ad block and that
sort of thing native to the phone. And then building in a whole operating system around
this principle of we're going to make it better for the human. And then I also picture having
sort of the rights of passage and rituals built into that operating system too.
Right. So now let's expand this one step and I'll say the big picture of how I think about
neural hacking is everything in your environment is affecting you, right? This concept of ontological
design that we build environments and they in turn affect us. That's the fascinating thing is that
natural selection is creatures that are being selected for based on their adaptiveness to an
environment. But we're the first creature that radically changes its environment, even one
generation to the next. But then we're making an environment that is in turn affecting us back.
And since we can't genetically change that fast, we are, you know,
neuro structurally changing, epigenetically changing. And so when you think about everything,
right, you think about the color and the contrast on your phone, you think about the fact that it's
two dimensional rather than three dimensional, you think about just how much time we spend looking
at a fixed focal distance, you know, on our laptop or whatever, and that that's a big part of why we
lose our eyesight because our eyes are spending too much time looking at a fixed focal distance
rather than than having a continuously changing focal distance part of our evolutionary environment.
But you move from that to even thinking about, okay, so we're in a house
where the paint is filled full of volatile organic compounds and the carpet is made out of
shit with volatile organic compounds, aldehydes and etc. that are either endocrine disruptors,
carcinogens or neurotoxins. And our indoor air quality is worse than freeway air quality.
We need to completely change the building materials we use, right? And then you think, well,
so those indigenous people spent very little time indoors. So one of the effects was that
they didn't have a ceiling above their head most of the time, right? And so they looked up at the
sky a lot. If you're in an eight foot ceiling, you just don't look up a lot. The actual neurologic
effect of your eyes going up and your head going up stimulates your brain in different ways that
are involved in the creative process and all and etc. So everything from like the physical
structure of our buildings to the structure of our digital spaces to colors to chemistry,
you know, of houses of the entire built world, we're building it for a very small number of
metrics, right? Like how many cubic feet can we enclose how cheaply, etc. But when we start
thinking about that it's all affecting the humans inside and we say, well, how would I build a house
where my primary metric was optimizing the enlightenment and well-being of the human
that was inside along with the well-being of the environment? Oh, I love this.
I wish you could see UV's face while you're talking right now. It's just fireworks.
But now that's the question about how do we rebuild the entire human built world
to optimize for the thriving of all life, right? To optimize for the psychology and the physiology
of all the humans and the non-human life and have a built world that reflects the design
integrity of the natural world. You know, when you look at in nature, a hand is optimizing for a
million functions at a time. It's not optimizing for a few, right? And it's also
optimizing for its own adaptive capacity to do so many things. If we start to understand what
the difference between complex and complicated systems and learn how to actually grow complex
systems, right? How to do complex system design where we're designing across a lot more parameters.
I actually think that's a fair way to think about what humanity's task today is. It's to
rebuild all of civilization from scratch, meaning our monetary incentives, our social
status systems, our houses, our digital environment, the physical infrastructure, all of it. To rebuild
it all from scratch aligned with thinking about all of its effects, internalizing all the
externalities. Think about all of its effects and say, what's going to produce the most thriving of
the human and non-human life that connects with this system across all metrics of thriving.
That's our task. Wow. Mind blown. Yeah. So we might be reaching the end of our time here,
but this brings up another really interesting point of focus for maybe a future episode,
is talking about what you guys are doing with Neurohacker Collective and sort of the big
picture systems approach you're taking. The mothership. Yeah. Well, I think we have flagged
a few follow-up conversations on just this conversation already. We've got the hard problem
of consciousness and existentialism, maybe some deeper stuff about what is good and indigenous
wisdom. I think we talked about briefly before the show what does transhumanism look like in
this framework? What is a kind of transhumanism that is optimizing for thriving across all metrics
and that understands the complex, complicated distinction and maybe how we're thinking about
all those things and what we're doing at Neurohacker. So it sounds like we have some conversations
ahead. Definitely. Fantastic. Cool. Well, let's wrap up there. Then Daniel is really good to have
you on the show. Again, mind's blown. I think we're going to be talking about this for weeks.
And I offer one more thought about what you all are doing in your show. Sure. We have so many more
apocalyptic and dystopian visions for our future than we do possibly viable pro-topic ones.
So when you guys are thinking about and sharing in the show what are positive visions of a future,
if we share positive visions of a future that aren't actually tenable, they
aren't actually anti-fragile in the presence of exponential tech, or they
presuppose things that involve going backwards in ways that would never be selected for,
those are useless. But to have more humans visioning, what is a viable, thriving civilization
aligned with our evolving capacities? What could it look like? I think that's actually one of the
most critical things that has to be happening more for humanity to make it and for those positive
visions to come about. Completely agree. There's two key tenets that we have discussed so much in
the past, which is behind our thinking about future thinkers, which is you don't create a better
future by visualizing the worst case scenario all the time and not thinking of the actual thing that
you want. Yes. And that works across the board with business, with anything that we've had experience
creating our lifestyles. You can look at our lifestyles and the fact that we've traveled for
five years and basically done anything on a whim that we've desired to do because that's the thing
we go after. We visualize what would be great, what would improve our lives, then we go after
that thing. And then the second thing is not being uncomfortable with discomfort and negative
possibilities of the future as well. And actually spending the time to incorporate anti-fragility,
like you said, and recovering from negative situations into your plan for the future.
You made that point earlier in the show and I think that is absolutely huge and we keep
harping on this lately that you have to, in order to be resilient, you have to actually be comfortable
with being uncomfortable. Yes, definitely. Well, I'm delighted to see the direction that the show
keeps taking. I'm delighted to be on. I look forward to the next time too. Cool. Thanks for
joining us again. This is always fun. Thanks, y'all. So to get the show notes with the links,
mentions, books, et cetera, go to futurethinkers.org slash 43. And to listen to the first half of
this interview, you can go to futurethinkers.org slash 42. If you haven't heard our first interview
with Daniel about the global phase shift, then go to futurethinkers.org slash 36. And if you're
interested in trying qualia, the smart truck stack that Daniel's company has developed,
go to futurethinkers.org slash brain hack. All right, we'll see you in the next episode. Bye.
Thanks for listening to the Future Thinkers podcast. To get notified of new podcasts and videos,
go to futurethinkers.org and subscribe to our mailing list. You can also find us on iTunes,
Stitcher and YouTube. If you like what we do and you want to help us make more podcasts and videos,
give us a like or a review, share it with your friends and consider becoming a patron. Go to
patreon.com slash futurethinkers. If you're looking to get serious about meditation,
check out the meditation app that we've created with Vinay Gupta called the Cutting Machinery.
Go to cuttingmachinery.org slash app. Last but not least, if you want to get
access to more content, hidden episodes, or if you just want to chat with us and previous guests,
then check out our community at community.futurethinkers.org.
