Hey guys, welcome to Future Thinker's podcast, episode number 43. This is the second half
of our interview with Daniel Schmockdenberger, who is the co-founder of Neurohacker Collective.
In this half, we talk about the process of neurogenesis, which parts of ancient wisdom
are useful in modern society, therapeutic use of psychedelics, and rites of passage,
and many other fascinating things.
For all the links, mentions, and books from this episode, go to futurethinkers.org slash
forty-three. And to listen to the first half, go to futurethinkers.org slash forty-two.
And if you haven't listened to our other episode with Daniel Schmockdenberger, in which we
talk about the global phase shift we may be going through, go to futurethinkers.org slash
thirty-six. And if you're interested in trying qualia, the smart drug stack that Daniel's
company has developed, go to futurethinkers.org slash brain hack. All one word.
Before we get into this episode, I want to say thank you to our recent patrons and donors,
Christian, Pablo, and Richard. You guys are awesome. Thank you for helping us make this
show possible.
All right, let's get into it.
Welcome to futurethinkers.org, a podcast about the evolution of technology, society, and
consciousness.
I'm Mike Gilliland.
And I'm Yuvia Ivanova.
To get notified of new podcasts and videos, go to futurethinkers.org and subscribe to our
mailing list.
You can also find us on iTunes, Stitcher, and YouTube.
If you like what we do and you want to help us make more podcasts and videos, give us a
like or a review, share it with your friends, and consider becoming a patron.
Go to patreon.com slash futurethinkers.
If you're looking to get serious about meditation, check out the meditation app that we've created
with Negupta called the Cutting Machinery.
Go to cuttingmachinery.org slash app.
Last but not least, if you want to get access to more content, hidden episodes, or if you
just want to chat with us and previous guests, then check out our community at community.futurethinkers.org.
I'd like to go back to neurogenesis and maybe talk again about some of the more specific
treatments that support neurogenesis.
And I'm also wondering, is this work mostly being done in the space of Alzheimer's treatment?
No.
Neurogenesis a fascinating field, adult neurogenesis in particular, because up until not that long
ago, it was commonly believed that we didn't generate new neurons after adulthood.
And that's not true.
It's why neurogenesis is so fascinating.
Our brain does continuously produce neural stem cells, mostly in the hippocampus, that
then differentiate into other regions of the brain, other tissues.
And that that rate of neural stem cell production can be increased or decreased by a number
of factors.
So when we think about brain aging, and also neurogenesis isn't just for brain aging,
it's also for dealing with traumatic brain injury and the ability to actually heal areas
of brain that were damaged.
It has to do with increasing gray matter density and just increasing the total information
processing capacity of the system.
Also dealing with nerve damage, peripheral nerve damage, or neurodegeneration.
Researcher on our team just wrote a meta-analysis of all of the research done on adult neurogenesis
and we'll be publishing it soon, and it's fascinating.
Our hypothesis from an evolutionary biology perspective is that when you think about human
genetics and what they selected for more than anything, they selected for, this is a generalized
but fair way to say it, they selected for neurogenesis.
Our genes selected for means.
They selected for a creature that could change themselves and their basis for acting over
the course of their life significantly and one generation to the next faster than genes
could change.
And so most animals, their behavior is pretty genetically hardwired and modulated by the
environment a little, which is why they actually have the hardwired code to like get up and
walk and do stuff in the first few minutes of life.
And we are neoteness and basically useless for so long, right?
For a year and a half, we can't do hardly anything.
And it's because we are very softwired because as tool makers that modify our own environment,
think about like the most adaptive person 10,000 years ago at spear throwing would be
useless today because they couldn't text and they couldn't type and they wouldn't know
how to call an Uber.
And so it's very important that as we are modifying the environment, we can adapt to
our new modified environments, which means that we are not hardwired, that we can be
rewiring our innate processes, right?
And neurogenesis is a major part of that.
So it's a super fascinating field for disease recovery, for anti-aging, for understanding
human nature, and for kind of hyper learning and capabilities.
So there's a bunch of things that affect neurogenesis.
There are these chemicals called neurotrophins, which basically upregulate neuron production
BDNF is the most well-understood one, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, NGF or nerve growth factor.
So there are things that can increase BDNF, increase NGF.
And normal lifestyle things like exercise is one of the ones that we know better than
anything that actually increases neurogenesis.
Weightlifting and HIIT training in particular, more than aerobics, are very BDNF upregulating.
And lack of sleep means decreased neurogenesis.
There are a number of nutrients that are also involved, and there are some herbs and mushrooms
that have very, very potent effects.
So, you know, lion's mane has been used for nerve injury for a long time, and it happens
to very acutely elevate NGF levels.
Some key nutrients like methylcobalamin, the methylated form of B12 and torene, in fairly
high doses, upregulate the endogenous rate of neurogenesis.
Then there are some drugs that are being developed for neurogenic purposes, and I actually think
this is one of the most brilliant things a drug could do.
You know, I said some things that sounded like they were negative regarding pharmaceutical
approach as a whole earlier.
I want to say that some very meaningfully positive things are happening in all branches
of pharmaceuticals largely because other areas, especially in complex disease, are failing.
So the cool new areas that are happening is not just a chemical that will try and change
the level of something, but a drug that will actually support the body's ability to do
something better, so that I can make this point well.
Think about a statin, right, for cholesterol.
If your cholesterol is high and we give you a statin to lower it, we don't know why your
cholesterol is high.
Your cholesterol can be high because of diet, it can be high because of diabetes-like things,
it can be high because of mold toxicity, and so just lowering it doesn't actually address
the pathology or the behavior or the whatever.
So that kind of drug approach is not that interesting.
And very interestingly, sometimes the opposite is what needs to happen.
So if your blood pressure is high, and we give you a drug to just lower your blood pressure,
all right, you just exogenously lower blood pressure, but why had the body been setting
that point too high to begin with?
If you exercise, the reason that exercise lowers blood pressure is because when you exercise,
it raises your blood pressure, and when the blood pressure spikes even higher, it actually
kicks in the hormetic mechanisms, hormesis is the body's response to stress, it kicks
in the hormetic mechanism for the body to say, oh, the blood pressure is too high, let's
bring it down on our own, and the body starts regulating blood pressure better, but it actually,
rather than externally moving it lower, what it needed was to be moved higher, and then
its own self-regulation occurred.
So drugs that just try and move something into range without asking why it happened and
without increasing the body's ability to maintain that range, not so interesting to me.
Even though, I mean, they're life-saving, they're just not adequate solutions as we move forward.
But as we move from the chemo-therapeutic approaches to cancer to immuno-oncology, immuno-oncology
is the beginning of us doing anything with cancer that's really interesting, where we're
actually training the body's immune system's capacity to kill cancer cells better.
That's actually pretty great.
Well, in the neurologic space, there's a company called NeuralSTEM, they're working on a drug
there in, I believe, phase two clinical trials right now called NSI-189, and it was originally
being developed for ALS.
But now, I believe that the first thing that they're trying to approve it for is major
depressive disorder, but for ALS, they were originally working with NeuralSTEM cells.
They would grow NeuralSTEM cells and shoot them up into the spinal cord, either where
there was spinal cord injury or neurodegeneration, like ALS, and they were getting some results
and they wanted to say, well, could we increase the body's rate of producing its own NeuralSTEM
cells?
So they were growing NeuralSTEM cells in vitro and seeing if there were any molecules that
would increase their own proliferation.
They found some that did, and NSI-189 was the primary one.
So here, it's a drug that isn't trying to modulate an in-chain chemical.
It's actually up-regulating your body's own regulatory process.
Once you have those new NeuralSTEM cells, they keep doing their thing.
They become tissues and they do their regulatory thing.
Now, if you think about, if that drug continues to succeed, and I don't know if it will, but
there will be a whole class of ones like that, it could fix nerve damage from injury, nerve
damage from neuropathy, it could fix retinopathy, it could fix MS, ALS, Parkinson's, and the
reason why it was working in depression was as they were getting up-regulated production
of new STEM cells in the hippocampus, and then that's starting to affect the surrounding
basal structures, the person actually had more information processing capacity to process
their emotions and process their experiences, and they didn't get overwhelmed and get depressed
by them.
There's a company called Zingup.
They have a website, zingup.com, and they originally developed a friend of mine over there, developed
a set of processes that they were trying to bring about for helping autism, and then
what they figured out, they ended up applying to just performance enhancement, so right
now it's a performance enhancement site, but they found that there was, you actually
really dig this, there were movement patterns that, more than other movement patterns, radically
up-regulated neural STEM cell production, and specifically were growing gray matter
density in the cerebellum, hippocampus pond, mostly cerebellum, and that autism was getting
better, depression was getting better, you know, they did a study in prisons and violence
went down because when people are overwhelmed by the amount of stimulus coming in, their
emotions, et cetera, and they can't process at all, then the results of the not-processed
stuff is lingering anxiety, depression, confusion, and just being able to process it better physiologically
led to, you know, the healthier, happier people, and so how they found to do it, I think this
is a kind of profound insight, was when you first start doing some kind of coordination
activity, like riding a bike or walking on a slack line or juggling, that you've never
done, at first it seems almost like it's impossible, like you can't even find the place where
it makes sense that that will be possible, because you don't have the neural circuitry
to do that particular kind of balance sensory-motor coordination stuff yet, and then as soon as
you start to get it, you're like, okay, I'm not nowhere near perfect yet, but I have the
hang, like there's something inside of me that knows how to do this, going from that
I have no idea how to do this up to getting the hang of it, there is a rapid rate of the
production of new neural stem cells that are saying, whoa, we're actually in danger
because we can't do this physical activity that obviously needs to happen, let's upregulate
our capacity like crazy, be able to do it, once you can do it, and now you're just getting
better at doing it, you get a diminishing return on that, and so what they figured out
to do was how to take people through a series of exercises, and they customized them based
on assessment, but in general, anyone could do this, a series of exercises, it involved
coordination and balance, and coordinating multiple sensory-motor groups that were super
difficult, and as soon as you started to get the hang of it, they switched and did a new
one, and then as soon as you started to get the hang of it, they switched and did a new
one, so you were maximizing for the growth rate of neurogenesis, which then ended up
having an effect on all kinds of other things, the hypothesis there was that it has to do
with automating learning, so we start learning some motor function, and it's very hard, and
we're trying to think about where our hands go and where our feet go and all these things
at once, and we can't think about that many things consciously, so our brain has to try
to get some of them in unconscious memory, and then we can drive a stick shift without
even thinking about it when at first it seems like seven different hard things to coordinate.
In an evolutionary environment, us moving stuff from conscious to unconscious, right?
Consciously we're trying to learn some new skills, now we can unconsciously perform it.
We would have done that for motor tasks more than anything else, and cognitive and language,
et cetera, tasks kind of came evolutionarily on top of that, so our capacity to learn new
stuff, motor tasks are going to be able to drive that evolutionary hardware more specifically,
right? That was our hypothesis, and it seems to be well supported by the evidence,
and so if you do a bunch of sensory motor tasks that you can't do at all, and then you start to
be able to do them, and you do a bunch of different ones, you're actually increasing kind of the
neural infrastructure for the rate of learning and automating conscious to unconscious performance,
and then that same infrastructure is used when you are learning cognitive tasks or
interpersonal skills or anything else. So the idea was that it would increase rate of learning,
and they've got a bunch of research showing that happens to be the case. So that's another
example of a methodology approach, right? So you've got drug approaches, nutrition approaches,
exercise approaches, methodology approaches for neurogenesis.
That is fascinating. I think that explains in plain terms how yoga works and how yoga actually
supports brain development just through doing a series of different complex movements.
Totally. I would say yoga is probably a combination of that effect that we just mentioned,
along with the stress relieving effects and some of the effects of increased breath,
both increased breath on parasympathetic function and on oxygen carbon dioxide levels.
