So thanks everybody for being here and letting me share some some ideas with you. If anybody's
interested in the details of it, you can track them down at this website. Here's all the papers,
the software, the data sets, everything. Here is where I put some more speculative kinds of things
where I talk about what I think the papers mean and so on. So you're welcome to welcome to check
them out. What I'm going to talk to you about today is kind of a weird topic. I'm going to talk about
a little bit about AI and the right way to understand AI through the lens of collective
intelligence. In other words, we're going to take a kind of a deep dive into where minds come from
so that we can actually talk about this notion of whether artificial minds have the same status as
biologically evolved ones and so on. And so we're going to look at those kind of questions.
So the main points of today, what I'd like to do is this. We're going to look under the hood
of biology a little bit to kind of clear out some viewpoints and some terminology that's
persisted with us for centuries, basically, but I think are going to have to change and this idea
of discrete natural kinds in biology. So we'll talk about that. We'll talk about diverse intelligence
in particular collective intelligence. So very kind of unconventional minds and unconventional
cognitive systems. And I'm going to argue that all the things that people argue about today in
terms of artificial intelligence are basically kind of an off ramp to a much deeper, more difficult
discussion about the really deep philosophical questions about what we are, what about freedom
of embodiment and things like that. It's actually much more, it's a much more complicated set of
questions than just to focus on kind of today's AIs. And so we'll talk a little bit at the end
about the ethics and the future of humanity and things like that. So let's start with this.
This is a well-known painting. It's called Adam Names the Animals in the Garden of Eden.
Here he is. So this is the old Judeo-Christian story where animals are showing up and Adam
gets to name them. Now, something important about that story is that actually it was on Adam
to name the animals. God couldn't do it. The angels couldn't do it. Adam was the one that
had to name them. I think that's a very interesting part of that story. And I think for us it has
two lessons. One that we're going to have to break, I think, as the future moves on. And the other
one that's actually very deep and that we're going to have to dive into. The part that has to be
given up is this notion that all of these species are discrete. They're natural kinds. Everybody
knows what each of these are. They're separate from the others. In fact, Adam is also a discrete
entity and completely different from all of the others. And this idea that you can sort of
number and categorize very, very specific types of beings. And that's what they're,
you can sort of count the animals in your environment. As you'll see in a minute,
I think that idea has to go. But what's deep is this notion that Adam, because he is the one
that has to live with him, he is the one that has to give them names. Now, in these old traditions,
giving something a name was very deep and spiritual. It meant that you've discovered
their true nature. Knowing the name of something means you know their true nature. And as I'm
going to show you at the end of this talk, because of synthetic biology and bioengineering and some
other disciplines, we are going to have to name or discover the true nature of all kinds of unusual
creatures that you guys will all be living with in your lifetime. So let's start there. Here's
the part that has to break. So here's a normal modern human. Lots of philosophy talks about the
human mind that does this and that and humans have responsibilities and rights and all the
interesting things. But we know that now, because of evolution and also because of developmental
biology, that this is not a sharp category. In other words, if you just track backwards in time,
these modern humans are at a particular point in the evolution of a lineage that goes all the
way back to single cell organisms. So if you have something to say about humans, you might ask yourself,
well, what about the humans of a couple of hundred thousand years ago? What about the hominids of a
couple million years ago? What about them? And just understand that all these changes are slow
and gradual. And the same thing about development. Whatever you think is true of humans with their
true hopes and dreams and cognitive responsibilities and so on. At one point, they were a single cell
and this process is again very slow and gradual. And so we know now that there's this continuum,
right? It's not just a discreet human, but actually a whole continuum of forms that you might have
to decide what is the status of these other forms. Not only that, but there's this other continuum
going horizontal here in my diagram, where we know that humans are going to be modified and
improved. So for various health applications, but also for augmentation technologies,
there's no particular reason why anybody is going to want to be stuck in the body that random vagaries
of evolution left them with. So, you know, I don't think anybody really thinks that a mature,
modern humanity, you know, a hundred years from now is going to be susceptible to the same dumb
diseases, lower back pain, astigmatism, viruses. You know, presumably all that is going to get
fixed. There's nothing magic about where evolution happened to have dropped us. And so there are
technological modifications. There are biological modifications that will be made. And that's because
at every level of organization in our bodies from subcellular materials all the way up,
you can introduce different kinds of novel engineered components. And so all of this is
now possible. And again, if you have thoughts about what a human is versus what a machine is,
you have to ask yourself, how are you going to distinguish this when you are confronted with
all sorts of beings along this continuum? You know, you're going to need to find ways to relate to
them. And so one of the things that I've been working on for some years now is a framework to
be able to recognize, to create, and to ethically relate to truly diverse intelligences that we
can have relationships with regardless of their composition, meaning what they're made of,
or their origin story, where they evolved, did they come out of a factory or some combination of
those. And that means that we need to think about all of these things. So familiar kinds of creatures
like primates and birds and maybe an octopus and so on. But also all kinds of weird organisms
like colonial organisms, swarms, synthetic engineered new life forms, artificial intelligence
is whether robotic, meaning embodied or pure software AI, and maybe even someday aliens,
right, there's probably some sort of exobiological life form out there somewhere with that at some
point we'll confront. Now, we need to be able to think about all of these in the same way,
regardless of where they came from or what they're made of. Now, I'm not the first person to try for
this. So here's Rosenbluth, Wiener and Bigelow in 1943, trying for this scale all the way from
passive matter. So, you know, rocks and sand and things like that, all the way up to different
kinds of active matter, and then various kinds of computational matter, and agential materials,
which is what I'm going to be talking about today, all the way up to some sort of human
metacognition, you know, complex, complex human kinds of minds and beyond. And the goal of this
kind of framework is not just it's not philosophy. The goal is to first of all, move experimental
work forward. So, part of my framework is a very strong insistence that when you look at something
and you say that's not real cognition or that, you know, that is real, you know, this thing really
does have intelligence. The goal of this is not just to have philosophical feelings about it,
it's to have a toolkit for interacting with these systems that is beneficial, that gives us new,
brings new discoveries, new capabilities, biomedicine, engineering, and so on. And also puts
ethics on a better footing, because these old categories that we've had for a really long time
for how we deal with other beings are really not going to be of use anymore, and the details are
all here if you want to follow that. So, a basic fact from developmental biology is that we all
make this amazing journey from what people call just physics. I really don't like that phrase,
but people use it. So, just physics to a complex mind. So, each of us started life here as a single
cell, a little blob of chemicals, and slowly and gradually it became something like this, or even
something like this. So, you know, a complex metacognitive being who's going to say things about
not being a machine and so on. This process is gradual. You need to understand developmental
biology gives us no magic bright line at which point, boom, you know, you were just chemistry
and physics, but bang, there, there, that this is where the mind appears. There isn't anything
like that. It's a very slow and gradual process. And so, what that means is that scientists and
philosophers need to develop a story of scaling. We need to understand how the properties of this
thing, which follows the laws of chemistry and physics, ends up being something that's also
describable by the laws of psychology and psychoanalysis and things like that.
The reason that this is possible is because we are all made of an agential material, unlike legos
and wood and metal and things like that, that basically just stay where you put them. We are
made of a material with agendas. And so, this is the kind of thing we're made of. This is a single
cell, okay? This happens to be a free-living organism called a lacrimaria. You can see that
it's extremely competent in its local unicellular goals. So, there's no brain, there's no nervous
system, there are no stem cells. But this thing is doing everything it needs to maintain its
physiological, its metabolic, and behavioral goals. So, the first kind of shocking thing to
some people that you need to realize is that we are all made of this interesting kind of
stuff that has its own agendas. I don't have time to tell you about it today, but the reality is
these things, ourselves, can learn. They can actually have pretty complex problem-solving
capacities in different kinds of environments. And so, we are a very interesting construction of a
very unusual type of material with which we are just now starting to learn how to engineer.
But at least, you might think, at least we are a true unified intelligence, right? So,
maybe you can call an ant colony some kind of collective intelligence, but we have a brain
where we feel like a single unified being. So, at least we are a true unified intelligence.
And in fact, René Descartes really liked the pineal gland because there's only one of them
in the brain. And he thought that that's where the human experience was centralized because
there's no multiple aspects of it, there's just one in the brain. But if he had had access to a
microscope, he would have discovered that inside this pineal gland is all this stuff, it's a bunch
of cells, and inside of each of those cells is all this stuff, okay? There isn't one of anything
in the brain, and all of us are collective intelligences. We are all made of parts that do
things. And the real trick here, again, is that scaling story is to tell a convincing,
to give a convincing account of how it is that all these parts give rise to something that is a
centralized, that has the feeling of being a centralized unified self. And so, this is what
my group works on. Now, it's interesting that Alan Turing, who is basically the father of
modern computer science, he was very interested in machine intelligence and in computation and
programmability and things like this. And so, everybody knows that part. But one weird thing
is that he also published this paper called The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis, which was
basically an attempt to understand how the chemicals of an embryo organize into order
from their initial disorder. Now, you might wonder why would a guy who's interested in
computation and intelligence and machine minds and things like that, why would he be studying
the chemicals in an embryo? And I think that, although he didn't write about it,
I think that Turing saw a very profound truth, which is that the process by which bodies come
to be in this physical universe, by which your body was self-organized from a bunch of chemicals
in the other side, is very closely related in a profound way to the question of where minds come
from. So, the origin of the self-assembly of your mind and of your body are very related stories,
even though they're treated by completely different communities. So, neuroscience and the
behavioral sciences versus developmental biology, molecular biology, cell biology, typically those
folks do not think they're studying the same thing. And I think they're studying exactly the
same thing just in different components. So, to look a little further into where we come from.
So, this is an embryonic blastoderm. So, that's basically a flat sheet of cells. So, in the
beginning, what will happen is that the egg will get fertilized, it will divide, and then eventually
flatten out and give rise to, at least in amniotes like us, it will give rise to a
flat sheet of cells. So, you can think about like a little disk or something like that. That's just
a couple cell layers thick. And so, here's your disk. And so, let's just imagine there's about
50,000 cells at this point in this disk. And we look at it and we say, ah, there's an embryo,
maybe a human embryo or a mouse embryo or something. Actually, mice have a different
structure than this. They're kind of weird, but let's say rabbit. So, human or rabbit or some other
amniotes. You look at that and you say, there's one embryo, but there's 50,000 cells. What are you
actually counting when you say there's one embryo? Well, what you're counting is,
you're really counting alignment. You're counting the fact that all of those cells
are committed to the same story of what they're going to do in anatomical space. They're all
going to collaborate to build a very particular kind of embryo. They are all connected together
and they are all going to cooperate to do one specific thing, which is to build that.
That's what makes this an embryo. What makes this an embryo is that all of these cells are
committed to the same plan. That doesn't have to be the case. And so, this is some work that was
first done in the 40s. I did it again when I was a grad student in the 96 or so. When you take a
duck embryo and you use a little needle to scratch some scratches into it like that, what you'll see
is these little islands here for the next few hours before they rejoin again, each of these
islands doesn't realize the other one is there. So, what they do is they self-organize a new
embryo. Each one of them thinks they're the only one, so they make an embryo. And when they do
heal up, you end up with this kind of conjoined twin or triplet. You end up with a few individual
animals coming out of the same blastoderm. So, the question of how many beings, how many cells
are actually in an embryo is tricky. It's not fixed by the genetics. It's anywhere from zero to
probably half a dozen or more depending on what happens. The cells arise in this medium, this
cellular blastoderm in real time as a process of physiology. It's not hard-coded. And what that
means is that a self has to put itself together. It has to figure out a border between itself
and the outside world. So, here's three embryonic fields sitting there. Each of these cells has
to decide, am I part of this one, or am I part of that one, or who am I part of? And this kind of
thing, this medium that can fragment or come together to form some number of coherent individuals
is not just for development. This happens in the brain as well. So, we have split brain patients
that have a cut between their two hemispheres that actually end up having, you then find out that
they have actually, in an important sense, there are two individuals in there that have different
opinions and so on. You can have lots of dissociative identity disorders and various other phenomena
that make it clear that it's not so simple as the brain has one cognitive owner and the body
has one embryo. It's actually not that simple. And you learn about this when you think about
something like this. So, here's a rat. You train the rat to press the lever and get a delicious
reward. But the thing is that there are cells in this rat that interact with the lever. There are
cells in this gut that get the sugar, but there is no single cell that has both experiences. So,
who is it that owns this associative memory, the fact that the pellet is associated with pressing
the lever? Who owns that? Well, the owner of that memory is not any individual cell. It's the entire
rat. It has to be because no cell has that experience. And there's a kind of cognitive
glue that operates in this rat, which we know as the nervous system, which allows the rat to know
things the individual cells don't know, such as that these two facts are connected. So, that cognitive
glue is a very interesting thing. We're going to study that more of that momentarily. But I want
to be clear that these animals that you typically hear about are not the only game in town as far
as some very interesting aspects of what the biology is trying to tell you. I'm going to show
you a couple of these examples just to sort of expand our horizons about what we need to understand.
So, here's a caterpillar. This caterpillar lives in a two-dimensional world. It's a soft-bodied
creature. It has a controller, a specific brain that's very well suited for driving this kind of
soft body around. But it needs to turn into this. This is a flying kind of creature with hard elements
and the brain basically, during this metamorphosis process, when the caterpillar turns into the
butterfly, what happens is that the brain is pretty much dissolved. So, most of the connections are
broken. Most of the cells are killed off. Huge refactoring, remodeling, new cells, new brain
is built, quite different, and there's your butterfly. So, that already is kind of amazing.
And you can imagine the sort of philosophical question of what's it like? Never mind what's it
like to be a caterpillar. What's it like to be a caterpillar changing into a butterfly in real
time? Not just on an evolutionary timescale, but in your lifetime drastically. Never mind
puberty. This is a major change. So, that's the first thing. But the second thing is that
