have normal lens, right, an optic nerve, all the same stuff. And you might see in your developmental
biology textbook that only cells in the anterior and erected are here are competent to make eye.
So that isn't true, that's only true if you try to prompt them with the so-called master eye gene.
So if you put in PAC-6 the master eye gene, yes, that's true, only these cells can do it.
But again, that limitation of competency isn't in the embryo, that's on us. That's because we
didn't know the community, didn't know the right way to talk to these cells. Once you understand
the bioelectric code, actually it turns out that almost any region in this embryo is competent to
make eye. And if you should happen to only inject a few cells, so here this is a lens sitting out
in the tail of a tadpole somewhere, if you only inject a few cells, these blue cells are the ones
we injected, then they know there's not enough of them to make a good eye, so what do they do? They
recruit a bunch of their neighbors to work with them to make an eye, just like ants and
termites will recruit their buddies to solve a problem. So now you can see that what we're
doing is providing signals. We didn't tell these cells how to build an eye, we didn't say anything
about the stem cells or the gene expression, we have no idea how to build an eye. What we did find
was a message that we can transmit through this bioelectrical interface that says build an eye
here. And once you get the cells by in so that they are convinced that that in fact is what they
should be building, after that you don't need to do anything, they will do what they do best,
they'll build to a morphogenetic spec. We know this, I want to show you, there's just a couple
of things left here, I want to show you another kind of pattern memory in these planaria, so here's
a normal flatworm. These guys, you can cut them into pieces and they will always regenerate correctly,
so every piece normally makes a nice one-headed worm 100% of the time. But there's a bioelectric
pattern there that we were able to read out and then we were able to modify it. And when you
modify that pattern, you make two-headed worms. And when you make these two-headed worms, what
happens is that you have rewritten the memory of what a correct worm is supposed to look like,
so that when these fragments, when these middle fragments go to regenerate, they consult the
pattern to see what what should a normal worm look like, they see that it says two heads,
and they go ahead and they build two heads. These two-headed worms now in plain water,
meaning no more manipulation of any kind, are now forever two-headed. If you keep cutting them,
they will just continue to regenerate as two-headed. We have permanently changed the target morphology,
the pattern to which they regenerate, but we never touch the DNA, there's nothing wrong with the
genetics here. If we were to throw these guys into the Charles River, 100 years later some
scientists would come along, they'd scoop up some single-headed worms and some double-headed
worms, they'd say, oh, cool, a speciation event, let's sequence the genome and see what made the
difference. There's nothing wrong with their genome, that's not where the information is.
And so that's really important to understand that much as we've been learning from computer science
for a really long time now, the hardware, if it's good hardware, does not fully constrain
what the software is able to do. And so this is a kind of pattern memory, it's long-term stable,
it's rewriteable because we can turn these guys back to one-headed, there you can see what these
two-headed guys are doing when they're hanging out. And so the question of how many heads should
a plenarian have is not written in the DNA, what is written in the DNA is the construction of
some biological material that by default will develop a pattern memory that says one head,
so that's what it does by default, very reliably, but you can change it, you can rewrite it.
And the fact that biological tissue is reprogrammable in this way is hugely important for biomedicine
and for other things. And so I hope you're starting to see that all the emphasis on
genetics and on the genome and all that, it's all very important because you have to understand
your hardware, but it's just the beginning. It's the same, the reason that on your laptop,
if you want to switch from Photoshop to Microsoft Word, you don't get out your soldering iron and
start rewiring because it's reprogrammable. Neither does biology. Biology is using an
incredibly reprogrammable medium that solves problems and can be communicated with using
various interfaces, for example, this bioelectrical interface. So we've talked about the reliability
of development and what things do by default. We've talked about various ways to hack, communicate
with and reprogram the collective intelligence of cells so they can build other variants on the
form. But where do these goals actually come from? So when we called up a second head here,
the second head looks just like the first head. Where are these patterns really? If it's not in
the DNA, what's the space of possible patterns? What else can we do? And by the way, I didn't
show you, but we can actually turn these worms into heads of other species, about 100 to 150
million years' distance. So triangular worms become round, become flat, but you can make the
hardware go to other regions of that space that normally belong to other species. But okay,
those are all evolutionarily defined forms. Is that it? Is that where the forms come from? They're
basically selected for and then there's a finite set of forms that can be implemented by the hardware.
Well, we decided to look at this in a synthetic kind of bioengineering way. And what we did was
we took some cells, some skin cells from frog embryos, and we let them kind of reboot their
multicellularity. We took them aside, we liberated them from their normal interactions with other
cells. And what they did, they could have done many things. They could have died, they could have
crawled away from each other, they could have made a flat monolayer like cell culture.
What they did instead is they merged into something we then named xenobots.
Xenobot because Xenopus lavus is the name of the frog, and we think this is a biorebotics platform.
So they start to swim. They have little silly, little hairs that are normally used to distribute
mucus down the side of the frog, but here they row. So these guys are rowing to the left, these
cells are rowing to the right, and as a result, this thing moves forward. They can go in circles
like this, they can kind of patrol back and forth like that. They have various collective behaviors.
These two are sort of dancing around. This one's going on some sort of long journey.
These ones are doing nothing. They have some very rich calcium signaling. You can see that here,
which is usually a sign of some information processing that's going on in these cells.
Here's one that is navigating this maze. So it's going to take this corner without bumping
into the opposite wall. So there it is. And then here spontaneously, for some reason that we don't
know, it turns around and goes back where it came from. It has spontaneous behavior. Again,
remember, this is just skin. These are just epithelial cells. And they have lots of interesting
behaviors that we can talk about. But one of the most amazing things they do is called kinematic
replication. So just imagine, we've made it completely impossible for these things to reproduce
the normal froggy fashion. They don't have any of the reproductive organs, they don't have any of
that. But in this novel configuration, they figured out a way to make copies of themselves. And
here's how they do it. If you provide them with loose skin cells, this loose material, what they
do is they run around and they sort of collect those loose skin cells into little balls like this.
And because what they're working with is an agential material, meaning these are not passive
pellets, these are cells, for the same reason that we were able to make xenobots, they make the
second generation of xenobots. And these little balls that they make mature, and guess what they
do? They run around and make the next generation of xenobots and so on. And this is kinematic
replication. It's kind of von Neumann's dream of a robot that went around and made copies of
itself from materials it finds in the environment. I mean, just think this, there's never been any
xenobots. There's never been any selection to be a good xenobot. This is not in the lineage of frogs.
Where does this come from? Their shape, their behaviors, the kinematic self-replication, all
the other things they can do. Where does that come from? It's very hard to say that this was the
subject of selection. So again, I come back to this theme that while the hardware was absolutely
selected for, I don't think it was selected to make frogs. I don't think that what evolution does is
create solutions for specific problems or things that are fit in a specific environment.
I think what evolution does is make creative problem-solving agents that they'll do the same
thing under default conditions, but once you start making changes and challenging them,
they often rise to the occasion and solve problems in very novel ways that reflect dynamics that
they've not seen before. And lest you think this is some trick of, you know, unique to frogs or
embryos, I mean, when we first published all this stuff, some people said, well, frogs, amphibians
are pretty plastic and embryos are especially plastic. So maybe this is some kind of a specific
thing in frog embryology. So the last thing I want to show you is this. So here's this little guy
running around and I will ask you what this is. And you might think that this is something I got
off the bottom of a pond somewhere, right, some sort of primitive organism. And then I can tell
you that, well, we've sequenced its genome and you'll say, oh, what's the genome? What does it
look like? And I'll say, well, this is 100% Homo sapiens. These are adult human cells. There's no
embryonics here. This is adult tracheal cells taken from human donors. Most of them elderly in
their 70s and 80s. And when given the chance, they reboot themselves and have a new life as these
things. We call them anthropots for obvious reasons. And they have all kinds of novel shapes
and behaviors. I call this kind of a technology for personalized agential interventions because
if you ask, what can these things do? Well, one thing they can do is this. If you take human neurons
and plate them on a dish and put a big scratch through them, these anthropots can settle down.
We call this a super bot because there's probably 10 of them here. They'll settle down and within a
few days you lift them up and you see that what they did was they took the two sides of the wound
and they knitted the nerves together. So they have the ability to repair these kind of neural
wounds. I mean, who would have thought that your tracheal cells, which normally sit quietly in your
airway for decades, that given the opportunity taken out of the body, they would actually
reassemble themselves into a new kind of creature with these new capacities. And so this is, I think,
hugely important for the future of medicine because just imagine, once we understand what
kind of healing effects these guys can have, they can be injected into your body. They do not
require immune suppression because they're made of your own cells. So personalized medicine in
that way. They share with your body all the priors about what health is, what diseases,
inflammation, cancer. You don't have to build all those detectors from scratch like you would with
some sort of engineered nanobot because these are your own cells. They already understand all those
things. And so again, you start to see this plasticity. Again, what you just saw is not
some embryonic developmental stage that they're recovering back in their history. There is no
such stage. This is completely novel set of behaviors. And so now I'm going to finish up here
with kind of some big picture thinking here. What I've been telling you about all of these stories
and all of their kind of biomedical implications for cancer and birth defects and regenerative medicine,
there's a bigger picture here, which is that what we're talking about is an example of how to
recognize and how to communicate with an unconventional intelligence. It is not just
philosophy that thinking about groups of cells as decision making, memory having goal directed
beings has led us to lots of discoveries that were not made by the standard paradigm, which sees them
as simple machines. So my point is that along this spectrum, I call this the spectrum of
persuadability because it's all about what kind of tools you're going to use to communicate
and control these various systems. So here it's hardware rewiring and maybe some control theory
and cybernetics with things like thermostats. And then here maybe behavioral science and training
and things like that. And then here you have some sort of rich relationship with cogent reasoning
and so on. The idea is that we can't just have philosophical feelings about where things fit
on this continuum. Most people assume that cells are somewhere down here, that they're basically
simple machines that need to be treated that way. And that leaves a lot on the table because we're
doing all kinds of interesting things with cell training and really taking advantage of the problem
solving competencies of these things. And so we have to do experiments. And so that brings us back
to the issue of AI because the question of AI isn't about today's language models. Today,
it's pretty easy to say, well, GPT-4 isn't really like a human mind and so on. No, it isn't. And it
doesn't matter for two reasons. First, because there are many interesting minds that are not human
minds and some of them are quite alien. And second, because the whole point is that you
can't just assume these things. You have to do experiments. You have to ask yourself,
do I know where intelligence comes from? Why do simple things? And we've studied some very
simple things that have amazing, unexpected, emergent, intelligent behaviors. Do we know
where that comes from and how to recognize them? And I'll tell you that at this moment we don't.
So this is the science of diverse intelligence. And we need to be extremely careful. And I think
this is where the ethics comes in. We need to be extremely careful about not denying moral
worth and various kinds of ethical protections to beings because they don't look like us.
Humans have a very long history of trying to make separations between in-group and out-group
based on really pretty ridiculous, very surfacing characteristics. And in your lifetime, you are
going to be confronted with all sorts of novel beings. So all of Darwin's endless forms, most
beautiful here on Earth, are like a tiny corner of this whole space. You know, hybrids and cyborgs
and all kinds of non-neurotypical humans with implants and different kinds of connections to
other creatures and to other technical systems. You know, pretty much any combination of evolved
material, engineered material and software is some kind of being. Okay, there are going to be
chimeras and cyborgs. And so it's not about the language models of today. It's about beings that
are nowhere with you on the tree of life. You cannot decide how you're going to relate to them
in the old ways, which was to, you know, sort of knock on it. And if you hear a metallic clanging
sound, you say, aha, so you were made in the factory and you're boring and I can take you
apart. And that's okay. Whereas if you heard like this soft, woolly thud, you would say,
ah, well, you're a real being like me and I have to treat you well, even though we're not even very
good at that as humans. But the point is that those kinds of categories are going to be worthless
because the space of possible bodies and minds is extending radically. And we're going to have to
develop much better ethical frameworks for kind of, you know, I'm sure you've heard of symbiosis,
I think what we're really talking about is a kind of synthbiosis, where we have to learn how to
relate to beings that are different than us. And that, you know, we're going to have to figure
out how you how you detect where things are on this continuum, so that we find appropriate balance
points between objectophilia. Objectophilia is the thing where people fall in love with bridges
and, you know, they think the Eiffel Tower is, you know, married to them and so on. Right. So,
things down here, you're not going to have that deep relationship with things up here,
but other people are really trapped in the other end of the continuum where they see things that
are not like today's standard humans. And they say, you know, those are not real minds worthy of
care and respect and so on. And that very quickly devolves to a kind of idea that's basically
love only your own kind. And I think that's that's that's probably lots much worse than this.
So, we really need to, and if anybody has questions we can talk about it, we really need to ask,
you know, given all of these facts, what are what is a human actually? And I have a kind of a weird
answer to that. And if you were going on on a long journey and you wanted a companion,
what is it that you actually care about? You know, when you say, you know, you don't want a
Roomba, that's that's not enough. But what do you actually care about? It's not the DNA. It's I
don't think anybody has any allegiance to our particular human DNA or the specific set of
organs. What is it that you do want, you know, in a rich human level relationship? That's that's
very worth thinking about. So, okay, so I'm going to I'm going to stop here. I'm anybody who's
interested in this stuff. Here's a bunch of papers that go into all of this in great detail.
Most importantly, I need to thank all the people who did the work that I showed you today. So,
here are all the all the postdocs and students and everybody else who who contributed. We
have lots of amazing collaborators. Our funding comes from all kinds of people have to do a
disclosure here because there are three companies that have spun out of our lab that are supporting
some of our work. So there's some business connections here. But most of all, I always
thank the model system because because the various animals and plants do all of the
heavy lifting in teaching us about biology and about ourselves. So thank you so much and I'll
take questions.
