it turns out that memories persist through this process. So, a caterpillar that learns
something will still remember it as a butterfly. So, that's amazing. How do memories persist when
the brain is basically getting radically refactored? But it's even more than that because, let's say,
what they did was to train caterpillars to look for leaves at a particular color disc.
That kind of information is completely useless to the butterfly because, first of all, the
butterfly doesn't crawl. It flies. And also, it doesn't eat leaves. So, this process has to be
not just the storage of memory. It has to actively remap from what's important to the
caterpillar to what's important to the butterfly. It has to generalize from the concept of leaves
to the concept of food and from specific crawling motions that you might think is what this
simple animal is remembering to something much more complex, a navigational process that will
actually be implemented by flying here, by completely different muscles and a different
architecture. So, this radical process of change, and you might think about what happens to the
individual identity of this organism and what it would be like if the caterpillar knew what was
coming and said, well, you're going to change radically, but don't worry, you'll still have
some of your memories. It's just your priorities will be different. You love leaves now, but you're
not going to care about leaves at all later and you'll want this weird nectar. What is that like?
And we'll come back to this at the end of the talk. How would you convince a creature like this
that this is a perfectly fine thing for them to go through and are they still here? Is this organism
actually still here by the time you get to this stage? And the reason this is important for us
is because humanity is going to change in a way that's somewhat reminiscent of this.
So, that's one kind of example. Another example are these. These are amazing creatures called
planaria, they're flatworms, and when you train them to expect food on these little bumpy circles,
they will remember, and if you cut off their heads with their brain, the tail will sit there
doing nothing. Eventually, the tail will regrow a brand new head, so they regenerate, every piece
will regenerate, and eventually, when they regenerate, you find that they still remember
the original information. So, the memory, not only does this tell you that the memory can be
stored outside the brain, but also that it can be imprinted onto a new brain as the brain develops,
so the movement of memories through tissues. So, all of this is possible because we have this
amazing multi-scale competency architecture. At every scale in your body, from the molecular
networks to the organs and tissues and even groups, these different layers are not just
biological scales, but actually, they have the ability to solve problems. In other words,
they have competencies in different spaces. In the space of possible gene expressions and
physiological states and anatomical layouts, all of these things have the ability to solve problems.
I don't have time to show you a whole bunch of examples today, but there are some amazing
examples of these things solving various problems. Now, the thing to keep in mind is that we humans
are pretty terrible at detecting intelligence. I mean, we do okay with middle-sized objects
moving at medium speeds in three-dimensional space, crows and birds and maybe a dolphin
or something like that. We can kind of recognize those as intelligence, but there
are other spaces in which complex creatures navigate and spend effort and try to achieve
goals and so on. There are gene expression spaces and physiological spaces. I want to focus today
on what's known as anatomical morpho space. It's just basically a multi-dimensional space
of all the different shapes that any structure can have. So, in this particular case, here's a
planarian head and it can have different shapes, and these different shapes correspond to the
different settings of these two control knobs, and so you have this two-dimensional space that
shows you where all the different planarian shapes are. The actuality is for complex organisms,
very high-dimensional space. What I want to look at is, I've told you that we're all made of cells,
that these cells underlie the emergence or the self-assembly of a unified self, both of
them, cognitively and morphologically, and I want to look at how that works.
So, here we are. We start life as a collection of embryonic cells. This is a cross-section
through a human torso. So, just imagine where does this incredible order come from, the structure.
Everything is in the right place, the right shape, the right size, next to the right thing.
Where does this order come from? And at that point, even, I mean, I've given the version of this talk
to middle schoolers, and even nine-year-olds will immediately say, well, it's in the genome.
We know where it is. It's in the human genome. But, of course, we can read genomes now, and we know
that that isn't what the genome specifies at all. The genome talks about proteins. The genome
specifies the tiny molecular hardware that every cell gets to have. This isn't directly in the genome
anymore than the structure of a termite nest or the shape of a spider web is in the genome of
those species. All of this is the outcome of physiology and behavior. It's the outcome of
these cells doing their thing with the hardware that they've been given by their genetics.
So, if the DNA specifies the hardware, how do these cells actually know what to build?
How do they know when to stop? If we want to convince them to repair something that's been
damaged, how do we communicate that to them? And as engineers, we can ask, actually, what
else is possible? What else can we convince them to build? Same exact hardware, but what more could
they build? So, I want to give you a couple of examples of the amazing nature of this process,
because, see, when you look at this, you might think that, well, the biggest thing this thing
has going for it is reliability, that basically it happens the same every single time. And that's
true. Reliability is amazing here, but I want to show you that it's actually much more than that.
What you're looking at here is the cross-section of a little tubule leading to the kidneys of a
psalmander. And normally, there's about eight to 10 of these cells that work together, and they
form this little structure with a space in the middle. You can do this weird trick where you
cause multiple copies of the genetic material to build up in the very early embryo. And so,
when that happens, you still get a normal animal, and it's normal size, but the cells are bigger.
And when you take a cross-section, you find out that, well, the cells are bigger, and so now,
fewer of them created the same kind of lumen. So, let's see where we are so far.
Multiple copies of your chromosome, no problem. Weird cell size, no problem, because you'll scale
it to the number of cells. And most of all, if you make truly gigantic cells, and you do these,
these are, I think, 5N or 6N polyploid newts, when you do this, one single cell bends around itself
to give you the exact same kind of structure. Now, that's remarkable because this is a different
molecular mechanism. This is cell-to-cell communication. This is some sort of cytoskeletal
bending. And so, what this means is that in the service of a particular high-level anatomical
structure, these cells can call on different molecular mechanisms to solve their problem.
Okay? So, they're using different tools in their toolkit to get to where they're going.
That is a very good definition of intelligence, to reuse the affordances you have in the service
of a goal when things change. So, when you're a salamander coming into the world, you don't know
how many copies of your genetic material you're going to have. You don't know how many cells you're
going to have or what the size of the cells are going to be. You still need to be able to get the
job done. So, this is not a matter of just being reliable with fixed parts. This is the idea
that what evolution is making is problem-solving agents. It's making a system that is ready for
many, many unexpected things. And not just environment, not just when somebody bites your
leg off and the salamander regenerates it. No, this is unreliability of your own parts. This is not
even being sure of what you're made of. You really can't depend on much. And that's an amazing thing.
And it's quite different than what you normally get in a biology curriculum where they tell you
that your genome, the purpose of your genome is to carry information from a long time away with
maximal fidelity and to minimize errors. And every cell is going to do whatever the genome
says. And in the end, you get this emergent thing. Actually, that's not at all what's happening here.
Here's another example. We discovered this a few years ago. These tadpoles need to become frogs.
In order for this tadpole face to make a frog face, all the organs have to move. So, the eyes
have to move, the jaws have to move, and so on. And they normally do this quite reliably. But it
was thought to be a hardwired process. You know, people thought that, well, every organ just moves
in the right direction, this fixed amount, and that's it. What we did was we created these so
called Picasso frogs because we wanted to test how much intelligence is actually in that process,
how much, what kind of problems can it solve? So, we scrambled everything. You can see here,
the eyes on the top of the head, the mouth is off to the side, everything is just a complete mess.
And these guys still become normal frogs because all of these organs will move now in novel paths,
paths that these guys don't do, until they get to a correct frog face, and then they stop.
And so, what evolution actually has given you is not a hardwired set of instructions,
but a system for error minimization. Okay, for a way of wherever you happen to start out,
do whatever you have to do to end up in this particular location. This again,
this kind of goal-directedness is something else that you're not going to see in your
developmental biology textbook. This is not emergence, and this is not simply an increase
of complexity. This is problem-solving. And that raises an obvious question about how does it know
what the correct face looks like? Where is the memory for that set point of that homeostatic
process? I want to show you a couple of other things related to the plasticity of this. So,
just so you understand how much play there is between the fixed hardware of your genetics
and the actual outcomes. First of all, this here, you might think this is a photoshop or
something. I didn't believe it the first time I saw it, but this fly is running a stripped-down
ant morphogenetic program on its wings. It's running a virtual ant on its wings, and the idea
is that it wiggles its wings to simulate these ants scurrying about, and that keeps the predators
away because they don't want to deal with ants. And this is amazing, of course, and it's striking
that it has this pattern, but it's no more striking than the much more intricate pattern
of the actual fly. I mean, all of these are specific morphogenetic patterns, whether 2D
or 3D, carried out on this kind of hardware. And you might think that the outcomes are pretty
fixed. I mean, here's an acorn, and you know that all the time what these acorns give rise to is
these oak leaves. And you might think that you know what the oak genome actually does. It encodes
this particular shape, but along comes a bioengineer, and this is a non-human bioengineer. This is a
little wasp, and what these wasps do is they provide some signals that prompt the rest of the
tissue to build something like this. They're hacking the morphogenetic competencies of this leaf.
They're not changing the genome, and what they're doing is providing some instructions that cause
the leaf cells to adopt a different set point in anatomical space. Now, would you ever have any idea
looking at these flat green leaves, and how reliable they are? Would you have any idea that
they're capable of building something like this? I mean, we have no idea. So that just reminds us
that this whole notion of developmental constraint is really probably a constraint in our thinking.
It's not a constraint in the biology. The option space for morphogenesis is enormous,
and what we need to do is to discover the prompts, the language that we can use to get
them to build other things, and it clearly doesn't require modifying the hardware.
The genetics of this thing are still completely intact. So now comes kind of the meat of the
talk, which is that if morphogenesis is the behavior of a collective intelligence operating
in anatomical space, that's what I've been getting at for the last few slides, is the idea that
the act of creating complex anatomical shapes is really behavior. It's behavior in an anatomical
space of possibilities, and it's done by a collective intelligence, which just like us,
we're all collective intelligences, but that collective intelligence thinks about shape as
opposed to moving around in 3D space. So now we need to ask, how do we communicate with that
intelligence? I mean, the WASP did it through millions of years of evolution. We would like
to do it faster. And where does it store its memories? These are some things that we've been
looking at. Well, we know that one way to store memories and communicate with a collective
intelligence is through the nervous system. Now, the nervous system does it via computations
in an electrical network, and you can actually try to decode those. This is the work of people
doing a neural decoding to try to read the electrical activity of the brain and to know
what thoughts and preferences and memories and so on the system has. Well, it turns out that
this system, this ability to store memories in an electrical network, to use an electrical
network to integrate information across many, many, many cells, both in space and in time,
is something that evolution discovered a really long time ago. It is way older than nerve and
muscle. Bacterial biofilms were probably the first to do this, so long predating multicellularity.
And what we've done is to develop some of the first tools to read and write the mind of the
collective intelligence of your body. So by taking a lot of the concepts from neuroscientists and
really emphasizing this idea that neuroscience isn't about neurons at all. Neuroscience is really
about scaling of information from tiny competent subunits into much larger coherent cells that
have higher intelligence in other spaces. That's really what this is about. And that doesn't just
work in the brain, that works in your entire body. So the first thing I want to show you is
some of the techniques that can be used. One thing we have is this thing we develop called
voltage sensitive fluorescent dye imaging. And that means that without having to poke the cells
with electrodes, you can get in real time, this is a time lapse of a frog embryo, this is a frog
putting its face together, you can get a map of all the electrical states and thus you can try to
learn to decode what the system is trying to build. What are the computations that they're
doing? We call this the electric face. This is a bioelectric map of the face ectoderm long before
any of these organs actually appear. You can see that cells already know here's where we're
going to place the eye, the left eye actually comes in a little bit later, here's where the
mouth is going to go, here are the placodes. This is you are literally seeing the way you
would with a brain scan, you are literally seeing the content of the collective intelligence of
morphogenesis in the body of these animals. So these are normal patterns, in fact these are
required for normal development as I'll show you momentarily. But here's a pathological pattern,
and this is induced by injecting a human oncogene into these embryos which eventually
will make a tumor. But these tumors have an aberrant bioelectrical profile because what happens,
the first thing that happens with this oncogene is that it causes an electrical disconnection
from cells from their environment. And when cells disconnect, they immediately lose the ability
to remember these large grandiose goals that they were working on, so making complex organs and
fixing defects and so on, they're just amoebas now. That boundary between self and world has now
shrunk, that cognitive lycone where before the goal was the size of an organ or maybe the whole
organism, now it's down to the size of a single cell, and to them the rest of the body is just
an environment now. So this is where you get metastasis and progression because as far as
they're concerned, they're just amoebas living in an environment, and they go where they want and
they reproduce as much as they want. And so once you understand that, you can try for really
interesting cancer therapeutics, which is what we're doing in our lab. Don't try to kill the cells
with toxic chemotherapy. What if we reinflate their sense of self? What if we reconnect them,
forcibly reconnect them to the large electrical network that can remember what a proper organ is?
And so when you do that, so this is the same animal. Here's the oncoprotein has this red
fluorescence on it. You can see it's blazingly strongly expressed. In fact, it's all over the
place, but there's no tumor. And there's no tumor because we co-injected an ion channel
that modulates, it's an RNA that modulates the electrical property of the cell to force them
to remain in connection, despite what the oncogene is saying. And after that, it doesn't
matter that they have this genetic defect, they behave appropriately and they build nice organs
and so on. So that's a story at the level of single cells, how you scale individual cells
into a larger set of goals. But I want to show you something even larger scale than that,
which is we saw in that electric phase, there's a little eye spot which tells the animal that
that's where the eye is going to go. So we can ask a simple question, what happens if you
reproduce that bioelectric pattern somewhere else? Can you tell this group of cells to build
an eye somewhere else? And it turns out you can. Here it is, we injected some potassium
ion channel RNA into a location that normally would make a gut. So here's this is a tadpole,
here's the mouth, here's the eye, here's the gut. And if you tell these cells using an appropriate
voltage signal that, hey, you should be making an eye, boom, that's what they do. And these eyes
