Welcome to the Conscious Pivot Podcast with international speaker, business mentor, best
selling author of Pivot and your host, Adam Markell.
The Conscious Pivot shares the stories and wisdom of people who have successfully reinvented
some area of their business and personal life.
You'll gain powerful insights into how you can fully embrace new opportunities, increase
your performance, and master the art and science of innovation and resilience.
So please join Adam as he guides you on your Conscious Pivot.
Hey there, Pivot audience.
Welcome to the Pivot Podcast on Pivot Radio.
I'm so happy to be here with you today and I'm also super excited because the gentleman
that I'm going to get to share with you is really somebody special.
I'd like to say that I know him well, but that would be a lie.
I don't know him well.
I've just met him recently, but the people in my life that think very, very highly of
him, I know quite well, namely my daughter Chelsea and her boyfriend Matthew.
And I venture to say that they're not often wrong about these kind of things.
And I got to meet this gentleman at a recent ATL meeting.
It's the Association of Transformational Leaders and he spoke and moved an audience of transformational
teachers, people that have been in the space of helping folks find their, the higher versions
of themselves, people on the road to actualizing the best parts of themselves and very open-minded
folks and people that are very committed to performance and what it takes to really perform
at our best in all arenas, including business, personal affairs, relationships, health, etc.
And I did get to speak with this gentleman's brother who is also a spectacular guy, James,
but today we get the pleasure of speaking with Daniel Schmackenberger and Daniel, it's
just so great to have you on the show.
I'd love to, if you don't mind, my audience is pretty familiar with me doing this.
I'm going to pass the baton to you to just sort of, with no false humility, let us know
a little bit about yourself, whatever you think is kind of salient for us to know about
you.
And then we're going to get into a great conversation.
Thanks, Adam, I'm happy to be here and then dialog with you and sharing with your audience.
And I think what's probably salient about me for the conversation here today is I'm
director of research and development for Neurohacker Collective, which is kind of an applied neuroscience
biotech company that's focused on new kinds of approach to neuro technology for mind-brain
optimization.
So as you're talking about performance, the physiology side of brain performance and then
the way that affects cognitive and psychological performance, that's a primary thing that we're
focused on.
But the relationship of physiologic optimization, psychological optimization, interpersonal
optimization, and then optimization of the complex system of civilization, biosphere
at large, the inner dynamics between all of those are things that we focus on.
Beautiful.
And this is a fairly new company.
Is it okay to call it a startup?
Is it officially a startup?
Sure.
The company started just under three years ago.
And we've only actually moved from the R&D phase to the company phase, which means we're selling
product in six months.
And so it is early in the venture and it's going really fascinatingly wonderfully well.
Yeah, we've heard good things.
In fact, we're going to circle back at the end of the show just to find out a little bit from
you about the products that you guys are offering, because I think they're pretty spectacular,
actually been using a few of those products for the last little bit more than a month.
And it felt really terrific from it.
So we'll say that for the end.
But what I'd love to do, I shared an article with you, Daniel, earlier, and you haven't
had a chance to read it, but it led us to a conversation initially about performance.
And the article is a Harvard Business Review article that is the making of a corporate
athlete. So I'll post, our team will put that link to that article in the podcast post so
you guys can get it as well.
But it's actually fascinating that these researchers were looking at top athletes and to
see if there's any kind of a connection between the best athletes in the world and the best
executives in business in the world.
And what they found this area of commonality was recovery and rituals for recovery.
And as many folks know, who've read my book, Pivot, I'm a big fan.
As part of the momentum section of the book, I talk about resilience.
And I also talked independently about rituals, but in connection with resilience, the ability
to bounce back from setbacks, to be resilient, to be that willow tree in the wind versus
the oak that kind of breaks branches, break off, et cetera.
And what does it mean to be resilient and mentally, emotionally, spiritually, physically?
What contributes to that ability to recover quickly?
And I wanted to get your thoughts on that.
And if you could share some of your feelings or your research in that area, that would be terrific.
Yeah, sure.
So there's a number of things that contribute to what we call resilience or the
capacity for the system to continue to perform and operate well.
So rather than just a homeostatic state of the system, the homeostatic capacity to
continue to operate well, even in the presence of stressors.
And one of the things that is important for resilience is recovery, as you mentioned.
And so you were giving the example earlier of that athletes that were very successful
had faster recovery cycles, and that means recovering from heavy workouts faster, but
also even just in short breaks between their performance still within the game, having
quicker cycles of recovery.
Part of why this is an important thing is any kind of performance is going to have a
certain load to it, right?
There's going to be a certain set of physiologic processes, psychological processes that are
going to then need non-performative time to be processed.
And so the more effective the non-performative recovery time is and the faster those
cycles are, the more one will be able to continue to operate at peak rather than at a
diminished rate because some of the repair hasn't happened yet.
And so this is why sleep is such a big deal, because while we are regenerating, while
we're awake and restful a little bit, the deepest regeneration physiologically and
psychologically happens during sleep.
REM sleep is a major part of how memory consolidation from the day happens.
Psychologic processes, we get to process the experiences of the day into long-term
memory, and then Delta sleep in particular is how the deeper aspects of long-term memory,
memory consolidation happen, and most of physiologic repair, the antioxidant pathways,
the anti-inflammatory pathways, the immune pathways, tissue repair, are all happening.
Symptatic nervous system is at its minimum.
Parasympathetic is high, corresponding with melatonin high, cortisol low.
That's when all the repair gets to primarily happen.
So when people start decreasing the amount of sleep from what their body actually needs,
even a little bit, even an hour per night, the decreased repair over not that long
starts to lead to profoundly decreased performance.
We see this principle everywhere.
If you are doing agriculture and you grow crops, the crops are pulling nutrients out
of the soil. If you take all of that crop out of the soil and you're not tilling
anything back into the soil, so you're not actually regenerating the soil, you end
up taking fertile agricultural zones and turning them into deserts and not that many cycles.
So this was the dust ball, right?
I mean, this is the lesson of the dust ball era, right?
Not just the dust ball.
That's what led to crop rotation, right?
Well, it was the dust ball, yes.
But it was the reason that most of the ancient civilizations collapsed.
You know, one of the big parts of why they collapsed was over agriculture, over agriculture,
which is actually their soil actually leading to early desertification, leading to resource
shortage and then resource wars and that whole thing.
So humanity's been kind of doing that since not that long after agriculture and the areas
that figured it out and did appropriate crop rotations and tilling the nutrients back
into the soil and closed loop process.
In other words, regeneration, we're able to continue because for anything to be sustainable,
it has to be regenerative because there is a load to performance.
And so this is true at the level of economics, right?
It's spending, this is true at the level of agriculture, at the level of ecosystems,
at the level of fisheries, you know, and at the level of psychology and physiology.
Right, we're talking about depletion.
That's another word for that, right?
But the soil is depleted.
And when you talk about load, I don't want to kind of go down too many rabbit holes,
but what do you mean by load, before?
Well, when you're taking nutrients out of the soil, converting them into plants and
taking the plants out of that soil, there is a load to the soil, right?
There is a burden of how much toxicity can get moved into the soil of whatever byproducts
of the plants and how much nutrient can get taken out of the soil.
Basically, there's a cost, right?
So then we have to regenerate proportionally to be able to stay even, regenerate more to
make it ahead.
This would be the same with our physiology.
So if, you know, someone's lifting weights, they're actually inducing micro tears in
the muscle, which then induce regeneration of the muscle where it regenerates, you know,
with more actual tissue fibers and more densely bundled tissue fibers, which is why strength
increases.
But if you don't have adequate nutrition and adequate time, adequate circulation, support,
etc., for the regeneration, then those micro tears can turn into bigger tears and injury
rather than into regeneration.
And if you have faster cycles of regeneration, then you can actually continue to do it.
Right.
So what do you believe it is that contributes to a faster, creating a faster cycle of regeneration?
Because I think that's what I'm getting out of this, is that you're saying you can actually
impact the cycle in the, I guess, to regenerate more quickly or to actually degenerate more
quickly.
Well, I think there's a number of things.
The first is to degenerate less quickly, right?
So if when you're...
Degeneration is the law.
We're talking about there's nothing we can do about the fact that we are degenerating
no matter what.
It's a universal law.
Is that...
Yes?
There's a lot we can do about it.
There is...
So the second law of thermodynamics, which I think is what you're referring to, is the
idea that entropy is going to increase in any closed system.
Yes.
Humans are not closed systems.
It's a very important topic.
We're in taking new energy all the time and we're actually releasing old structures.
And one of the definitions of life, core definitions of what life is in biology is an entropy externalizing
system or an entropy pump.
And so, like, when you think about the second law, it says things are going to get more
and more disorderly.
But biology is a process of making orderly things, right?
So a plant has these very complex molecules that are organizing from very simple molecules.
How does it do that?
There's always been this kind of question about how life seems to be syn-tropic or anti-intropic.
And it's not violating the second law, but it's working with it in a very interesting
way where it's taking energy and externalizing entropy and being able to have self-organization
as a result.
So it's important to get that since we're not closed systems, the idea that we're just
subject to fixed entropy is not really true.
Now, we are subject to entropy all the time, but you can decrease the entropic load.
So we look at what is it that ages us?
So oxidative stress ages us, toxicity of various kinds ages us.
These are things that can damage cells and then lead to damage cells or senescent, right?
Cells, older cells, but old basically here means it has some damage so it doesn't function
in the same way.
So it produces metabolic byproducts that end up being harmful.
It doesn't do all the healthy processes well.
So can we decrease oxidative stress?
Yes.
Can we increase how well our body recovers from oxidative stress through better antioxidant
support pathways?
Yes.
Can we decrease toxic burden?
Yeah.
Can we increase our detox system pathways totally?
Can we decrease psychological stress and increase our psychological process?
