Absolutely.
Can we make sure that where there are deficiencies of nutrients or other forms of stimulus that
are necessary for system optimization that we address them so we're not doing a deficiency?
Yes.
And then there's of course still some entropy happening, but we can navigate it profoundly
better.
Yeah.
That's fascinating.
I'm going to ask you kind of a funny question.
It's just coming up so I'm going to ask it anyway.
Is it theoretically possible that humans could live or what's the, is there an outer edge
to how long a human being can live in it if what you're saying is that we can control
that entropic process?
This is one of the most active questions in kind of the biomedical sciences world right
now is not just medicine focused on disease model, but the topic of longevity and radical
life extension itself is a totally new approach to biology.
And to the degree that we address the dynamics of longevity, we also end up addressing the
dynamics of preventing the things that kill us, right?
So medicine can kind of get obsoleted, much of medicine is just obsoleted in the process
of optimizing ongoing system efficiency and function, which can lead to life extension.
Give or take genetic maximum for most people is usually thought of in the 110, 120 kind
of range, which is the oldest we see people make it that we have documented records of.
And most people don't live that long.
And so most people are dying earlier than genetic maximum because of specific issues.
And so they're dying of cancer or heart disease or diabetes or whatever it is.
So the first step in life extension is just preventing those causes of death.
And so everybody starts to get to genetic maximum.
It's very realistic that that will become scientifically plausible in the next not many
years and that premature death from disease will become a part of history.
And that's something that there are a number of companies doing really pioneering great
work on and we're working to add to research in that space.
Yeah, beautiful.
Giving us beyond genetic maximum beyond that 120 is a totally different topic because there's
a deep question right now on is it simply accumulated stressors that are leading to
when we die and we could just stop having those stressors or is death actually genetically
programmed as a way to keep natural selection happening, right?
And so that we don't have the older species competing with the newer ones for the same
amount of finite resource when the newer ones have better genetics because they've gone
through more breeding cycles.
There's pretty good evidence that there are aspects of death that are genetically programmed.
And but this is one of the topics of debate between different researchers in the field
of radical life extension.
And so if that's the case, there's work that's being done on how would we actually change
genetically programmed death.
And given that we're in, you know, Chris, the post CRISPR world where we are working
on being able to identify gene sequences and change them.
The idea that we will extend longevity up to the kind of 120 mark regularly and maybe
beyond that is very realistic.
Interesting.
I think Buckminster Fuller was pretty on target with a lot of his predictions and that was
one of them, you know.
So yeah, remains to be seen of course, but yeah, just the topic of regeneration, it would
seem that if you pull back far enough, death, death wouldn't be part of the regenerative
cycle anyway.
Right?
I mean, how would death, how would we remove death from that cycle?
Maybe there's no answer to your question, but just about it like this.
The cells that make up your body are dying and new ones are being born and the regeneration
of your whole system is happening that way.
Right.
Life extension technologies are working is to actually help the old cells die faster
so that they aren't underperforming, causing metabolic problems and new cells come in faster.
So if you can, the body has a natural process for killing old cells because if the old cells
keep, and by old, what we mean is they are somewhat damaged, so their metabolic processes
are somewhat damaged.
So rather than produce ATP cleanly and have clean genetic transcription, they end up having
damage in genetic transcription, i.e., cancer probability, and overproducing histamine which
leads to inflammation or whatever, things like that.
So autophagy is the process by which the body identifies and can kill older cells.
There are things that we can do to actually increase autophagy so that we aren't dealing
with the problems of senescent cells.
So fasting actually triggers, you know, as soon as the body is in caloric deficit, significant
caloric deficit for a while, it starts cutting life supports to certain systems and it actually
cuts it to old senescent immune cells first, which is great, super helpful thing.
So interesting research on 72-hour mark water fasts and we start getting purge of senescent
immune cells which cause major inflammatory and autoimmune kinds of issues, so great.
There are also drugs and herbs and things that are being worked on to do that, and then
our body is actually producing new stem cells all the time, and those new stem cells are
then differentiating into tissues.
If we could increase the rate at which we produce stem cells, which means new stuff
being born, and we could increase the rate at which those differentiate into tissues
and increase the rate at which the old cells are recycled, and then also protect healthy
cells from damage, well, that's a whole different system, right?
That's true at the level of a human body, that's also true at the level of humanity
and civilization, so there's definitely this place where one of the really interesting
philosophic questions, ethical questions in life extension is, would it be a net good
thing for civilization, because if older people's rate of learning decreases and younger people
have higher rate of learning, if you keep older people alive longer and then you can
have less younger people, right, you've got to have less birth rate to then have a steady
safe population, do you have more people that are obsolete for a longer period of time and
that are less adapted to the new world that's changing faster, or the other perspective would
say we actually only start to meaningfully mature around the time we die, and that we
don't really understand how to navigate universe or even ourselves very well for most of our
early life, and that if we could actually be regenerating our physiology well enough that
those older years were still actually vital and that our learning was optimized, that
people who could live to 150, et cetera would have basically a much longer developmental
childhood and then a much longer period of productivity with a much more comprehensive
human development set. So without answering which of those it is or the dynamics between
that, I'd say it's an interesting question.
It is, it's a great conversation. Maybe this explains even why there's so many, I'm going
to make a joke here, but so many 30 and 30 plus year olds living still living in their
parents' basements.
There's no question that we breed older than we used to, right, so we went from breeding
throughout much of history pretty much as soon as breeding was possible, right, as soon as we
went past puberty to having economics and education and social structures start changing
that where 30 and moving towards 40, you know, are getting much more common while we're being
exposed to more information earlier.
And whether they're having babies later in life, and I don't know if there's any, there must be
studies that will track that, but just seems like anecdotally we see things that have had babies
right up to kind of 50, which is pretty remarkable actually.
This is actually one of the really also deep ethical topics in life extension is if we could
extend longevity without extending menopause, it would suck.
Because if, I mean, it already kind of sucks, right, if women basically are going to have the
decision to be parents or not, and it has to end at 40 or maybe a little somewhere into their 40s,
and men could make that decision much later, there is a kind of biologic inequality in choice
making capacity, where he can do other than parenting things for much longer preparatorily.
She hasn't been able to do that, right?
Now, so extending not just longevity, but extending reproductive longevity is one of the very
interesting topics too.
Yeah.
Wow.
Well, I'm going to bring us back to the to the original point of our discussion, which was
resilience.
I'm a big fan of recipes and formulas.
I know you dig formulas too.
So I'm just going to ask you, with just a few ingredients, what would your formula for
resilience be?
And you've already spoken about one, which was sleep.
So what are some of the other things that you think are really key?
Because I believe in that, you know, the results of that study, that Harvard study, they go
really telling.
And when I counsel people on, you know, their ability to pivot, make changes in their life,
whatever it is, you know, sometimes I mentor people in the business as well.
And you just got to be able to recover quickly.
I mean, this constantly setbacks the rate of disruption, the rate of change is exponentially
greater all the time.
And you just got to be more resilient.
So, you know, what, what is that?
Well, what would that recipe look like for you?
Well, even though I didn't get to read the article yet, as you shared it with me, they
spoke about physical, emotional, mental, spiritual resilience.
And that there were relationships between each of those.
And that you've got kind of a Maslow's hierarchy of those resilience types.
I think it's meaningful topic.
Yeah.
Physical resilience is necessary, but not sufficient.
Right.
So if someone is eating well, sleeping well, exercising well, and doing good
preventative and integrative medicine for optimum physiology, that's going to make a
huge difference because physiology affects emotion and cognition.
So mental and emotional are going to be very affected.
Pretty much everyone who has felt their physiology out of balance for any reason,
whether their hormones were out of balance, or they felt their neurochemistry was out
of balance, or they had, you know, infection going on, knows that their emotions and
their cognition were inexorably effective.
Right.
There are certain emotional states that were just like not accessible and other
ones that were unavoidable.
And so almost think of the physiology as like being tunable, like a musical
instrument where if it's out of tune, all the music is messed up.
Right.
And so before we even talk about upgrading the instrument, just having it in tune
makes a huge difference.
Um, but it's not sufficient.
Right.
That's the kind of hardware layers.
And we start looking at the software, the software layer of, um, how we make
mean, what we focus on, where our attention goes, what our frameworks for
understanding and perspective are.
And so, you know, when we start physical resilience, since you asked for recipes,
let's just kind of address that.
Even though I think the basic things everybody knows, and then maybe I'll add
some novel things, basic things are true and basic.
The first one is sleep.
And I would put sleep in a category separate from nutrition and exercise and
everything else in terms of its overall importance.
And I'm not, uh, underweight in the importance of the other ones.
I'm just actually weighting as heavily as it should be weighted the role of sleep.
Uh, because given that almost all physiologic repair and regeneration
happens during sleep, the whole purpose of nutrients is to regenerate new
tissues, et cetera.
When is it going to happen?
That's going to be the major part of what happens.
The exercise, the regeneration is going to occur as large as it's going to be
during that time.
So, um, if people are sleeping not enough or not sleeping well, I would say it
should be their first priority to address that.
Beautiful.
So what we're going to do here to really talk about how we'd be happy to do
that sometime, but I would put it as a tier one.
Yeah.
No, thanks to hear that because there's so much that we want to do.
And that's like the most uninteresting thing.
If it seems like to use our hours, but having all the rest of our hours in
tune makes a much bigger difference than having more shitty hours.
Yeah, this is what inspired me earlier because before we hit the record button,
folks, we were having this conversation because I asked Daniel how many hours
do you sleep and he said, you know, eight, eight's the right number for me.
And it's anybody that's telling you differently is kind of, you know, full
of it on some level.
