your physiology ages or not processes,
something you want to start to learn and do.
And as far as other rituals.
Psychological stress, so, you know, meditation is valuable
for being able to learn how to focus the mind.
Being able to learn how to witness it and have space
for the kind of neuroplasticity dynamics for the increased body
awareness, proprioception for the increased parasympathetic process.
But beyond that, not all, there are a lot of stresses
that are just made up, right?
And so there's a lot of psychological stresses in particular
where it's not what's happening, it's stressing us out.
It's the meaning that we can give them to what's happening
and we can change the way that we give them to them.
And so going through processes of looking at where my psychologically
stressed about some world dynamic or some relationship and asking
can I change the meaning to things that either just make me more
comfortable with it or actually increase my sense of empowerment
responsibility, rituals to kind of continuously inventory
those made up stresses and then change them are really key.
Yeah, you know what, it's I'm just thinking that those three parts
to the to that resilience process, the first one is reframing.
So I'm just thinking about what you just said, taking a look at a situation
and the frame that you put it in will determine whether you're stressed
by it or not.
So if you've made a poor decision and you believe that you made
a poor decision because you're an idiot or you always make poor decisions,
well, that's one frame that'll keep you stressed and create
will be a lot that flow.
You know, that that domino tip over a lot of other dominoes.
And then the second piece is really how have you applied or have you
have you learned something from the experience that you can there after
apply, because I think that's a part of the natural, the regenerative process
is that we learn from the feedback that is biofeedback
and any feedback, really, we know.
And that's how we that's how we've adapted.
That's how the species has survived, right?
As we just continue to be able to assimilate information, make adjustments
from that feedback and then adapt and and thrive and continue to.
I love that you that you actually enumerated both of those as methods
of framing, which is kind of cognitive behavioral therapy,
meaning making reframing and then also really focusing on the lesson
rather than the difficulty and the lesson moving forward as something
that increases your adaptive capacity.
When you look at life through the lens of, all right,
so what are all the things that happen today?
They're all the things that felt wonderful and you are grateful for those
who you're focusing on actually giving attention to the things that were wonderful.
And then there were things that were difficult when you say,
is there anything that I could learn that would allow me to deal with situations
like that better in the future so that rather than just being difficult
and I try and let it go, I increase my system resilience and response to them.
And then you get the insights and you focus on the insight rather than the difficulty.
The day is just filled with things that felt great and things that made you more
capable. And those are the things that you focus on.
Have you read I'm just a question I didn't I didn't think I'd ask you in this interview,
but have you read the presence process, Michael Brown's work?
Interesting. So everybody that has not yet kind of checked that workout,
I recommend that it's pretty, pretty incredible.
And one of the things that he writes about, which has really been,
man, it's been inside of me now for several weeks.
I don't want to shake it because it's it's shaken up a lot of a lot of things
in a really great way, which is that he doesn't talk about healing and often,
especially when we talk about emotional trauma,
imprints from when we're young and how it is that those those that imprinting
from when we're very young actually determines how we frame the world.
Like you say, how we give meaning or meaning making machines.
So where does that all start?
And so if you trace it back to this this imprinting that occurs when we're young,
a lot of people and there's a lot of people out there that are talking about
not talking about that, that are engaged in helping people heal.
I mean, I'm in a healing industry in the healing arts of any kind.
And it's I'm not against any form of healing, but he's talking about instead
of using the word healing, it's about integrating and this integrative therapy
as opposed to healing therapy.
As though healing, I mean, healing makes you think immediately, what?
That there's something that must be healed with something that's wrong,
that's in the system that doesn't belong in the system,
as opposed to something that might just not be integrated in the system,
which is why it's it's the, you know, it becomes the cancer.
So, you know, it's just it's just one of those things I'll look forward to
maybe chat about in the future.
I'd love to get your opinion there.
So I'd say in the just the remaining time, this is this is a show about conscious pivoting.
So it's just wonderful to be able to speak to something that's
really committed to what it is, you know, how we're all kind of built and made up.
And before, before we talk about what your business is doing to sort of assist in the world,
because I think you're doing something really profound.
And that's what I told your brother James.
I said, I what you're doing makes more than makes sense to me.
It is just something I feel good about supporting.
And before we get to that, I'd love to just know if there's a,
if there's some pivot in your life that you've had more recently, perhaps, or,
or, you know, some time ago, if you wish, either in your personal life or your business life,
you were able to glean some special lesson from it you'd like to share.
You know, the first one that came to mind that might be interesting for listeners here was
there was a pivot to actually decide to engage in business at all.
My work previous to that was all in either non-profit or academics.
And specifically, a lot of the non-profit was think tank work mostly.
I mean, some of it was working in environmental work and social justice and animal rights,
but then quickly realized that despite the good work being done in four benefit businesses
and government and in nonprofits, there were key issues like ocean acidification and biodiversity
loss that were getting worse rapidly heading towards points of irreversibility in the face
of the collective work that was being done by everybody.
And that we didn't just need more of that kind of work.
We needed a fundamentally different set of approaches.
So we worked with a number of other think tanks and developed the,
I think, think that was focused on comprehensive civilization upgrade.
What is the future of macroeconomics that only incents positive behavior,
that aligns the incentive of all agents with the well-being of other agents in the commons
so there's no externality?
What is the future of governance and decision making that can really inform omnipositive decisions
adequate to the speed at which we need to make decisions, the complexity of the decisions,
the inner number of interrelating factors like representative democracy can't do it,
retrofits of capitalism can't do it, we have to move into.
But no other previously proposed systems can either.
But the technologies that are mandating us to move into these systems also need
possible fundamentally new systems.
The technological automation that's going to obsolete 30% of all jobs in the next 15 years
is also what makes it to where we don't need the jobs.
One of the core ideas of capitalism was how do you incent people to do the shitty jobs
of labor and economy because they need done and who's going to do them?
Well, they don't need done by humans as soon as we automate them,
which means when the jobs don't need the humans anymore,
you can also move the economic systems where the humans don't need the jobs
and start to move into commonwealth economics.
It's one of many examples where the technology that requires us to shift
is also changing the axioms of how we thought about it.
So given that having worked on economics so deeply because we realized all right,
by as long as we have war, then we learn how to manage war and as long as we have capitalism
and war together, then we make military manufacturers that are for-profit, right?
Do you look at all that together and you have a for-profit military industrial complex
sign demand that they've developed a capacity to supply a demand that demand has to continue
but then to continue to have supply.
So how do we have a world without war and a for-profit military industrial complex
coexistence? You can't, right? So this is a big set of shifts.
How do you have a world with robust health that prevents disease
while having a healthcare or sick care system that only makes money when people are sick?
You can't. You have to change underlying structures deeply.
How do you have it where whales are worth a million dollars dead on a fishing boat
and they're worth nothing alive in the oceans to anyone and not hunt all the whales to extinction?
You can't, which is why you've been hunting all the whales to extinction.
But so we have a system of macroeconomics that in a sense is exactly the opposite of
collective well-being in heaps of places that are foundational to its structure.
Given that and that I've been focused on the transition of economics to post-capitalist
economics my whole life, wanting to build a business was the last thing in my mind, right?
Counterintuitive, for sure.
I wanted to obsolete what we think of as businesses and all the nonsense of intellectual property
where right now is the best phone an iPhone or a Google phone or well not the best phone that
could exist can't exist because intellectual property keeps the good parts from being able
to synthesize and so there's so much to the and there's so much radical duplication that occurs
and then so much that goes into marketing shitty stuff as opposed to product development.
So it had an evolutionary relevance.
It's now a profoundly inefficient but also destructive set of systems.
But as I was working in just kind of the science and strategy and architecture
of how future systems could work and then wanting to be able to influence current
nonprofits and current for-profits to be able to do better things,
I saw that their structures were just not well enough set up to do a lot of the things that I
wanted to do and that we'd actually have to be able to take responsibility for
prototyping the things we want to prototype and so I didn't see a way forward that didn't
involve starting things that look like businesses even though the eventual role is to transition
the underlying structures of what we call business and capitalism and so in order to do that I had
to you know from a pivot point of view the idea of being an entrepreneur was the farthest thing
for my identity right. Philosopher yes, scientist yes, activist yes, entrepreneur fuck no right.
That doesn't mean not entrepreneurial in the outside of capitalism sense of creative right
but that was in minter right. Entrepreneur as we thought of it within capitalism the idea of
marketer was like the worst thing ever right because unlike the marketing is what only only
seconds of being a salesperson and because you know if you think about it from the point of
view of look at how much we put into marketing budgets rather than into product development
to have me-too products just not add more novel value to people's lives is I've always wanted
to get rid of marketing as a whole to get rid of the entire space synthesize all of the product
technology and then have people have access to the best shit without a marketing layer in between
that misinforms what is actually good with emotional marketing conversion analytics.
And so having to say okay so I'm going to become an entrepreneur and a marketer and
whatever to be able to actually develop the science and technology that I want prototype
wise even though it will eventually move into other systems that was not trivial for me.
It's not trivial at all that required saying even though this is very different than what
my long range goals are it is the best step in service to it and I actually have to
download a entirely new element of personality right because I can't continue to feel that
conflicted with it. No you feel like a sellout otherwise. And so it was how do I actually download
the identity of entrepreneur of marketer that sees the beauty rather than the dysfunction in it
and then it integrates with the other parts that doesn't do the dysfunctional part and
uses it in an adaptive way. And so that was actually a very interesting non-trivial pivot
to say I actually want to take science tech philosophy strategy and move it into business
because it's a vehicle that in the current landscape I can actually advance further faster
meaning. And the key there was so interesting because that was an identity level pivot right
it wasn't a strategy level pivot because it was have to add a module to identity. You went
into the phone booth like I think you you you're like Clark Kent you know you walked in as Clark
Kent but you have emerged this with a different identity same person by the way but different
identity and there has to be a shift in that phone booth right. And that's something interesting
is you know my value systems of what I seek to serve are deeper to me than what I have skill
out or what I like because what I like would have been different had I grown up in a different
culture what my skill sets are would have been different had I done a different college program
whatever and that's still changeable but what I ultimately love the most and seek to serve the
most is is deeper and less changing than those other things are so I'm like oh if actually
adding entrepreneur and marketer allows me to serve the things that I care about more in this
particular environment in this particular time period then it is actually in service to the
deepest aspect of self which is the values to bring in new modules of identity. Yeah beautiful
so share a little bit about the business that you pivoted into because I think that's
it's more than a little fascinating. So the the business right now is called
