I mean, there are, there are outliers for sure, but, uh, but I don't think, I
don't think people can hear it enough, even though as you said, it's basic.
I think people need the reminder.
And I'm glad you're, you're providing that reminder.
And some people really focus on when you sleep, um, early to sleep, early
to rise kind of dynamics.
Uh, I think that is a good thing to explore, but I don't stress on that too much.
Um, if some, I think you should find out when you feel like you perform the
best, because there is a meaningful reason to think that most humans are
diurnal animals, right?
We are daytime animals where our circadian rhythm is in relationship to
light and sun, uh, and that, uh, the quality of sleep that happens in dark is
better than not dark.
And I think that's a general truth.
It also does appear that there are a subpopulations that are, uh, genetically
adapted for sleeping, waking up earlier and, uh, waking up later that we'll
probably have to do with rotations, rotations of who is awake to keep the,
you know, tribe safe.
So whatever you find actually works best for you, go ahead and write that.
Do make sure that you're sleeping enough.
Sleeping enough means that you can wake up without an alarm energized.
And if you wake and sustainably, because anyone, when they're just kind of on
the adrenaline run of a really exciting and busy time, I do that for a short
period, if you can wake up with good energy, have energy throughout the day,
that's enough sleep.
If it's less than that, you might wish that you needed less sleep than that.
And there are things you can do with your health that can decrease sleep need
because you have less to repair.
Uh, if, if someone has health issues that lead to increased rate of oxidative
damage or increased rate of inflammation, then they'll need more sleep than they
would normally genetically need because they're getting damaged faster.
At the same time though, if someone's doing very heavy athletics, they're
going to need more sleep, bodybuilders need more sleep because it just got more
in that repair.
Yeah.
And stress.
I mean, that, that's the thing about that article that's, that's pretty key.
I think is that the stress involved in being, and the people listening to this
for the most part, and almost everybody I know, um, is under greater stress now
than, than kind of ever before.
I mean, there's entrepreneurs, people in business, whether you're working in
somebody else's business, but there's just more plates spinning, you know, with
family and work and everything else.
So it feels like there's more, there's more stress, which would seemingly
require a better system to repair and recover and, and regenerate.
And as you said, mentally, emotionally, spiritually and physically.
So let's say you've got stress on each of those dimensions, right?
Physiologic stress can come from, uh, toxins in the environment, from physical
stress, from injury, from exercise, from poor posture, from, uh, too
much computer hours, from not enough exercise, leading to circulation issues
from food that's not right for you.
All of those are sources of extra physiologic stress than it's just a
given.
And so I would say decreasing physiologic stressors while increasing
physiologic regeneration is key.
But you want to eat less inflammatory stuff, less, um, artificial, anything.
Less sugar, more micronutrients, right?
In general, uh, the, in general, people do better with less calories than
they used to be, and less people are really severely under eating.
Uh, but caloric restriction is still the main thing we know about life
extension.
Uh, we're fasting.
Chloric, periodic fasting is intermittent fasting is one way of achieving
it, but diets that had about 30% less calorie than was normally considered
adequate, so calorie means macronutrient, sugar, fat, um, you know, carbs, fats
and proteins, uh, live longer from a number of reasons, increased AMTK levels
and activation of serotonin and things like that.
So, but we want lots of micronutrients, vitamins, minerals, enzymes.
So if people can have a diet that is higher in micronutrients and lower in
total calorie, they will in general do better.
And if you think about if people lived in a hunter gather environment where
they were eating a lot of vegetation, vegetation is going to be very high in
micronutrient, raw, organic, et cetera, and rel, relative to the total
amount of calorie in it.
Um, so one thing, and just in general saying eating in a way that is closer
to the living ecosystem and less processed is going to be a general rule
of thumb before you get into specific dietary ideas.
Um, because you will have people who do better on different diets and each time
we go from, uh, being really into high fiber or high fat or ketosis, or we're
just learning a little bit more about physiology, which is a very complex
system, but eating in ways that are closer to our evolutionary environment is
a good starting place.
Um, so, and specifically avoiding, uh, stressors from food, right?
So that would be inflammatory foods.
Foods that are hard to digest, processed, toxic, sugar, et cetera.
Um, actually really cool.
I just want to stop the second because, you know, talking about food and
stress in the same, the same sentence, I think is unusual for people to hear.
Cause my, my dad always said food is medicine.
So I've had a different kind of a beat on, on it for a while, but, but to hear
that food actually causes stress, that you can actually eat food that causes
stress, I think is something that's worth, you know, underscoring.
Well, think about it when we think about an airplane and we talk about this,
the stresses on an airplane, the tension forces, the shearing forces, we're
talking about stress in terms of mechanical physics, right?
Mechanical stressors, stress doesn't just mean an emotional or a mental thing.
Stress means any force on a system that if it gets high enough, we'll produce
an alteration of that system, right?
The alteration is what we call strain in physics.
Stress is the force that will lead to strain.
If the stress gets higher than the dynamic capacity of the system to endure.
And so that's a kind of wider way to think about what stress means.
And so then we have destructive and constructive types of stress.
And so when we work out, we're stressing a muscle.
But if we stress it where it is within a range that we can recover and then we
do adequate things to support recovery, then what's happening is the system says,
well, I'm not adapted to be able to deal with this kind of stimulus.
So I need to change to be able to adapt to it.
So it gains bigger, you know, develops bigger muscles to deal with the
stimulus called heavy weight.
And this is why like Wim Hof's work in cryotherapy, cold therapy is very interesting.
If you think about in our evolutionary environment, we, for air conditioners
and heaters, we were regulating our own body temperature.
I mean, some through clothes, but largely our own metabolism changed to deal
with external temperature much more dynamically than it does now.
And so as warm-blooded creatures, how do we get warm?
Well, we could, you know, catabolism is the force where we break molecules
and release energy and heat from it.
And so if it's cold and we need to actually generate more heat, that means
we need to increase those metabolic processes.
That means we need to increase the thyroid hormones, the, you know,
the sex hormones, et cetera, that are involved in doing that and those
catabolic processes.
If it's too hot and we need to cool down, we need to change other metabolic,
you know, and cooling processes.
So it's one of those things where it's like, if you don't stress the system
enough, it will lose capacity because there's no evolutionary purpose
for it to keep the capacity, right?
And so this is what we would call adaptive or healthy stress.
Just saying, hey, this is a kind of thing that, this is a kind of stimulus
that we're going to keep being exposed to.
So we need the capacity to respond to it.
But if I put myself in a cold bath or a cold chamber where I can produce
enough heat, if I put myself in an amount of cold that I don't really feel
any stress from the system can already, its current capacity can already handle
it, it doesn't need to upregulate capacity, right?
But it has to actually be at the edge of my current capacity.
So the system says, hey, we need to upregulate capacity.
It will deal with this, but it has to not be so far beyond the
edge that it causes damage, i.e.
frostbite or hypothermia here or lifting in a way where you damage
a tendon rather than micro tears and muscle.
So healthy stress is where you expose yourself to a stimulus that is beyond
your current capacity to manage easily that leads to the system
upregulating its capacity in a way that you actually can
upregulate in relationship to.
Damaging stress is where you can't upregulate in relationship to it.
You don't do what's necessary or it's just too far out and then the system
actually just down regulates from going into strain, right?
It needs repair at that point.
It needs more repair than it can get, so it's damaged, right?
Is it irreparable in that instance?
Depends. Is a torn tendon irreparable?
No, but if no up to a certain point, yes, beyond that point, right?
Without surgery or some other artificial means, right?
So two things that just come up for me and I want to.
So one is this, you know, the side of me that that works in a personal
development and business development arena.
I'm constantly wanting to encourage people, inspire them and sometimes,
you know, other things to keep them on their growth edge for the reason
that you just said.
And that's a very interesting line of where someone's growth
edge is versus where there's kind of gone past the point of repairability
or if not that, there's some damage that's caused as a result of it.
And that's a really interesting point there.
And the other thing you said earlier about recovery, because in
in talking about resilience and in pivot, one of the things I
it's a three part process.
And the third part is our rituals for recovery.
So I'm curious, do you have rituals for recovery?
Things that you that you're doing constantly, you know,
continuously on a regular basis to ensure that you recover?
Yeah, so we only mentioned a few types of
stress in the physiologic dimension.
We didn't mention the other dimensions yet or we're repairing them,
but I'll go ahead and jump to ritual.
Physiologically rituals.
So there's there's things that are just what I call foundations.
So a healthy diet, healthy, good hygiene and movement would all just be
foundational. And those are all, they're physiological things, right?
They're physiologic foundations.
Other things that I would say, you know, kind of do regularly enough
that they're ritualized on top of that are things like crowd therapy,
hot cold therapy and particularly cold therapy
as a method for increasing system resilience.
Very meaningful.
Other kinds of therapies like PEMF, post electromagnetic field therapy,
which has a number of really
generally healing physiologic dynamics increases the rate of potential blood.
You know, so things like that, active physiologic restoration.
So, you know, beyond restoration, it's happening from rest while sleeping
on just restoration while awake, if you call meditation,
which is both, you know, psychological and physiologic.
Right.
And then I do a lot of physiologic therapies that increase the
resilience of the system.
So that's a lot of nutrients and kind of bio modulators,
so supplements, medicines, as well as not just things that are orally,
like IV nutrients, therapies, things like that.
Because when you realize that you can take more responsibility for how
