Okay, we want to see who is who is going to start you. Okay, we have written some questions for him.
My first question is, we don't see Chuck much online, and I'm very interested in what he's doing now and is he still working on and with Ford.
Yes, of course.
Can you hear me.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Wonderful version of color force, which I use almost every day.
I'm not doing anything impressive with it, just messing around with computers.
Basically, I'm retired.
I spend a lot of time exercising, trying to stay alive.
I eat a lot of food.
Very pleasant, very pleasant life. And I certainly don't want to be under any kind of pressure to produce things.
So I'm basically not.
I have a number of applications in color force that I enjoy.
They are emphatically not portable.
Forced to me I agree with Ulrich is a personal language, and I'm doing it my way.
And I would be happy to share ideas.
But no one would be interested in my fourth code.
I think we all interested in everyone's ideas and especially yours.
I would love to see it.
Sometimes maybe I can show it to you but I'm not set up to do that now.
What's the computer are you doing it at the moment.
Sorry.
Are you doing it on the GA 144.
Not a computer, a special computer maybe.
It's on a PC.
I've got a 4k display.
And it's all tuned to 4k.
Although I have the parameterized so I could display it on 2k.
It doesn't work very well.
That means it's small screen.
55 inch.
55 inch 4k display.
It's a PCL television.
It works just fine.
You only do force on it.
So other things.
I browse the web and YouTube.
That is my fourth display.
It's very nice to meet you.
We have got an old club here.
From 1979 about.
Okay.
We are rather active still with a few members, maybe 13 members are active.
And more than a hundred members are there, but not here normally.
And they're all very happy to use force because it's very flexible.
And it's very basic. You can do very smart things with a few.
A little bit of pop.
It's always been my favorite language.
I'm impressed.
I'm very happy.
I'm impressed with how many people are interested.
I gave up long ago.
Trying to promote force.
Yes, it's a hard sell.
And I would just rather use it myself.
I can understand that it's really a hard sell.
You can write beautiful code with it.
Most people only do a segment of relations.
I believe.
And that doesn't help.
Beautiful code is right.
It's.
Back in the back in the old days.
I thought that people would write their own programs.
And it forced to be a great vehicle for doing that.
And it would appear that.
A thousand people.
Out of.
8 billion.
Are willing to write their own programs.
Yes.
Most of the people like to copy and paste only.
Question for check more.
I really wonder what your most used application does.
The application I use.
The application you mostly use.
It's a clock.
I have a, I have a screen full of numbers.
The date and time.
Julian day.
Moonrise.
I don't know what the number of days till.
Things like they like savings time.
All of the.
Time questions that I asked myself.
Have got the answers.
And it's a pretty display.
Sounds nice. Thank you.
One thing I have done.
Is a new character set.
You may be aware that I've done many, many different character sets.
This one is the prettiest.
And simplest.
And it has a unique property.
Normally what I have been doing.
Would be I would generate.
A character.
As a raster.
I would have.
What 48.
Symbols representing the.
Characters.
Stored.
In rain Ram.
It finally occurred to me that.
Computers are much faster than they need to be.
Instead of storing the.
Characters I store the code that generates the characters.
And when I want to display one, I can do it.
Computers are pretty fast to do that.
With those perceptible delay.
And it saves memory.
It adds flexibility. You can edit your characters on the fly.
And you can invest.
A fair amount of work in calculating a character because it doesn't matter.
So I've got pretty characters.
Available on demand.
I encourage people to design their own characters.
It's fun.
It's easy.
And it gives you another customizable.
And it's very, very nice.
So there's something that is called display post script on,
on Mac OS 10, for example, or I don't know whether it's called like this.
So this is something like display force.
So a force program runs when you display text.
Because it draws the characters.
Yep.
Yeah, great.
I like that.
I can draw characters sometimes when I can.
They're very pretty in 4k.
I can draw very large characters.
They're all scalable.
And some curves.
Chuck, this is Don.
You gave a talk, I think it was last fourth day where you were writing
directly to the memory buffer.
That's what this system you're describing is you're writing directly to the memory
buffer.
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
You have to have a.
Kind of speed.
If you go through the windows.
Interface.
It's much too slow.
Hi, Chuck.
This is Carlos here.
Hi.
I'm Carlos.
I'm a member of the planetary networking special interest group.
I know you have been.
For many years interested in space and space exploration.
Have you been working at some point.
About the late tolerant networking.
And interfacing with force.
What is called.
I don't understand.
DTN is a protocol.
That use environmental protocol encapsulates the TCP IP or LTP like
like the transport protocol to connect.
With the space it's using the international space station and also in
much rovers.
And.
I.
I've been looking to different languages to interface with.
DTN.
We are working with Pinto surfing this in this project about interplanetary
internet.
And I would like to know if you have been interested at some point in this
kind of communication.
I haven't been able to get on to the internet.
I'm indeed interested, but I've done nothing in that direction.
In fact, I haven't even been able to get onto the internet.
The.
Tools that windows provides are.
Opaid to me.
And I've just been forced to deal with things locally.
Thank you.
Hi, Chuck. My name is Bob Flanders. It's a pleasure to meet you, sir.
Yeah.
Somebody just brought up the original list things.
Hi, Bob. Nice. Nice to meet you. Nice to see you in the group.
Nice to meet you too, Peter. It's been a, it's been a long time coming.
There's kind of an interesting little story about what's on the screen on
2011 or thereabouts.
It's been a pleasure to talk to ask if he had any old code.
For the IBM 1130, which was the first computer he wrote for thought
of fully working forth on this. I understand it. In fact, the name of,
of four would have been F O U R T H had it not been for the 1130s
limited file system, which only allows five characters.
So it had to be named F L R K H to be a file on the 1130.
Just kind of fun and has led to the idea of it being something that we go
forth.
So anyway, in 2011, I sent a message to him asking if he had any old code
for the, to be 1130 and he said, yeah, I'll rummage around and,
and he'll take a look and see what he has. And he found this.
