But I have to say that was a lot of fun for a lot of years.
Thank you. This is great. I was asking another question.
The chip simulation is fantastic. I think one of your very first projects you ever worked on
was the telescopic pointing and the data analysis you did interactively
on the system with all the other astronomers watching the work output.
Because that is quite significant to use something as large as a radio telescope
to capture the data live and to manipulate the data to generate those graphs.
That I think would be significant.
It was at the time there was this millimeter radio telescope
was being used to discover interstellar molecules.
And you would collect data and display it.
And if there was a peak where you expected a peak, you would discover the molecule.
And the immediate feedback was very useful for the astronomers.
But they still required that I record the raw data so they could take it home
and repeat the analysis even though that was completely unnecessary.
Brilliant. You've done the processing already.
Yeah. They were going to redo it probably not as well because I had good statistics.
Live statistics. Forget about post statistics.
Well, guys, I see we had a fantastic meeting today. We need to thank
1000 times to check. But there are people in the meeting.
I see Rob Jude from Australia. Do you want to say hello and anything to Chuck?
Not not questions, but only hi.
Or do you have questions? Sorry.
No questions. Okay. Who else? I see Ray Gardiner also from Australia.
Very late in the night. Ray.
Ray showed us in the group, in the Facebook group,
fantastic pictures of his boards with the RTX 2000 and image vision
in Australia for machines for different machines.
So he's a wonderful father and incredible, incredible stuff.
I see in the meeting, Ashley Faniello wanted to show us the wonderful
cognition. Do you want to say anything, Ashley? Something to Chuck?
Oh, just hello, Chuck. We met once in 2013 at the Strange Loop Conference.
It's great to see you again. It's always great to hear what you have to say.
Who else? I see Ilya Tarasov from Moscow. He's chatting,
but he does not like to talk. What happens, Ilya? Too much vodka today?
Say hello to Chuck. Okay. Okay. I'm here, but I'm afraid with my new microphone,
it will be not possible to hear me. Okay. Very good. It's very good.
I just want to say hello. No more. What else? Hello. What else? And wish everyone to be healthy.
Thank you. Thank you to you too. 3.30 in the morning in Australia.
It's indeed this is a word-by-word translation of Russian hello. Be healthy.
Yeah. Wonderful. Thank you, Ilya. I see also Jonas Carlson. Where are you in the world, Jonas?
Do you want to say hello to Chuck?
You are muted.
Oh, yeah. One moment. Yes. So, yeah, I'm in Bangkok at the moment. And well, at the moment,
we are all stuck where we are, right? So, it's two years. So, I had time to play with a lot of
things. And the last thing I played with a few months ago was 6502 Forth. And I was reading in
parallel a lot of things about Color Forth. And I found similarities when I was basically creating
a system with an online editor running on a 6502, where each page 256 bytes was,
maybe it was buffer size, basically. And this Forth was a bytecoded Forth. Actually,
it's alphabetical bytecoded Forth. So, I used D for dup and I used S for swap and so on. And,
of course, the arithmetic operations are plus. And I remember reading when I was working on this,
that you actually liked the idea of a bytecoded Forth, but you never really went to do that.
Do you have any comments about that? And especially about the code bloat today,
we have so big systems and they are compiled to yield hundreds of bytes.
Yeah. So, that's my general question. If Jacques is there.
I've thought about bytecoding. Other people have also. It's a good strategy. The closest I've come
to it is the GA-144 instruction codes. They are five bits. So, effectively done by coding on the
hardware. Right. Microcontrollers with ARM v7m have the bh and thh instruction, which are basically
what you're asking for, bytecode junk tables in mass manufactured CPUs, which can be used
to bytecode at Forth with a very tiny interpreter.
Yeah. I'm finally building my so-called alpha alphabetical Forth, which is supposedly half
readable kind of bytecode with letters and symbols. And I'm writing a very tiny C compiler that
compiles C to this Forth. And I have it kind of working for functional C with no variables.
And just the other day, I added variables. So, soon I will be able to compile C to Forth. And
the rationale for this is ESP32, which I calculated that, yes, it's a very powerful thing, but one
line of C code usually ends up being about 80 bytes of machine code.
Join us. We are saying bye-bye. Bye-bye. We are finishing. Bye-bye. Thank you. Another one here.
Holy Neppu. Holy Neppu. Is this correct?
Yeah, this is holy. Yeah, from Taiwan.
Holy. How are you, Taiwan?
You invite us to join this meeting. Actually, I want to say that I have developed the
cross compiler for different micros MCUs. And the cross compiler includes assembler,
disassembler, and compiler, and cross compiler. One special trick is that once the assembler is
generated, the disassembly is automatically generated. And the assembler that I designed
is based on algebraic assembler. So, every microcontroller can be seen the same, because we
use the same instruction like register and immediate word. You can see that all microcontrollers can
be seen as a false chip. Not a really false chip, but actually, if we say it is for chip,
and it contains only register and immediate word. So, that way, based on these two characters,
I can design the assembler based on these two. So, every microcontroller seems the same.
And the assembler has, I can design the assembler in a different way.
Fantastic. This is great news. So, we love to hear from you, and we send all our regards to the
fantastic FIC Taiwan and all the great members you have, also in the name of Dr. Ting, who is here,
and he wanted to show something, but we will do this in the next meeting, because we are out of
time. Thank you, Holly, for participating. Looking forward to hearing more about that in
a later time. Another friend here is Igor Matsnitsa from Estonia. Is this correct, the name? Igor?
Yes, do you hear me? Only to say hello to Chuck, and wish him well, and etc.
Do you hear me, yes? Yeah, but the mic is making noise, but it will do.
Hello, Chuck. Thank you very much for your creation. I met Ford the first time in my school, and it
made a big movement in my development as a programmer. Thank you very much, one more time,
and big help in this time, and I wish you many years and a lot of, implement your plans.
Thank you, Igor. Karsten, do you want to say hi to Chuck and bye-bye? Where are you from, Karsten,
from Germany? I cannot. Karsten, yeah, your microphone. I cannot.
Maybe you have to put on the volume, increase the volume, Karsten.
Okay, then just wave into the camera next time, so Karsten is from Hamburg, actually,
across the city. Thank you very much, Karsten, for participating. Next time, we talk with you.
Roy, also from Germany, do you want to say bye-bye to Chuck and thanks, etc.,
or Rolf has no microphone? Who else? I have...
You're muted, Roy. Hello, Chuck. I want to say hello from Germany,
Bühnefeld, and I was motivated to write my own force, my own tiny force,
because everybody should write their own tiny force before using a professional force, I think,
and I learned it from you. I see also Thomas Goeppel from Germany. He helped us putting the
link in the Hackaday, so I thank you very much to Thomas, and he's also a great participant here in
our meetings. No sound, Thomas. Hello. Thank you, then, if you have no sound. Thank you again.
Who else?
Atle from Norway, do you want to say bye-bye and thank you to Charles?
I'm a relative newbie in short, and I just want to say thank you and I find it brilliant.
Thank you. Anthony Fogler, do you want to say bye-bye and thanks to Chuck?
Yes, I say hello to Chuck, and thank you so much for all the difficult nights I have to work through
to find books in my programs for three later. It was very enjoyable, and still today, two months ago,
I started a new project with FORTH, so it is still very alive for me. Thank you.
Well, who else? Jorge from Brazil. Jorge Janaite, do you want to say?
Oh, hi. I'm Jorge Janaite from Brazil. I'd like to say thank you to everyone,
especially Peter, for organizing this event. Chuck, for discovering, like he says,
this incredible language. It's amazing. It's more than a language, it's a philosophy.
The FORTH way to think, I don't know. I really love this. It's a pleasure to talk about FORTH
with people who like FORTH. Oh, thanks. Thanks, Peter, Ulrich, John Hard, Chuck, Dr. Ting,
everyone. It's really, really, really nice to stay with that today. Thank you for your love
in the language, Jorge. You are a great father. I have also here, Thomas, from Kern. Thomas.
Thank you. Can you hear me? Thank you, Chuck. Thank you, everybody, for this very marvelous
meeting. And I was using FORTH at the beginning in, I think, 85 to 87, brought my PhD. No,
my thesis in Felix was a great time. So thank you all and have a good time, Chuck. See you soon.
Bye-bye. Thank you, Thomas. Pablo de Argentina. Pablo Reda. Hi. I'd like to say thank you to
Chuck Moore. I am a Color4Fan. I'm learning FORTH, reading the Color4Source, and I changed my life
with this marvelous language. Thank you. Thank you, Pablo. Who else, somebody else? And then we
close. Cecil Bayona. I don't know. Philip, Ellie. Yes, Chuck. Chuck, again, many thanks for the
inspiration you gave me during those years when I was a student and still now. And clearly,
you are a wonderful person. So thank you for everything. Fantastic. Thanks again, Chuck, for
being here. I've been following FORTH for many, many, many years. And in my youth,
when I first heard about FORTH, I was so excited. Somebody who wanted to keep things simple rather
than the abortions we had for programming at the time. So thanks again for your great idea.
And what can I say? Thank you again.
Well, guys, this was fantastic. I don't know if Chuck agrees to that. And we do all these meetings,
thinking and thanking everybody in the FORTH community. All people from SVFIC also who helped
us every meeting and from all the communities in the world. Howard, do you have a racing hand?
Yeah. Chuck, is there any chance I could get my hands on your clock code? I'd like to put it in
as an app in the color FORTH. Do you have any plans to post it anywhere?
I don't have a vehicle for posting things. Can you send it by email?
I could send screen captures maybe. I'll keep it in mind. Okay. I'd also like to see the source
for your character generator code. That interests me. That I would gladly publish.
Again, if I had some way of doing it, I used to have a website. I keep thinking maybe I should
reactivate the website. But I haven't yet. Okay. If you come up with any way of transferring it,
I can help in any way. Let me know and I'll help you gladly. Okay, Howard. I want to thank you all
for inviting me. It's been fun and it's gratifying to see so many interested FORTH people. I wish you
all will in your endeavors. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for joining
us. Thank you. Thank you, Chuck. Thank you, everybody. Chuck. Thank you. Thank you, Chuck.
