All right. Hello and welcome, everyone. It is Saturday, August 26, 2023. And we're here
in physics as information processing in the fourth discussion. Thank you, everybody who's
joining live or watching live or watching and replay. This should be a really fun discussion
as usual. So we're going to have under provide some slides and some initial clarifying questions
for Chris. And then we're going to open it up for our guests to ask some questions and
check in a live chat, see what people are talking about. So under to you for some slides and
overview. Okay, thank you, Daniel. So last time we were starting to talk about multi agent
communication and log protocols and all of that. So let's quickly go through the slides
and sort of try to recall the main concepts. So I guess from just to go back to session
three for a second, one takeaway was that when you have non-committing sectors in a boundary,
that's necessarily going to require classical communication between them. So that is more
or less the whole point of today how non-committing sectors may communicate, have to communicate
classically. Another introduction in this last lecture was this new graphical notation,
TQFT, if you wish to call it that way, for any of these clock ticks. So let's recall the whole
process of measuring a sector environment and writing it into a memory environment.
It can be simplified to this sort of tick that connects two portions of the boundary.
And everything we talk about log protocols will be written in this graphical notation.
So let's keep going a little bit. This slide is on the paper on sequential measurements from
2022. These are basically the formal mapping between QRFs and topological quantum field
theories. Okay, so we're more used to the picture here on the left-hand side of this slide,
with the QRF sectors. But pictorically speaking, this is at least how they map.
Okay, and then from then, we started talking about entanglement and classical communications
using this notation. And this is probably where my questions to Chris will start.
So in section three, we saw this idea of the FPP asymptotically being the principle of uniterity,
aka driving the system, the joint system, and Alice involved to entanglement,
which in graphical notation amounts to them sort of completing a cycle here,
where the QRFs are perfectly aligned so that the S sector of one becomes the memory sector
of the other, and vice versa. Now I actually, at this point already, I have a question for Chris.
I have it written down here. So yes, two things here, Chris. Number one is
in the log protocol picture, we do have a distinguishing between a quantum channel
and a classical channel. And if I understood that part correctly, we said that
passage of time or expenditure of energy, free energy only corresponds to the classical tick.
So in this quantum entanglement picture, where you don't quite have that, it's
referred to say that there's no such thing as a classical tick, no passage of time,
no expenditure of free energy. Is this a degenerate picture of the log protocol where
the sectors were aligned the right way? And boom, you got rid of that classical thing.
And that's it. And secondly, I guess it's what does it mean for these two parts,
quote unquote, from the paper, to implement the joint unitary process, the joint quantum process.
So yeah, this is not a log protocol, clearly, because there is no classical
communication. And in fact, Alice is not divided into multiple compartments here.
Alice is just implementing one, this single quantum process Q. And
because these sectors are, because these QRFs are perfectly aligned,
we can think of, remember,
from probably the second session, the picture that you were very interested in under
of the WIC rotation, reversing time between Alice and Bob. So Alice's clock, in fact,
ticks in the opposite direction from Bob's clock, because both of their internal clocks
are counting incoming bits, not outgoing bits. So in this, in the right side of this picture,
there is no overall time. You can think of Alice's clock ticking forward one unit,
and then Bob's clock ticking backward one unit, so that
the information flow is completely time symmetric between Alice and Bob. So we can think of
both of these processes, Q and Q prime, as bi-directional in time. That's what it means to
have a pure unitary process. So no time asymmetry, that's what it is? Right, so there is no time
asymmetry in this picture. And when you introduce classical communication, of course, you have
to have a time asymmetry, because you have this, I mean, classicality is defined by this notion
of irreversibility, which is just the same as time asymmetry. And it's the irreversibility that
burns energy. So there has to be energy flow between Alice and Bob to drive
what is in, from a global point of view, and only in apparent asymmetry, but from
the point of view of Alice one and Alice two as components of Alice. They're the ones who see
the asymmetry. So I guess just to tie back the question of the weak rotation, once this joint
process is implemented, I mean, and I think one can say, is this cycle going clockwise or counter
clockwise? And is that going to define on originally whenever these guys ended up being
lined up where the weak sign was coming from?
Yes, whenever Alice sees information flowing in, Bob sees information flowing out. So their
their their weak rotations are going in opposite directions.
Yeah, very good. And yeah, the other the other thing to to think of in this picture, Richards,
it's impossible to draw these simultaneously, is that if you if you think of the FEP
key as fully aligning Alice and Bob, then not only do these processes perfectly couple,
but the the area that's green in this right hand side kind of expands to fill the whole
boundary. So that in the in the complete limit of Alice being able to perfectly predict Bob and
vice versa, then the whole boundary is green. So that there's no this distinction between
the the the S sector and the Y sector disappears. Yes, yes, that makes sense, actually. And just
to conclude with this slide, back in the session two, we saw something about agents requiring a
free choice of reference frame for their QRFs, which amounts to being able to choose how to measure
spin, right? Right. So is part of this entanglement picture, like, do they do they just have to
align the sectors or all also the way they are measuring a spin on those sectors?
Yes, they they they have to align the way they're measuring the spin in those sectors that
it's that lack of remember the the point that free choice of of local reference frame
is required for separability. So as the systems become fully entangled,
then their local reference frames for each qubit become the same,
right, become necessarily the same.
Thank you. Okay, and then let's continue a little bit. So in this in this talk, we're mainly
interested on QRFs that do not commute. Now, maybe you can, because you can tie this back
to what you were saying earlier about if you're perfectly entangled, then the sector is going
to grow. Does it have anything to do with this? So if Q1 and Q2 here are do commute, then how does
how do you reduce this to the picture on the right hand side? At the first glance, it looks like
the picture on the left hand side encompasses more sectors of the boundary.
Yeah, the the point here is just that if if we go back and go go back to the notation where
what we're we're representing by this this simplified notation
is a collection of cone, cocoon diagrams.
And if the if the if these reference frames commute, then one can take these two diagrams
and and find a think of it in the information inflow direction.
There will always be a common
a co co cone over the two sets of input classifiers if the two QRFs commute.
So what that means is that I go from a diagram with two sets of classifiers each going up to some
apex to a diagram with the merge set of classifiers going up to some some farther up the hierarchy
apex. Because they commute, I can find that that sort of yet more abstract
cocoon that covers all of the classifiers in both QRFs. So that just collapses
of these pairs of green segments down to one green segment. And I've drawn it the same size,
I mean it would it would make more sense graphically I suppose to draw it. Each one is twice as big
or each one is twice the area. But yeah keeping to this kind of very topological representation
where the area isn't actually meaningful, it is convenient to draw it this way.
Right so so in short community the fact that they commute means that you will have that
higher apex anyway so you can bypass that first nesting. But it comes to the number of degrees
of freedom at the boundary they're still the same. I mean in terms of area. Yeah right yeah we're
not we're not getting rid of any of the degrees of freedom of the boundary that these QRFs are
looking at. Yeah very good. So the next slide I found a very interesting one. So these are
no-go theorems things that Alice and Bob cannot do and they measure you know it's mainly having to
do all that measuring. They're entangled and meant entropy and cutting degrees of freedom.
I guess this has a very holographic feel to it and also maybe even a bit of a gotal
theorem feel to it. So I don't know if Chris wants to comment on that.
Well I'll just say that I think this does have a kind of
girdle undecidability feel to it in that there there are a large number of questions that Alice
can't answer which certainly suggests a formulation in terms of incompleteness.
And this is the connection to girdle theorem is actually something that Jim Glaceburg and I are
currently working on and hopefully we'll be able to make that connection more precise.
But the the point of these statements is just to emphasize that
of a single observer that's uncompartimentalized cannot determine anything about the entanglement
entropy of the environment. And this is this is just the result that to to measure entanglement
you have to have you have to employ a lot protocol so you have to have classical communication.
And this raises a fundamental issue in the theory and that that classical communication
is an exchange of information that cannot be represented as a single quantum process you know
hence you have language like the collapse of the wave function or these various other
you know decoherence etc etc these various ways of trying to capture this idea that
something different and irreversible is happening as soon as you talk about classical communication.
So the point is for for Alice to measure anything about the entanglement entropy of Bob
she has to be sectored so her entanglement entropy
has to decrease but she can't know that she can't actually know that she has sectored
compartments when we think of Alice as an entire system. So from now on we're going to be talking
about the very limited points of view of particular observers and to to talk about that I think it's
it's very important to keep these various limitations in mind because there's a real
distinction between what we can say effectively
from this kind of God's eye point of view that we're adopting as theorists where we say
Alice has sectors that are communicating classically and what Alice a system can do
from her point of view or how her sectors can do from their points of view and this is a
distinction that's often ignored but it's important to keep it in mind.
Awesome, thank you for this line, Andrew. Yeah, so we continue?
Yeah, so then I guess we get to the the proper material of the last lecture which is
what happens when you have sectors that are not communicative such as two portions of Alice
involved that have to communicate classically. This is what requires the classical communication
tick. Let me see, so would it be fair to say Chris this only such a classical channel
which was the one shown in this slide requires free energy. Is that right because there's some
writing for a memory involved in here compared to the earlier slide where we had that closed
loop in the entire angle picture. There was no expenditure of energy, is that correct?
Right, right, so here the the example that came to mind here is
exactly the process that we're executing right now.
Alice has two components and we are currently in the position of those components
and we're communicating classically with each other by employing a channel that's part of our
shared environment. So we're acting irreversibly on our shared environment and it's that irreversible
action on the environment that has the free energy cost for each of us.
We actually have to make noise to communicate and our laptops are actually consuming power.
All of this is classical. I mean it's this irreversible irreversibility that defines
classicality. Right, and to continue with this question I guess it will come in sure in later
slides but the other side of this local protocol is the quantum channel and my question to you
Chris is just like there is an expenditure of time and energy involved in this classical channel
is the quantum channel basically the opposite of that meaning its action is instantaneous
entanglement presumably and also again back to that loop picture of entangled cycle
is there just no passage of time, no expenditure of energy, does that any of that make sense?
Yeah and I think it's worth actually going to the next slide here where we complete the loop
and add the quantum channel. Is it this one? Yeah I think to understand what's going on here
I think it's very useful to think of it in terms of a LEPR experiment
right where Bob in this case the shared environment includes the source that's creating the entangled
pair which A1 and A2 observe simultaneously they interact simultaneously with
their two detectors which are interacting with the entangled pair so you can think of their
two detectors are entangled and it's only later that they exchange this classical information
and in a LEPR experiment the time the elapsed time between the source emitting the entangled pair
and the entangled pair interacting with
the detectors deployed by A1 and A2
is designed as part of the experimental protocol to be less than the time that it is required
for A1 and A2 to communicate classically and notice that from the point of view of the entangled
pair itself no time has passed at all right it's the entangled pair is from a special
relativity point of view moving along a light light trajectory so there's no distance being
traversed and no time is elapsing from the point of view of the entangled pair there's only an elapsed
time and a traverse distance in the coordinates of the observers
and it's those coordinates that define the parameters for the observers eventual classical
communication so that's this is why i characterize the the assumption of classical communication
is a stipulation and also why i characterized it as a fine-tuning assumption right we're
we're assuming something very specific about this communication channel
and we're assuming that the the part of bob the part of the shared environment
that implements this classical communication channel behaves differently from the rest of
the shared environment it behaves in a way that is is classical but the rest of the shared
environment doesn't right the rest of the world is is described using quantum theory
so we're we're making this assumption that part of the shared environment is special
and the the specialness is that it it behaves in this classical way
so let me let me finish with this slide i suppose uh to go back to my earlier question about that
entangled loop being at least pictorically appears to be like a degenerate version of this log picture
if in this log picture i have the quantum channel on the right uh that hypothetical entanglement
on the to complete the cycle on the left was only broken when a1 and a2 chose to write
that into their memories at different sectors right and then that eventually necessitated
the classical communication between them is that is that correct
yeah you know one could one could always take the point of view of if you will the observer
who's outside the entire universe and just sees the entire universe evolving uniterally
and in from that point of view there's no such thing as classical communication
so the communication is classical only only relative to this division between the observers
and that division between the observers corresponds to their their measurement procedures not
commuting so it corresponds to what we think of classically as Alice acting on her half of the
entangled state uh determining what Bob will then see again that's that all of that causal language
is classical right right uh and we're like 11 30 so halfway more let's let's say a few words on
uh the the later flight that's uh it's got a profit and all of that um
i guess before we before we start talking about this which will take us like
five to ten minutes at most did you say if you a few words again about the fine tuning assumption so
