I just think this is fucking cool.
It's amazing.
They found out that you can just give kids iPads and they will teach themselves how
to like, how to program literally just the box of iPads without instructions.
And they, I mean, they had to turn it on.
Yeah.
And then they just, they more and more, uh, played with it.
They taught themselves literacy using this stuff.
And like really interestingly, it was, I think less than nine months that, uh, some
of the smarter kids had actually hacked into the system and started, yeah, they
started programming.
Yeah.
They started routing around the restrictions they had put in on that pad.
Uh, it was, it was great.
And like they, the results study were like, we might be able to educate mass areas
of the world just by dropping off a crate of iPads with learning material on
them, cause kids like to learn.
They do it on their own.
They want to.
Yeah.
Uh, except I don't know, maybe some don't, but the thing is that you're not
going to force that kid to learn if they don't want to.
Exactly.
You let that kid go out and plow the fields if that's what he wants to do.
There's a, this is too unrelated.
Nevermind.
Okay.
And yeah, I guess, I mean, that's, that's putting together the labor with the
schooling thing, but they are closely related.
Cause a lot of the reason people's are people's, yeah, sure.
Let's call them people are, um, this allowed from working is because they're
supposed to be in school all the time.
And, uh, that, that is relatively new.
The first mandatory schooling law was in 1852.
And it required people between eight and 14 to attend school at least three months
a year, unless they could demonstrate that they were already knew the relevant material.
That would have been excellent.
Yeah.
And school, like I really should have been, I don't know, I was pissed off that
they took away the gifted program cause I, I went to school and I knew everything
that they were teaching me for so long.
I had already, like parents had taught me basic arithmetic and I read adult level
books at it, you know, and it was just like, you had to sit there staring at the
clock, like, Oh my God, are we really like going to do three plus three right now?
Like teachers wouldn't even let you quietly read a book.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause then you're not paying attention to me.
If I could have tested out, uh, you know, the stuff that I learned, I could have
like, like, blown through school.
That was the thing I hated school.
It was like just being, you know,
I mean, I can see the arguments for it was just jailing.
Yeah.
Basic functional skills that massively increase human capital like literacy.
They don't even teach a lot of those.
Like, most of the time, most of the time is taking home out of the
curriculum entirely where it was like, I remember that in home act, I actually
had one, um, some of the schools that like didn't get rid of their home act
program, they downscaled it a lot and they made it an elective, but I
learned to balance a checkbook, like cook a bunch of different meals.
Uh, so like, and then like, I also had learned a lot of stuff just cause
my, I don't know, my parents, my dad's a carpenter.
So I knew how to like fix shit and whatever.
It's just like, I, that was another thing.
Yeah.
They had shop class as an elective and I remember finding it hilariously,
like, it was a baby's first woodworking.
And I was like, come on, I, my dad lets me use a jigsaw.
Like, yeah, we're going to make a candle holder.
You're not going to find an argument for me that school sucks.
I think that, uh, if there's a big section on that that isn't like
original material, we can probably abbreviate a Brigitte.
It's basically all the stuff we've said before.
Yeah.
I mean, school, school sucks, you know, I, but everything about school sucks.
Yeah.
But everything about school sucks applies to everything else about how we
restrict young people.
It's, you shouldn't have a special carve out just for school sucks, but then
be like, Oh, but we have to treat them like infants, infants and all other respects.
I feel like you could fix school and not fix any of those other problems and vice versa.
So there, I think they are distinct.
Oh, well, not all the other problems.
You couldn't like let them, you know, start working full time and, uh, not fix school.
Right.
But, uh, no, there's, there's some overlap.
You would have to make school not mandatory anymore.
Right.
But I imagine a lot of people would quickly abandon school and go to work if
they had that option because a lot of school is shit and working is actually valuable.
Yeah, totally.
And like you mentioned too, I would maybe force the schools to become better.
I always thought school was basically just working and not getting paid.
Like you, you know, are working, uh, but it's not valuable work.
It's like, and then like, it's actually fucked up because you're in school 40
hours a week, right?
Basically, and then, but then you also have homework.
One of his major complaints about school is that it also nowadays, uh, restricts,
uh, it stratifies kids by age.
So they, they don't have that interaction with adults.
Yeah.
He's throughout history, people have learned from people that are older than
them teaching them things.
And even in the early school houses, that was the case.
It was one big classroom and the kids of various ages taught each other.
And, uh, now you're only allowed to interact for the most part, most of your
day with other kids your age, which he says is absolutely horrible.
That's not how humans learn.
Once upon a time, I was gifted or was able to, to pass as gifted at math.
And in sixth grade, so my schools went, uh, K through six, seven through nine,
and then 10 through 12.
I think middle school is, we had junior high and high schools.
The middle school breaks that up somehow differently.
Um, I think it's six to eight or something.
In any case, uh, in sixth grade, I was being bussed in the morning to the junior
high for math, um, which I think I quickly stopped doing because I didn't want to.
Um, cause it turned out that A, this was harder than I thought and B, just not
fun autonomy.
Yeah.
You were being a mistake.
You learned from it.
Yeah.
But, uh, yeah, I definitely, again, we, we could, we could sit here, uh, patting
each other on the back all day about, about how bad school is.
But yeah, that, that's definitely a problem.
Right.
Um, I, I know kids who, you know, the teachers struggled to find things for
them to do and they at least tried, um, you know, like, all right, cool.
Uh, everybody do this, except for you two, you guys do the
hard shit because you guys clearly demonstrated mastery over the stuff that
the rest of the class is doing.
I don't think that happens that much.
It didn't happen that much in my childhood.
And I suspect it happens less now, but it happened a couple of times.
And I think it was valuable for the kids who, who did really well at it.
Um, you know, cause they were able to take advanced and one, I'm thinking at
least of two other people, two people doing math, um, they're able to take
advanced math courses, you know, for third grade, you know, whatever the advanced
version of that was, um, I found all that beneficial.
And I suspect the labor thing, you know, I, I still have my, my minimum wage
thing that I, I ideologically like, but probably can't economically defend.
Well, one of the, one of the things that minimum wage does is makes it
impossible for young people to work because their labor often isn't worth
the minimum wage.
When I went to work with my dad at eight and nine years old, he paid me, I think
a dollar an hour initially and bumped it up to a buck 50 or two.
Once I started learning some things.
But yeah, when I first went, I was like handing him tools and stuff.
You can't employ someone at $15 an hour to like watch you and hand you
tools and maybe sand to some wood here and there.
Totally.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I do think that that changes at some point when it's jobs that only
adults are allowed to do.
And it's like, sorry, yeah, you must be 18 to do this job, but we're only
going to pay you seven bucks an hour.
Why would you ever restrict job to be only for someone who's 18?
I'm not saying I would.
I'm saying today the world does.
That's okay.
Um, you know, like, you know, other than again, to some level of
experiencing mandatory, you know, even if you have 10 years of experience,
because you started in year five, I still don't want you wiring my house.
Like, and that might be me just being a bigot towards children or excuse me,
teens, but like, if you can do surgery at 15, there's some people that have
had enough experience by the time they're 15 to wire a house correctly.
I think if I got the choice, I wouldn't want a 15 year old doing my surgery either.
Um, but that's just, you know, again, that, that, that could be society having
told me that children are incompetent and that I classify teens as children.
I actually like decided I want to do have kids when I was working at the
library because I had actually like sort of been brainwashed into thinking that
kids were incompetent and annoying and boring.
And I had like few examples of real kids and the kids at the library that I
worked at, though, that was sort of what I was saying earlier about, like, if a
terrorist came into the library, there were kids that I would have given it.
Like I got into fight back with first before some of the adults and totally
trusted them, like more than the adults to make the right decisions.
I don't, yeah, that's, that's the thing.
Some kids are better than adults in some aspects and adults are worse.
I mean, your intuition about not wanting to be a surgeon on, surgeon on,
surgery rise by a 15 year old is a pretty decent intuition for our society where
we do infantilize children up and sorry, people up until they're 18.
But, uh, in a society that didn't do that, you probably wouldn't have that
prejudice because there would be competent 15 year olds.
I would also just want somebody who's done it a thousand times and that there
is a causal link between how long you've been doing something and how old you are.
Yeah, but so you could get a surgeon who's 26, 28 years old, fresh out of med
school, hasn't done any surgeries ever before as your surgeon.
And you don't know that just because he's 28, you don't know if he's done, you
know, a hundred surgeries or none.
Right.
Totally.
And I, in, in my particular example, I am the kind of person who would want
information about my doctors, right?
For some reason, some people don't, uh, it's one of the surprising things I
learned reading, um, the elephant in the brain, uh, people will turn down
information about their, uh, their, their medical professionals.
They're trusting the system too much.
I guess, well, they wouldn't give this person a doctor's license if they
