I think also having a sense of self-efficacy, um, is one of the things
that'll push down on conditions like depression and anxiety, that they brought
up the, um, statistic of how many like mental health drugs are being administered
to teens now.
Just so you can make it through these lives when you have nothing.
I wish I had had antidepressants when I was in high school.
I mean, it's one way to deal with this constant learned helplessness and
prisoning that you're in.
Anyways, uh, young people should be extended full adult rights and
responsibilities in each of a number of different areas as soon as they can
demonstrate appropriate competence in each area.
Uh, a young person of any age who can pass a state approved adult
competency test should be able without court involvement to receive a
certificate of emancipation from the state.
He leans towards young people achieving a score that is at least the
50th percentile for adults 18 and over, meaning that on each test, the
applicant must score higher than half of adults currently do, which I think is
entirely reasonable.
If you're more competent than half of the people over 18, what, why would we deny
you of the, the, those rights?
Because we want to control kids.
Yes, exactly.
That, that is a big part of it.
Well, at some point, I was going to say, wouldn't like that leads to 15 years
down the road, people being very, very competent and the bar being raised
really high for 14 year olds.
I'm, yes.
Maybe that would be a great thing.
And maybe, um, eventually we might have to lower it to like the 40th percentile
or something if we believe that it is barring too many people from getting
rights, but, uh, it is a great starting area.
And yeah, I do think it would be a good thing if more people were more
competent, more early in life, earlier in life.
I'd love to see, uh, businesses run by teenagers.
Like teenagers are more creative.
They're like very driven.
Yeah.
They're, they know, like the latest cutting edge technology stuff.
Yeah.
What was the part in, uh, here where they said something about an obsession?
Uh, yes, that projities, prodigies, um, usually a prodigy, prodigy is just
a young person with an obsession and an opportunity.
Yeah.
That's the quote.
It's a good bumper sticker.
Yeah.
Just, I think that that type of thinking, I mean, I know I, yeah, when I'm thinking
back to like my teen years, it's like, I, that version of me, uh, would have come
up with much better business ideas than the version of me.
I am now, just like, I don't know.
Um, there's a way that like, I look at my old art sometimes and like, my new art
is technically better because I have more experience, but it's also like more boring.
I had like just a lot of ideas, uh, and drew lots of different things.
I was way more motivated.
Uh, yeah, I'd really love to see what kinds of like business ideas teens would
come up with or, uh, kids like releasing media, you know, like making, so like that
brought to mind, I was like, Oh, there are kids making money on YouTube.
And I think other avenues, uh,
In places where kids are allowed to excel, they often do great.
He said that chess is one of the few places where we allow young people to
compete against adults and, uh, they often do.
Well, some of them do extremely well because of that, because there aren't
artificial limitations placed on them.
We, we mentioned this at the top and I know we're kind of wrapping up, but like,
again, it kind of devolved into like, you know, parents suck and can take away
your computer, but assuming that you can solve that problem, um, you do get a lot
of, you get immense freedom on online.
I mean, you should have property rights at a certain age too.
Sure.
But, you know, even if you have property rights, but you can't afford a, you
know, $800 computer, um, it's cause you're only getting paid a buck an hour
because you're a labor's worth shit.
But, uh, it's, you know, if you want to create stuff, you can create stuff.
If you want to, um, learn about a new subject, you can do that, right?
So the, the advent of everyone having a computer in their pocket, I think it
changes the landscape a lot and that wasn't quite the case in 2008.
It was barely emerging.
Part of the problem of not having an $800 computer when you're a kid is even
if you have a great idea and motivation, literally no one will give you a loan
because you cannot be held to any kind of contract.
The right to be in a binding contract is important because then you can take
out even an $800 loan for a computer.
So you can get started on your little thing that you want to do.
Yeah, that's part of where it just be nice, you know, assuming your parents
have 800 bucks that they could lend you money.
Well, yeah, I mean, you'd have to get it from your parents under the current
regime, but if you took one of these tests and were emancipated enough to be
able to sign contracts, you could go to a bank or some other place that gives
out loans and take out an $800 loan and get started on your life.
Yeah.
I think then the concern would, I mean, just to bog that down while we're
trying to not do that is that your, your skills are worth so little that you'd
pay that back so slowly, but then again, 800 bucks isn't that much money.
So, you know, asking for $80,000, right?
Yeah.
Not like 17 year olds going to school.
Yeah.
One main thing I like about the proposed changes here is how sane they seem to be.
Yes.
And so it's not like do away with mandatory schooling, do away with labor laws and
that sort of thing.
He's like, no, no, like, let's just, let's put sensible things on that.
You know, it's not, not, not saying get rid of mandatory schooling.
It's saying, let's, let's cut down the hours and the time you need to do it.
Yeah.
Um, you know, if you, if you can read, write and balance a checkbook by, by 13,
great, you're done.
You know, there's, there's some sensible thing there.
Yeah.
I think this extends beyond just kids too.
Um, for example, like the person in an old folks home or maybe not even an old folks
home, there's, there's definitely age discrimination on both sides and hiring
because of the stereotype that old people are bad at computers or, you know, slower
or less cognitively flexible.
Can't learn things anymore.
And that's true for some people.
I mean, dementia Alzheimer's do exist or, and some people also just like don't
continue, they don't maintain their brain, I guess.
So you do see people decline if they're just not interested in reading or going
outside or learning anything new.
But like, that doesn't mean that all old people are going to be about at the job
either if they pass the competency test, they should be allowed to, you know, be
considered a candidate for a software engineer job or whatever.
The, yeah, he says that the incentives for young people to prepare for the test
will be enormous because of all these rights that you get, but also responsibilities.
And even if they don't pass all the tests, they still benefit from the process
of preparation.
And I remember, I think it was after our last episode on the discord, someone
was complaining about this idea of judging people based on competency.
He was like, well, a really smart young kid could do really good on an IQ test
or, you know, someone who's, who's really smart can trick a psychologist
into declaring them competent.
And I said, you know, that's, that's literally the point.
If you can convince a psychologist that you are mentally mature enough to, to
have rights, then you're mentally mature enough to have rights.
You have just demonstrated that.
And if you can't trick them into that, then obviously you don't deserve those
rights yet.
So, I mean, sure, there could be literally malicious psychologists, like you were
saying, trying to deny rights to black people.
But, yeah, it seemed at that point, the person was just trying to say, what if
someone who's young is declared competent?
That would be terrible.
And I'm like, no, that's the whole point.
I think just, and I didn't read the exchange, but to still man that, what
if somebody who was young was declared competent when they actually weren't,
you know, if there's a multiple choice test involved, there's some luck, you
know, if you don't know, you just choose B and you got a 25% chance of being right.
So like you, you could squeak by while still being under the actual threshold
to the, to the magic way that we've managed to measure this, right?
I don't can do this too.
But, but that's kind of like, that's kind of like an owned risk.
I'd be surprised if he doesn't call it out in the book, be like, yeah,
that could happen, but that's, that there's no way that can't happen.
Right.
And if you're doing better than 50% of adults, assuming that a portion of
the adults got lucky that way too, right?
Yeah.
That should definitely have had like co-workers who sort of faked their
way into the job.
I feel like I faked my way into every job I ever got.
No, I mean, like, I've also faked my way into jobs in the sense of I felt in
posture syndrome about it, but like, I'm talking about people who thought that
they had the necessary skills and put it on their resume.
And then like in the fields, they clearly didn't know what the hell they were
doing or they weren't very good at management or leading.
I love the, what's the opposite of an imposter?
Uh, I can't think of the word for authentic.
Yeah.
Authentic syndrome.
Maybe you could call this or somebody thinks they can actually do it, but they
can't, I've worked with people like that too.
Isn't that just done in Kruger?
What we've been calling done in Kruger?
Sort of maybe related.
Yeah.
Sometimes it's just people just like, Oh yeah, no, I got this.
And it's like, no, you don't got this where for the most part people like, Oh,
I can't do this.
It's like, no, you actually can just take a deep breath.
Um, I do like this too, you know, any young person, no matter what his or age
should be allowed to apply for any job.
And it's just, yeah, if you can do it, you get paid for it.
And if you can't, you don't, and you probably get paid to the extent that
you're good at it.
It says if he or she can demonstrate appropriate competencies, he or she
should be taken seriously as a candidate.
If he or she performs poorly, he or she should be fired, just like an adult.
Also interesting to note, this was back in 2008.
People were still using he or she instead of they, man, cultures changed fast.
We're teaching as proper.
It's tricky though.
Yeah.
Um, and yeah, he does the thing about school, which you already mentioned.
Should, should school should have shorter compulsory hours, a shorter compulsory
school year, fewer required school years.
Uh, the mandatory schooling should focus on the basics, reading, writing, arithmetic
and citizenship, interesting that he includes citizenship.
I actually really liked that addition.
Yeah.
