after the shit job, yeah, but for the, for the part, your parents take
away any of your property if they wanted to, could they take away your
phone or your right to drive a car?
I, I wasn't allowed to have a phone or video games.
Yeah, I mean, there were, there were a lot of things that were taken away from
me because you can, you legally can't own property.
Like your parents can take away anything as a means of controlling you.
And oftentimes they do.
Yeah.
I mean, so part of me wonders if like this, I, and we'll get to the, like,
what are proposed solutions this guy has, but like my parents were also
pretty chill about most stuff.
Like, I had pretty good parents.
I had pretty good parents.
I mean, they, you know, the one thing that like we didn't have was like, you
know, a large set of books at home or something.
You know, like they, they weren't very academic, but like, other than that,
we had all the freedoms in the world.
Like, I don't think I even had a phone until I was 15 or 16 and it was a
handy down because I got a new phone.
Actually, I was, I was the last kid of us, I think, to get a phone.
But I mean, I grew up at the age where, uh, at 14, I could go to my mom and be
like, all right, I'll be, I'm going to go out and she's like, all right,
be home by dinner.
And like, granted, that's an impact being on my freedom or whatever, but it's
also kind of makes sense.
If you ever had a child or a pet that you care about, that like you want to
know where it is when it gets dark out, you know, like, I don't think that
that's an unreasonable restriction to put on someone's freedom.
And it wasn't even be home by dinner necessarily is at least call me and
let me know if you'll make it to dinner.
So now much food to prepare, which is again, I, I don't want to nitpick, but
like that's a restriction on freedom.
You're asking me to do something, but like, that's just, that's just life.
You know, if you're going to, if you're going to miss work, you're allowed to
miss work by an hour.
If you tell your boss, Hey, I'm going to be an hour late, you know, unless your
boss sucks like Charlie's, um, but you know, my boss, I, they don't care.
I sometimes this week, I'm going to take an hour off for a doctor appointment
and they don't, you know, like, Oh my God, they treat you like an adult.
Right.
But, but that's the thing.
Well, I mean, that's, I was also treated this way as a child.
So like my, I was not, I despised my father.
So I think, I think that's a main difference is that like, I wonder what
point, like part of this is societal slash legal and what part of it is just
like at home, you know, like my parents, uh, I mean, your parents were pretty good,
but the thing is, if you don't pick your parents, yeah, you don't pick your
parents.
If you don't have good parents, you're fucked.
Whereas, uh, one of the things he advocates is if you don't have your
good parents, you should be able to leave.
If you can demonstrate that you're capable, uh, of living your own life,
you should be able to be like, buy and go and have your own life.
This reminds me of like foster home situations where kids get older,
they're less likely to be adopted to the point where when you're in your
teens, like those kids don't want to be adopted.
They want to get jobs and like they've already sort of, in a lot of the cases
been in a situation of like taking care of younger kids and having to take
care of themselves in a lot of ways, but there's still this like, until you're
18, you have to be somebody's property.
That's an interesting thing.
He brings it later on in the book too, where young mothers are held legally
liable for their children.
Oh yeah, like 14.
Yeah, but like, but they are not given the legal ability to do any of these
things.
So they're put in this impossible situation.
Yeah, that's fucked up.
Yeah.
Um, but yeah, I mean, Charlie moved out of the house at 15.
She got her own job, she got her own apartment.
And once you are in a play, like, okay, my parents have gotten better, I think.
Uh, maybe it's just to mellowing with age, or maybe it's because of how badly
me and my sister rebelled against all this control.
But well, and now they can't tell you what to do.
This is probably another big part of it.
Yes.
But no, I mean, I'm talking about now my younger brothers.
My brother, Chris, he has never moved out of my parents' house.
He's 30, 31 at this point and they get along well and he pays rent.
They have extra room.
It's like a roommate situation where, you know, you can live that way with
your parents if, if you have a good relationship with them.
But there's always the option of like, if things go to shit, all right,
I'm moving out, you know, there's that difference in autonomy over your own
life makes a huge difference as opposed to, well, you are imprisoned in this house.
You have to sleep here.
You have to go to school.
You have no other choices of what you can do with your life.
If you report on where you're going and what time you're coming back.
And if you do anything we don't like, we'll take away everything that matters to you.
Yeah.
And in my case, my parents were the only way I could get transportation somewhere.
So like.
We can, we can take away your ability to see other people in your life that
matter to you for indefinite amounts of time.
Yeah.
I mean, so I guess that we'll, we'll keep moving through the book.
But like I said, there seems to be a big difference between shit parenting and
shit societal expectations of young people.
But in any, in previous societies, if the parenting was bad, the kids
could go and do other things.
Or they couldn't.
And they just, their, their, their legal recourse was, yeah, you said,
I'm gonna get your ass whooped.
Well, yeah, that in the nine year old example, she couldn't do much of anything.
But, you know, about once adolescence hits.
I mean, I, I know somebody who went 15 left home and it basically went super
terribly, um, you know, like it, the, the ability to leave home doesn't like, I
mean, it gives you an out, right?
It gives you autonomy.
It doesn't mean your life's gonna be great.
It might mean that it's way worse than if you had just cut your fucking hair
like your dad told you to, um, you know, and that was the reason you wanted to move
out.
Maybe you can go back and say, okay, my hair's cut now.
Maybe.
Yeah.
I mean, at least have that option when you see the real world, you're like, oh,
okay, this wasn't so bad.
Let's go back.
I think the freedom to make that choice is important too.
They, they made that point in the book about how, um, it's the things like
of the protect people from themselves.
I think are the most harmful part of this because like teenagers do have that
like risk seeking or risk tolerance, um, because that is the time of your life
when you are supposed to be going and trying things and making mistakes.
And like you learn how to absorb the consequences of mistakes much easier
when you're younger, whether they're physical or whatever.
Well, I mean, like it's sort of similar to, um, our last episode and then sort
of even like similar to the band goods store again, the whole like giving
people the choice of what they do to themselves.
And you, it shouldn't be able to just outright ban something because
somebody might hurt themselves with it.
That's like people are that's literally infantilization.
Yeah.
People should be allowed to make mistakes.
People should be allowed to be wrong.
I know, I, I know I say that a lot and in large part, it's because I'm
against censorship and the argument for censorship is always these people are
wrong and they shouldn't be allowed to be wrong in public where they can convince
other people to be wrong, but you should have the right to be wrong about things.
And that's okay.
Maybe I'm wrong about something, but if somebody tries to shut me up about it,
that's, that's going to be a problem.
There were people who were wrong about whether gays should have rights or not.
And the fact that they were allowed to talk about how gays should be rights is
what allowed us to see that actually they weren't wrong.
It was everybody else.
Yeah.
I mean, they're, I, you know, not to get on the free speech thing, but there,
there are cases where like, no, there's something that there can be true
information that the more wide, widely known it is, the worse off everyone is
or something, um, that's like this, the hardest steel man case.
Yeah.
Like an info hazard, or if it just turned out to be really easy, um, and it's getting
easy, uh, you can order, um, genetic sequences to, you know, for your own home
bio labs, you sure can.
And so, you know, in three years, you'll be able to make your own COVID that,
you know, COVID 20, what year is it?
20, 2021 right now, you can make your COVID 24 and it has a 50% mortality rate.
And like, so we shouldn't publish that recipe online.
And it's a true thing, but that's a, that's a whole other thing.
Was it COVID-19 named that because it was created in 2019?
It was discovered in 2019.
So all the dipshits were like, oh no, they, they found it, they found 18 of these.
You know, the 19th one isn't that big of a deal.
That's just because they heard that on the news and they listen to the wrong news.
But, uh, I guess, um, this does come down to kind of what we talked about last week
about, you know, what kinds of mistakes people should be allowed to make.
Cause I, you know, I had a hard time engaging with that properly last week
because, uh, you know, Charlie's, so much of the case was coming from Charlie
who was resting on her personal life experience.
And for me to argue with her would be like, I disagree with your life experience.
And so I, I couldn't be like, well, sure it worked for you, but I think you might
be the exception rather than the rule.
Um, or, you know, a lot of these things, I mean, especially on the younger, uh,
side of things are for people who are the exception rather than the rule.
But also I think those people are very important.
I know just recently we were talking in the mind killer podcast about how
California is getting rid of all their gifted programs for math because they
canceled the gifted program I was in as a kid because of, I think equality or
equity issues, yeah, because the people who are not as good as math are not
being served equally or something, but that's the whole point.
We want people who are exceptional in these things to have access to that.
They're the ones that are going to be driving society and they really need that.
So school is less torturous and they can make something of themselves.
And this is the same kind of thing.
We're like, yeah, the exceptions do matter.
And so if you're crippling all the exceptional people because some people
are not exceptional, that's not acceptable.
Yeah, it's the same reason like, oh, no, we can't make R rated movies because
what if a kid sees it somewhere?
I'm like, fuck you, fuck protecting the kids.
I like my R rated action movies.
I think some kids can also watch R rated movies.
Yes, they can.
Like I've never actually kids are pretty good about it.
I've met plenty of kids who have like the ability to watch gore and like sex
