There was a kid who built a, he built a retro pie from a raspberry pie and
then made a cardboard console to house it in and uploaded a bunch of video
games to it as just like a public service to the library.
So we had like a little arcade thing.
And I was just like, this kid should be in the workforce.
And I could tell that this kid was this like sort of, you know, like
nerdy, shy kid that I could just see full of adult anxiety all the time.
It like, it kind of pissed me off because this kid was clearly like adult level
maturity and it was being treated like a baby.
And I could like, I would watch him pace and like pull his hair.
And I actually have trichotillomania and I was like, I remembered that I also
developed it around that age, which trichotillomania is a type of OCD where
you compulsively pull out your hair.
And I was like, I'm watching this kid like develop trichotillomania from these
circumstances is being held back, you know, he's not being recognized.
He's bored.
But the thing about gangs, sorry, getting back to that.
I just wanted to say that I really liked this one quote that you pulled out.
Gang activity is not childlike.
It's most definitely adult gangs emulate small governments and armies,
which gives kids a gives a, you know, I'm using the word kids in the not
pejorative sense, but we need some, it's too many syllables to say, young people
constantly, well, or young people, young people of adult physical age.
Sure.
It's got one syllable.
Yeah.
But I mean, then someone will quibble about 18 and 19.
But yeah, we'll we'll say teens.
Yeah.
I mean, it definitely gives teens a sense of authorship.
You know, you have to do what your boss tells you lest you get possibly killed.
But, you know, there's not a lot of freedom when your boss can kill you.
But there's there's some.
I'm not pro gang to be clear.
I hope none of us are.
I don't think the author is like a bad outcome of this system, though,
that like oppresses kids.
Yeah, I can see that point.
I started, this is like sort of related.
So I'm saying I started looking at jobs in the medical field that are not strictly
clinical research.
For example, I was looking at a medical assistant position and I was looking at
all the requirements and I was like, I have all these requirements.
And then they said must have spent two years in the field.
And I looked at all the other jobs that I was looking at had that requirement of
needs two years experience doing this thing.
And I was like, how does anybody get hired if you need two years experience?
Like, I can't.
This is this thing that you run into with teens and college kids too.
We're like, unless you work like an unpaid internship somewhere to get
experience, you like.
And people used to get experience just by going out and working in the thing
they were actually interested in.
I could like self, I mean, I'm self taught in all the fields that I went into.
And I've done a bunch of different jobs.
It's like, let me learn on my feet, you know, this is the eternal paradox of
basically every young person's attempt to get into any real employment.
Fortunately, they often don't even count internships because that was
something that my wife found when she graduated.
She doesn't like to brag about it, but I will.
She got an Ivy League master's degree and was told over and over.
Now you need, you need years of experience like I interned for three of those years.
Yeah, internships don't count.
It's like, how the hell does anybody get into the field then?
Right.
So it's just a kind of a huge fuck you.
That said, in your particular case and everyone listening, apply to those jobs
anyway, they're often put together by the HR person who has no idea what the job is.
And if somebody looks at your actual experience, then they're like, oh,
they actually know what they're doing.
I don't care if they haven't done this for two years that they got paid for it or
something, right?
I'm curious to see if I could get this statistician job where they were, it was
like, okay, the requirements again, where like, you need to have these licenses.
And I was like, okay, I could get those.
And then like, you need to know R or strata or like a statistical programming
language.
And I was like, I could learn that.
I'm just really curious to see if it's like, I have
all these other requirements.
I have like really related experience in clinical research.
Um, it's like, if, if you're willing to take me on and like, and let me just
self-learn this or even like, if you have an educational opportunity, uh, I don't
know, this is the kind of thing that I like.
What email can people reach you at?
Jaylyn Dickie at gmail.com.
Okay, we will put it in the show notes today.
I learned your middle name.
L-Y-N-N-E.
My parents had to, they had to do that.
Uh, yeah.
And I'll just put out there for everyone looking for jobs.
If it says, you know, two years experience, just apply.
Um, you know, it's at least worth the effort to apply.
If it says five to 10 or, you know, seven plus or something, probably
don't waste your 45 minutes applying, but nowhere says, you know, we'll take
anybody with no experience.
So just, just apply to jobs.
Well, I'm glad we're talking about jobs because the next section is about
labor and child labor loss.
And we're going to talk about crime and stuff too.
Um, oh yeah.
Did you ever thought you wanted to finish on that before we move on to labor?
Uh, not for, this is more for crime, but, uh, are we, are we done with crime?
Or are we go ahead and hit the crime thing before we abandoned that particular
boat?
So I guess it, it does want us, I need to know what criteria you use to
gauge, uh, maturity, competency.
The same criteria you would use for every other human, including what we
now call adults, because like some people aren't competent even when they're, uh,
in the age of majority.
And usually we have some exceptions for the mentally handicapped or something,
but, uh, well, not usually, almost always.
Um, but it would be the same sort of thing where you are judged based on your
actual capabilities as opposed to an arbitrary number cutoff.
How do you judge someone's actual capabilities when they're at the cusp
of gaining those capabilities?
We can get into that later on, but the short answer is, uh, when you can score
better than 50% of adults, you are, uh, considered competent.
And like, I think that was specifically a Raven's matrices, right?
Or some, some other IQ test.
Uh, it was, yeah, there were a number of comments and tests that, yeah,
yeah, so you can do, yeah, basic cognitive tests, um, just to determine
whether, you know, like, does this person have problem solving skills?
Um,
Hmm.
All right.
I, I will hold my reservations for that for the most part, other than to
throw out because I can't control myself.
Uh, I feel like an IQ test, A, you can easily bomb on purpose.
Yes.
And so you could make yourself seem incompetent.
Okay.
And if you're a kid who somehow has the.
That's a really strange thing for someone to do, but okay.
Well, if you knew you were facing 10 years in prison, otherwise you, I
would be very incentivized to plead insanity all the time.
I mean, right.
But, uh, apparently I was asking the lawyer, not as often as one might think,
but, and probably because the lawyers tell them, no, this will never apply.
Right.
Uh, but the, you know, if you're, if you're represent, if you're routinely
representing 14 year olds, you might say, look, they're going to give you a
test, take a long time and answer some questions wrong, right?
Or that would just float around online.
You know, yeah, the test wouldn't be done like after you've committed the crime.
This is something people are going to be doing when they want rights.
Oh, so like, you don't get to go get a job until you pass this test.
Yes.
And then once you pass that test, you can't pretend I'm a child.
Right.
Okay.
Okay.
That gets around some of the problems for me.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Sure.
All right.
We'll jump into the next topic here.
Okay.
Well, since we were talking about labor, traditionally when people, uh, wanted
to do things, they just went and did them.
And oftentimes they would help their parents and whatever their parents are
doing, which is how they slowly got integrated into adult society.
Yeah, or go, uh, apprentice.
And often apprentice.
Yeah.
I'm pretty annoyed.
The apprenticeship is not really like some fields.
I'm thinking of plumbers and I specifically apprentice people.
And I'm annoyed that more fields don't have an apprenticeship option.
I honestly can't think of any field that apprenticeship couldn't work.
Like I'm an accountant and that could easily work in accounting.
Like, is there any field where you can't apprentice?
I'm trying to think of one.
Uh, I mean, like, even like really high end research, you can still use an
apprentice to help you around the lab and they start picking up skills.
I mean, most, most people are actually just sort of self-taught for their job
anyway, that like, almost no one uses anything they learned in college or high
school.
You actually just can't teach too.
Like you do, you need the experience, but you need the experience by trying to
do the thing, fucking up and then learning from that.
I guess this is going to the school thing, which we will get to later.
I was going to say like biochem lab where you're working with really dangerous stuff.
I don't want to, I don't want a 15 year old interning with me.
I want somebody who's been doing this for 10 years and turning with me.
No, you don't want someone who's 10, been working with it for 10 years
because they won't intern with you.
They already know everything and they want a higher level job.
Let me rephrase that then.
Well, this is the highest level job, right?
If I, if I'm working on, right, right.
You don't get the highest level job.
I was, so I was, he said, is there any job you can internship for?
My first thought was like nuclear lab physicists.
You could totally be an intern in there.
I wouldn't want children.
I wouldn't want teens bumbling around when I'm building a nuclear bomb.
So one of the actual examples he gives where I complain slightly about these
