being everywhere, the two to three paragraph things is, I think what is now
known as the nuclear boy scout, but the kid who at 13 started building his own
small nuclear reactor and it took him two years to finish it.
So this guy had, you know, some, some major, uh, what I would consider
adult, uh, ability to commit to a project.
But yeah, two years later, he had a very small working nuclear reactor in
his garage and it was even safe.
Michio Kaku claims to have built a particle accelerator in his garage as a kid.
I remember hearing about that.
Maybe they were very large particles.
I'm accelerating this BB gun ball.
I still doubt that some kid in the world could do that.
I don't know if I have like squinty eyes at Michio Kaku.
Yeah.
I specifically heard the particle.
Well, I mean, yeah, I don't know.
They wouldn't cost a billion dollar.
They wouldn't cost tens of billions of dollars to make if, if a 15 year old could
make one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That said, I mean, I,
Maybe like a precursor to a particle accelerator.
The, the internship business makes a ton of sense.
I mean, you did mention way earlier on about like plumbing, electrician and all
that sort of stuff.
I wouldn't want a 15 year old, uh, wiring electricity to my house.
They don't do it on their own.
I wouldn't mind if they were watching a professional do it.
Right.
Yeah.
Like passing the, you know, wire cutters and hand me a screwdriver.
Saying, okay, this blue one is attached here.
And like, so when you do this yourself, you got to remember to strip this one
this way, you know, like.
There's another example given in the book about someone who started working,
uh, I believe this was in India, but started working in the medical field really
early and by the age 15 was doing his first, uh, surgery.
I think it was a cesarean section under the supervision of an actual, you know,
very experienced surgeon watching them.
But yeah, they were holding the knife and doing the surgery on their own.
And you can start doing that like at fucking 15.
Did the patient know that a 15 year old who had never done this before was doing
the surgery?
Didn't say.
There's actually, uh, going back into the school topic, but there was a discussion
on SlateStory codex, uh, when they were talking about how to, how to train a
prodigy, it was, um, there was this dude and his wife, uh, where I think both
mathematicians or something, and they, uh, wanted to see if they could train their
kids to be, if you could teach someone to be a child prodigy.
So they, they trained their kids at chess from like a really young age.
Uh, and I think they had three daughters or if you could have just two or three
daughters, yeah.
And I think all of them like achieved like master level chess skills at a very
young age.
Um, and then, so people were talking about sort of the intersection in the
rationalist community of, um, unschooling and this sort of thing about like
gatekeeping jobs.
And I remember people were trying to, they're like, are there things you couldn't
teach a kid to do?
Like, like if you're unschooling your kid and you want to train your kid to be
like the world's best surgeon at a very young age, like how would, how would you
be able to teach your kid surgery?
And somebody's like, well, I don't know.
You could go to the butcher shop and get like, I'm the way you would teach anyone
in college surgery.
Yeah.
But it was just people trying to come up with, I just was remembering like,
what, what's something that you couldn't like teach a kid from home or like that
I could, could the kid could not learn by doing.
And the limitations were mainly like, I mean, like you probably can't take your
kid to the large age around collider and like let them go poke around in it.
But aside from that, I mean, like you could teach a kid to do anything an adult
can do.
So speaking of job gatekeeping, uh, up until the late 1880s, there were basically
no child labor laws in 1879.
Only seven states had any child labor laws in place and all were being ignored
or circumvented to some extent.
Uh, the major change happened after the Great Depression when jobs were
suddenly very scarce and they started actually enforcing and passing more child
restriction laws in order to keep the adults with the, uh, the jobs with the adults.
Yeah.
They like wanted kids out of the workforce for like economics reasons.
Like, uh, it was interesting up until 1935, the Supreme Court would strike
down child labor laws on constitutional grounds because back then, I guess people
who weren't 18 were still considered persons with constitutional rights.
Uh, the first law that got through on a federal level was the Walsh Healy Public
Contracts Act, which, uh, prevented the federal government from employing females
under 18 or males under 16.
Yeah, what the fuck is with the age gap there?
Well, everyone knows that women achieve mental fitness at a higher, at later
than men, I'm sure it was the thinking a hundred years ago.
Yeah.
A lot of child labor legislation was also propelled by big businesses because,
uh, the, the big upper class industrialists didn't depend on cheap labor.
And because McDonald's needs like fry flippings.
Yeah, they could, they could drive out marginal manufacturers, uh, by, by saying
you, you cannot afford to hire people anymore.
So now we are the only employers left in town.
Uh, the major exception is that, uh, on family owned farms, young people can
still work without any restriction.
And it turns out more than 100,000 young Americans do so every year without
suffering any ill effects.
So, you know.
And farms like nowadays, uh, I mean, even back then, they're technically
complex, but like you've got like grain threshers that you could lose an arm
in like, you know, big combines, like it's like dangerous, hard labor with
like a lot of it being automated and stuff now too.
And kids are totally staying, you know, um, using the school exception and
working on the farm.
You handle a lot of heavy machinery.
I know, were you there?
Yes, I think you were there when we were talking with Charlie about, um, her youth
because she said by the age of 14, she was driving just fine because as she
grew up in an agricultural, uh, environment and she'd been doing the thing
you were talking about, talking, standing, sitting on her dad's lap and
steering, and then eventually handling more and more machinery because that's
just a thing you do when you grow up on the farm.
Yeah.
I learned to drive a tractor before I car.
Yeah.
I'm, I'm curious, you know, it, it seems like we can't have it both ways where I,
I suspect I'll have very little contention with the labor stuff.
Um, we'll, we'll see.
I'm sure I can think of some when they come up, but like no, no ill effects
working on the family farm or whatever, except for if you don't go out and plow
the fields till sundown, you can't, uh, whatever, watch TV tonight.
So you still have like that coercion level of, of, you know, dick ass parenting
where they're, where they're making you do stuff, right?
Um, you know, so I don't like how he can just say, Oh yeah, parents who force
their kids to do stuff are the worst unless they're forcing them to farm.
Like, I mean, you're generally not forcing them to farm a slave labor.
They're helping out on the farm and they're helping out in exchange for
having, uh, access to their, to their Game Boy that night.
Right.
Yeah.
I'm just a kid.
Um, I said it, I got a job at 14, but like even before that, my parents
both ran their own businesses and I worked with them when I got the opportunity
or when they needed the help.
I worked with my dad cause he, yeah, he had his own business as well.
And like he would pay me not a lot because my labor wasn't worth very much,
but enough that, uh, I bought my own Nintendo when that came out.
And it was, if I didn't want to work, I didn't have to, like he didn't say,
you have to come work with me or you can't do chores.
Yes.
See, I was, I mean, or you can't watch TV.
Yes.
See, I, I, I, I was just thinking that, you know, I could, I could imagine
on a family farm where it's like, no, actually I depend on your labor
and I need you out of here.
Sorry, you know, come home from school, save your homework for later.
Well, I mean, you might say that to your child, but like, then you tell them,
I depend on your labor, I need you out here.
And it's not like you're forcing them to slave labor.
It's like, I'm helping my family.
I am needed.
Like this is important.
I let the kids actually want to.
You want to be important to help your family.
I was reading some article about, or maybe it was a podcast, but it was about
like why specifically Mexican kids are so well adjusted.
And, uh, I realized they were talking about Mexican kids from Mexico where the,
the tradition, I guess, or the culture is that like you, you start letting kids
like help out around the house as soon as they, as soon as they start to like
show that they want to help and the kids like reliably will mimic their parents.
Like, and, uh, somebody was like, how come like Mexican kids can like balance
a checkbook and hold out a job or like do all of the house chores, take care
of the younger siblings and American kids can't like be responsible for goldfish.
And it's like, um, the answer was you have to let the kid be bad at a thing for a while.
Like there's a kid that was cooking dinner for his younger siblings.
At like age like six and he like using knives and gas stove.
And like, it's like, he learned how to do it because he started helping
when he was three, there's a quote from adventure time.
The sucking at something is the first step to being kind of good at something.
Yeah.
That that's the thing that like is kind of driving me nuts about this.
The, the freedom to make mistakes or whatever.
Or like to, uh, well, sorry, um, Steven, you said earlier, like parents
should be their children's stewards.
And I totally agree with that.
I think like, I mean, obviously I'm pro, uh, radical on schooling with the idea
that like a kid will kids will educate themselves.
Um, unless they're stopped from doing so.
Yeah.
I, I think I'm crap.
I don't remember where I saw this link, but recently, uh, they dropped off a crate
by they, uh, an international nonprofit organization dropped off a crate of, I believe
it was iPads, maybe not specifically Apple branded, but an iPad type product.
Uh, outside a village in some place in rural Africa.
It was a Ghana.
I think I know what you're talking about.
Yeah.
It was a place where they couldn't really get the infrastructure to build schools
and that they didn't have internet out there or anything, but they just dropped
off off these pads when I've worked at like these, these are kids that also worked
on farms and like, yeah, they had to walk everywhere.
So it was like, just logistically, there was no way to organize public school.
And this was sorry.
I'm sort of taking over your story.
