things in this, in one of his major arguments is that the physical number of years you've
been on this planet is an absolutely horrible metric for almost any of the things that we
just put an age on and should be instead based on the maturity of the child, which is in
large part due to puberty.
So yes, I should say more like when you have, when you're in the mid to late stages of puberty.
So I mean, this kind of brings us back to our last episode about gauging mental aptitude
slash maturity.
Yeah.
Is this going to be like Game of Thrones where it's like, has she bled yet?
And like, so then, then that's like the question of whether or not she can get her learners
permanent at the DMV.
The clerk gets to ask, you know, like,
I mean, we can get into this later if you want, because it does come up later.
But I mean, the main question as to whether you can get your permanent at the DMV is,
are you able to operate a vehicle?
And that's, that's the only thing that should matter for a license.
And that's the only thing that would be considered as opposed to how many days has it been since
you popped out of your mom's womb?
When you say, now we're getting bogged down, but when you say operate a vehicle that's
separate between operating it, operating it well.
Yes.
Okay.
Operate it well enough that society says you're allowed to do this.
Okay.
There's definitely some adults that should not have a driver's license.
There are a lot of kids.
That should not be an age thing.
Who sat on their parents lap, you know, in an empty parking lot when they couldn't reach
the pedals and got to turn the wheel and stuff, you know, like I could operate part of the
car, but you'd be insane to let me tie wood blocks to my shoes and drive like short round
from a temple of doom, right?
Well, I think being physically not tall enough to reach the pedals means you probably aren't
ready to drive a car yet, but I would say that I know plenty of 13 year olds who I would
trust to drive a car.
A lot of this is a combination of both experience and literal physical maturity.
Attitude.
Yeah.
And if your body is there and your brain is a part of your body.
Okay.
So, yes, he goes into the fact that this is like the main thing that teens are supposed
to be doing and is kind of how it has happened all throughout history.
Let me just jump into the history thing real quick.
That up until the industrial revolution, there wasn't really a term for adolescence.
There was like young adulthood and people would realize that people who had just gotten
to adulthood were still, you know, inexperienced would make some dumb mistakes, but there wasn't
this protracted period between childhood and adulthood called adolescence that is just
full of drama and and terribleness and is its own phase where someone is kind of stuck
in this limbo period.
And he says that of the 168 societies, pre-industrial societies that were recently, recently as
a relative, this book was published in 2006, but that were studied.
Over 100 of them didn't even have a word for adolescence yet.
And most of them didn't have a recognized period of all this drama and confusion and
rebellion that teens go through.
Instead, the teens just kind of transition into adulthood and the closer they are to
Western societies and more industrialized, they become the more and more they start getting
the same sort of pathologies that we have right now.
So he believes that this is a very modern thing, very modern meaning in the past few
centuries and goes into the history of how exactly we came to have an adolescent period,
which is pretty interesting in its own.
But before we get to that, and if we get to that, he's mainly saying that in the pre-industrial
society, people would, as they joined adulthood, just start transitioning into their own adulthood
where they started learning skills and what I mean, they had been working alongside their
parents or some other adult members for the entirety of their lives and didn't have that
much of a problem transitioning to being their own autonomous individuals, whereas now we
specifically have customs and lots and lots of laws.
He journals the increase in laws starting in the, I believe, 1880s and then having a huge
jump in the 1960s that drastically restrict what children can do and strip them of their
rights and otherwise called protect them.
Yes.
The first example he gives is a really good one where, and I don't mean to put too big
of a, oh yeah, I got to raise a flag here, Mary Ellen Wilson was a nine-year-old girl
who was beaten daily by her foster parents.
In 1874, mission worker Edda Wheeler took it upon herself to rescue Mary Ellen, but the
authorities were uncooperative.
No laws existed that prohibited such abuse.
As a last resort, Wheeler approached the NYS PCA for help, Berg took the case arguing
that New York Supreme Court justice or arguing to a New York Supreme Court justice that Mary
Ellen deserved protection as a human animal.
They did have protection for animals at the time and the NYS PCA was one of those animal
protection committees.
Yeah.
And first of all, it sounds like, what was her name?
Weller Wheeler, Edda Wheeler sounds like a, oh, and then Jane Adams later, she sounds
like a fucking hero, helped found the ACLU, helped found the double ACP.
She sounds awesome.
She does.
But the, like when I say laws, you know, not just holding the back, like what, in this
case, the law was holding her back from the, you know, the, the freedom of getting her
ass, her ass whipped every day and no one to, to complain to, right?
Yeah.
So in many cases, this actually did help.
Initially, yeah, they didn't have any child protective laws at all.
Children were treated more like chattel, that they were their parents' property.
And yes, but also it has come way too far in the opposite direction.
He actually, this Adams lady that you're saying of who was vital in all sorts of reforms,
he, you know, he does praise her for starting up these organizations and making a huge
impact in the world.
But also she was one of the people who was very much along the lines of children are
completely helpless and should be protected from themselves and started pushing for all
these laws, which eventually got passed, including creating brand new crimes, which
didn't exist and didn't hurt anyone and were defined as crimes against the self, which
included things like going to movies or dance halls, staying out past a certain hour and
behaving, quote unquote, incorrigibly.
So she was very much of the Puritan, we must protect people from their own sinful nature
kind of thing.
There's definitely a way to turn it up to stupid.
Yes.
But they're, but having, having no threshold sounds like a terrible idea.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The argument is that our threshold now has gone way past stupid and is continuing to get
even worse.
I would say it's better than it sounded back then.
Now we can go dancing.
We can go to the movies, etc.
Well, teenagers, though, like,
you're not allowed into milk if you're,
I was going to say, yeah, there were, there were some 18 year olds are probably younger
about like these dudes behind me were like, Hey, did, did they let 18 year olds in here?
Like, no, they've been here before.
And I was like, now they're the cardio at the door.
I was like, well, why?
Like, I guess because they serve alcohol and it's like, yeah, we weren't going to drink
it.
I was like, it doesn't matter.
Yeah.
I, yeah, we can, we can keep rolling.
I, I wanted to, I mean, unless we want to drill on that particular example.
I mean, I, I don't know, you know, I guess I don't know if it's the fact that the
establishment, the establishment is the establishment milk bar thinks that 18 year olds
aren't or 17 year olds aren't people or whatever.
Well, it's also illegal for them to, it's below 21 actually.
21 is the drinking age.
That's my point.
Yeah.
So it's not like the, it's not like every institution seems to bind to this.
It's like, no, sorry, we'll lose our liquor license and our business will get
shut down.
So no, yeah, no can do.
I mean, the laws are the problem.
And yeah, I mean,
Like if I wanted to do anything as a kid, I'd have to ride my bike.
Uh, I used to ride my bike 45 minutes to go to the library.
Like there's a restriction there just on like, I, I could have gone to movies and
gone out dancing, but I didn't have transportation and they didn't have like
good public transit in Jersey.
Yeah.
So I was just kind of in the middle of nowhere.
Yeah.
Public transit in four Collins where I grew up sucked, but it was at least
existent.
Um, you know, I had a friend who was in second grade to take the city bus to
the, uh, at least to the bus stop or maybe all the way to school.
Um, I don't know how old their second graders, like 11.
Like, you know, so he at the, at the, at the risk of just saying, yes, we
shouldn't infantilize every child forever.
I'm definitely, uh, in the camp of Jonathan height where, you know, we're
cuddling kids way too much, but I, I am, I will do my best to play the role of
the person who does think that some cuddling makes perfect sense and should
be, should be upheld.
Okay.
So, but don't, but don't put words in my mouth.
Discord discordians.
The primary initial argument is that children soon after they hit puberty are
ready to start taking on adult roles and, uh, want to do that.
And nowadays society does not let them and represses them and starts
has taken away all their rights and just puts them more and more through
this coercion and through the saying, you are still a child.
You can't do anything, uh, and we must protect you from yourself.
And this leads to all sorts of pathologies.
Starting with, uh, children, not children, sorry, uh, young people, uh, in
their teens often have absolutely awful relationships with their parents since
the parents are the jailkeepers that have been appointed by the state as the
people who have to, you know, keep their teens under control or they will get
fined or go to jail.
Um, and it starts causing pathologies for people as well to have these, these
basic needs, uh, thwarted for years and years on end like that.
And he says that you can generally track the emergence of full blown
pathological Western style adolescents in countries that are undergoing
Westernization and then give some examples of these pathologies.
And I mean, I think we can probably think of our own teenage hoods, uh, as
examples of this, but he, um, he goes ahead and lists a bunch of statistics.
Uh, he says crime rate rises in teens until peaking at age 18 and then
dropping steeply.
Uh, the peak crime for almost every single crime out there is around, uh, 18
years of age.
He says, uh, rates of most substance abuse peak at about age 20 rates of
more automobile accidents and fatalities are the highest in the late teens.
Rates of sexually transmitted diseases are peak in the early 20s.
Two thirds of all STDs are contracted by people who are under 25, uh, spending
on behavior, altering drugs for minors has now edged out spending for all other
drugs, including antibiotics, medications for asthma and allergies and skin
conditions for minors, more than half of high school juniors and seniors drink
regularly as of 2008, about, oh, I guess this was published in 2008, then about
20% of American high school students smoked cigarettes.
Suicide rates for 15 to 24 year olds have tripled in the last half centuries.
Even as rates for adults and elderly have declined and for every youth suicide
completion, there's nearly 400 attempts 40% in 2007, 40% of American
teens were treated for major depression.
Uh, the peak age for sadness among American adults between the ages of 18
