Gosh, I don't remember her name now.
We weren't like close friends, kind of like peripheral friends, but she was
just driven, smart, very conscientious.
And she got a job working at Burger King, and she was the best fucking
Burger King employee they had.
She was amazing, but it was an absolute waste of potential.
There is so much more she could have done if she was allowed to become an
intern at some place that works with technology or even in the business world,
like any, any place would have been lucky to have this person as an entry level
employee, and she wasn't allowed to.
And it was a fucking tragedy.
I watched, um, the kids at the library used to work at, uh, we had a, like,
programming for kids, uh, activity.
And I watched these two kids, like, like this one kid sitting there, like,
so can you, can you tell me how I do, uh, like, my marketing?
She's like, Oh, you don't have any followers yet here.
Well, I'm going to be your first follower.
So what you want to do is, um, post on a regular schedule and like, here's how
you, like, basically she's giving this kid like SEO advice.
I just like, okay, you guys don't clearly don't need my help.
And how old would you guess she was?
I think she was nine at the time.
These were like two nine year olds.
The other kid was, uh, the one who read the same books as me.
He read the, the fifth season.
Okay.
He read all of the children's books and was bored by them.
So it just started like, Oh, he actually, he like sort of hacked into our open
source library system.
So we could see what books people had checked out, which like, actually, you're
not supposed to be able to do that.
But he would just like, see what I had checked out and then check it out.
And like, that's fantastic.
The Hogwarts for library restricted section.
Um, yeah, I mean, the library had a adult and I think most libraries, they
have like an adult section, a children's section.
And now they've started having a teens section and like what part of my job was
keeping adults out of the kids section and vice versa.
Adults couldn't go to the kids section.
You could if you had a kid.
Or you were like there, they were, you know, Oh no, like a pedophile might.
Oh, I, I guess I was just thinking like, I could imagine myself swinging by to
grab a baby shark book for my three year old niece, right?
Like that should be allowed.
It is like, but it was this sort of like, I don't know, there was actually a lot
of design work that went around making the area like visible from all sides, you
know, so we could look up for perverts, but also so you could monitor the kids.
Yeah, one of them starts taking a piss on the bookshelf.
You want to be able to stop them before they finish, right?
I think it would probably happen on the adult side.
Like the, the thing that really struck me about that library was that there, it
was full of smart kids and dumb adults.
Like I was trying to also test myself like as I was driving over because I was
like, okay, I totally agree with everything in this.
And I feel really like actually, like it was just making me mad reading all this
shit.
I was like, but is this like my real opinion, you know, like, and I like ran
this scenario is like, okay, so what if like it's a survival situation like
zombie apocalypse and I'm in the library and I've got two guns and I was like,
okay, do I give the other gun to an adult or a kid?
And I was just immediately like, oh, no question.
Like I could think of which specific kids I would like be like, okay, you take
this gun, like you guard the kid's section.
I'll like whatever, and I was like, and I couldn't just like specific adults
that I would not want anywhere in New York.
When you say kid, what are you talking about?
I'm talking little kids.
Like, I mean, like the first thought was one of our teen volunteers.
What do they definitely showed much more like just capability.
Have you fired a gun?
Have you shot a gun?
Yeah.
You know, like that there's some kickback.
Yeah, I'm talking about like a survival scenario.
Yeah, me too.
But I'm not sure if I would trust a nine year old's, you know, forearm
strength to handle the recoil of a gun and not drop it or freak out at it.
Right.
I mean, like I think I'd hand it to a logistically whatever.
What I'm trying to get at is if you've grown up in a rural area, you fired
guns at nine.
Fair enough.
And I mean, that's sort of besides the point, like I hit on the
stupid point.
Sorry.
Yeah.
As you're saying, for the conscientiousness and how old is
Ellie in the first Last of Us game?
Uh, it's just 12, right?
12-ish.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I mean, that's, you know, it's a good example of fiction where there's
no real childhood, right?
Cause there's, there's no time for it.
That's one thing I really liked about Last of Us too, because it'd
been some years after probably 10 years of the zombie apocalypse, right?
10 or 13 years.
No, the Last of Us one started 30 years after the apocalypse.
30?
I believe so.
Oh, damn.
I thought I could have sworn it was like 15.
Anyway, so yeah, this, I mean, so you have, you have.
Maybe it was, I mean, it was definitely more than a decade.
I thought it was like two or three decades.
In that case.
Yeah.
I mean, you've got generations of people that didn't have childhoods, right?
Um, so.
Well, they still had childhoods.
They didn't have adolescence.
They had, I don't, I mean, they had some childhood, but their
childhood training included, here's, here's the end of a gun that, or here's
the end of the gun, the bullets come out of.
And they included essential skills for life.
Yeah.
Um, anyway, the, one thing I was going to mention too was about, and I guess I
don't want to harp on this the entire episode, but about the, the meaning aspect
of, of what you get when you magically turn 18 or something.
Um, you know, like I, I still think much of that lack of meaning comes from your
lack of ability to influence the world at a large, at a, at a meaningful scale
because of the way the world is, not because of how old you are, but you're
maybe thinking of meaning differently than they are talking about it in this.
Like, it's not like, it's not an, you get to go change the world.
It's, it's like more just the feeling of control over your life.
Yeah.
Or even your own life.
Like the choice to do it or not.
Um, also, like it's more meaningful to be able to choose what you are going to
eat for breakfast tomorrow than to have someone slop something down in front of
you and said, this is your food.
Yeah.
Um, I, I definitely agree that there are ways to treat children, including young,
young adults, uh, with more autonomy than we do now.
And I mean, this is a trick you can do with toddlers, you know, you let them
pick, do you want peas or carrots for dinner?
Right.
And the fact that you give them a choice gives them authorship and they still
have to eat the vegetable, right?
So like you're tricking them into doing one of the smart things, you know,
which army do you want your COVID vaccine in, left or right?
Like they don't, they don't get a choice of not getting it, which I think is a
good idea.
Well, they technically do.
Depriving people of choices, like straight up causes depression though.
Like we, you can reliably create like really miserable environments for people
by one, restricting their choices, uh, putting curfews on people.
Like, you know, right?
Yeah.
I'm just saying that as far as making them feel helpless.
Yeah.
So you give them, you can give small children the way of putting it.
We're enforcing helplessness.
Yeah.
No, it's like the business concept of learned helplessness and I see, I see
adults with it, but like it is literally like, you can teach, you can teach a
behavior of helplessness.
They did like the study that actually coined the term, I think was they took
dogs and they had them in this maze or something like that.
And there was an area where you would get a shock.
I might be like, they had jumped through a window basically once, like the
floor at electrocute, yeah, close the window.
Then they just lay there and if you stick dogs in there and then like you leave
the box open and yeah, they will like run away as soon as they start getting
shocked.
But like, if you close the door and they have no choice about whether or not
they're getting shocked, uh, if later, like, if they've learned that behavior,
like, okay, this, this sound happens and then I get a shock and there's nothing
I can do about it.
When they, when they've learned there's nothing I can do about it, which doesn't
take very long.
Like you can open the door and the dog won't leave the box, even if it's
getting shocked.
Yeah.
Cause it's already learned.
It's going to get shocked.
Yeah.
What's the point of doing anything?
That was, I think the experiment that taught me when I was a teenager and first
learned about it.
And then I came across the Peter Singer quote that put it so succinctly that either
animals aren't related to, like enough to us cognitively to where these
experiments are valuable to learn and think about people at all.
Or they are, in which case it's monstrously unforgivable to do these
experiments on them, right?
Like what good is it to know that you can torture a dog till it's sad forever?
Right.
That doesn't help us learn anything, you know, unless, unless it is
transferable to people, in which case you're a fucking monster.
I think it's kind of also to get back to the point, kind of monstrous that we
are spending a good five plus years teaching all humans helplessness.
Maybe, maybe this guy observes childhood.
And it's interesting because the book was published in 2008, which is the year
I turned 18, give or take a year.
I'm bad at remembering what age I am.
Me too.
But, but in any case, you know, so like my childhood is not at all like he's
describing, I had a job at 15, I had a job at 16 and, uh, you know, after,
