I think that you should get to choose what happens to you.
What if like a kid wants plastic surgery, you know, plastic surgery and the extreme
case would be like, sorry, finish it though.
I was going to say the extreme case would be like hormone replacement therapy
to begin transitioning, you know, if they can pass a competency test.
Something that I was going to bring up, but I was like, that's going to be
too much of, you know, my soapbox or.
No, I mean, I think that is one of the major considerations that is important here.
There's places where they block people from even getting the hormone, hormone blockers.
Like there's an option.
Yeah.
Like there's a puberty blocking option, like, and I think there's also an age
limit there, though.
Does that have any downsides that puberty blockers?
Yes.
I would have to imagine that it would.
It depends on how long you're on it for.
If you're delayed puberty for a long time, there's like the possibility of
complications, but I think like what you really need to weigh there is like the
damage that will be done if this, if this is a trans woman and has to is forced
to go through a male puberty because, you know, you have to be 18 to be able to
make decisions about it or whatever.
Like by the time you're 18, it's already like stuff that's going to be
expensive to reverse or even impossible.
Your bone plates fuse.
Yeah.
And if you, if we have these competency tests and you can show that you are mentally
competent early, earlier in your teenage years, you could start getting on home in
replacement or whatever earlier, because you can make your own medical decisions.
Yeah, I guess, and I only chose that just because it was a salient example, but in
general, I'm thinking of just some sort of irreversible medical decision.
And yet, yeah, I mean, I guess this, that is the accepted cost.
I mean, if you're, if you're 15 and you have shown that you are competent and you
want a boob job, if you have the money for it, people have brought up your body,
your choice, like a counterpoint to, I don't know, let trans people get surgeries.
They're like, oh, well, should we let people who want to amputate limbs do that?
And I'm always like, yes.
It's their body.
Yeah.
There, there is something to advance something because you don't find it
aesthetically pleasing.
There, there's some extent there to where that is like a mental illness that can
be treated without amputating the limb.
Yes, right.
But you should strongly encourage people to try to get treated rather than making
their decisions for them.
Right.
I just meant specifically the limb amputation because I do remember reading
something about that a few years ago.
And you can't, we don't have a pill that fixes trans people.
So like the only thing we have right now that works is transmission.
Right.
Oh yeah.
I was thinking specifically the limb thing.
Like I wouldn't want to be the doctor that has cut off someone's arms because I
know that whatever they're in transjective therapy or something.
Right.
Um, there was the last thing with, uh, I suppose a surgeon could probably like
say this is against my conscience.
I won't participate in the surgery.
I'm a big fan of that freedom.
I'll get, you know, abortion stuff is in the news.
I don't think anyone should be required to do any surgery.
They don't want to do, um, you know, and abortion is a tough one because.
What about the thing where like people have a certain religion won't like provide?
So I was raised as a Jehovah's Witness and I was, yeah, I was often in church, uh,
given stories of these heroic young people who refused blood transfusions or these,
uh, these adults who were willing and then did die because they wouldn't get a
blood transfusion after a major accident or whatever.
Uh, and every now and then there were stories about the horrible Satan directed
courts that would force blood transfusions onto minors because even though the
parents didn't want them to get it and the minors themselves didn't want to
get it, the doctors would say, look, the parents are fucking stupid and the
minor is not competent to make their own decisions.
So they are being forced to get blood transfusions.
And like I'm glad that they, that they were forced to get the transfusions
and they're alive now.
I had heard many stories of adults that died because they wouldn't get
blood transfusions, but on the other hand, if you're a competent adult and you're
willing to die for your religious belief and you're not actually killing others,
I don't know.
I guess I would want to ban it, but I, but principles like, I don't know, I
stand by my principles and I think that that would be really like sad.
I think that's really sad that people died.
Yeah, I, but I mean, I'm also on the, I'm also on the
people should be allowed to kill themselves, bandwagon, that, that suicide
should be an option for people who want to do that.
And this is kind of just like another case of that, right?
No, I think this is importantly distinct.
This is because you're brainwashed into believing magic about blood.
This, this is, this is not because you're depressed.
Yeah.
Like I was actually thinking, I wonder if, could you do a competency test for
that, which is just like, do you believe in science-based medicine?
What's interesting is that that does strike me as importantly discriminatory.
And this is getting us kind of too far a field and we've been here too long.
But, um, I wouldn't, I, while I would love that, like, look, you have to be
science literate to decide something like this.
I almost don't want to make science literate and still have a crazy religious
belief.
Lots of people do.
Yeah.
Yeah, I suppose you say, I mean, some of the people that chose to die because
they wouldn't have blood transfusions were literate, but you know, the courts
were like, okay, you have, you have this sincere religious belief.
So even though, you know, it's going to kill you, you are allowed to make that
decision as an adult.
I'm in favor of, of the courts and the hospitals overriding the wishes of the
children and the stupid adults to give blood transfusions to, to youngsters who
needed them, right?
You know, and it sucks because that kid might think he's going to hell or
something, right, which is stupid.
Um, but, you know, the whole thing about it is stupid.
But at the same time, it's like, I'm not going to let some kid die just cause,
you know, he's got dumb parents.
No, I agree.
Miners can and should have that decision overrided.
Uh, but once you are treated as an adult with your own rights, even if you're
15, if you've proven that you're competent to make decisions for your own
life, the choice to die is one of those.
My last thought was it's not related to adulthood or competency or anything,
but it was the puberty blocker thing.
The reason that I knew without having to do research that it must have some
side effects is because otherwise it sounds not like an immortality pill, but
like a longevity pill for sure, because you start aging a lot more once you're
post reproductive age, right?
So if you never hit that, because you keep pushing it back for years.
No, you can't prolong your adolescence indefinitely with this.
Like it just, uh,
it's, it, it, it puts you from 50 miles an hour to 30 miles an hour or something.
Right?
Well, it's more like you need hormones.
Uh, so estrogen and testosterone are important for how long can you delay it?
We don't know.
Um, we should find out.
Uh, it's hard to do it without doing experiments.
Yeah.
But like you need hormones in order to complete your development into an adult
body and like, and, and, and be healthy.
So you need to get one or the other.
But adult bodies age into, into decrepitude.
So if you never get there, you can just stay young and 11 forever.
Hell yeah.
That would be awesome if it worked like that.
I think it does not.
I think it doesn't either.
They would have figured this out in rats or something.
Um, anyway, this was fun.
I, yes, I found the case compelling, um, certainly for, for large parts of it.
I, I would have to go back through.
We have a lot of notes, way more than usual.
Oh, there's a lot of things I didn't touch on.
Yeah.
Well, one of the things here near the bottom was like, uh, the enemies of this
progress, uh, a lot of government agencies are just have power to, to control
teens and they won't want to give that up.
Yeah.
There's incentives to get them out of the workforce.
Yeah.
A lot of, uh, churches have, have incentives that, yeah, the labor unions and
various other places have an incentive scheme out of the workforce.
We talked last time about the laws that give parents veto power over their
kids' sex lives.
Yep.
There's a lot of, um, industries that cater specifically to the culture that
develops when you have a captive population that can't do anything
interesting, but that is still given money by their parents.
Uh, and those would probably strongly oppose this.
He lists a lot of teen spending numbers in here as well.
Yeah.
They market really, like it's sort of, it's, it's weird that the teen culture is
sort of a product of this marketing.
Like it's sort of self perpetuating in this creepy way.
Yeah.
Or it's like, Hey teens, you're these like sad, mopey, depressed people.
Right.
Like, you know, it'll make you feel better about your shitty situation.
New Paris shoes.
I will, I mean, on the one hand, I'll kind of miss a lot of the, a lot of the
art that comes out of this traumatizing period.
Cause trauma often makes the best art and, and I was really into the angry screaming
type.
Yeah.
They're all obese trauma.
That's true, but like it was, I do not think that this would make the world worse.
I think the world would be better by a lot.
And sure, there'll be less art about this specific sort of trauma, but that's
probably a good thing.
Like maybe if we had, um, enforced rape culture or something, there'd be a lot
of art about how terrible and traumatic that is, but that wouldn't be good.
So, um, yeah, we don't want to invent new traumas to make better art.
Exactly.
So this was like the worst argument to try and like solve the
odyssey for me in my philosophy of religion class was like, Oh yeah.
You know, now we know about the wisdom that was gained during the horrors of
the Holocaust.
So that is not a sufficient, uh, like benefit for the cost that we paid to get it.
Yeah.
And if anything, what you're saying is that if we could have, you know, if more
children could learn the lesson of the horrors of what we should have let it go
