the stuff she had gone through and, and come out of it.
Okay.
And I was like, trying to say, let you seem to be more mature.
Like, like just like, there are definitely like, they're definitely lots
of people that get traumatized from sexual experiences.
Like that can happen.
That there can be really bad PTSD and consequences.
Uh, I didn't like mean to imply that that doesn't happen and that we should
not care about that, I guess.
I don't know if I came off as, as saying that, uh, I just wanted to clarify though.
They're like, no, but actually like, yeah, also PTSD can happen.
And so like,
I don't think that we downplayed it too much, but we didn't talk about it enough
that, yeah, I mean, you know, there, there are, and maybe it's
cause our culture has sex on a pedestal that's a thousand feet tall.
But like, there are special kinds of, of, um, I, even trauma, it's definitely
the right word, but like more broadly, just, you know, uh, reactions of
violations that can happen in that context that don't happen with getting
punched in the face.
Right.
Um, it's, there's something and maybe, again, maybe it's just cause, you know,
my mind is brainwashed from how we viewed sex or something.
But like, I would, I, I don't want to get too much into all that stuff,
but I, I will just say that I think that there, there can be kind of
special kinds of, of ways that that can suck that other things don't suck.
But, but we'll push past all that cause we talked about sex for
two hours last time.
So real quick, before we push past it, this is something I should have
said last time and neglected to.
So I'll go ahead and say it right now.
Uh, despite the fact that I think socially we should change our, our
attitudes about, well, young people in general.
Um, I don't think anyone in the U S should have sex with a minor.
If they're outside that age range, despite how much I think it's not
necessarily a bad thing because of our, um, laws specifically, there was, uh,
Yassim from the, uh, the Bailey podcast is a criminal defense lawyer.
And he said in his podcast that he legitimately does not think suicide is
an overreaction to getting put on a sexual predator list.
Uh, even if it's, you know, with a consenting person and you love each
other and all the parents, your society is good with it.
If you get on one of those sexual predator lists, your life is basically over.
Uh, so don't do that.
Yeah.
It's, it's not a risk we're take worth taking until we can fix society.
I don't even know how to fix society at that point.
We need to change people's attitudes about sex.
Fortunately, at the end of this, there's a couple of organizations that I can
name, but we haven't gotten quite that far yet.
Pushing on then.
Sure.
Okay.
Uh, shall we move on to the actual competencies and how to implement this sort
of thing?
Or did you want to touch on the teen brain thing real quick before we did that?
You know what, let's do the teen brain thing real quick, since it's related to
this very much related to this.
Sure.
Okay.
Um, one of the interesting things that he pointed out is that research, tons
of research, he links a lot of things unequivocally show that cognitive
abilities of teens are on average superior to cognitive abilities of adults.
Citation, not provided.
Well, not in my notes here, but, um, all the metrics of brain performance tend
to top out around 17, 18, and then slowly decline from there.
And he says that by the time adults are, uh, in their eighties, they usually have
roughly the same mental functioning as, uh, a child in between they just six and
eight, just in terms of how their brain, how quickly and how well the brain works.
And he does, you know, make the, uh, give the proviso that a lot of things come
down to experience and the knowledge you have accumulated, which is why adults
can often be much more, um, much more competent, much more, um, able to do
things that take a lot of intelligence because they already have all this
stored up knowledge and experience in them.
But they have that crystallized intelligence.
Yes.
But in terms of pure functionality, the brain is at its peak, uh, in the late
teens and only goes downhill from there, which made me very sad because
it means I'm stupider.
I've also heard things that contradict this.
So I'm a little puzzled.
Um, I do agree that I've seen pretty clear evidence that there are children
who are as intelligent as adults.
Uh, and that in general, I don't know, I keep thinking of the library again,
where it was like there, there was this huge tech gap that was, it was kind
of hilarious, um, where like, you know, the adults would come in for free tech
support for their stuff all the time.
And I just was like baffled at the amount that people couldn't use.
Like, like they, they didn't have basic problem solving skills.
There were just some like pretty dumb adults in there.
And they were like, there were kids that could take your laptop apart and put
it back together.
And, um, a lot of that is just sort of the kids like pick stuff up faster.
Like we were talking about the kids teaching themselves to program by like
being handed an iPad and like here, have fun.
He does side of thing that shows that it's much harder to acquire new skills
after the age of 30.
I disagree with, again, as a general, not necessarily an age cutoff or rather,
um, I mean, there's actual effects to be had here and I could be wrong.
But like my understanding though is that the brain doesn't necessarily get
worse as you age.
Yeah.
I think he stopped making new connections as fast.
That's cause you've already made connections.
So it's like, you know, it, and this is a lot of pruning is a lot of learning
is pruning in connections that aren't useful.
Being a lifelong learner, like there's, there's people that are completely
cognitively sharp in like their seventies, eighties, et cetera.
And like, I, uh, I don't know that there's like the stereotype about
old people being bad with technology, which actually is to really piss off
somebody from my, uh, Philly lesser on group.
It was an older person and like had a computer and a cell phone and like knew
what apps were.
And like, it's like, I hit that stereotype about, and I was just like,
well, you haven't seen the majority of old people.
They just, they don't even try to learn how to use this thing.
There were people that would come in the library repeatedly asking me to
log them into like an account of theirs.
And I was like, this is easy.
I could teach you to do this.
It's a few steps.
Like, you can do it for me.
I think part of the problem is that don't even try thing.
And he does state that we tend to discourage people from being lifelong
learners and more like you cram in all the learning up to 18, whether
you're ready for it or not at that age, whether you want to be doing it or not.
And then after 18, you stop learning as opposed to people should be learning
and working all throughout their most preprescent lives.
Compulsory learning for the whole life.
I like it.
I couldn't necessarily compulsory, but he, there, there is a section where he
says, uh, the back in the schooling section, uh, the way that we have mandatory
schooling that, uh, fucks people up on schooling often gives people both a
lifelong, maybe fear, maybe hatred, aversion, I guess, an aversion to
learning due to the compulsory experiences of being cooped up in school
prisons for, for so many years.
Learning wasn't fun.
Yes.
Learning was literally a way that you were tortured.
I've had to, uh, basically plant the seeds of, of joy of science in my wife
since we've, we've been together for like 10 years, but, you know, enough bad
science teachers through junior high and she just never developed an enjoyment
of the subject.
And I'm like, no, but it's actually really cool.
You said shit teachers and it took a while for that, for that to stick.
I hated math, uh, and a lot of it probably had to do with the fact that I was
actually bullied by a math teacher in third grade, which is just while the
teacher would bully kids to, I guess, like.
Those people shouldn't have teaching jobs.
They're like, Snape, why are you with children?
When you hate children.
Snape at least had a good reason.
Did he?
Yeah.
I mean, like he could have been groundskeeper, I guess, or whatever, but, but,
but he, he was there for, for cover, for, you know, for a war effort.
Okay.
I'm way more sympathetic of Snape than I am of half the teachers I had
in elementary school.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, I did have a couple, yeah, I do have a couple like things to pull out here.
One, I, I, I am, I do want to see this unequivocal research that con, that the
cognitive abilities of teens are on average superior to the cognitive abilities
of adult, of adults.
And again, by cognitive abilities, he means like the, the firing of neurons and
making new connections, that kind of thing.
Well, then, then that's a very specific use of cognitive abilities.
Like, yes, as a 10 year old, I could pick up a new video game way faster than my
grandma could because she'd never held a video game controller before.
It's nice to have to pick up languages when you're young too.
Yeah, yeah.
Like there's learning modes that your brain like snaps into.
Yeah, he does pass those.
It's kind of, your brain kind of evolves for different, or metamorphosis for
different purposes as you age.
Where you, you as, you get more stability.
You get better ability to like regulate emotions and much lower anxiety and
depression when people are older, but you're also less, less able to, you know,
bend in the wind, I guess.
He, one of the things he sends to really have a, a dislike, a visceral
dislike of the term teen brain because of the thing that you brought up.
He said, our brains keep changing all throughout our lives.
It's, it's an ongoing process.
And there's a lot of things that we do, which change our brain.
Like, I mean, on that simplest example, any kind of learning is literally
changing your brain.
And, and he says, yeah, things like meditating, reading, having sex, anything
that, that affects your mind, changes your brain a bit.
And that brains do change all throughout your life.
So calling a teen brain specifically, uh, this, this terrible time in life
because you don't have a functional cortex is bullshit.
It's developing just like every other part of your brain and body are.
Yeah.
And like the, the ways that teen brains are different from adult brains are
adaptive, not like a byproduct of the process.
Not because it's not fully formed yet.
Yeah.
If my, if my grandma has a lower like, um, mental acuity or mental
speed score than I do, she compensates for it with a higher wisdom.
And, and again, intelligence is, is, is a tough word there.
What's your dexterity?
