didn't not adopt or so.
Hanson argues that it's because they don't really think it does anything.
They're just signaling.
You know, but I don't know if that's true of, uh, I don't think it'd make
that case about like, you know, getting your appendix removed because it's
exploding, but he'd make that case about, uh, some trivial, more trivial medicine.
In any case, um, like I said, minimum wage aside for, uh, um, legal adults, uh,
I do see the benefit of bringing kids along to work, um, kids and teens.
Uh, and again, not having to pay them as much.
Um, part of me sees that as exploitable and where, you know, you might just
bring on kids, teens, sorry.
We have to keep, you know, putting asterisks, asterisks next to everything.
You might bring on teens to do work that teens probably aren't good at because
they, they can pay them less because they're being a perverse incentive there.
Like, you know, you need some level of, of other, other enforcement as an employer.
If you have employees that can't do the job, you're really bad at, um, doing
whatever you're trying to do unless you need competent employees.
Unless you're just cutting corners and trying to make money.
You know, like if a fifth, if you, if you don't really, again, I can get, I
can think of contrived examples.
Um, I don't think it's worth, worth generating them, but I mean, unless
there's actual corruption in the system, you're not going to stay in business
long if you, if your employees can't do the job, can't and can't do it.
Well, are different.
Um, you know, a lot of people don't care if the person could do it well, but
they want someone who will just come in and do it.
Yeah.
If your customer doesn't care if the work is shoddy, then sure, hire a cheaper
contractor that, uh, does crappier work.
Well, like Colorado has been raising minimum wage for the last few years.
And I think we're doing 12 something now and we're on track to do 15 in a couple
of years.
I suppose.
I don't know.
I looked this up in the last few months because I was surprised.
I was, because back when I was working, it was, you know, even just a few
years ago when I was working, when I was working jobs that paid minimum wage,
it was 750.
Yeah.
I made $3 an hour at my first second job.
Wow.
How does that happen?
Was it an internship or something?
No, that was a restaurant.
Oh, right.
They're allowed to pay lower.
Yeah.
The idea was like, but you get tips, but you never got enough tips that it made up
for it.
Okay.
Yeah.
So like that's one of the things where the establishment doesn't care if you're,
you know, it is systemically, you know, geared against you.
So I could see them binging on children to work there, children and teens, just for
the sake of having to pay their employees less, but it turns out when you pay
them more, uh, they are happier, more attentive, and you get better retention.
And that's just something that's happening in Colorado because now I don't need
two jobs and, you know, I, I can, I can actually afford to eat and pay my electric
bill.
You know, I also think that would be good for the teens.
They're learning the job and gaining experience so that, you know, when they turn
16, 17, they can move on to a better job where they're paid more because they've
been doing whatever for a couple of years already.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Totally.
Um, like I said, I was just saying that it's, it's not impossible that someone
could fuck that up, but that's not, that's, that's me grasping for a, uh, uh,
gripe, um, overall, like, um, sorry, you were still talking.
Oh no, I was going to say overall, I think it sounds like a fine idea.
Um, yeah.
The thing that, um, would be tricky about labor, I think is like that they're
trying to prevent exploitation of children, which I don't know how you can, how
to fix this really in a way that would let kids who want to work, work, but not
have like, you know, there's kids whose parents forced them to work because they
need to bring in an income, but they don't want to.
Yeah.
Like there's kids that are forced to drop out of school and go help their
parents.
And it's like, that's kind of,
I mean, the most, uh, the easiest fix would be, you can't actually be employed
until you have passed one of these competency tests.
That way kids who are competent in their team can work and the kids who aren't
competent enough can't be forced by their parents to work because the law won't
let you work if you haven't passed that test.
Um, like let's say, let's say you passed the test and you're allowed to my
concern is that a parent could force their kid to work if they don't want to.
But they couldn't if they can't pass the competency test.
Say they're competent, but the parent forces them to work.
That, I think that's, that's what you're getting at, right?
Yeah.
At that point, then they can keep their own wages and move out since they've
passed the competency test.
Maybe you don't want to work 50 hours a week to be able to afford your own apartment.
Yeah.
I guess being able to emancipate yourself does, yeah.
It gives you a kind of freedom.
It's the freedom like, Hey, yeah, you can go live a shit life with, you know,
uh, bad amenities and know, you know, whatever, air conditioning or, or heating.
But the thing you're proposing is better than being subject to slave labor for
shit parents, right?
Like if you're in the situation, it's already because your parents are shit
lords and you're kind of fucked.
Yeah.
Solving the problem of shitty parents is going to be harder than rewriting the
laws around letting kids work.
I think it's just, uh, I don't know, they, they clearly, they put that into place.
The, the woman who started all those organizations, um, they look out for the
welfare of children, Adams.
Uh, well, that was her last name.
Yeah.
I mean, uh, that was, that was a good thing to do.
And it was important.
Um, there were kids working in factories, like getting injured and being abused.
And some of it, some of those kids might have like wanted to work there though.
And like some of them would have probably rather gone to school.
Uh, it's just the, it was at least one way to prevent kids from, you know,
being exploited was to just be like, no kids can work.
It's, it's an easier solution.
You know, like you mentioned that, that nine-year-old Mexican entrepreneur or
whatever, right?
Like, I don't know if that, if that kid was allowed to spend his money on Xbox
games or, or if it was like, sorry, no, that all goes to the family because we
need it.
Well, it was his money that he had earned, but his family needed it, which was
why he used it to buy food for his family.
Sure.
His money that he earned, but unless he can open a bank account, then, you know,
his parents are strong enough to physically rest it from him.
Sure.
I know I have friends and, yeah, I've had friends who, who, you know,
grew up, their parents made them work and took their paycheck.
Yeah.
So like the, I mean, again, it would be hard to solve the problem of shit
parents, so I'm willing to kind of just set that aside, but, but it is a, a, a,
I think a plausible reason for why some of these things came to be in the first
place, because it's like, yeah, sorry, you could go to school and have prospects,
or you can go make 50 cents an hour working in the mines and the really
small holes because you're eight and I can have enough, I can have more money
for whatever, right?
Also, all the initial child labor laws targeted either 12 or 13 as the age,
and it was pushed up after that, which is less objectionable in my opinion,
even though there are still pretty just 12 year olds that might be getting
fucked by this, the fact that it's been pushed up as high as it has is where
we start getting crazy stupid land.
There will always be some, you know, exception at the very end of the bell
curve, right?
Where it happens to be at six, you're someone's actually building a particle
accelerator in the garage, right?
Well, which is why we shouldn't have the age limitations.
We should have competency limitations.
Yeah.
But I think I do think that if you're going to go broad strokes, then, you
know, if you're only fucking over 0.1% of people, it's a lot better than
fucking over 60% of people.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We just have to make a better system than what we currently have.
Yeah.
Any other stuff on labor?
Now we can move on.
I'm curious.
Well, actually, I thought that I thought it was fascinating the part about
the economic incentives for driving kids out of the workforce.
Yeah.
Um, it strikes me that also women would have entered the workforce.
Um, when did they enter in mass?
World War One?
Oh, World War Two, I believe.
World War Two.
The big major influx.
So like with a limited number of jobs and people competing for them, it was
also just strategically advantageous to older people to organize.
And it even said in the book, like teens can't really effectively organize
to advocate for themselves.
Because what was it?
They don't stay teens very long.
They always like, it's a temporary.
Temporary condition.
It's temporary condition.
I think that's how they said it, yeah.
But uh, yeah, unlike, you know, women not being allowed to work where you're
stuck being a woman, you know, in 1945, your whole life where you can't actually
like make a decades long movement behind it that you can stay part of.
You can't be part of a 10 year movement where you're advocating for teens as a
teenager.
All right.
I hope to be more involved in this movement.
So you can't stay in it, but it's not like you're forced to because you're a teenager.
You're not fighting from the inside.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
As, as to your, your point about the using it to restrict competition, the, he
pulled out one example in 1999, uh, a $45 million construction project in
California was shut down by a judge after a carpenter's union went after, uh, a
construction boss for bringing his 12 year old son around to operate a forklift.
And it was very much a, he's coming in helping his dad on the weekend kind of
thing, uh, but that, that particular firm was a non-union firm.
And so these, this union had been after them for quite a while.
