Um, I mean, teaching you your rights, which like, then you can take a test to see
if you understand what that means and whether you have the maturity to do it.
Uh, I wish that like, I guess we have like civics classes sort of, but we don't
really have like a, unless you like go into law, um, or, or government, we don't
much about that, or at least I didn't, maybe I just had a bad curriculum.
But I was like, yeah, I don't know.
I went to what I think is a very good high school, um, I guess as far as public
schools go, and I had one elective civics course.
I think that was all that was available.
It's just something that isn't stressed enough.
Oh, yeah.
And that was something, uh, I wanted to bring up at the school part, but like the
whole, uh, idea of school being sort of where we like put teens to train them to
be office workers.
Like there was definitely incentives there from the industrial revolution to
just train a bunch of like robotic employees to do manual labor or not
manual labor desk labor.
He goes on to say that, uh, competent young people should be given full
property rights and concedes that we do lose a degree of control over them.
But acting, he thinks that's a feature, not a bug.
In return, we get more responsible, secure and independent young people.
And he says that even if un emancipated young people of any age who can
destroy, demonstrate appropriate competencies should be able to make and
revoke wills, sign contracts, file lawsuits and represent themselves in court.
After all, we automatically extend such rights to many older people who lack the
appropriate skills and understanding sick burn.
Um, there was my, my next door neighbor, uh, when I was like living in New Jersey
and growing up at my parents house, the house next door, um, was owned by this
woman who she was a divorced single mom and had a teenage daughter and maybe
not divorced, the dad might have been dead.
But anyway, um, I thought this was great.
The mom was kind of a bitch.
And, uh, when the, when the daughter turned 18, uh, she inherited the
house and kicked her mom out.
Wow.
And then I remember like all the older people in the neighborhood were like,
Oh, there's like some teenager owning her house here.
She's, it's going to be like, she's going to crash.
She's going to have wild parties.
Actually, no, she was blue.
He also says that no curfew should be allowed in the country at all, unless
it's for everyone, excluding emergency personnel.
Emancipated young people should be able to move about freely as adults.
The wanderings of un emancipated young people will have to remain under
parental control because parents of dependent offspring are held responsible
for the wrongdoing.
Again, another one of those incentives to pass these compensatory tests.
Were there curfews for children?
There are often in many places.
Yes.
Is that new?
Cause I mean, that's been around for ages.
I guess I, I mean, I ran into cops, my, my, my, probably above average
share of run into the police when I was a kid and I never had one say you're
out too late on calling your parents.
Apparently, um, it's a problem with people that, uh, unschool their kids.
Um, if like, they'll get ratted on by neighbors or, or a cop will come up
to them and be like, Hey, you should be in school right now.
And they, a lot of them like train their kids to kind of say, Oh yeah.
No, I'm, I'm homeschooled and we're on recess right now.
I think it's, it's also a lot of it is selective enforcement where you
look, you know, rich and white.
So we're not going to bother with you, but you look like a member of the
underclass.
So we're going to enforce the curfew on you.
I can't rule that out.
I mean, I was hassled, but you know, uh, maybe four Collins in 2003 didn't
have curfews.
I have no idea.
Um, I do like this one.
I don't want children, uh, them he says, but I, I'm assuming
it means youngsters, uh, to feign adulthood by drinking and smoking in
dark alleys.
I want them to be adults by drinking and smoking responsibly to the extent
that young people over indulge.
I think there's only one legitimate solution to integrate them into adult
society.
I will caveat and it doesn't say that adults don't over indulge.
Um, they're most, I mean, most alcoholics are probably old enough to
buy their own alcohol.
Right.
So I don't know if that's the solution, but that's part of the solution.
Maybe I mean, uh, there's European countries that people always bring this
up where if you normalize drinking, the kids grow up with like a much, um,
healthier drinking habits.
Yeah.
Like,
yeah, I hear what you're saying.
They are most vulnerable to mischief when they're, uh, with their peers and less
vulnerable when they're with adults.
He's arguing that their peers are incompetent, but, uh, but then they're not
their peers.
He means other people their age.
Yeah.
Um, regarding pornography, I believe that young person who can pass an
appropriate test of maturity, again, this is different than the competency
test. This is a maturity test.
I'm sure he talks about what that is somewhere in the book.
Yeah.
That, that's one of the tests where I'm like, I'm wondering how he could judge
competency here.
Yeah.
Ability to own pornography.
I mean, if you can look at the booby, you can buy the booby.
I don't even know how like, if you go on like Pornhub, I think, or wherever,
don't they usually just have a pop up that's like, I swear I'm over 18.
I, I've been to a number of sites where there isn't even a pop up.
Yeah.
It's sort of, yeah, like if, if you're looking for it.
Yeah.
I guess just not like an actual porn shop, I guess could actually ID people
like when they walk in, but like that's, I don't know.
It'd be nice that if you've passed the competency test, you can go in and buy
your own sex toys.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He talks about, uh, violence with, uh, young people, which is like, all right,
well, when they're emancipated, it's just like hitting a, hitting an adult.
It's a crime.
Yeah.
Um, you know, there's, I, there's.
Some special carve outs for striking, uh, non-competent children.
Yeah.
He says that if you're emancipated, then it should be treated as a crime.
Just like if you hit an adult, uh, parents have the right to strike
un-emancipated children the same as they do now.
He does say, you know, they have a duty show that corporal punishment was
reasonable and appropriate.
So it's not like you're abusing your children and that, uh, you've tried other
ways of ban, behavior management, but yeah, basically.
Once you're emancipated, you can't get spanked anymore.
Cause that's, that's assault and battery.
And yet another reason to maybe try to get that competency test done.
Yeah.
I kind of think that, especially in the last decade and a half that, you know,
things have moved past, like the coolness of hitting your kids, um, which
I'm super in favor of, you know, I get that like, you know, the fact that we're,
that that's less popular now than it was before.
Yeah.
I'm in favor of hitting your kids.
Right.
Yeah.
I never liked the argument.
Well, I was hit as a kid and it's like, yeah.
And that, that's, that turned out fine.
Well, and like, but that, that never made any sense to me.
Like, Oh, well, I went through it.
It's like, well, tough.
Yeah.
I'm sorry that happened.
Some people are more sensitive than others.
Sort of the same thing with the like trauma.
Uh, yeah.
All of us have been put through this bullshit that we're talking about right
now when we were kids.
And yet I don't think that's an excuse to keep doing it.
Right.
Yeah.
I never liked.
It's kind of to stop it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He says young people of any age who can pass a test that shows they will be
competent voters should be given the right to cast full votes and relevant
elections, which people now don't have to do.
Yeah.
Well, first of all, people now don't have to do, but like you were saying,
this was a way to suppress voting among minority populations for a long time.
So I don't know if they have to be develop a test that like is thoroughly
reviewed and the, I guess, like experts in, I don't know what field that would be.
Um, social sciences.
I guess social sciences can like say that this is like a test that's designed
to be maximally non-racist.
I think society is in the best place we've ever been to design such a test.
Also importantly, like, I think you should be able to appeal any of these sorts
of test decisions to an outside, outside area.
Cause like, what do you mean?
Well, cause a lot of the, uh, say reading comprehension tests done in the
south in the fifties, people passed them just fine.
Like they were more literate than some of the white people.
They were taking the tests alongside.
And yet, uh, when the test was judged, it was marked as a failure because
the person judging it could see this is a black person.
I don't want them to vote.
Sorry, you're not literate.
Uh, so this should be one of these things that like, if your test is marked as
failed, you could potentially go to a different area, a different judge and be
like, Hey, can you look at this?
Because yeah, uh, I think that he flunked it because I'm black and not
because I'm not old enough and not mature enough.
Yeah.
I like, especially the caveat of going somewhere else.
Like if you just took it to the same, whatever, uh, courthouse or something,
then that same asshole will just cut you down again.
I'd really like to live in a country where young people were allowed to vote.
Like it's irritating that just age is what drives a lot of our policies.
Because old people vote and people don't.
I mean, like, you know, people don't because they're not old enough to
or the ones that are are apathetic and I sort of don't blame them.
It's getting again into the sort of the voting topic.
