But I think this, yeah, just having a, having a voting test, a competency
test for voting would, I think, cross the board, like make a lot of things better.
If you could make one that's non-racist, um, and that would be an incentive
for people to, like, again, take the civics class.
And like, yeah, I don't know, just the empowerment.
Yeah, it says when you say to young people, okay, you want to be adults, show us
what you can do, many will rise to the challenge.
We will be tapping into one of the most basic of evolutionary imperatives,
the desire to be independent.
And as the number of young people who pass various tests or who achieve
full emancipation multiplies, adults will have no choice but to see young
people through competency colored lenses.
So he's very bullish on this thing working out.
Yeah, I mean, I think he makes a compelling case.
You know, some of it, he does, I need to dig into some of the science that he
cites because, you know, you can't say this unequivocally proves my point.
And then not, and then if I don't get to read it, then I'm like, oh, I just
have to take your word for it that your point is unequivocally proved.
But that aside, you know, I think this is, this is a same case.
I, I know where this is probably pushing one of our longer episodes, but I did
have a couple of quick rapid fire ones that I'll trim down for, for sake of, uh,
brevity.
Yeah, do it.
Um, you know, like, I don't know if the jury's still out on alcohol on, on
developing brains or not.
And I don't think a brain, again, unless some of his research that he found
proves me otherwise, but, uh, I do think that there are some, you know, we talked
about, uh, the malleability and sharpness, acuity of, of young brains as opposed
to older brains.
Um, you know, if, if say getting drunk damages that I, I don't know if a young
person understands what they're doing to themselves.
If they're getting drunk every night, right?
Yes.
Well, so two counterpoints.
Um, the first one being that, uh, like the Rad Park experiment showed when you
give, um, an actual enriched environment to people, they often just don't take
the drugs because they have better things to do.
Oh, there must be the rat experiment, the rat utopia.
Yeah.
That, that, I mean, that's one of the reason people turns to drugs in prisons
and in schools because they just need something to, to make their lives not
horrible as they're trying to get through these years of doing nothing.
And the rats that.
Have we talked about the, um, rat utopia before?
Should I like tell the listeners?
Um, they got a bunch of rats addicted to cocaine or was it cocaine?
I think it was morphine morphine.
Yeah.
Um, anyway, they had rats in a like shitty, boring environment, um, and they
gave them access to drugs and drugs and they got addicted to the drugs.
But even the ones that they had gotten addicted at that point, if, if they put
them in rat heaven, like, which was like a, a little playground with other rats
to interact with and different types of food, just novelty choices, et cetera,
then the rats would unaddict themselves to the morphine.
Not all of them.
There was like some small percentage that just biologically were addicted.
But almost all of them, yeah, just stopped taking the drugs when they had
better things to do with their time.
Yeah.
Like the drugs still haven't a bad effect, but it was like, it definitely
improved the rats.
Like, first of all, some of them, like if, if you just started them out in the, uh,
rat playground and gave them access to the drug, a lot of them just wouldn't
even take it or they'd take it a few times, but it wouldn't stick.
The ones that like were heavily addicted at that point, then there's
biological stuff going against, uh, yeah.
So part of the counterargument is just that people won't be doing drugs or
alcohol nearly as much when they can have meaningful, fulfilling lives and
relationships.
And the other counterargument is that like, as he said, half of, um, seniors
and juniors in high school are already drinking a lot.
You're not actually helping the problem.
And who knows, maybe you're making it worse.
I don't know if the fact that people are already doing it means, well, let's
just make it legal then.
Um, I think it would be safer if it was legal.
That's the case for every crime, right?
Well, I mean, that's also why we, um, well, I don't know about you, but I
personally am for drug legalization as well.
Making, having a drug prohibition has not stopped people from taking drugs at
any significant rate, and it has made things much, much worse overall.
No, I mean, I'm not insane.
I'm also in favor of, of drug legalization.
I'm just wondering if it, if we, if it did turn out that, I don't know, insert
drug cocaine turned out to be just radically more damaging to a, to a young
grand, actually weed might be an example.
There's an argument to be made for, uh, people should be over 21.
I think to smoke weed or, or forget if it was 21 or 18, but
there is actually, uh, there's some evidence that it might be more harmful
when your brain is still developing, uh, which is like, I'm, I'm actually
getting a bit confused about that right now as I'm thinking about it.
Because, and I think Steven, you brought this up earlier.
Um, I think one of the main things that like people were worried about with
smoking weed before age 21, it was the whole, like the brain's not developed yet,
but that's not actually true.
It might just be that like the brain is in a more malleable state, so it could
cause more harm, but like one of the things that you were saying could happen
is if you have latent schizophrenia, it could activate it.
But that could just be an artifact of like you're saying, uh, but you tend
to develop it around that age, right?
The weed might not have anything to do with it.
Also, if your brain is more malleable, that means it's also more able to, uh,
recover.
Yeah.
Well, unless you, unless you're using drugs throughout that entire period, like,
you know, I, I, I listened to, um, I had been somebody on one of Sam
Harris's podcasts or somewhere, maybe very bad wizards.
Uh, she was concerned about the over-prescription of like antidepressants.
You know, if you're on antidepressants from age 10 through 30, your brain never
developed without, without, into adulthood without antidepressants.
And that, that could lead to, we don't know what kind of problems.
Um, so I mean, I guess I was, I was kind of just wondering, you know, if, if you
could ever see an example where like, actually, no, it turns out that this is
uniquely damaging to, to young people, to young minds.
We should make a special case for this.
I think if there was enough evidence, I'd be in support of that.
I just, I'm actually questioning though, whether that's true.
Me too.
I, I, I, I, I, it's not like I can point to something and say, what about this?
I know this is for a fact.
I'm just thinking hypothetically.
Yeah.
The other one was,
Oh no, I don't know if I would be in favor of a straight out ban.
I think like if there might be a competency, like, Hey, I'm, you know,
an informed, um, adult and I am choosing to do this and that should
still be your choice.
This actually ties me into the next thing really well, which is medical
freedom.
Like I'm a big fan of, of, uh, especially now, uh, in what is it?
Uh, May 31st, 2021, um, of compulsory medicine.
You're in favor of compulsion medicine?
Yeah.
Okay.
I don't like that fact that half my neighbors aren't going to get a
COVID vaccine.
Um, okay.
You know, so like I, I don't get wrong.
There's all kinds of downsides with, you know, how this has gone horribly in
the past, how this could go terribly wrong in the future.
But in a, in a society that didn't suck, um, I think, I think it would be
great to, to take that freedom away from people and say, look, sorry, you
don't get to decide that you get to drive 10 miles over the speed limit.
And, uh, with your eyes closed, just cause it's your personal freedom.
There's already legal precedent for, uh, compulsory vaccination.
Like this was a thing that happened back in God, I want to say the smallpox
era, 36 or something.
I don't remember exactly when it was, but, uh,
they might, they make kids take, um, what is it?
Boostery shots.
Uh, this, this was an adult who didn't want to get vaccinated for this thing.
And the state took him to court and eventually the Supreme Court ruled, uh,
no, it doesn't matter what you want.
This is of sufficient public interest that you will get this vaccine.
I think the distinction is I don't want to, I don't want any laws protecting
people from themselves.
Right.
Uh, but when you could harm others with your actions is I think when, when
you need to like.
Which is why the Supreme Court came down on the state side in that point.
Cause like you can make a, if you, if I make a personal choice that only affects
me, um, you know, well, I don't know why I'm even explaining this.
Yeah.
Nobody else would be harmed.
So I should be able to make that choice.
Yeah.
And it's, it's hard to imagine what medical, well, I could think of one maybe that.
All right.
So I've got, I was going to say it's hard to think of like a medical decision
that just does affect you that I might have a contention with, but I could think
of one that might get us canceled.
So give me a second to finish up my thing on, on the COVID vaccine.
Like, uh, I did see a thing where apparently a concert in Florida, uh,
tickets are 18 bucks.
If you're vaccinated and they're $1,000, if you're not.
Now I don't know if this will do anything, you know, cause how do you prove
you're vaccinated?
You give them this fake, easily fakeable card.
Um, but you know, it's, it's that kind of stuff I'm, I'm kind of in favor of.
Uh, I was at a mall yesterday to pass time before going to the movie and one of
the stores said, if you're vaccinated, you don't need to wear a mask.
And it's like, I'm not carrying my vaccination card.
This is a, I'm assuming a trust basis thing, right?
Uh, well, yeah.
I mean, that milk, they were literally checking people's of vaccine cards.
So, you know, I laminated mine.
I have it in my wallet, but on the other hand, they would let people in that
weren't vaccinated yet.
If they stayed masked the whole time, but inside there wasn't anyone going
around to unmask people.
Yeah.
And you didn't get a special wristband.
If you were vaccinated, they probably should have done that, but yeah,
people just walked in and if you weren't vaccinated, you could take
off the mask and there'd be no way to, yeah, to check.
Yeah.
See, it's just that sort of like inconsiderate response.
Are you being so inconsiderate to your neighbors or to your community
by doing it that way?
You should be prevented from harming others.
