And this was what they got to shut them down with that his son was allowed to
operate a forklift and it's, it's been used a lot by labor unions and by other
employers to, yeah, to restrict the, the labor supply.
What unions were the baddies here?
I, I know several people who would be like, Pikachu face.
Why are you shocked?
Uh, but yes, they, they, the, the point of a labor union is to protect the jobs
of its members, which is sometimes good and sometimes not so good.
Yeah.
I think that's the most succinct way to put it.
Um, the, should I move on to the next topic?
Yeah.
Okay.
This next topic, we probably don't have to talk about very much because just
last week we did a whole episode on it, but it's specifically about love slash
sex, which is, you know, very important, I think would be an understatement to
teenagers and is not something that is allowed them at all that, uh, there's
some allowances made for teenagers fooling around with each other, but even
then it's considered not a serious relationship.
It's called like puppy love and, uh, and that's something that they're just
you know, they're expected to get over it and go on to something else as, as
they get older.
And, uh, it, the point he makes is that implicit in the laws, uh, out, allowing
sexuality for, for young people is the assumption that all young people are
incapable of experiencing the same kinds of loving feelings that adults do and
that no young people are capable of engaging in sexual activities responsibly.
I'm curious about why it matters that people call it puppy love and that
they're expected to move on from it.
Like, because he says it's the meaning to, um, treat people who are physiologically
mature as basically no more mature than animals.
I guess I mean, I've heard, I mean, I, I sort of feel like people give that
same advice to 30 year olds, you know, like, oh, you were just infatuated with
that person, but you know, they sucked and you should move on with your life.
Like, I think it's the equality thing.
I mean, when you were describing that, I was kind of thinking, I don't know, I
think it's funny that they're like, oh, teenagers should be allowed to have
sex because they're just going to, you know, at least you're going to break up
anyway. But like, I'm like, you know, it's all most marriages.
Don't more marriages end in divorce now, or something like 50% in America.
Yeah.
And like, I don't know, it's like, if you're going to make that criticism
about teens, you should be making it about adults too.
Like, oh, well, you know, 50% of marriages end in divorce.
They know we should be allowed to get married if they're not mature enough.
Like, he also says that teenage relationships are already handicapped by
the system. They do move in and out of relationships extremely fast.
But he points out, we make it difficult or impossible for young people to marry.
We isolate them from potentially more mature, more settled partners.
We'd loudly dismiss their feelings as half baked.
We corral large groups of young people, often against their will, into crowded
pens for nine or 10 months a year.
It shouldn't be surprised that they shift partners, a surprise that they
shift partners frequently.
This is the, this is the loaded language of somebody with an axe to grind.
But also you can't be at, you can't, I can't believe that you,
Inyash, are advocating that we let children get married.
So my take on this is that no one should get married.
But if we're going to have marriage as a thing that people can do, any
person should be able to do it.
And young adults count as people, young people count as people.
It's weird.
I'm glad that I wasn't allowed to marry my high school sweetheart.
I am very upset that I was allowed to marry the very first person who showed
interest at me when I was 19.
So I guess we're on opposite ends of that.
Yeah.
I mean, I guess it's like a confidence thing.
Yes.
I don't know that this is something where I'm like, I don't know how exactly
you would test the competence of like somebody's ability to have a healthy
romantic relationship.
But I mean, I know I was incompetent because I mean, I bought into this for a
lot of reasons.
And one of them was that I was a nerd who didn't, who didn't think I would
ever be able to be attractive to a mate.
But I was told from by not only my parents, but my religion, all the people
who had influence on me in my early life that, uh, you don't date until
you're ready to get married.
Cause the whole point of dating is to find a mate.
And when you find a mate, you get married and since you ain't getting married
before you're 18, you ain't dating before you're 18.
So I had almost no experience with any sort of intimacy before then.
And yeah, I was, I don't think I was competent to make that decision at that
point.
And maybe I would have been if I hadn't been so restricted from doing those
things, but again, I don't know if I would have any way just because I was kind
of, I was late to mature sexually, I think.
I think many people can relate to, like, cause you were barred from your parents.
Cause again, solving the problem of, of, of parents.
A lot of things my parents barred me for, which I did anyway.
Like I could have rebelled and secretly dated someone if I really wanted to.
Yeah.
I guess I'm just thinking like, I think a lot of people had the experience of, you
know, getting their first crush, their first date, their first true love of what
they thought it was.
And then, you know, their first heartbreak and then only later in life, realizing
like, Oh, that wasn't real love.
That, that was me learning what it's like to have feelings for somebody.
But like, I'm not, I'm not saying that's everybody.
I'm saying, I am saying that's me.
I agree with you.
I mean, so part of the problem is that, like he says, we're stuck in a
corral with our peers and our role models are other people who are just as stupid
and inexperienced as us.
Like in a society where kids interacted more with adults, they would have better
role models for these things and might even be able to find a partner who's
had some more experience and knows a few things being like, okay, kid, you know,
slow down, this isn't, this isn't quite, um, this is not the ultimate true
love for everything that you, you might be thinking it is.
Let's not rush into getting married right now.
Like one of the tragedies of Romeo and Juliet is that they're fucking 13 and
14 and don't know shit about anything yet.
And they, if they had fit their, um, their society's model of what a relationship
should be like, they probably wouldn't have been dating each other.
Cause you're usually considered, um, too young to be dating someone your own age
at that time.
Yeah.
I mean, there's also, it was much more, I guess it was much more
common for people to have a more of a year age gap back then.
Well, and just the fact too that they were, I think in Romeo and Juliet, part
of the point is that they're both politely stupid kids.
Yes.
Yes, they are.
And so, you know, wasn't Romeo 21 and Juliet like 17?
No, that was usually Hollywood adaptations are a lot around that period because
they're, uh, they're, they're aging them up to make it acceptable for modern
audiences.
Yeah.
But I believe Juliet, either Romeo or Juliet specifically were named, uh, and
the other one was assumed to be about a year from the, the first one.
So it was either Juliet was named as 13 or Romeo's named as 14 within the play
itself.
Yeah.
I, I think we talked about that one last episode.
I don't have much new on offer there.
Yeah.
I did think you guys want to know about this.
We got a whole episode.
Just go back one.
I did think of like a rejoinder in the drive home.
Oh, go for it.
Well, like, cause we were talking, I was thinking, like, if I was 15 and some
30 something year old woman wanted to have sex with me and you were like, well,
I, you know, there's, there's probably a chance that you simply wouldn't have,
you know, if you're given the opportunity.
I'm like, no, I think I might have.
And in my head, I wish I had said, I was like, Oh yeah.
You know, if you really didn't want to, your body has ways of shutting that whole
thing down is, was, is what, was what you're sound like you were saying.
I know it wasn't what you were saying, but it would have been funny.
And I said, I'd opportunity to make that quip.
In our society, if a 36 year old woman wants to have sex with you, 15 year old
Steven, it's going to be in secret.
It's going to be a thing that's usually, um, not very healthy.
Whereas in a more mixed society, you would have peers around both you and her
that sees the relationship and, you know,
could vouch for like this woman's not trying to take advantage of this little boy.
Yeah, or be like, Hey, kid's a bit too young for you.
You know, that, that kind of thing, like depending on how things are,
having things socially open like that is a huge, uh, huge break check.
By the way, uh, just looked it up.
It says that Romeo was never explicitly given an age.
Okay.
Uh, Juliet was 13.
Okay.
And I'd, yeah.
And Bromeo was always assumed to be within a year or so of her based on things in
the play, I don't know, from what I've heard.
Yeah, I don't know.
You know, we were talking to, and this didn't come up in the last episode.
You know, I guess the answer would just be abortions, but like, you know,
there is a, I didn't put it in here because it's pretty quick, but there is
also a section on abortions where he says anyone who is a competent, uh,
should be able to get an abortion at any time without needing to go to the
parents or get a special order from a judge or something.
I would carve out an exception that you don't even have to be competent to get
an abortion because you can become, you can become pregnant before you're
competent.
That's true.
Yeah.
Uh, I, but like, you know, Charlie gave like an example of like what
happens if you have a romantic experience you don't like.
And somewhat sarcastically, she said like, Oh no, I regret it.
This is the end of the world.
And it's like, yeah, but for some people it's worse.
You know, now you're knocked up and, you know, like they're, or,
you know, as a 13 year old or something, you're not aware of all the
Wang shriveling sex diseases that are out there.
And now you've, you've, whatever, it's the Wang shriveling.
That's the bad part.
Exactly.
Um, so like there are lifelong consequences that can happen that you
just may not be informed of because you're a child, uh, or a, or a youngster.
Um, he does cover that in the section on competency that people know the
consequences of sex before they're considered competent.
I did sort of want to, to consent.
Sorry.
Uh, yeah, I feel kind of bad.
Um, last episode that we did where, how did this go exactly?
It was Charlie saying, um, that she had like basically gone through all
