scenes and have like actual informed opinions about them and not be traumatized by it.
And if they can't, they do the thing where like they cover their eyes or look away.
Like there is a common protective response.
I do that if you're not mature enough.
Yeah, I was watching a movie a couple of nights ago where, you know,
this crazy woman is at the middle of the night.
She's cutting like celery and onions and stuff.
And I'm like, oh, she's going to chop her fingers off because there's a ghost in
the house. So I'm literally just got my, I'm waiting for it to happen.
Not looking at the screen, got my arm up.
And then I'm looking at Rachel and I watch her wins.
I'm like, yeah, I knew that was coming.
I told you and it was gross.
And then I watch up and, you know, she's like cutting them into pieces too,
or cut off fingers because ghost, ghost madness, right?
But like, I don't, I don't like, I'm squeamish about stuff.
And I watched a lot of our rated movies as a kid.
Some probably traumatized me. Some probably didn't.
You know, I don't know if I was terrified of spiders before the fifth
time I saw the movie, Arachnophobia, but probably didn't help.
The one that sticks out most in my mind, when I was a little kid,
I saw someone getting garaded in a public bathroom and like, that's, Jesus Christ.
I'm not in real life in a movie.
Otherwise I would have been capped as a witness.
Was it the Arnold Schwarzenegger movie?
No, I don't remember what movie it was.
It was just some random gangster flick.
And that like kind of fucked me up.
It came out of nowhere.
But like, you know, then I watched the Freddy Krueger movies
and those were so cartoonish, like whatever.
It wasn't a big deal compared to like seeing an example of actual violence
where there wasn't even any blood involved, but the dude was struggling for his life.
I was like, oh, fuck.
I think one of the creepiest, this is sorry.
It's a side topic, Labyrinth, the movie, The Labyrinth.
You know, that it's like a bloodless scene.
But that's the only thing I've seen in a movie that ever actually disturbed me to this level.
There's a scene where a character smashes a person's face in with a bottle.
Like he takes a bottle and he's repeatedly just smashing him in the face with it.
And the special effect, like it looks like real violence in a way that movies often don't.
I don't remember that scene.
Yeah, I remember.
And, you know, I saw that when I was in my 20s and I found that disturbing.
But sure, I think I'm only saying that because I have a hard time.
I was like going through my childhood memories and being like, actually,
I was like, I was difficult to traumatize in some ways.
I had like farm animals and I got to like see some of my like pet ducks
get killed by a fox and stuff in real life.
So it was like movie violence didn't even.
Right. You saw an actual.
Yeah, I don't know.
Um, should we move on to some of the ways young people get fucked?
I mean, I feel like let's let's frame it a little differently.
And like, let's let's look at the case for this, people get fucked.
And I mean, I just you're you're you're loading your your your well, of course,
I want to win. There's a word for this.
I will ask our lawyers where you're priming the jury or something.
Poisoning the well, maybe.
Yeah. Poisoning the well is the word I was looking for.
But yeah, there's there's a jury word for it, too.
I don't think of what I know.
Leading the witness, maybe, I don't know.
Like, yes.
So speaking of legal stuff.
All right.
The one of the problems is the juvenile legal system,
which has been completely divorced from the actual legal system.
He points out that the Fifth Amendment of our Constitution guarantees
that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, property,
without due process of the law.
And Sixth Amendment guarantees the accused shall enjoy a right to speedy
in public trial by an impartial jury.
But apparently, if you are under 18, you do not count as a person anymore.
Because as of the 1960s, in many states, less than five percent
of juvenile offenders were represented by counsel at all.
They didn't have juries at their trials and most hearings were held in secret.
That part's weird.
I was going to ask about trying children as adults.
You know, I do think that it makes sense.
I'm curious what the reasoning is behind not having jurors and stuff
like that for children criminality.
But you know, I saw a video on Reddit, I think it was r slash convenient cop.
And there's a cop at a gas station.
And as it happens, he was there while across the gas station.
Some kid was doing his gang initiation thing
and shooting into a gas station parking lot, killing some 79 year old war veteran.
And the kid was a kid.
You know, I probably post puberty because I think it was a young teen.
Reach the pedals. You could probably reach the pedals.
I don't know if he's tried as an adult or not.
But is this kind of arguing that, like, no, if you've, you know, if you're.
You should face consequences if you fuck up.
Well, yes.
So it seems to be kind of the argument is that if you break a law,
unless you are literally incompetent to the point of, like, you know,
an eight year old is where they don't know what you're doing,
you face consequences like any other citizen does.
So you get the right to a trial by jury.
You get the right to a lawyer and you're treated like a regular person.
I think you should have juries and lawyers and all that for whatever it is.
That one of the things you can do to be treated as an adult
is to commit a crime serious enough that people have to drop the force
that you aren't an adult.
So, yeah, oftentimes gang initiations include things like reckless behavior,
usually not literal required murder,
but reckless behavior that can lead to killing someone.
Because if you do kill someone, all of a sudden, the system's like, OK,
we're done fucking around pretending you're a child.
You're facing actual consequences for this.
But for the most part, they just take away people's right to have a trial
because it'd be inconvenient to treat them like a real person and just be like,
oh, no, you're going to Juvie where we decide your fate for you
because the parents face the consequences and oftentimes parents face consequences.
And like, that's then that provides another incentive to control kids more.
All right. So there's there's a couple things on back there.
I do disagree with the fact that children for the legal definition
aren't given juries and lawyers.
So I'm not I'm not going to argue that that point.
But I do think that there's something to the fact that I don't, you know,
my recollection of my childhood is not great.
I don't think at 13 I knew what a consequence 10 years from the road
down the road could possibly look like.
Right. I because my my memory of the previous 10 years was basically non-existent.
Right. So like, I couldn't imagine 10 years into the future.
What would it be like to spend 15 years in prison?
I would literally couldn't imagine it.
Right. I'm assuming I can't ask my 13 year old self.
If you were at the level of maturity where you actually cannot be held legally
responsible because you just haven't developed that far, you won't be.
Well, but that's that's the thing.
You treat children like children.
You treat people who aren't children like not children.
So, I mean, and I'm going to I wanted to save this for some point
and I don't want to get derailed, but we'll we'll put a pin in it of like,
how the hell do you measure that?
But well, let's move past that for a sec.
Because I mean, I do think that at some point, like, I guess when I think of parents,
I don't think of them as like, you know, jail wardens or, you know, owners of property.
I think of an idea. Ideally, huh?
You had pretty good parents.
Right. So I had good parents, but I think that in an ideal
the way that this should work is that parents should be like the stewards of their kids.
And in a way, in a not insignificant way, you are responsible for how they turn out.
There's, you know, a lot of shake up about basically they're going to turn out
how they're going to turn out, whether or not you fuck up or not.
And, you know, you have to really fuck up for them to be fucked up from your, you know, whatever.
If you don't traumatize your kids like too too much.
Yeah. Well, I mean, I mean, if you don't traumatize them, then they
I think have pretty successfully shown that like a large part of the way kids
turn out is just genetic.
Yeah. And so the thing is, like, doesn't matter that much.
If you did fuck up your children, even in pre-industrial societies, again,
using the term, not technically correctly, but whatever,
even if you weren't held accountable for their actions and the children would be
the one who was sent to the mines and punishment or whatever.
And by children, again, I mean someone who is physically an adult
and knows how to accept consequences.
It's not like people don't know that your child is the one that fucked up.
And you are held in some way, reputational responsible,
which is where the whole you have brought dishonor on the family name comes from.
Like, yeah, it is a mark against the family name
if the child goes and does something like that, because maybe the parents
fucked something up really bad.
And they probably could have done better if you're if you're 12 year old is shooting people.
Now, not in every case, but in probably many of them.
My sister used to work at a preschool or elementary school in Atlantic City.
And there were kids bringing knives.
Like, yeah, I didn't quote that the statistic.
But yeah, he also quoted how many how many adolescents bring weapons to school.
Yeah. And that they like busted for drugs and like just I don't know that.
Wait, you said preschool, they're busted for drugs, not elementary school.
What kind of elementary school?
So at that, I will say it's bad parenting.
I think that's bad parenting.
The parents parents will be held accountable, you know, because the kid
as we've talked about can't get a job with, you know, an income to buy
their own drugs from the drug you're looking on the street, they're finding
them at the parents house, you lock that shit up, you know, you put it on top
of the fridge where the nine year old can't get to it.
I wanted a similar point about gangs, how gangs actually serve a need
and give teens a lot of agency, because then you can make your own money.
You can support yourself.
And they even have like strict organizations with the ranks
that you can increase your standing in.
Like gangs are pretty decent aside from the whole, you know, breaking laws
and killing people thing.
Yeah, it's interesting.
We were talking about the, sorry, I just, before I forget, the kids will
turn out how they're going to turn out unless you radically fuck up.
That seems to be the case.
And yet we're all aghast that the fact that they're getting rid of
advanced standing programs for math and stuff.
But in the next breath, we're saying kids are going to turn out, they're
going to turn out, no matter, you know, unless you traumatize them.
Like I personally am making the argument here that all of society is
traumatizing almost all of our kids, and it is having massive impacts for decades.
Upset at them taking away like the opportunity for a kid to advance
themselves early.
Like there were so many savant like level, really smart kids at my library.
