Different Jeff, just to preface the conversation, I think I probably agree with the points
made in this.
I read some of the notes that said, I will do my, I think I can do a, I've been taking
the virtue of the ideological tearing test more to heart in the last several months.
I think it's super valuable.
The idea that you should be able to properly engage with somebody that you disagree with
one technique for really getting where they're coming from is if you can pose like basically
in your head or especially a dialogue with somebody, pretend to be somebody from that
group well enough that they can't tell that you're pretending.
I will do that for the, the large part of the status quo, I think.
Okay.
All right.
Trying to keep us honest, ask the questions, all that.
Sure.
Yeah.
I appreciate that because I was worried that this is going to be one of those episodes
where just all three of us are like, we agree with this book.
That's it.
That's the podcast.
Except now and ever we're going to just agree for two hours.
Yeah.
We're going to just sit here and jerk each other off for three hours, but have kids aren't
taken seriously enough or something.
Basically.
All right.
Yeah.
Well, I'm not going to let that happen.
Okay.
So let's start with a quick hypothetical as, is the way that I got into this.
Like if someone.
Yeah.
I love quick hypotheticals.
Yeah.
If someone right now told you that for the next five years of your life, you couldn't do anything
that had any meaning at all.
It might be kind of demoralizing the least, demoralizing would be the least of the terms
I would use to describe it.
Like along the lines of you can't really do anything that matters to anybody you care
about.
You can't make the world better or worse.
You can't contribute to your society or your friends or your family.
You can't own your own property.
If you need food, how food or clothing or shelter, that'll be provided for you, but
also anything you own can be taken away.
You can't pay your own bills or make your own money.
And if you try to, that'll usually be taken away from you.
You're just stuck waiting for five years to pass before anything can happen in your life
at all.
And you got to get a school.
Well, I mean.
You might have to go to school too, but I'm not even, you know, including school in
the equation right now.
It would feel to me a lot like fucking Groundhog Day, because no matter what he did in any
single day, it didn't matter.
It all got you reset the next day and it led him to suicide eventually.
And that didn't take either because nothing he can do matters not even killing himself.
And obviously it's not to that extreme because we don't have magic powers in the real world.
But for the most part, nothing you could do would matter.
You couldn't even have legal consequences for most of what you do unless you do something
really bad in which case you get treated like normal person again.
But no one even takes anything you say seriously in part because that's good so that you won't
have reputational effects later in your life or bad things you do now.
But on the other hand, you can't.
On the other hand, nothing you can do is nothing you can say or contribute is taken seriously
either.
And I don't know.
I personally would get really depressed.
I have one funny quick thought on that and then one serious challenge to that.
The funny quick thought, you mentioned Groundhog Day.
I saw one of those last week or this week, a movie that was called Boss Level, starring
the guy who played kind of Captain America's antagonist from S.H.I.E.L.D. and Captain America
Winter Soldier, big brawny guy, short black hair.
Oh, that guy.
Yeah, Rumbleau is his name, but I literally have to look it up.
His name in the show.
I forget his name in real life.
Anyway, it was a fun Groundhog Day movie, Strong Recommend.
I think it was on Hulu.
Okay.
Boss Level.
I love Groundhog Day movies.
Yeah.
And second of all, I don't think that he's remotely accurately describing what it's like
to be an adolescent.
Almost all of that sounded like dog shit, like he's painting like this ridiculously absurd
corner where you have to agree that this is bad.
And then, I mean, the first part was nothing you do matters and you can't make your own
decisions and you can't impact lives or something.
You can absolutely do that at 15.
Not legally.
Of course you can.
You can join the Science Olympiad, Math Club, Chess Club, Make Friends.
You can win national competitions at 15.
You can make friends, but unless you're actually the person who's winning national competitions,
what can you really do?
Well, that's true of adult life.
You can't...
Adult life, you can...
So one of the examples given is a kid who grew up in Mexico that around the age of six
started helping out, selling things on street corners, and he eventually made it really
big in life, became owner of some major company.
But anyways, just selling stuff on street corners and...
That kid's name?
Mark Cuban.
Yeah.
Sorry.
He would get money to help pay the bills, like to pay the electric bill for his family
and help buy food and felt like he was really contributing something.
And kids that can work with their parents or work on farms actually do something meaningful
that improves the lives of their family when they're doing it.
Whereas, if you're going to competitions, I mean, if you make it to the very top, you
have something to put on your resume later, I guess, but it's not like anyone else's life
is positively impacted by what you're doing.
I don't know.
I mean, I don't want to say that you can't have a positive impact before you're allowed
to have a gainfully employed job, because, A, gainfully employed jobs, the vast majority
of them don't impact anyone's life positively, unless you're a particularly chipper, checkout
person that safe way, you're not making anyone's life that much better, right?
You have some ownership in your life, and you actually can make people like your family's
life better just by contributing to paying the expenses.
So in those limited capacities, sure.
But as a kid, this sounds like I'm patting myself on the back, but it's only because
it's relevant.
I mentioned you had a rough night in your youth where you were very seriously suicidal.
There was a kid, I was in junior high, told me he was going to kill himself, and the long
story involved me almost getting in trouble for talking in class, and the principal was
in the...
I'll tell the medium link version anyway.
The principal was in the class just observing or something, and the teacher told me, hey,
stop talking back there.
And I was like, actually, it's really important to talk to the principal about it, because
the principal was there, and go sit in the back.
And then I sit back with him.
I was like, so do you want to hear what it was about?
And he was like, sure.
And so I was like, well, we should leave the room.
And I told him, and he's like, well, which kid was it?
I was like, he told me not to say.
And he's like, well, look, this is really important.
Like if he goes home and dies, this is on me because I could have stopped it.
Well, he said, quote, this is on me.
And the implication was this is also on you, but I don't think he wanted to say that to
a child or an adolescent, a young adult.
Did you tell him who it was?
Yeah.
The kid and I got along great for the rest of our primary school education.
And I don't know if he was going to kill himself that night or not.
But there's a non-zero chance that he was.
Yeah.
Regardless of whether it was or wasn't, clearly something wasn't going right for him.
Yeah.
And he needed help.
I don't know if it's all his problems or not, but he went off and he went and talked
to the counselor.
And then he came back, gave me a hug sometime later that day or the next day, and I'm hoping
that this helped him, helped his life.
I wasn't gainfully employed.
No one paid me to do it.
Yeah.
You did a great thing.
I did that without being able to have a job.
Yeah.
I could very easily imagine that scenario, not having that happy ending, though, where
if the adults hadn't taken you seriously, if they'd just been shut up, shut up, stop
talking in class, I've definitely had that happen.
Not that exact scenario, but I've had abusive teachers or just incompetent ones.
Yeah.
I totally could have gone that way, too.
Some teachers I had in some institutions, I was at sucked, but this was a positive
moment in my, there's probably, you know, like school sucks in the most part.
You mentioned how like you look back on it with like rose-covered glasses.
And you know, I think other than the bullies and the boredom, I had a decent child, I had
a good childhood.
You know, like I, there was a lot of running around outside, goofing around, a lot of doing
stupid shit that, you know, you can't get away with as an adult.
But anyway, I guess I'm bringing that up as a counterpoint, you know, so yes, the six-year-old
is able to contribute to his family's food income, which I think is a horrible responsibility
to put on a six-year-old, like, no, no, you need to hit this quote or your family is going
to starve.
You know, yes, it's on you.
It's certainly not how it was put.
Yeah, I think it's not, the kid is being forced to do this, like it seems like the actual
crux here is the autonomy question of it's not sort of whether, you know, a childhood
where you work.
Does this make sense?
Sorry, I'm just trying, I'm trying to...
It does make, I'm gonna stop trying to make my own tortured, terrible metaphors and just
go into the actual argument in the book because it's done better than what I've been doing
so far.
Sorry, I didn't mean to hit on that too hard.
No, no, it's fine.
Now that's your job.
Yes, it is.
So his argument is that the main need teenagers have is to become productive and independent
and that this is something that starts happening for most people somewhere around 12, 13, where
they start wanting to gain their own lives and just, just gain some autonomy.
When you said, started to, usually we said what, 12, 13, like I would argue or not argue,
clarify puberty around, yes, yes, like it's the actual like physical and mental changes.
Yes, I guess someone becoming adolescent are caused by the process of puberty.
Yeah, I shouldn't, I shouldn't put an exact age on it because actually one of his major
