and, you know, the end of life, uh, the peak age for sadness is 18 between 18 and
22% of young people have purposefully injured themselves peak age for sadness.
Like you ask people in their 40s, when were you the most sad and the average
was 18, the, well, I mean, they start asking at 18 and then just, yeah,
keep going after that and peak age of sadness is 18, because that is, you
know, the time when you're closest to being a teenager in their age cut off.
I mean, that is one explanation.
That is one explanation.
That, that is something I'm going to hammer on a bit when we get more direct
towards it.
I'm not convinced that this is the cause of a lot of these problems.
Okay.
At least, at least not yet.
Maybe I may be convinced.
Well, I'll go ahead and wrap it up.
That was, you know, the best list of pathologies and all we need to do, I'm
assuming is think back to our own childhoods or look at what society has
as their stereotypical view of the teen to realize that this is a time with a
lot of pathology, uh, and your argument is that it comes from something else.
I'm saying that it, it's not convincingly argued that it comes from treating
them like kids.
Okay.
Uh, I'm not saying I have the other cause.
I can think of some, but like, I mean, well, one jumps out at me.
The rates of automobile accidents and fatalities are highest in late teens.
That's me.
Sounds like we shouldn't be letting people in late teens drive, you know, if
they're running around killing people.
If you wait to let it, you go even longer.
I think you're just going to push the age out even more further.
I mean, maybe I, I mean, there's something to be said about, and I think
there, there's a section here in your notes about the teen brain cause, you
know, well, and just your brain's not done developing.
You don't have a frontal lobe yet.
I mean, you technically have, you have one.
It's actually a misconception.
Um, to some extent, like the teen brain is different, but they've, they had
characterized it before as teens behave this way because they're undeveloped,
but it's actually a specific, like there are specific brain changes that make
you a teen that like evolved for, sorry, Wes, specific purposes of, um, making
you, encouraging you to like leave your tribe of origin and go find a mate with
like better genetic diversity and the risk taking and impulsivity, uh, is like
because you're gearing up to basically go, go to war with nature or other humans.
Like.
I mean, one could argue that you might want to keep a tight leash on those folks
then.
I mean, just, I mean, I'm not making that.
Trying to lease them is what they're arguing, uh, causes these pathologies.
And I think you, you do actually see, um, they're talking about pre-industrial
societies that the teen, that they don't have this like teen problem that we
have in the West.
Yeah, the thing that I find a bit more convincing as to why these, these are
the causes of the problems rather than something else is partly because, uh,
there, there is the whole before industrial society.
We didn't really have this and other pre-industrial societies don't
particularly have it, but, uh, also when this is taken away, people tend to do a
lot better and he specifically calls out Boys Town as one example.
There's a few other societies like this in the early 1900s where instead of
sending, um, young offenders to jails, they would send them to these societies.
And the, the Boys Town in particular was interesting because he said, uh, all
these young people were just put in a town without any locks on the doors or
fences around it or whatever.
But they were like, you live here now, uh, go for it.
And their courts where were other teens, the judges were teens, the advocates
were teens, the advocates or lawyers, whatever you want to call them.
The jurors were teens.
Yeah, they, they, the trash people that collect the trash every day were teens.
And he said, as soon as they started like being treated like adults with
real responsibilities and real things that mattered happening to them, the
vast majority of them started acting like normal people without all these, I'm
sorry, by the term of normal normal people.
Maybe that's a stigmatizing, but, uh, they immediately became much
more socially integrated and law abiding and importantly happy with life.
And it was a, a great rehabilitation program, which unfortunately has been captured.
There is still a Boys Town now, but it's basically like any other juvenile
detention system where they are still treated as kids that have to be
watched and protected.
And there's a huge amount of counselors that make all the decisions that matter.
Uh, it was a very interesting case study and it, he has multiple examples
given where once you give people responsibility and the ability to
affect things around them, they very quickly start acting like decent people again.
And I mean, personally, the thing that helped me, um, get over my mental
situation was I dropped out of college because college was still a world where
things were provided to me and what I did didn't matter.
Uh, uh, I, once I was out on my own, making my own money, paying my own rent,
it suddenly felt like I had ownership of my life and my decisions made a
difference and I really quickly rebounded after that.
And, you know, when you have to clean your own place or you're living in a
filth, you have to take out your own trash or the trash just builds up.
Suddenly there's actual consequences for the things you do with your life.
And that feels good.
Yeah.
I mean, there's something.
It doesn't.
Uh, you're, no, please.
I was going to say there's something, you know, um, reward.
Rewarding might not be the right word, but validating, you know, when the
pantry isn't magically filled every week and you like, you buy your own food,
you know, if you're out, if you're out of toilet paper, that's your problem.
You need to go get some.
It gives you a sense of authority over your life.
I can, I can dig that.
Um, and not just the fact that, you know, it feels good, but the fact
that this is what humans are supposed to be doing at this point and taking
that away from them causes all these problems.
I think you see this in any population where autonomy is with holes taken
away, minimized, uh, I mean, I was just thinking about like the prisons
in the Netherlands, which just your regular adult prisons, uh, I think it's
the Netherlands that might be Sweden, but, um, they basically have a prison
system where yeah, it's a open doors, no locks, like no barbed wire, people sort
of work at jobs and they're, they can come and go as they please and make
their own decisions and people reform in these conditions where they, they get
worse, the more you restrict them.
Yeah.
And like, I'm thinking like old folks homes, like that you've seen this
like psychologically over and over.
And there's some people that you can't have like that.
You just have to get rid of them.
Like El Chapo maybe, but in American prisons, when we do the same thing
that we basically do to teens, I mean, they're famous for the intense
levels of drug use.
That's the only thing you have to do as you have waiting for the time to run
out before you can get back to life, tons of drug use, violence, suicide,
self-harm, they're horrible torture factories.
And this is a big cause of that.
Yeah.
I mean, prisons are their own box of worms that I'm not going to defend, uh, or
can of worms, um, that, that, that's, that's a whole mess.
I mean, you mentioned old folks homes.
I mean, there, there's, there are definitely, uh, people in these, in, in,
you know, say like a secure psych facility or, uh, some, some nursing homes
where you want the doors to lock from the outside.
Yeah.
Cause if, cause if you're, if your grandmother wanders out and drowns in
the lake adjacent to the property, um, because she doesn't know what decade it is.
Uh, I think it makes sense that the, that the institution's at fault.
So I don't want to lump in.
Yeah.
I don't think we're disagreeing though.
Like the, this book is not saying immediately emancipate all teens.
It's saying competency.
Like I, I think that you should do competency checks for teens to see if they
can do something.
And for like elderly people, like the driver's license is a good example.
Definitely there's a lot of people on the road that should not have a license.
And I think there's plenty of teens who could drive a car safely.
Yeah.
I was, I was struck with your example of boys down and tried to skim the Wikipedia
page, but it's too big.
Um, I don't, so I don't have much to comment on that.
Half of a Robert Epstein's Wikipedia page is about him suing Google because they
put a warning on his site that his site was full of malware when in fact it was.
Okay.
And so he's like, you guys are lying, trying to, you know, make me look crazy.
And it's like, actually, no, it looks like, well, I was hacked.
This isn't fair.
Um, he sounds kind of like a crank, but, uh, that's also me just trying to
observe this to the lens of this guy's not right.
So I didn't read the whole thing on that either.
But, um, it sucks about the malware on a site.
I mean, I just think it's funny.
Like, I didn't do it.
It's like, well, actually, no, look, well, I was, I was tricked.
I was hacked.
It's like, okay, then that's what everyone says.
Um, anyway, uh, where was I with, um, the, uh,
He also cites a study that shows a large positive correlation between
infantilization scores and psychopathology scores.
That the more teens are treated like children, the more signs of psychopathology
they show.
Yeah.
I remember seeing that I was, uh, I mean, without being able to read the study,
I don't know what, like a lot of this sounds like, um, you know, Zimbardo
arguing that the, uh, the environment makes the person, right?
And that's an example of a crank who's just spent his whole career trying to
make a point that is probably wrong.
Um, and one, one, one red flag for a crank.
This isn't like, you know, it's never proof, but if they've dedicated a ton
of time trying to prove the same thing for decades, um, especially when it's
not accepted, correct.
That's all that, that is how a lot of cooled new correct things come out, but
it's also a sign of a crank.
Um, it's, so, I mean, there's, there's a, I'm not saying that it's, this isn't
not even close to proof positive, but it is evidence that this guy's just
got an ax to ground like Zimbardo, right?
Does it help that he's not the only one that there's a bunch of other people
also on this boat?
Absolutely.
Oh, yeah.
Um, and don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that this was, I was going to dismiss
him as a crank on this one thing, but it is a sign of crankdom.
Uh, let's see.
Um, there was a grander point I was going to make about something earlier.
I mean, you know, one of the things about, uh, pathologies around 18 and stuff.
I mean, so.
No, between in the, in the teens, right, before you have the ability to legally
control your life.
Well, I mean, that's what, that's why I wanted to see what the
specifics of these were for the record.
I didn't know the name of this book until two days ago, so I didn't get a
