Welcome to the Paising Conspiracy, I'm Injash Brotsky, I'm Steven Zuber, I'm Jay Sticky,
and Steven is going to kick us off with some kind of a story thing joke.
I just did something last night that most people haven't done in a long time.
Oh, did you go out to, crap, what haven't people done in a long time because of COVID?
You went out to a baseball game.
Does that sound like me?
No, it doesn't.
I went to a movie.
Ah, congratulations.
That sounds like you.
Yeah, what movie?
Quiet Place Part 2.
Okay.
I was trying to get Phoenix to go see that with me yesterday.
It was fun.
It had the same kind of thing from the first one where like, the reviews are saying it
was better than the first one, which was baffling because I was like, that never happens.
Yeah, I think it was good.
Like, to me, it's just one of those things.
Like the first one, my main gripe with was like, why didn't they have anything smart
planned?
Like, you know, the fireworks was one thing to distract from the, I didn't mean to make
this a long thing, but the only main, they do have a lot of like smart, clever shittiness
that I like.
The one thing that they didn't do the entire time is like, nobody throws things for a distraction.
And if you guys realize throwing a coffee mug also makes noise, right?
Your only noise doesn't have to be you shouting or, you know, jumping on something to make
noise where you are.
You can make noise at a distance.
Other than no one ever doing that, it was really good.
So yeah, fun plot, fun, everything.
I was going to mention though, going to the movies, I guess I, maybe this wasn't the
best movie to start with because, you know, there's a lot of quiet moments and you can
hear the synchronized chewing of popcorn all around you.
You can hear the people talking the whole time, you know, that aren't supposed, like
the audience, not the movie.
And I, I used to love going to movies and I'll try it with another movie at some point,
but maybe I'm not a movie theater person anymore.
I mean, you also have this weird thing where you hate all the noises that people make with
their mouths, except for talking, I guess.
That's not weird.
Thank you.
Okay, well fine then.
I'm the weird one.
Well, I mean, I just don't care.
Yeah, but that's, that's like a weird minority thing.
It's like claustrophobia.
I know a lot of people.
I have mesophobia and I don't know, I know a bunch of rationalists specifically that
have it.
I just think it's just more like, it pulls me out of the movie.
Like I, the experience is lost because I'm like, I can't get immersed when I can hear
you chewing and I can see the light of your cell phone over on my left, right?
Oh, fucking people checking their cell phones.
Yeah.
I hate when people talk about, like, I'm okay with people talking about the movie.
I hate when some of these having an unrelated conversation during a movie though.
Or even work.
Yeah, definitely.
Like a stupidly really, like 15 minutes in, someone leaned over on the, like, you know,
there was only four people on my left side.
It was a fairly empty theater and it's like, yeah, this whole thing is like a sequel to
the first one.
And it's like, no shit.
How far in were you when this person figured this out?
At least 15 minutes.
Oh my God.
And I'm like, even if you weren't here for the first one, which is fine, it's called
part two.
Yeah.
Come on.
We, so was it like packed in there?
No, not even close.
Okay.
We went at 545.
So I think that later shows definitely were.
Okay.
But even then they had buffers between groups of one seat, which is close to six feet.
Jason and me went to Milk Ditches, the local goth club.
Well, it's a club in general that has goth nights.
We went there Saturday.
They're non goth nights and it's still full of lots of goths.
Excellent.
I think it is just a goth club that has plausible deniability of having other genres of music.
And man, the pent up demand for going out was fucking huge.
There was a massive line out the door.
I've never seen that many people there.
I have before, but when I see that many people, it's like, well, after midnight, whereas this
was just like packed from the beginning, there was a line starting at like a nine.
I showed up at 830 and I think I was like 30 40th in line.
Yeah.
Geez.
Yeah.
The line was going out like the tour down the street.
There's never any cover before 10 o'clock.
This time there was cover for everybody right at the start.
The drinks were jacked up to like 50% higher than they normally are.
Yeah, people were just like, yes, yeah, we're here dancing again.
It was it was really cool.
But yeah, it was a cool vibe.
Like it usually has a cool vibe there.
I just I liked everything in general where people are just friendly and chill and like
dogs.
But this was just like, I don't know, you could feel how happy everybody was.
And there was a lot more goodwill for your fellow mankind.
So humans can go out again.
Nature is healing.
Humans are part of nature.
Okay.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
Alrighty, so this week we are talking about a tell us about these new teens, the teens
2.0.
They're the same teens that have always been teens.
The so it's a two a pair of books written by Robert Epstein and he's not the only one
in this movement.
These are just, you know, this is where I came into it.
The more scholarly one is the case against adolescents.
And perhaps I should have read that one because it would have probably quoted a lot more and
had graphs and charts and all these other things.
But instead I read teens 2.0, which is very lay person friendly and has lessened the line
in the terms of like quotes and statistics and has a lot of anecdotal stories instead.
And then like it just has a big stack of appendices at the end of the book.
They're both written by the same person.
Yeah.
I wonder how common that is.
It would be fascinating if more people intentionally wrote two versions of a book, the one that
the scholarly one and the like, like you said, lay person friendly one.
I'm just remembering how much better literally getting things done for teens.
I have a copy of this book because it's so good that David Allen's like GTD getting things
done productivity system.
But like when he was forced to write it for teens and like it used pictures and diagrams
and metaphors to explain stuff.
And I actually like was like, oh, this was an excellent explanation of getting things
done.
So that's cool.
Do we at the risk of saying hello fellow teenagers, I think it's a, what was a good
day fellow teens.
Okay.
Hello fellow kids.
D.
Bushemi and 30 Rock.
Yeah.
You guys remember being teenagers at all vaguely.
Okay.
Yeah, I do.
It wasn't good.
No, no, it was not.
I would not recommend.
It's weird because like the further I get from it, the more I remember just like the
good parts like, oh yeah, man, I'd like to go back to that.
But then reading this reminded me of all the shit bad parts and also reminded me that
there was a decent chunk of my life where I was literally suicidal and one particular
night, if I would have had access to like a gun or something, probably wouldn't have
made it through the night.
So I like, well, I don't know.
I'm over that now because I'm no longer a teenager.
I gained some meaning and independence and in my life, but you know, I'm glad you didn't
have access.
I didn't want to just push past that without saying anything.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yes.
Me too.
The world's a much better place for you in it.
Oh, agreed.
Well, thank you.
All right.
That's pretty cool.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
But for a long time, like I just thought this is how teenage years are.
This is how everyone is and how they've always been and how it's always been.
Yeah.
And then I started reading the stuff and got eventually channeled over to this book and
I was like, oh, things don't have to be this way.
Like we're literally traumatizing almost everybody and it, it lasts for decades.
Like, I mean, I still have nightmares about being in high school sometimes, but I have
like school nightmares, like at least once a week.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
I'm at this point, I think I'm mostly over it, but like this is a process that took literal
decades and it kind of sucks for subjecting almost everyone to this sort of crap.
And anyways, I'm here to talk about all this and how badly we're fucking up everybody and
what we could do to not do that.
And I can insert some levity since that was kind of heavy to get us started.
So the author is Robert Epstein.
And when I glanced at that, I was like, oh, Jeff Epstein, of course he wants us to cheat
to treat minors as more adults so that he can, you know, not be in trouble for fucking
them.
You're a bad person, Stephen.
I'll own it.
But I promise I followed up with another joke.
The founder of my company's name was Jeff Epstein.
And so his name is still on a bunch of stuff of like, you know, old test accounts, some
of the like bill invoices.
And so still most weeks, I'll see Jeff Epstein somewhere in the company.
And so I just, I love that I'm sure when we're marketing this people, it's like, oh yeah,
not that Jeff Epstein.
I'm sorry, marketing people have to deal with that.
