Right.
But, but, but that, that's true.
Right.
So like, I would, I would have to sit, I would have to sit and figure
something out and just like, Oh, I remember that from 50 years ago.
Right.
Yeah.
So it calls that out.
Yeah.
I have two more quick things to pull out on that about the cognitive, the
teen brain cognitive ability stuff.
Cause we talked about incompetent technological adults and stuff.
Um, we were talking about learned helplessness earlier.
It was remarkable how often you see that with, with some people, even in their
fifties with cell phones and shit, right?
Blows in my mind.
Um, so you don't have to be a tortured child to have learned helplessness.
You were just, for whatever reason, don't feel like learning how to use your
phone and then you therefore never do.
But, uh, I remembered in, I don't know, primary school at some point, you know,
we're talking about technological advancement or something.
And if, if maybe that's less of a problem now than it was then, although I
suspect it's not because my wife still works with people who don't know how to
use their fucking computers.
Um, you know, when they all retire, the next generation of people who come in
will know how to use their computer and sent, you know, uh, email a PDF, right?
And I had like researcher workers who had sort of that adult it is around
technology too.
I was like, how, how do you have a neuroscience, like bachelors, but you
can't figure out how to do this email thing.
You know, like,
yeah, if you, if you can't grab an attachment from an email and print it
then like, how are you, how do you have a job here?
But I remembered I had a teacher who was, I think, defending their inability to
handle the computer properly or something.
And they're like, Oh yeah, it's just all been changing so fast.
You guys will all be there when you guys get to be our age.
And even at my young age, I was like, no, we won't.
We, we have been on the cusp of fast moving technology our whole lives.
You know, like I picked up a video game controller when I was, you know, six or
10 or something and picked one up, picked one up every year since then, you
know, put on a VR headset fears after they came out.
Like we're, I don't think that that's like inevitability.
Like people of this generation talked about.
I felt like I was going to drive that home somehow to this point, but maybe
it was just about the mental acuity stuff.
There's something there that I feel like anyway.
Yeah.
Um, whatever.
He does also specifically call out the year.
What is it?
Yergalin Todd research, which I guess is the, uh, the study which popularized
the term team brain because they used it, I suppose.
Um, but he said that their research, nor the research of anyone else that I'm
aware of provides the scientific evidence needed to support the claims made in their article.
So he, he, he specifically says that they are overreaching and their claims are
not supported by their own evidence.
So that is, that is something I can't get into because I haven't read any of them.
Basically they were, they were the ones that were saying that they don't have
a frontal cortex that's, yeah.
And that's why they can't make decisions or delay gratification or whatever.
Yeah.
That, that was basically just straight out.
You, I don't believe your numbers are correct, sir.
Call out.
And I'll have to, like I said, check this guy's numbers.
I guess again, research unequivocally proves and I'm like, you show me social
science that unequivocally proves anything.
That's fair.
But this is a like persuasive book though, right?
This isn't a science book.
These citing stuff to support his point, but.
Bringing it home now with proposed changes, I guess we can skip over the competency part.
I'd be curious about different ways that, I don't know if there were novel ways
that people proposed to measure competency.
There, there, like you can give a IQ test and you can get, you know, someone's
intelligence, but like, what about?
There actually are competency tests that are suggested in here.
There's one specifically called the Epstein-Dumas something test, which I guess
he developed in combination with someone else.
And you can test yourself sort of a little at home test, which is not quite as, yeah,
it's not quite as rigorous, I guess, but it's at the, in the first
appendix in the book called, how adult are you?
I probably am very adult in some areas and sort of still a child of a competency.
That's what he says, actually, that there's, you know, a wide variety and you
can be competent in some areas and not others.
And so we should give people more rights in some areas and not others.
His main thesis is that all the laws assume all young people are the same
and all adults are the same as well.
And stay the same.
Uh-huh.
And that this is a bad assumption and shouldn't be based on age anyway.
And so he has these proposed changes that he makes.
The primary one being, as I said, we should give people more rights over time
as they pass competency tests rather than due to passing a number of days alive test.
I would like to be given a competency test judging whether or not I can make
my own medical decisions.
Yeah, that was, you know, if we get time for like a fast queue and, you know,
rapid fire thing at the end, I want to do that.
So that you can like choose your own drugs that you want to take?
Yes.
Yeah.
That's basically the band good story again.
Those were the things I liked about Mexico at their pharmacies, you just go
and order your drugs you want and they're like, here you go.
At the kiosk at the airport, you get to do that.
Nice.
Yeah.
Coming back from Cancun for our honeymoon, I mean, you could buy probably
not the great stuff, but there was Tramadol, Viagra, a handful of other things.
And I was like, well, I would, I would just buy this, but I'm not going to, you
know, have them take it away from me in customs when I get back to the US.
So the assumption is if you're old enough to know the drugs that you want to be
slash should be taking, then you're old enough to buy them.
I sort of want there to be a competency test there too.
I do agree that like when it comes to the band good store, if you
can measure, and I think there's model measurements of this, like the expected
utility of having the band good store versus not, it's going to weigh in
favor of having the band good store.
But then like the main reason people want things to be banned is to protect
people from themselves, but you could also just have like, okay, you can go
in the band good store, but you have to take a competency test to show that you
know what drugs you're buying and that you're aware of its side effects and
stuff.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's not super on topic, just it's interesting how it
keeps coming up though.
Yeah, it's not far off topic.
I mean, I do have, need your reservations about competence, like a generic
competency test, just because like, you know, they used to have that for voting
and it just turned out that black people never passed this test, right?
So like, it's, I don't know how you'd make it fair.
You know, even, I think IQ tests are probably better now than they were 30
years ago, but even that had, you know, some cultural stuff in it.
They're still not perfect.
So that is like, actually the fact that there are different racial IQs, at
least in terms of like, people from Africa tending to score really low on
these IQ tests seems to be an artifact of just like, these are people who've
never taken some of these people or people who've never taken a standardized
test and are just like, they just don't know how to take tests, you know.
Yeah, for me, I think the simplest explanation for the Flynn effect where
they have to recalibrate so that the mean score on an IQ test stays 100 every
few years is that people are better test takers than they were, you know, a few
years ago.
I hadn't considered that, but that's the possibility.
Has IQ leveled out?
I don't know.
According to the Flynn effect it has.
That's, uh, because I, that they have to keep adjusting the IQ tests.
So wasn't, wasn't the main thing though, something to do with other people getting
more nutrition or getting less like lead?
Again, that, that would change the general IQ and that would lead to the
Flynn effect.
Yeah.
Those, those are both good candidates.
And the last time I heard about the Flynn effect was 15 years ago.
So like, I have no idea if it is done being a, you know, you know, if they,
if it has tapered off or not, but, um, I would submit that at least part of it is
that, you know, if, if I'm sitting down and take my first pen and paper test at
50, I'm probably going to suck at it.
Even if I'm smart, whereas if I've been taking pen and paper tests four times
a week since I was six, uh, I'll probably do fine at it.
Even if I'm dumb, right?
I know a lot of techniques and general test taking skills.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
So, um, yeah, I'm glad you brought out the, I, there's some places I think I'm
competent and others I don't because he does think that, uh, young people should
be extended full adult rights and responsibilities.
This is the thing that comes up often.
I'm going to stop quoting him just for a second, uh, throughout the, uh,
throughout the book that it's not just about rights and freedoms.
It's about the responsibilities that come with them.
And those two together make for, uh, competent people that can run their
own lives, that it's you, you once you have the ability to make these decisions
for them yourself, you also face the consequences of getting them wrong.
And that's motivating though, in a way that like,
that's a big part of it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, I don't know, having the artificially constrained choices, um, makes
you just sort of not even want to try.
Yeah.
And that's also again, didn't harm, didn't, didn't hammer on this
because we're going long as it is.
And, uh, we've been going on for a while, but that's also a big theme in the book.
So know that that is also in there.
If you've decided to read it, you will pick up on that as well.
The responsibility part is important because it, it's not just about like,
they should be allowed to do whatever they want.
They should be allowed to, uh, you know, have the consequences of doing
whatever they want.
A large part of the thesis is basically the Spider-Man credo with great
power comes great responsibility.
And he's saying, you know, if you give people more responsibility, they will
have more power in their own lives and vice versa.
It goes together.
Well, if you'd mentioned Spider-Man two hours ago, you'd have sold
me earlier, no, if you want more people to be Spider-Man.
