chance to, to go in and like do any real research, but you know, like the, the idea
that LSD can, you know, if you're, have a rent, if you have a propensity
towards schizophrenia, LSD can trigger it.
Um, that might just be bullshit because like people experiment with drugs in
their early twenties, usually mid twenties, and that's when schizophrenia
manifests.
Yeah.
So like it, if people are getting pathologies that are showing up in their
late teens and early twenties, like that's also just when these things often
arise, schizophrenia being one example, the specific pathologies start to drop
off after 18 since that's when people start getting rights.
And you also don't say since then, but you haven't convinced me that since
then, you don't see the pathologies and other cultures, um, at least not at,
like, you know, at these rates, I was curious.
That was more Western to get the worst they get.
That was one of the questions I was going to ask when you say
industrialized, can you explain what that means?
Uh, in like electricity jobs, basically the closer they get to American
culture and adopting schools, yeah, yeah, public schools are a really big one.
Sure.
And I mean, cause like a stripping people of rights.
Yeah.
I mean, like in 1874 or whatever, there weren't a lot of car crashes.
So like that, that's kind of seems like, uh, I mean, I'm obviously poking fun,
but it's a bullshit statistic to say, look, you know, a hundred years, 150 years
ago, kids weren't having these, these auto accident problems.
Like, well, of course they weren't.
There weren't cars to crash into each other.
Yeah.
Um, so he has a really interesting example given for the Inuit culture.
Uh, and I mean, we're kind of using industrial and Western interchangeably
here and as a shorthand for what's been happening over the past couple of
centuries, but he says, uh, that this is happening to Inuit cultures, uh, as well.
And it's, uh, quoting him, especially unsettling because it cannot be blamed
on either urbanization or industrialization because Victoria Island has
experienced neither one television forced schooling and social security were
enough to decimate the traditional culture and to create the new development
stage we call adolescence.
So it was, it was the fact that, um, they, they have the forced schooling and
the taking away of, of traditional rights that people had that started making
them have this adolescent period of drama and terribleness.
So even though we're seeing industrialization, it doesn't necessarily
take actual industry.
It's just the culture that has, um, evolved since industrialization became a
thing and what he said, it was social security and television television
for schooling and social security were the major changes that, uh, came to
Victoria Island.
Yeah.
I want to say something about, uh, social security, but Steve, I was just
going to point a skeptical flag at, uh, TV and social security being
proximate causes of badness.
Um, those were just the three major changes.
Right.
So, I mean, if, if I had to guess the problem was probably before schooling.
Um, I, I mean, unless we're arguing that no, no, social security gives people
a safety net and safety net as many people weak and sad.
So we should take rid of those.
Right.
Gotcha.
No, I think, um, what they're saying is like television, for example, is projecting
this like image of youth culture.
They talk about, um, marketing, sort of, you know, um, spreading this, this
misconception about teens.
And I basically reinforces everything we think about teens.
Yeah.
Uh, and the social security was a think about, um, about the workforce.
Right.
Like, uh, actually this might not be the same point, but I thought it was
interesting that the book talked about the way that like there were incentives
to drive teens from the workforce.
Yes.
I'm not actually sure if that has to do with the social security or not.
But, uh, we can, we can jump into that.
That makes sense.
I, I do have, um, and I just want to put this as like a thing to, because you
used the phrase a minute ago about, and this was, this was because of this.
Um, I don't, to me, the, the causation hasn't been established yet.
Like to take the example of, um, say depression among 18 year olds, uh, I,
I think part of this might be, I mean, just if I'm not saying this is the cause,
but I can think of other causes that sound just as plausible.
You know, so like, all right, now you're an adult.
Now you have all this responsibility.
You're 18.
Now you get to pick your career for what you want to do the rest of your life.
You get to go into tremendous debt to go to school.
So you can, so you can do that career.
You get to never afford a house because they cost seven times what your parents
paid for them.
You'll never make as much money as your parents did.
You'll never have enough for retirement.
Like you come to realize those things at 18 and of course you're super depressed.
And so like, I don't know if, uh, I mean, and that would also explain why these
rates are going up in the, another corollary fact is that we have more child
protection laws, but it could just be the fact that young people today are fucked.
Right.
And they realize that when they're eight, when they're, when they're coming into
the world and they look around like, oh, wait, I'm fucked.
I think young people now are less fucked than they were in the 1880s though.
And yet things are getting worse mentally and emotionally.
The thing that is better at establishing mental and emotional fuckery than we
were 120 years ago, 140 years ago.
Yeah.
I don't think there was the youth suicide epidemic back then.
Now you can again, look at pre-industrial cultures, uh, especially look at
intergatherers.
I mean, that's sort of a different topic, but I didn't mean to, to derail too hard.
But I mean, I guess I want to just like, every time you're inclined to say, because
of this, I just want, what is, what is his evidence that he's got that this is
the cause other than the correlation?
Okay.
All right.
Um, it was a good call out though, because yeah, these are, these are all a bunch
of correlations, but they, I have read all of your notes and I believe that they
do point at something.
Well, shall we get into the correlations?
Cause he kind of goes into a lot of them, um, one by one.
And I realized that we can't do a large scale blind study on this, right?
Um, so I'm not asking for, here's the experimental proof.
You can, you can do studies about criminality, or you can run statistics on, you
know, how many kids joined a gang, uh, OD on drugs, like commit suicide.
Uh, yeah.
Totally.
You just can't, you can't do controlled experiments on those things.
Yeah.
Well, you can, I'm saying that there are ways of gathering evidence and facts.
Oh yeah.
100%.
I was saying that I wasn't drawing the line at the absurd standard that we'd need
a controlled trial for me to believe this.
Yeah.
You can get really good, uh, you know, bet your house on it, uh, information just
from careful observation of, of the way things are in different places.
Yeah.
I mean, I actually want to, I was just going to say to you, cause you mentioned
the suicidality of people 140 years ago.
I mean, part of it might have been means of access, you know, part of it might
have been, again, you had something to do, right?
Right.
Like so, I mean, having something to do is actually a pretty big deal.
Yeah.
Right.
That's, that's what we're going.
Yeah.
But I mean, I, I mean that, uh, you know, an 18 year old today might have plenty
to do, but they, they don't feel like they can ever make an impact.
And that's not, that's not the case back then.
Right.
But that, that has nothing to do about when they were given the opportunity to
start working that has everything to do with the way the world is and they might
have impact you're allowed to have.
Like you talked about in the opening analogy of, of not being able to make
an impact on, on the world.
It's like, well, most of us can't, you know, even on your own local world, you
know, unless you live on a farm and like that has brought up a fair bit, but
this has nothing to do with age.
This has to do with the modern world.
Well, I mean, yes and no, the modern world specifically prevents young people.
What's the voting age?
The voting age is 18.
You don't get to vote about whether or not, you know, you get to make better,
like, like, uh, low, low-skilled jobs, better or more impactful.
That's not something you can vote on.
No, but you can vote on whether kids are allowed to work instead of going to school.
I guess I just, I'm not convinced yet that the, if someone is allowed to bag
groceries at 15, that they would be happier than if they got to bag groceries at 18.
No, of course not.
Bagging groceries is one of the worst jobs there is.
Right.
But that's why we allow teens to do them because that we prevent them from taking
any jobs that are meaningful or important or could develop skills that
they could use later in life.
But if that, I mean, that someone's going to be back in groceries no matter what,
right?
Until we get robots doing it.
So like, but why are we?
Okay.
So I'm not trying to get derailed.
I'm just, I'm, I'm pointing at that, like the, the, the fact that you can't make
a large impact that I don't know how much that has to do with age that has to
just do with the age, the time that it is now, right?
So I know, I know what you're saying.
And I, one of the things I kind of didn't like about this book is that it
is peppered all throughout with, I don't know if it gets to a hundred examples.
Maybe it's a hundred, definitely dozens.
Every few pages, there's another couple of paragraphs, just giving examples of
young people doing things that are important.
I pulled out one of them because it's Bill Gates and we all know and love Bill
Gates, but he started doing meaningful work with computers at the age of 11.
And that was one of the nice things about growing up in the late 80s, mid 90s was
that computers were a new thing, which were a lot of young people just jumped
into it. And there was no one telling you, no, you can't work on computers in
your own garage, your own home.
And that was a place where a lot of people could rest back control of their
lives. And he was one of the people that did that famously.
So, and so there are some domains where you can make an impact, but the typical
domains that adults usually pursue, like helping their community by being their
electrician or their plumber or whatever else it is, is just denied to
children, to, sorry, to young people, so that they, they can't do them.
The example I was going to go to was when I was a sophomore, I think, in high
school, one of the smartest fucking kids in my class.
