on for 10 years longer, what are you shitting me?
She's like, well, I'm not saying that.
Like, I think you are saying that.
Tell me how you're not saying that.
I remember this argument because I didn't, I, I was like the only person
making this case.
This wasn't my like college, uh, philosophy of religion class.
Philosophy of religion.
Yeah.
And I was the only person really making this argument and I wasn't as, uh, brazen
then as I am now.
So I backed down fairly quickly, but I, I was, I, I, I still wish I had challenged
harder.
I, it's not, you know, I wouldn't have gained anything, but maybe I'd have
changed someone to mine or something.
So if you had a time machine, you'd go like make a stronger argument.
Right.
Think of some moments.
So real quick, other resources, youthfacts.org gives a whole bunch of data
and information and the national youth rights association at youththrights.org
is a place to go to help support these sorts of changes and do activism in this domain.
Hell yeah.
And there's various other ones too, but that was like the, the biggest central one
that I found.
So I'm just using that one.
Okay.
I like it.
Yeah.
I mean, I think the, the analogy to other minority groups pans out really well here.
I remember this was an argument that I came across, uh, another philosophy class.
It was, um, about animal liberation, but it was, uh, a quote from, I want to say it,
an abolitionist during the 1800s.
And it was like, look, even if what you're saying is true, that, you know, my cup is
only half as big as yours.
Am I not entitled to my little half measure?
Um, and the, the case was like, sure, an animal has a 10th of the capacity, but
why aren't they allowed to enjoy that 10% or whatever, right?
Uh, this, if you, if you, if you look at the analogy to, um, again, women being
able to work, you know, all in, in mass in 1940, that's insane.
You know, it's easy for people to forget that that like,
it's not even that long ago.
Yeah.
You know, people who, who were alive, you may know people who are alive, uh, at that time.
He draws direct comparison between laws, protecting women and laws, protecting teens
that women were considered weak, incompetent people and desperately
need of protection.
Protecting is a good word there.
Cause we know it doesn't work for, for women.
And so we're like, wait, why doesn't it work for teens?
And it forces that dissonance forces you to face that dissonance.
Yeah.
And he says now, um, but it's like 12% of the military is composed of women, 15% of
law enforcement, and, uh, turns out these opinions can change in society.
And these are stupid arguments.
Yeah.
I, you know, it's kind of 15 year old carry as much, uh, you know, gear as a, as
a 35 year old, probably not, but you can then you let them join.
Well, or a competency test, they need to carry some, some measure, right?
You know, some, some portion of whatever they probably don't need as many
resources either, right?
If you're carrying water or whatever, right?
Um, so it's like, no, just like, yeah, let them do the thing.
It makes, I think, um, like firefighting is like my favorite example.
Cause it's like, look, it doesn't matter, uh, anything else, but can you, can you lift
this much weight?
Can you, can you deadlift a person?
You know, there's also, yeah, with firefighting, like, I mean, I, I was,
I was an EMS, not fire, but I, I can't carry as much as the other people, but I
can squeeze into a car and hold C spine.
And in firefighting that they're, and war, it's useful to have someone with a
small frame sometimes, you know, or like more dexterous fingers, having a, I get
why like, I don't know, there's the stereotype of like, you want like a big
strong man to fight the fires and sometimes you don't, but like, you need
some diversity.
Yeah, exactly.
There's different jobs in the military.
Yeah.
Having child soldiers gives you the opportunity to fit into lots of small places.
Yeah.
It was like actually thinking about child soldiers earlier, but we're talking,
we're talking about young adult soldiers.
That's different.
That's right.
Um, yeah.
So I, there's a lot of things that we didn't touch on that are in my notes.
I will go ahead and put them all up at HP, no, at the basin conspiracy.com, uh, so
that anyone can peruse them if they want.
It turns out when I exported my notes to, uh, to a more shareable format format.
Yeah.
Uh, Kindle told me that I had highlighted 4% of the book and I was like, wow,
that's, that's actually a pretty decent percentage of this book.
So yeah, there's, there's a number of notes in here.
And like I said, there's still 96% that I didn't cover or that I didn't highlight.
So more for people to read if they want to actually get the book teens 2.0.
And he didn't read the second book either, which was called the case against
adolescence.
That's right.
And that one is the, yeah, more rigorous planning on reading it.
If I get the time, but I mean, there's another podcast episode in two weeks.
And I, I don't have, I still got my nine to five job and all that other stuff.
So I don't know.
We'll have you guys and don't worry.
Yes.
All right.
I think we've gone on plenty long.
I had a good time.
I hope you guys did too.
Uh, we got time to think a patron though.
You've got the notes up.
We always have time to think a patron, but I do not have the notes up now.
Let me go find those.
Hey, so for this episode, we are thanking Clement or Clement.
I don't know.
Our patron Clement helped provide this and make it possible to all of you.
And we thank him very much for that because you are listeners and
Clement and specific this week are what lets this happen.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You rock.
I don't know what, I mean, it sounds insincere because I sound tired, but I mean it.
This is, this is great.
And, uh, thanks for helping bring this to, to the masses, including the young adults
who are, have yet to be emancipated by society.
Uh, you know, maybe this, uh, I mean, it would be interesting.
I, I, maybe in 30 years, let's be a thing.
And, you know, I, I, I don't know.
It's put me in a forward thinking mood.
So thanks for letting this conversation happen.
You rock.
All right.
Uh, we'll be back in two weeks.
Bye everybody.
Bye bye.
I'll try to buy a lip post, baby, believe you alone, but not me all together now.
