and position and relative,
sitting next to the right thing and so on.
But we all start life as a collection
of embryonic blastomers.
And so all of these cells have to reliably get
to something like this.
And we need to ask the question,
first of all, how do they do it?
But also, where does this anatomical pattern come from?
How do they know what to build?
And the typical answer to this is,
people say, well, DNA, you've got a human genome,
so what else is it going to build?
And actually, this is very far from a satisfying answer
because we can read genomes now and we know what's there.
What's there is the specification of proteins,
the tiniest pieces of hardware
that these cells have to deploy.
But there's actually nothing in the genome
that talks about the size, the shape,
the symmetry type of the organism.
So we need to understand how this collective,
using the hardware that it's been given by its genome,
does all of the information processing
needed to build what it's supposed to build,
to stop when it's done.
How could we, of course, as workers in Regenerate Medicine,
we ask, how could we ask these cells
to rebuild a piece that's missing?
And in particular, what happens
when this amazing process breaks down
and what happens is cancer?
And I just want to point out why this genetic information
is not sufficient because you might think,
well, we've had genomics and molecular biology
for many decades now.
I mean, aren't we getting a handle of all this?
And let's just do a thought experiment.
Here's an axolotl larvae,
and baby axolotls have little forearms.
This is a tadpole of the frog that we work with.
They, at these stages, do not have any limbs.
In our lab, and this is, we actually do this,
this is more than a thought experiment,
we make something called a frog-olotl.
So frog-olotl is a combination of axolotl cells
and frog cells, and they make a chimeric embryo.
Now, we've got the axolotl genome, it's been sequenced.
We've got the frog genome, that's been sequenced.
Now I ask the question, can anybody tell me
if these frog-olotls are going to have legs or not?
And you can't.
And despite the fact that we have the genomics
and we have some understanding
of the molecular biology of these cells,
no one can make a prediction a priori
of whether these frog-olotls are going to have legs.
And that's because while we understand
the molecular components inside of cells,
we really don't understand how groups of cells
make large-scale decisions about what they're going to make.
And this is something that actually in planaria
is a very stark problem because the species
that we work with reproduced by fission and regeneration.
So they rip themselves in half and then they regenerate.
That's how they reproduce.
And when you do that, what happens is that
every somatic mutation that doesn't kill the cell,
it ends up being amplified into the next generation
as regeneration happens.
So they have somatic inheritance.
So these body mutations propagate continuously.
This is why their genome is so incredibly chaotic
because they just keep everything that happens to them.
They don't clean them the way
that sexual reproducing organisms do.
And despite all of that, despite all of this chaotic genome,
they have 100% regenerative fidelity
and they're very cancer resistant.
It's pretty scandalous when you compare that
to what we learn in basic biology
that the animal with the craziest genome
actually has the least susceptibility to cancer,
the best anatomical fidelity and so on.
And so we're getting better at the mechanisms of biology
but we really don't understand the algorithms yet.
And so what we're interested in are these questions.
How are individual cell decisions
harnessed towards large-scale anatomical goals?
And if we understood this, it's not just about cancer.
We would have the answer to birth defects,
traumatic injury, degenerative disease,
and be able to make all kinds of synthetic
living machines and so on.
So this is how we approach the cancer problem.
And specifically, we really think a lot
about anatomical homeostasis.
The most amazing thing about regeneration
is that it knows when to stop.
So here's an axolotl.
These guys regenerate their limbs, their eyes,
their jaws, portions of the brain, the heart.
They regenerate their tail, including spinal cord,
ovaries, just amazing as adults.
And what happens is you can amputate anywhere
along the axis of the limb
and they will regrow exactly what's needed,
no more, no less, and then they stop.
When do they stop?
They stop when the correct salamander arm
has been completed.
So now it's clear that this is as a collective,
this structure actually has a really good idea
of what the final steps are supposed to be.
And we know that because it stops the proliferation,
the morphogenesis, everything stops when they get there.
By the way, this isn't just for frogs and worms.
Of course, human livers are highly regenerative.
Even the ancient Greeks knew that.
I have no idea how they knew that back in those days.
Human children regenerate their fingertips.
So a clean amputation at a fairly young age,
if you don't sew the skin over,
will eventually result in a normal,
normal, cosmetically acceptable finger.
And deer, when they regenerate their antlers,
they grow up to a centimeter and a half of new bone per day.
So here's a large adult mammal growing massive amounts
of new bone, vasculature, innervation, skin, and so on.
So what we really would like to do is to move
from the questions of molecular biology
and the community is quite good
at getting this kind of information,
what genes and proteins interact with each other,
to really try to understand the large scale decision making
of complex organs.
And you can think about the journey
that computer science took.
So this is what programming looked like
in the 1940s and 50s.
And what's important about this is that you can see,
in order to program this computer,
what she's doing is she's physically rewiring it, right?
The focus is on the hardware.
So she's there plugging wires back and forth.
And the idea is that in order to control this machine
and make it do something else,
you have to physically interact with the hardware.
And this of course,
the reason we have this amazing
information technology revolution
is that we've moved away from that.
I mean, some people still work on hardware,
but the vast majority of us don't need to have a soldering iron
when we wanna switch from Photoshop
to Microsoft Word on your laptop,
because we've learned to take advantage
of the reprogrammability of the device.
And so I'm going to argue that biology
is highly reprogrammable
and that this is really what we need to do.
We need to move biology and medicine
towards understanding that
because all of the current excitement in the field
is all about the hardware.
So CRISPR, genomic editing,
rewiring molecular pathways, protein engineering,
all of this stuff is focused on the hardware.
And the kind of software competencies I'm talking about
are the sorts of things that you see, for example, here.
So this is something we discovered a few years ago.
Tapols need to become frogs.
And in order to become a frog,
they have to rearrange their face.
So the eyes have to move,
the nostrils have to move, the jaws,
everything has to move.
And it used to be thought
that this was a hardwired process
that basically every organ just moves
in the right direction, the right amount,
and there you go, you have your frog.
Well, so we decided to test that idea
and to see if there was in fact more intelligence
to this process, how do you test for intelligence?
You perturb the system in a novel way
and you see if it still has the ability
to have its goals met despite starting
in the new configuration.
This is William James' definition of intelligence.
Basically it says same goal by different means, right?
How competent is the system?
So what we did was we created
what we call Picasso tapols.
So everything is in the wrong place.
The eyes on top of the head, the jaws are off to the side,
the things are complete mess.
And if all it was doing was moving each organ
in the right direction, the right amount,
the frog would be equally messed up
