And it's potentially a huge library of electraceuticals.
And so you can play with this a little bit.
This is online kind of the beginnings
of this platform.
It's freely accessible.
You can pick different types of tissues.
You can pick either cancers or normal.
It will tell you what channels there are.
If you pick specific channels, it'll tell you what drugs
because you can search a drug bank and so on.
It'll tell you what drugs you might want to use.
And so we've begun this process.
So now moving this from frog and so on,
this is our first paper on human glioblastomates in vitro.
And what we're using is some of these drugs
that were picked by this process that I just told you
on glioblastoma cells.
And there are all kinds of interesting effects
in terms of preventing proliferation,
in terms of partial reprogramming,
so differentiation, possibly normalization.
So stay tuned.
This is very much work in progress.
And of course, we need in vivo experiments.
But we're slowly moving now into mammalian context.
So here's the summary of the whole thing.
Cancers are fundamentally a disorder
of the scaling of cellular competencies.
Individual cells can get certain goals met,
for example, overgrowth and migration.
But in normal bodies,
they are kept harnessed towards much larger,
sort of grandiose anatomical goals,
but this process can break down.
And that process is mediated by bioelectrical signaling,
which is why bioelectrics can be used to detect,
induce and reprogram cancer cell behavior.
Just like in the nervous system,
we can instruct cell behavior
without having to change the genome.
This is also true in learning
and all the amazing things that nervous systems do.
They don't, you don't need to change your genome
to learn new things or to acquire new goals and so on.
And we are now developing pharmacological
and optical strategies towards discovery
of electroseuticals for normalizing cancer.
And there's a huge role for machine learning and AI and so on,
but also for getting this physiomic data
that basically has been neglected
in favor of transcriptomics and proteomics and so on.
So the future directions what we and our partners
are working on is to refine that physiological signature.
So optical noninvasive diagnostics for pre-cancer
and also tumor margins and surgery
to refine control methods for voltage in mammalian systems.
And specifically the bigger picture here
is to crack the bioelectric code
to induce normalization towards normal tissues and organs
using ion channel drugs that are already in human use,
meaning they're already approved.
So I will stop here.
I want to thank the students and postdocs
that did all the work, our many collaborators,
technicians, our funders.
I have to do two disclosures.
So Morphosuticals is the limb regeneration company,
Estonishing Labs is a company that we're doing
all the cancer diagnostics with.
And most of all, thank the animal model systems
because they do all the heavy lifting.
So thank you and I will take questions.
