how is it that collections of cells
can store memories of what to do?
The most obvious example of that
is the nervous system and the brain.
So each of us exists as a coherent individual
over and above the many neurons that are in our brains
because of bioelectrical signaling in your brain
that serves an important function.
It works as a kind of cognitive glue.
And what it does is it allows
information processing in networks.
So while individual cells
have these voltage dynamics and so on,
what they do is they propagate those electrical states
through various kinds of synapses
such as these gap junctions to their neighbors.
And it's the movement of these electrical signals
through the network that binds them together
towards computations that can underlie cognition
and the appearance of an individual
that is more than the sum of their parts.
So this hardware allows a kind of interesting software.
This group made this amazing video of a zebrafish,
a living zebrafish brain and everything that's going on
as this animal thinks about whatever it is
that fish think about.
And you can see, you can track all the electrical activity
and there's this goal of neural,
it's called neural decoding,
this idea of being able to read out
this electrophysiology over time and decoded
so that you know what the animal is thinking.
You should be able to,
I mean, that's the commitment of neuroscience
is that from this pattern,
you should be able to recover the memories,
the goals, the preferences,
the behavioral competencies of this animal.
They're all encoded in this electrical activity.
But it turns out that actually every part of your body
has these ion channels,
most cells have these electrical synapses
with their neighbors.
And so we wondered,
could we extend neuroscience beyond neurons
and ask the same neural decoding kind of question,
except outside of the nervous system,
let's say in an embryonic tissue or in a nascent tumor,
could we read out the conversations
that these cells are having
and try to understand what the collective is going to do?
By tracking the individual voltage states of each cell.
And so this is not a model,
this is actual data of a voltage sensitive fluorescent dye.
This was a technique first developed by my colleague,
Danny Adams, who made this video
of an early frog embryo developing
and the idea is to be able to decode
what the collective is going to build.
And so I'm gonna show you here,
this is grayscale, but it's the same idea.
It's a voltage reporting dye.
And you see here, this is a time lapse
of a frog embryo putting its face together.
And there's all kinds of interesting things happening.
This is one frame from that video.
What you see in that frame is that long before
the genes come on to pattern the face
and long before the anatomy of the face is established,
you can read out the pattern
that it's going to make in the future.
Here's where the eye is going to be,
here's where the mouth is going to be,
here are the placodes.
We call this the electric face.
It is literally the pre-pattern or the tissue memory
of what a correct face is supposed to look like.
If you perturb this pattern at all,
you change the gene expression
and then you change the anatomy.
This is instructive, it is required
for the normal face to take shape.
This is a pathological pattern,
which we'll talk more about this momentarily,
which is when we inject human oncogenes
and they make a tumor and eventually it starts
to metastasize, you can detect this process
as long before it actually happens
by tracking the voltage of the cells.
And you can see here that these cells
have already electrically decoupled from their neighbors.
And when they do that,
they're basically reverting to a single cell,
a unicellular ancient past.
As far as they're concerned,
then the rest of the animal is just environment to them.
All they're going to do is the unicellular goals.
They're going to proliferate,
they're going to migrate to where metabolically favorable
and so on.
And so you can detect this breakdown of multicellularity.
So what we've been doing is developing tools
first to track and characterize these bioelectrical gradients,
lots of computational modeling to link them
to the ion channels and pumps that are there.
And the most important thing of course
is the functional tools to rewrite the pattern.
It's one thing to read it
and be able to see what the electrical states
in the collective are,
but critically you have to manipulate them
and try to write in the language of neuroscience,
you're trying to incept false memories into the tissues
or change the electrical pre-patterns
that guide their activities.
So the way you do that,
we don't use any kinds of applied fields.
There are no electrodes, there are no magnets,
there are no electromagnetic waves or radiation,
nothing like that.
What we're using is we're exploiting the native interface
that cells exposed to each other.
This is how the cells program each other natively
in the body.
They're using this interface of these ion channels
and these gap junctions, and we can use them too.
We can use pharmacological, molecular genetic,
or in fact optical with optogenetics.
We can control the gap junctions
and we can turn the channels on and off in spatial patterns
and thus we can imprint new bioelectrical memories
into tissues.
Now the next question is well,
what happens when you do that, right?
What's the evidence that these patterns
are actually instructive for anything?
Couldn't they just be a readout of housekeeping physiology,
you know, an epiphenomenal?
How do we know they matter?
Well, we know they matter
because now that we have these tools,
we can start to rewrite the pattern.
I'm gonna show you what happens
when you rewrite the pattern.
So one thing you can do,
I showed you the electric face
which has a particular kind of pattern
that determines where the eye is going to be built.
Well, we can recapitulate that pattern somewhere else.
We can put it anywhere on the embryo that we want.
When you do that, so you inject,
in this case, we inject an RNA
for a specific potassium channel
that sets that little voltage pattern.
And wherever those cells get that information,
they will build an eye.
For example, they might have been gut cells before,
but if you tell them to build an eye,
they will build an eye.
Now, those eyes will have all the right lens,
right now optic nerve,
all the right stuff that belongs there.
Note the incredible modularity.
This is, we didn't provide enough information
of how you build an eye.
We didn't try to control gene expression levels
or all the different stem cells that need to happen
or all the different morphogenetic movements.
We didn't say any of that.
We provided a very simple bioelectrical pattern
that serves as a subroutine call.
All it does is it encodes for the rest of the cells.
It encodes the information, build an eye right here.
And in fact, so this is a cross section
through a lens created this way.
What happens is the blue cells
are marked with beta galactosidase.
They're the ones we actually injected.
If there's not enough of them to build an eye,
they will actually recruit their neighbors.
All this other stuff out here
that's making this nice lens
was never manipulated by us in any way.
It's only the blue cells that we targeted.
So you see one of the competencies here,
not only is there a subroutine
you can call to make a complex organ,
but actually if you don't hit enough cells,
they will have a conversation with their neighbors
and recruit them the way that another collective intelligence,
for example, ants will also recruit their buddies
if they come across something
that's too big of a job for the few of them.
It scales to the task at hand.
Automatically, we didn't have to do anything for that.
The body already does it.
We tell these cells to make an eye
and they tell their neighbors
that you guys need to participate
so that we can all make a properly shaped lens.
