So if anybody wants to chat at any point
or download any of the primary papers,
the data sets, the software,
everything is here at this website,
please feel free to contact me.
I'm not a clinician, I'm a basic scientist
and I'm going to talk about some aspects
of the cancer problem that I think are of fundamental
interest but also I think will have implications
for biomedicine of cancer.
And sometimes I give a talk that's focused on this question.
Why is cancer not an issue for our various autonomous
robotics and the various other kinds of things we make?
And this is a, it sounds kind of silly,
but it's actually a deep question.
And the answer is because mostly what we make
in our engineered constructs has a very flat architecture.
In other words, the entire thing might have interesting
complex behaviors, it might have some degree of intelligence
and problem solving and whatever,
but the parts that it's made of are passive.
The parts do not have agendas of their own.
There is no danger of them sort of going off
on their own tangent that doesn't merge
with the goals of the rest of the structure.
Now that is not the case in biology.
Biology has a completely different architecture.
So all the way up from molecular networks
through organelles and tissues and organs
and whole organisms and even swarms,
biology is made of layers that are problem solving
intelligent agents on their own.
They solve problems in various spaces.
This might be not just the three dimensional space
of canonical behavior,
but this might be the space of physiological states,
transcriptional space, anatomical morphous space,
metabolic space and so on.
And so we are made of a kind of nesting doll architecture,
not just structurally.
I mean, that part's obvious
that each thing is made of smaller things,
but in fact that each of these layers
has their own problem solving capacity.
In many cases, various kinds of ability to learn
from experience and the competencies of various kinds.
And this turns out to be very important.
And so a summary of everything I'm going to tell you today
is basically this,
that all cells, not just neurons,
communicate in electrical networks
that process information.
And that we think that cancer can be detected,
it can be induced,
but it can also be normalized by computational models
of the manipulation of the bioelectrical signaling
that normally keeps cells operating
towards large scale anatomical goals.
And if we boil all that down to one sentence,
it's basically this,
that like the brain,
all of the tissues in your body form electrical networks
that make decisions about anatomy
and that we can now target the system
to change the large scale decision making
of the cellular collectives.
And that has huge implications
for all kinds of aspects of medicine.
I'm going to show you some weird creatures today.
Here's our five-legged frog.
And I just point out at the beginning,
this is not Photoshop,
these are real living forms in our lab
that serve as our attempts
to test the various theories that we have.
So one really fundamental aspect of the cancer problem
is what scale do you think about it at?
So one particular kind of thing
that people sometimes ask is,
you know, there are numerous animals of the plan area
that I'll show you in a minute,
salamanders, various other creatures
that are really highly regenerative.
In other words, they lose a limb
and they regrow it, things like that.
And people ask, why do human bodies
have reduced regenerative potential?
And a common answer to this
that people will advance is that it's to avoid cancer, right?
So if you're a long-lived organism
that's going to be around for let's say up to 10 decades
or so, you don't want to have access
to highly plastic proliferative cells
because the chance of developing cancer
is going to be too high.
And so the idea is that something like a human
will then not be regenerative
because we're really keeping those kind of plastic pathways
really suppressed.
And so a perspective that's focused on specific pathways,
TGF beta, cell cycle control,
all the things that we're used to thinking about
for cancer and beyond, at the single cell level predict
that organisms with a high regenerative potential,
meaning they have easy access to proliferation pathways,
they have lots of undifferentiated cells,
that those kind of animals should have a high cancer incidence.
And specifically that cancer and regeneration
should go together.
That is, if this view predicts
that if you are a highly regenerative type of creature
that has lots of plasticity,
you should have a high oncogenic cost.
Now you could turn that on its head
and make the opposite prediction.
And you might say, actually organisms
that exert robust patterning control over their cells,
meaning they have high regenerability,
actually should have low cancer incidence
because of this ability to control cell behaviors
towards adaptive anatomical outcomes.
And so from that perspective,
regeneration and cancer should be
at opposite ends of the spectrum.
And in fact, augmenting regeneration
may then be a promising approach to normalize cancer.
And so it turns out that actually the evidence,
all of the evidence supports this view.
Animals that are good at regenerating
tend to be very cancer resistant.
And so that turns out to be interesting and important.
And I wanna show you one creature
that in particular epitomizes this.
This is the planarian flatworm.
They have a true brain.
They are similar to our direct ancestor.
They have a centralized nervous system.
They have lots of internal organs and so on.
They have this amazing ability
that you can cut them into pieces.
The record is something like 275 pieces.
So you can cut them into pieces.
Every piece knows exactly
what a correct planarian should look like
and regenerates everything that's missing.
You get a perfect little worm.
In fact, everything, the remaining piece scales down
so that everything ends up being the correct proportion
and then eventually it will scale back up.
These guys not only are regenerative, they're immortal.
They literally have no lifespan limit.
They, there's no such thing as an old planarian of this kind.
They are very cancer resistant.
And all of this in the context of a mix-employed genome.
If you look at their genomes,
the cells could have different numbers of chromosomes.
Their genomes are a total mess.
And if we have time later at the end of the talk,
we can talk about why that is, I think it's a deep thing.
But what they're telling you is that it's possible
to be a very long-lived creature,
despite having a really chaotic genome
and also be cancer resistant.
So I want to, for a little bit,
so the first part of the talk,
I want to for a few minutes just kind of think about
that broader context,
this idea of multicellularity versus cancer
and what's going on here.
So the first thing to realize is that
I think that the right question isn't why is there cancer.
The right question is,
why is there anything but cancer ever?
Because what we are made of are things like this.
So this is a free-living organism,
but this is a single cell.
This is called the lacrimaria.
And you can see that it's actually very competent
in its environment.
It's got this local,
little very, very tiny sort of a light cone
of the goals that it pursues.
And it's very competent in the control of its morphology,
of its physiology, metabolic, and so on.
And it has little tiny single cell agendas.
It's going to reproduce as much as it can.
It's going to go wherever life is good.
It's going to explore.
It's going to feed and dump entropy into the environment.
And this is the sort of thing that we are all made of.
So that raises an interesting question.
Why do these kind of creatures
who have lots of different competencies
in their own single cell goals,
why do they come together during multicellularity
to do this?
This is what happens with us.
This is a cross-section through a human torso.
You can see the incredible complexity and order.
Everything is most of the time in the right size and shape
