the doctor's wearing these goggles
and the surgeon can see the area, of course,
but overlaid onto the anatomy
is an AI-processed probability landscape
that shows based on the electrical signaling.
So there's a voltage sensitive dye in there.
And these are generally very well tolerated, these dyes.
And so you should be able to look down and see,
okay, here's where the major tumors,
but actually these cells up here
are leaving the collective as well
and you better get them.
So, okay, so that's our story
of the diagnostic potential of this.
Now, here's the second thing I promised,
which is can you actually induce a cancer phenotype
by disrupting the bioelectric?
So this is a normal tadpole head.
These little black cells are melanocytes
and here's what normal,
the normal complement of melanocytes looks like.
And what we did was we disrupted
the electrical communication
between a very specific cell type,
we call them instructor cells
for obvious reasons you'll see in a minute,
and these melanocytes.
There are no oncogenes here, there are no carcinogens,
there's no mutation, no DNA damage,
there's nothing wrong with the hardware of these animals.
They haven't been exposed to any carcinogens,
there's nothing wrong with them, except that
we've temporarily perturbed the communication
between these pigment cells and this other cell population.
When you do that, the pigment cells go completely wild.
They over proliferate, you can see here,
they've taken over like this normal periocular space
that's normally quite clear,
they've taken over there everywhere.
In fact, these animals turn pitch black,
there's melanocytes everywhere.
If you take a section through them,
this is the neural tube here,
and you can see one, two, three, four,
these small numbers normally in normal embryos,
small numbers of these nice round little melanocytes.
Well, when the bioelectric signals aren't there
to tell them what to do, they go crazy,
they revert back to their original kinds of behaviors,
they change shape drastically,
they acquire these long projections,
they're exploring their environment,
they're digging into the neural tube,
to the nerve tissue itself,
to the lumen inside the space,
they just invade all the organs here,
you can see the blood vessels,
so normally quite clear these blood vessels.
Here we go, the melanocytes are hitting the vasculature
and propagating through it.
This is basically a full-on metastatic melanoma
in these guys.
There's nothing, there are no genetic defects,
there are no, if you were to sequence the genome,
you would not see any mutations, nothing like that,
although by this stage, you will see things like markers
of epithelial and mesenchymal transition
and things like that.
Now, and so this works also in human melanocytes
exactly the same way, they will go completely crazy
if you disrupt their bioelectrical state.
Now, here's the most interesting thing to keep in mind.
Here's again, the cross-section
and here are these crazy melanocytes that are digging in
and taking over the brain and so on.
These are not the cells that we manipulated.
These blue cells out here are the ones that we manipulated.
This is not a cell-autonomous event,
meaning that the thing that goes crazy
is not the cell whose voltage has been perturbed,
it's other cells in the environment,
it's the importance, and of course I'm not the first person
to talk about the importance of the microenvironment,
but in particular, the bioelectrical properties
of the microenvironment are the switch
that leads from normal melanocytes
into this crazy converted melanoma-like behavior.
And the way it works,
and I won't have time to go through all this,
but it's actually a serotonergic signal
that normally goes from these instructor cells
to the melanocytes.
And if you perturb the bioelectrics
of this instructor cell,
that serotonergic process goes awry
and these melanocytes are left on their own
and they do what they do,
they do what every amoeba does,
they over proliferate,
they crawl wherever they feel like,
they take over the environment.
And we've studied in great detail
on this whole serotonergic pathway
and the downstream gene expression
and the gene regulatory network and so on.
But the importance of this part of the talk is this.
This one way to get cancer,
I'm not saying it's the only way,
but one significant way to have a carcinogenic transformation
is to have cells that are isolated
from the electrical information
that normally keeps them orchestrated
towards proper functionality and morphogenesis and so on.
And oncogenes trigger this,
but there are other ways to trigger this.
Okay, so the final thing I wanna show you
is the thing that we actually want,
we don't want to create more cancer,
obviously we want a treatment modality.
So here it is.
So one of the things we can do
is we can inject these oncogenes,
even nasty K-RAS mutations and so on.
The oncogene is labeled with fluorescent red protein
in this case, tomato, so you can see it.
Here it is.
And what we know is that if we co-inject
a particular ion channel, RNA,
that we've chosen to resist, to basically fight.
So what this oncogene is gonna do
is it's gonna try to tell the cells to depolarize
and disconnect from their neighbors.
This ion channel is gonna dominate that.
It's gonna say, fine, you have the oncogene,
but you're not gonna be able to depolarize.
We're gonna keep you connected to all of the neighbors.
So this is the same animal.
So here's the bolus of where the oncoprotein was expressed.
In fact, it's all over the place.
If you sequence this and you say, wow,
this thing is full of this oncogene,
definitely gonna make a tumor and there is no tumor.
Because what drives the outcome
is not the genetic state, it's the physiological state.
And if you manage, now I've already shown you an example
that I've shown you in the frog brain, right?
You could have a notch mutation
and if you sequence it, the prediction would be,
why are you gonna have terrible defects?
But that's not actually what drives.
What drives is the bioelectric state.
And so you can override this hardware defect
with a particular physiological state.
And then these same cells, they're not dead,
they don't die, they just continue participating
in normal morphogenesis.
Now you can do this with light.
Here's an example of optogenetics.
So we just used optogenetic technology
that we took from neuroscientists
and you can knock down the incidence of these tumors
significantly by using light
to trigger the right kind of channel.
In fact, here's a normal tackle and here's the tail.
Whether you get a tumor and these kind of metastatic events,
whether you get a tumor or whether you get an ectopic eye
is determined by the amount of sodium in the medium.
Because in this case, we were using a sodium ion channel
to do this and the sodium ion channel,
it's not like a transcription factor
that always has the same effect.
It's a physiological, it's an element of physiology
that in part its activity depends on how much sodium there is.
So whether you get a tumor or an eye
is actually determined by a physiological parameter,
namely how much sodium is in the medium,
not at the level of DNA damage or anything like that.
And so putting all this together,
our kind of our framework for addressing all this
is this idea of electraceuticals,
of using existing ion channel drugs
with our computational models
that tell us what's going to happen
when you open and close certain channels.
You know which channels there are
because of course, human tissues are extensively profiled.
So that feeds into the model.
The one thing that is largely missing today
is the physiomics of what are the correct
by electrical states for all the organs.
We actually have no idea for humans
and we only know this for certain animal model systems.
So this is where a lot of the work has to happen
is actually to understand what the correct
by electrical state is.
But then we have a simulator that can tell you
how to get from the wrong state to the correct state.
And that helps you pick from existing,
from a huge library, something like 20% of all drugs
are ion channel drugs.
