So if you do that, you can make a topic for brains here.
This is what a normal frog brain looks like.
You can make extra limbs, lots of extra limbs.
You can make a topic beating hearts.
You can make otocysts,
which are inner ear sort of balance organs.
And you can even make fins.
Now that's interesting
because tadpoles aren't supposed to have fins.
That's more of a fish thing, but we'll talk about that.
And you can also use this technique to repair birth defects.
So just kind of very briefly,
this is the pattern that indicates
what a frog brain should look like
and the size and shape of it.
And it's got a very particular voltage characteristic.
If you sort of scan along this line,
it kind of looks like this bell curve.
And what we figured out is that
there are many teratogens, for example, nicotine, alcohol,
think fetal alcohol syndrome, things like that.
But what they do is they ruin this nice pattern.
So they'll flatten it out either here or here.
And in either case, you get severe brain defects.
And so we made a computational model of this process
as in what happens to the bioelectrics
under various perturbations.
And we asked the model,
if the bioelectric pattern is wrong, how would we fix it?
In other words, what channel would we open or close
to get the pre-pattern back to the right place?
So keep in mind, this isn't, at this point,
what we're doing here, this is rational repair.
We're not taking random shots in the dark.
We're not trying to ruin an existing pattern.
We're actually trying to use our computational simulator
of bioelectric gradients to ask how to repair
a complex organ when it's been damaged.
And this model proposed one specific thing,
which is this very interesting channel called HCN2.
And when you activate these HCN2 channels, sure enough,
an embryo that's been,
here's what a normal brain looks like,
forebrain, midbrain, hindbrain.
This is an embryo actually now.
Now, this is much worse than being hit with a teratogen.
This is a mutation in a gene called notch.
Notch is a really important neurogenesis gene.
If you mutate notch, there is no forebrain,
the midbrain and hindbrain are a big bubble.
These animals have no behavior.
They just lay there doing nothing.
On top of this mutation,
if you impose the right bioelectrical pattern,
and this was done by opening the HCN2 channel,
which in turn was suggested by the computational model,
you rescue brain shape, you rescue brain gene expression,
and you even rescue their IQ.
So they're learning rates.
We check their IQs by learning and training
on the various assays to get their IQs back.
So this is quite amazing.
You can do this molecular genetically,
meaning put in new HCN2 channels,
which would be gene therapy,
or you can do it with drugs that open existing HCN2 channels.
So these happen to be two anti-epileptics
that open the HCN2 channel and you can do this rescue.
I'm not claiming that this will work for everything,
but the amazing thing about this example
is that there's a hardware problem.
They literally have a mutant notch signaling pathway,
in which case things go terribly wrong,
but that hardware problem is fixable in software
by going back in and telling these cells
what the correct pattern is.
And I think that's very powerful.
And so that's an example of repairing birth defects.
Here's an example of some of our regenerative work,
because frogs by themselves do not regenerate their legs
after they lose them,
but we've come up with a cocktail
that actually induces a pro-regenerative blastema
with MSX1, and then eventually by 45 days,
instead of nothing, you start to get toes and a toenail,
and then eventually a pretty respectable leg
that's touch sensitive and motile.
This whole interaction with our ionophore cocktail
took 24 hours, and then the leg can grow for a year and a half
without us touching it.
It's not about micromanaging where the stem cells go
or what the pattern is.
It's about communicating to the cell collective very early on.
You're going to take the path through morphospace
that goes towards leg building,
not the path that goes to scarring and a stump.
So we are now, and I have to do a disclosure here
because Dave Kaplan and I are co-founders
of this company called Morphosuticals,
where we're trying to apply that same strategy to mammals
and hopefully eventually to human patients.
Of course, we're quite far from that still,
but okay, so the summary of everything that I've said so far
is that like in the brain,
the mechanism that binds cells
towards large scale common purpose,
meaning to create and upkeep against aging,
against cancer, complex organs
are specifically bioelectrical networks.
Modifying the information processed
by these electrical networks
offers some really high level,
meaning creating new organs,
fixing complex organ shapes and so on,
control over growth and patterning without genomic editing,
without bottom up trying to engineer all of the pathways
that are involved in this.
We're harnessing the competencies of the system,
like recruiting other cells like size control,
shape control and all that.
And so now, and so now here we get finally to,
and you can read about all the details here,
but we're finally getting now to the part
that's directly about cancer.
So if these bioelectrical signals are important for cancer,
then four things should be true.
First of all, there should be some implication
by molecular data of ion channel pumps
and proteins in cancer.
Bioelectric signatures should be a viable diagnostic tool
for detecting tumors early.
We should be able to induce cancer-like phenotypes
by disrupting proper V-MEM gradients.
And best of all, cancer-like phenotypes
should be suppressable by the modulation of V-MEM gradients.
So these are all predictions of this view
that bioelectrics is the mechanism
that binds individual cells towards organogenesis
and away from the kind of single cell behavior
that we see among cancer cells.
So these data now are actually quite old,
and I should update this, but even by 2016,
it was already seen there's this kind of very rapid rise
of the number of papers implicating various ion channels
in cancer, and there are lots of bona fide oncogenes
implicated in both in human patients and in mouse models,
and of course, in frog and zebrafish and so on,
that are pointing to a direct functional role
of various ion channels.
So this is the kind of molecular biology data.
You can scan databases.
So here is from a geodatabase
that looks at the expression of certain channels during,
and so you can see here's a particular ion channel,
and here it is in normal cells and benign evi,
and then boom, by the time you get to malignant cells,
it tends to be shut off.
So yes, there's evidence implicating ion channel genes
and so on in the process of cancer,
but the genes aren't key, and this is really important.
We cannot just think about oncogenes
the way we think about transcription factors
and growth regulators and cell cycle checkpoints and so on.
It's the physiological state that matters here.
And so what I mean by that is,
I've shown you that we can induce,
we can take different kinds of oncogenes,
human oncogenes throw them in a frog embryo
and they will create tumors.
You can detect them early by using this voltage dye,
and we were of course working on this
as a diagnostics modality,
because you can see immediately
that the first thing these oncogenes do
is they shut down the electrical connectivity
between cells and their neighbors.
As soon as that connectivity is shut down,
these cells are out of the network
and the process is large-scale information,
like, hey, you should be part of a nice liver
or skin or whatever,
and they're back to a local, tiny set of goals
that their unicellular ancestors had.
And so contrary to a lot of models
of cancer and game theory and so on,
these cells are not more selfish.
It's not that they're more selfish,
it's that their self is tinier, it's much smaller.
It's now down to their computational boundaries,
now down to the size of a single cell,
whereas before when they were electrically connected
into this network,
they were part of something
that was working on much bigger projects,
you know, these anatomical constructions.
And so you could imagine,
and this is an artist's rendering,
but this is one of the things that we're working on,
this is kind of like augmented reality device
where you can imagine during surgery,
