because you're starting in a incorrect configuration.
In fact, what we found is that these animals
make quite normal frogs
because all of this stuff is gonna move in novel paths.
In fact, sometimes it goes too far
and actually has to double back and come back,
but all of them will move around
and rearrange relative to each other
until they get to a correct frog face.
So what evolution has given us here
is not a hardwired system that makes certain movements.
It's given us an error minimization scheme
that is able to continue to operate
until a particular morphological goal has been met.
And so it has lots of different types of feedback.
And so this is the kind of paradigm that we all learned.
It's based on genetics and emergence,
this idea that the gene regulatory networks
will create proteins, they interact with each other
using local rules.
And then eventually there's emergence of complexity.
Something complex happens like this salamander.
And that's true, this does happen,
but it's only a part of the story
and I think not even the main part.
The main part is that this hardware that is produced
has this amazing ability to implement
anatomical homeostasis.
When the system is deviated by injury, by mutations,
by teratogens, pathogens, whatever, when it's deviated,
there are feedback loops that kick in
both at the level of transcription
and at the level of physics.
And this is the one we're gonna talk about
that try to get you back to where you need to be.
It's an error minimization process
like the thermostat in your house.
It's a basic homeostatic loop.
Now the thing about homeostatic loops
is that they have to have a set point.
So this is a very unconventional,
I mean, of course, biologists know all about feedback loops,
but typically these feedback loops are scalar.
There's a single numbers like pH
or hunger level, things like that.
Here, the set point actually has to be a description
of a fairly complex anatomical structure,
not to the individual cell level of detail,
but some level of anatomical description.
And in general, we're not encouraged in biology
to think about goals or final states or anything like that.
We're encouraged to think about molecular mechanisms
and what the emergent qualities are
of that complex dynamical system.
But here, the cybernetic view really forces you
to think about is it possible
that the system literally stores a set point
of what it's supposed to build?
And what it's doing is like any homeostatic system
it tries to reduce the error to that set point.
So this is what we've been doing for years now.
We've taken this very strong and counterintuitive prediction
that this thing literally knows
what shape it's supposed to grow.
And the prediction is that we should be able
to find that encoding.
We should be able to decode it, right?
So whatever biophysical medium holds it,
we should be able to decode it.
And then we should be able to rewrite it.
And if we rewrite it, something amazing should happen,
which is that in typical approach to this problem,
if you believe only in emergence,
that means that all your interventions
have to be down here.
You have to make changes here,
maybe with CRISPR, maybe something else.
You make changes down here
and eventually they percolate up.
But the limiting factor there is for complex,
beyond single gene diseases,
the question is how do you know which genes to manipulate
for a complex outcome?
You generally don't,
because this whole process is not reversible.
It's a really terrible inverse problem.
However, if there is in fact a stored pattern
that the cells are working towards,
then you've got a different approach.
You might be able to change the pattern.
The way you do in your thermostat
when you change the set point,
you don't need to know how the rest of the system works.
You just need to know how to change the set point
and rely on it to do what it does best,
which is to try to get to that set point.
So here's how we think about this,
that basically what evolution has done
is scale up using a particular kind of interaction
that I'll tell you about shortly,
scale up competent single cell systems
into something like this,
where the goals get much bigger
instead of single cell level goals
of metabolism and proliferation.
The goal here is to maintain this kind of thing.
And if you deviate from that goal,
the system will very commonly go back
and try to build it.
But there's a breakdown of that cooperation
and that scale up and that breakdown is cancer.
So this is human glioblastoma cells crawling around.
And I'm gonna make the argument
that what this kind of a process really is
is a breakdown of this coordination system
that is scaling up from tiny goals of single cells
to anatomical goal states in an anatomical morphous space.
And that process breaks down into cancer.
So that suggests that we ought to be able to,
this way of thinking about it,
which sort of weaves together embryogenesis regeneration
and cancer as a problem of information control
in particular of scaling of goals in biology,
suggests this, that if we really understood this,
we should be able to develop strategies
that don't just kill the cancer cells,
which are of course problematic
because you get that compensatory proliferation
tumor resistance and all that.
Instead of trying to kill them,
could we try to reconnect them more strongly
to the signals that normally keep them working together
towards making nice organs?
And that requires us to know what are these signals?
How do cells remember what the whole thing
is supposed to be?
Because no individual cell knows how many fingers
a salamander limb is supposed to have,
but the collective certainly does.
So the question is, how does that scaling happens?
How do you go from single cell information
to large scale anatomical goals?
And this is where we get into bioelectricity.
Now, bioelectricity is just one layer
of a complex morphogenetic field of information
that all cells have access to.
I'm gonna spend the next half an hour
talking about bioelectricity,
not because I think bioelectricity
is the only thing that matters,
all of these things are important,
chemical signals, extracellular matrix,
biophysical pressures and tensions and so on,
all those things matter.
But this is a particularly interesting and important layer
and that's the one that I'm going to talk about.
And this morphogenetic field is there guiding
the large scale system throughout lifespan
from basic embryonic development
all the way through maintenance, resistance to aging
and all of that.
So what are bioelectrical signals?
Well, every membrane, every cell,
not just neurons, but every cell in your body
has these ion channels and in fact,
there are also gap junctions in them
and these ion channels let charged molecules in and out
and as a result, you get a voltage gradient
across the membrane.
So every cell has a voltage gradient across that membrane.
Now, it just so happens that if you take
different kinds of cells,
and this is just a small sample of the data
and you put them a lot,
you sort of throw them on a scale
from depolarized to hyperpolarized,
you get a very interesting relationship.
So your mature quiescent cell types tend to be up here,
strongly polarized, your proliferative cells
such as embryonic stem cells
and other embryonic types of cells tend to be down here
as do cancer cells.
Now, this is as interesting as this is,
I always hesitate to show the slide
because people really like this
and it takes away attention from the fact
that I don't think any of this
is really a single cell level problem.
I don't think cancer is a single cell disease,
but this kind of focuses your attention
on the individual voltage of a single cell,
but it's actually much more interesting than that.
It is true that this voltage controls
all kinds of cell properties
that are important for cancer.
It controls differentiation, apoptosis,
cell migration, cell shape and so on.
But the story is actually much more interesting
than this single cell behavior
because as we start to think about
