greatest puzzles ever.
And I, I do have the sense that they're like, we should not mess with these people.
It's like, this is the one species.
We can take anybody in the water, even the great whites, leave these guys alone.
And of course you have local culture with Orcopods where they have entirely different
styles of hunting and they pass information in ways that we have no idea about.
And so I think the fear too is that these bull sharks can eventually pass this information
to other sharks and their offspring, it becomes part of their DNA that's like,
oh, humans are on the menu.
And so I think-
Or if not their DNA, their cultural memes or whatever, some means of transmission.
Yeah, yeah.
And, and it's, I think it's, it's controversial.
But I mean, we at a certain point have to assert our own dominance in, in certain ways.
If we want to-
Should take back reunion, dammit.
Exactly.
All right.
Or, or not, leave it.
But, but there's no, there's no middle ground here.
You know what I mean?
It's like kids are getting eaten there all the time because they just want to go surfing.
And I think that we get into this thing where we get into a reverential state about nature
without realizing that we're part of it.
And we've also broken, broken that you bought it.
It's a much more complicated relationship that we need.
And I think it's important-
And it's different everywhere.
It's not the same everywhere, you know?
It's not the same, like what happens here in California is not the same as in reunion.
You know, I think we're not gods as well.
So it's like trying to like understand things is, it's really difficult.
But it's, I think, I want to say, leave it up to the people.
Yeah.
And leave it up to, or leave it up to the people in those places.
And there's, I don't think there should be any kind of backseat sort of driving from somewhere else.
Because it's a different part of the world.
It's a different ocean.
It's a different culture.
It's a different everything.
And let the tribes deal with those tribe things.
Like, we're not like, everyone always argues like, we don't want to police the world.
Well, this is exactly that situation.
Yeah, we all have our own opinions on how it should be dealt with.
No one has a better opinion than the people who live there.
And understand certain things, you know?
Like, just that's, that's my perspective on it.
I think however they see fit to take care of the situation is up to them.
And for me, I live thousands and thousands of miles away.
It's not my decision.
So I have three destination questions to finish this off with.
I am obsessed with three islands in the middle of the Atlantic.
And I have no idea whether they have an importance in surf culture.
Tell me about them.
All right.
So we have this island, Ascension, St Helena, and Tristan de Kunha.
Do you know about this?
Where are those?
Dude, you can't tell me you don't know these islands.
Where are they?
They're right in the middle between Africa and South America.
So Napoleon.
Oh my gosh, I know.
Wait, they're really south, aren't they?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, I was looking at those.
Like one of them's off Namibia.
Yeah, I know, no, it's those islands.
I believe that they're like, there's like, it's a nature reserve as well.
Well, so you have Edinburgh of the Seven Seas, which is like a settlement with 300 or so people
on Tristan de Kunha, which was evacuated as a volcano.
It's like there's a book called Rock Hopper Copper about the only policeman on the island.
It's totally obscure.
They claim it's the most remote island in the world.
St Helena is above that.
And it's, oh man, this is a gorgeous island.
They just got flights.
And it was so isolated that you could only visit it by ship for a long time.
My friend of mine sent me a picture in my quest to try to find the biggest waves in the world
and find waves that I haven't been able to surf yet.
We were looking at a place like that and going like, gosh, it's in such a perfect place.
Well, this is the thing.
I track this island.
I'm obsessed with this island.
And you get to know like the individuals on the island, the shops, because it's a tiny place.
After this, you got to write down the name.
St. Helena is actually kind of an outpost of civilizations big enough
that can have like tiny little towns and culture and roads and stuff.
And then the other one is Ascension, which is above that.
I guess it's closer to like the Azores and things.
And I think that all three of these are British overseas territories.
And we, dude, we got to go.
You know, when you said this thing to me, it was very funny.
It was like, you said, thanks for the shout out.
You said, we have to go surf.
And I was like, I don't serve.
It's like, don't worry, I'll teach you.
I'm thinking maybe, but maybe it's too much.
We should go to St. Helena, check it out and get Red Bull to do one of their rampages
or film with pioneering the stuff out there.
Yeah, I mean, there's as much as we think we've kind of discovered everything out there.
There's, I have this gut feeling there's some massive waves out there that are so good.
No one's even tapped into it.
It's just waiting to be ridden, discovered.
Well, so we have to get through the portal to get to these three islands.
Well, I put the hive mind on it.
And Kai, come back and visit when you can talk about the thing that we were checking out,
but I don't want you to do it prematurely.
I want you to wait until it's right.
Yeah, no, for sure.
Let's, I think come, come here soon.
It'll be, there's a lot.
There's been a lot to talk about and it's exciting.
Every day is really exciting.
Guys, you've been through the portal with Kai Lenny, who's been a real dream for me to meet.
Please go to your web browsers to YouTube and just put his name in.
Am I right Kai means wave?
Kai means ocean and Hawaiian.
Ocean and Hawaiian.
You'll be treated to some of the most amazing footage you've ever seen.
And with any luck, he'll keep at it and stay safe.
I hope so.
Remember to check us out on YouTube by subscribing and clicking the bell
to make sure that you're notified when we drop new videos.
And please subscribe to us wherever you listen to podcasts.
Kai, thanks very much.
And peace out.
We'll see everybody real soon.
Shaka Zulu.
