She's amazing. And I was just surfing with her at Jaws like two days ago.
Wow. Yeah. Okay. So like, she's a hammer. So, so, but clearly she's going to pioneer something
where other women are going to say, okay, yeah, I totally see what she's done. I'm there too.
And it's changing the nature of the sport. Do you think that that's going to be a big effect
coming up? Yeah, there's a massive shift in women's big wave surfing. And there was,
there wasn't a whole lot of progression is until recently. And now there's major strides. The girls
are, it's amazing how people like Kiala has inspired the next generation enough to also
step into that realm. Because for the longest time, there were women that were riding big waves,
but not enough. It wasn't inspired maybe, and I don't want to take anything away from them, but
it wasn't inspiring the next, the youth of the next generation. And along with Kiala and Page Alms,
Bianca Valente, they, these are like three of the top big wave female surfers. Yeah. They've,
and Maya Gabriera, who's always out at Nazaré as well, they've inspired the next generation of
big wave girls to also step into the realm. And I've always felt that it's, it's big waves,
sports in general, die when there's not the next generation to take it to the next level.
Like they cease to become relevant or even of interest. And this is my own personal perspective.
Sure. Because I feel like sports, like action sports in particular, surfing,
always needs to be constantly being pushed. And so I do, I do see these young girls inspiring
actually the older girls to continue pushing the envelope. And when their time is up, or they decide
no longer to do it, that they've had their fill, that the next generation of girls take it to
another level. And I've always felt the same way with me. You know, like I saw where Laird and
all these legends took it. And I wanted to take it from where they took it to somewhere else. And
I don't know where I'm going to take it, but I hope in the future. It's a relay race. You gotta
hand it off to somebody else. I hope in the future that I have the privilege of mentoring and helping
that next generation take it to a place that I couldn't anymore. Because I got it to one
position. I just ran out of time. Well, I think that there's an interesting thing about
breaking new ground versus what keeps us something relevant to the world. So for example, in jazz,
there was a period where the innovators were doing innovations that were appreciated by the
listenership. And at some point, things get so technical that unless you're actually a performer,
well, juggling is a good example. The most technical jugglers in the world
will point to one of their kind and say, oh my God, did you see what that guy did? And to me,
I can't see it because it's already so many balls, so many rings. It's like, the whole thing is so
mind-blowing. I can't slow it down enough to understand what the innovation was. Whereas at
an earlier point, and this is one of the reasons why I think you're kind of a very romantic figure
in this story, it's because I can see those innovations. It's not so technical. Very often,
with some of the skateboarding stuff, I have to slow it down a million times to even understand
what the trick was. Yeah. And I think that is really, really true. And it touches on the point
that we're still only scratching the surface of big wave riding. It's such an act on its own,
but then adding sort of next level maneuvers and positions that one could ride. At least,
what's nice about big waves is, and I always say this, you have all the time you need on a big wave.
Small waves happen really quick. Things are like, bam, bam, bam, you have to be on it
really quick. And it's like, it's really fast. And big waves, there's a saying by a big wave
legend from Kauai on Hawaii. His name was Titus Kinimaka, and it was of Laird. And he's like,
he has the, the quote goes like this, he has the ability to slow himself down when everyone else
wants to run like hell. And it's not slowing down in terms of the speed of your board. It's
slowing down your mind. It's like, and I work on this every single day I ride big waves. It's like,
I have way more time than I think on this wave. Because when I watched the footage, I realized,
well, I could have been this position, and I could have waited longer, or I could have done this.
When I go to do a 360, don't rush the 360. Let it move the way that the speed is going to move.
You have to match the wave. Your mind has to match the wave.
Or you just got to know, I guess, the time you have. And a lot of people think,
a lot of people feel like they don't have the time. So their mind starts racing,
and then all of a sudden, the wave itself feels like it's going really fast, and
everything is moving. And it's, how can you compute? You know, how can you keep everything
like in line? And then all of a sudden, when you try to slow yourself down a little bit, just like,
even, it's like just, I would say it's like, when I sometimes ride a really big wave,
I'll almost just relax for a second and go, okay, let's continue.
That's so cool.
And then, and then all of a sudden, I see things and I'm like, oh, I'm going to hit that. Okay,
here we come. All right. Perfect. All right, here comes the barrel opposition.
All right, I'm in the tube. And you calm yourself down and you, and I, it's like manipulating time
for a second. You're just like, I'm going to let this wave go over. And you're not talking to yourself
through it. You're just kind of like breathing through it. And my biggest wave I ever wrote
in my life, still out at Jaws, it was my whole focus on the rocks. I knew it was a big one,
was just breathing.
Was that the one that was photographed that I saw at your place?
Yeah. So that one, I was just, as I was dropping in, I was just going,
Wow.
And I was just, and what I was trying to do is I was just trying to slow everything down,
slow it down, slow it down. The wave was like behind me. And I just remember going, okay, slow
down.
So the breathing is the only way that you can talk to your own autonomic nervous system
effectively. That's the one thing that's under conscious control that you can try to do to talk
to the part of you that isn't under conscious.
Yeah. And I just try to like, I just do that little breathing now, I feel way more calm.
But when I'm on the wave, I like, it's like, okay, breathe in for two, out for two,
breathe in for three, out for three.
Now I'm, I'm not going to push you to talk about something.
No, no, no, I can't. No, it's a question of being respectful.
When I was out at your place, I saw some crazy stuff you were working on, but I don't know
whether that's under wraps. And I don't want you to talk about it if it's not ready to be talked about.
Well, it's, it can be talked about, but it's, it's not quite ready yet.
Should we hold off on it or?
Let's hold off and then I'll come back and talk all about it.
I was totally jazzed.
Let me ask you another question. When you're out on these waves, surfers are one life form,
but you're not the only ones out there.
Yeah.
Can you talk about the man in the gray suit and how he affects or she affects your,
your thinking as you realize that you're part of an ecosystem?
I think I've been a part of the ecosystem so much, I kind of know my place.
And it's not, when you see one, it's, it's, it's a treat when you see a shark.
Or even any animal for that standard.
Like the last time I surfed out jaws, it was one of the most beautiful days.
And it's, it's, it's funny because when you surf out a place so beautiful, it's kind of like,
you forget how gnarly it is.
Yeah.
You know, it's like, it's masked in the fact that it's sunny, there's rainbows,
there's seals in the line, like like monk seals, Hawaiian monk seals in the lineup.
There's whales going through the lineup, like giant humpback whales.
You see a shark come in and it's just cruising and you just realize,
you know, you're in their domain because that's where they live.
So that would be a tiger shark, right?
Tiger, tiger shark could be any type of shark.
We kind of have them all in Hawaii, which is a tiger shark.
Sorry.
I would say I would give tiger sharks sort of the crown is kind of the landlords of the,
that area.
We do get great whites, but they typically, they typically come to Hawaiian chill.
Like they're, they're there and they're, they're taking a rest between their crossing of the Pacific
from Australia to the US or even if they come out here, it's like vacation.
Honestly, great whites come to Hawaii for vacation.
We still don't know a whole lot about them.
But what we do know is when they're out here, they're, they're, they're always full.
They definitely look full and they're kind of like in this migration sort of pattern
where they're just, they're just cruising.
While tiger sharks are kind of the garbage men of the, the, the trash person of the, the sea
because they just eat everything.
You'll see they'll, they'll bite tires that are floating out at sea.
They'll, they'll chew anything.
They kind of, but they, you know what's awesome about them?
They clean up kind of the death out there.
Yeah.
Like dying fish, the, the week gets cold.
It's just nature and that's how it is.
So when you confront or you're given the opportunity to be around one in the water,
showing, showing confidence and fear, they smell it.
They know it.
If you showing like signs of weakness, that's an opportunity.
All right.
So you feel that by projecting confidence, they have enough acuity to pick up.
They're way smarter than you think.
Yeah, yeah.
And we all think they are.
I've looked in, when you look into this, one of their big black eyes.
Yeah.
When you look in there, there's a soul living in there.
It's not just a hollow shell.
I believe, I believe people who have like rescued sharks find that the shark becomes
friendly with them.
Like it's much, our picture of how much is going on with these animals has changed quite a
bit.
I mean, Albert Einstein's quote, and I'm probably going to butcher it, but it was like,
don't judge a fish because he can't climb a tree.
Oh yeah, yeah.
You know, like just, he's a fish.
And so, but if you don't understand, like we don't, we can't speak their language.
We don't understand them on the same level I understand you.
So we think of things that we don't understand as being stupid or lesser than and, and I mean,
they have fins, so they can't make, you know, technological advancements necessarily, but
who knows, maybe they have a possible fins could be a real big problem.
It could be a pretty big problem, but I do, I have a huge amount of respect for them.
I've had so much and I've had so many encounters my entire life and I've never once and knock
on wood because you never know, ever felt like I was in mortal danger.
But I always felt like they were just these, they were the landlords, they're coming by
to check you out.
And if you showed like confidence and respect, all right, then they kind of would be like,
they'd kind of, it's like that, that they'd give you a little nod, like professional courtesy.
It's like, see you.
All right.
Well, then what, so there's this island that I've been dreaming about off of Africa called
reunion that used to be a pretty decent surf spot.
What happened to our relationship?
Well, now different sharks in different places, you know, it's like traveling in different
cultures, right?
Same thing with the animals of the sea.
Hawaii, it's one way.
I would say really respect based, but like reunion island, and this is from a lot of my
friends who were born and raised there and surfed there is the biggest, what they think
is the biggest problem was when it became a nature reserve, the moment reunion became a
nature reserve, the sharks that would once, the bull sharks that would migrate from Madagascar
to reunion all of a sudden decide to stay.
Because here's an abundant amount of fish.
Well, let's just stay.
And so people forget that we are.
We altered our agreement.
Well, the agreement, all of a sudden it's just like giving the keys to the apartment,
but you're only a visitor and people forget.
I think people think we're not a part of the natural cycle of we think of ourselves too
highly that we're not like a part of, we become a part of the ecosystem by getting a certain
amount of fish.
And of course, I believe we should never overfish or do that.
But this is from, this is like a real life experiment from people that I know that grew
up there that's like, it used to be one of the premier surf destination, especially for
French surfers.
They'd go there all the time because the French, you know, territory, whatever, it,
it all of a sudden, as soon as it became a natural nature reserve, the bull sharks came,
the bull sharks became territorial, very territorial.
All of a sudden realized it's really easy to bite and attack and feed on humans because
we're pretty slow in the water compared to most of their prey.
And they became the dominant force in the water.
And, and then there's this big argument now.
It's like, well, don't kill the sharks.
And yeah, of course, don't kill the sharks.
But we got to also like, it's also asserting our dominance and our, our, where we rank,
we're the top of the food chain too.
And, and it's all, and sharks learn from one another as well.
I'm terrified that we have this weird agreement with the orcas that we don't understand
that orcas basically essentially never attack humans in the wild.
There's so, there's so, I think orcas are so smart.
They realize that maybe the ramifications of if I swear to God, I think it's one of the
