And then come 2016, I had a vision of instead of trying to ride the biggest waves in the world on
this, why don't we try to ride the smallest waves in the world on this?
And that opened the door, the floodgates for making terrible surf anywhere in the world
feel like it's the best waves on the planet.
And because you don't need a perfect wave to feel like you're on one, because you,
you can glide on parts of the wave that are far away from where a traditional surfboard has its
limit. And it also opened the door for crossing large bodies of water.
Now, for fun, what we do in Hawaii, and we do races now, is we cross between each island,
riding a board that's made at times no wider than four feet, and you're hovering,
and you feel like a bird, and you go from one island to another.
Do you go from like Molokai to Oahu?
Yeah, like Molokai to Oahu, every island you can, you can go between.
It's just how long do you want to be out in the ocean for, you know, what's your time.
And Molokai to Oahu is a 32 mile channel crossing, and I could do it just above two hours.
Two hour mark is right there, which is exciting.
But the coolest thing is, is like, when I first did it, there was this euphoric feeling.
So you do this by pumping?
Well, so pumping is kind of like the flapping of a bird, you know?
Like that's how they create more lift when they need it.
But if you play your cards right, and you, the best way to read the open ocean swells is,
imagine you're playing a game of chess, or if you were playing kind of like,
you know, what's that game, like in an arcade where the ball bounces around,
and you get a bunch of different points, and you try to get it into that one,
like a thousand point hole.
Gosh, what is it called again?
Not pachinko, not the Japanese one or pinball.
Pinball, okay.
You're trying to pinball between swells.
Okay.
And if you go from one swell to the next, to the next, to the next,
you're gaining the energy and the lift underwater, the vortex that's coming up these little waves,
and creating lifts, you don't have to pump.
So in a perfect line, you're just turning and you're snowboarding.
It feels like you're going downhill the whole time.
And you might pump to get to the next swell if you have to, if it's spread out far enough.
And it's so, I would say more, even it's physically taxing.
You use every fiber of your body because you're using your arms to create energy,
to help your legs pump this board to go faster, because it's always about going quicker.
And then your mind has to focus on reading the ocean.
And if you mistime it or you misread it, you stop, you come to a dead stop.
And so if you, if you're really on it, it's like reading, I feel like it's,
when I read a really dense book with lots of heavy words that I don't understand
and have to really think about it, that is like doing a channel crossing,
because every single wave you see isn't the same.
It's all slightly different.
And you're trying to navigate it and it's playing chess.
You know, if you make one mistake, all of a sudden you're down.
That's interesting.
I mean, I have to say, I've seen you do this and it doesn't have the same visual appeal
if you're not part of this world.
I've also seen the motorized version of this,
which definitely looks like a magic carpet for sure.
And it is, it is bizarre just to, I mean,
the physics almost don't feel like they make sense to see the board that far out of the water.
It's funny because it's all physics.
Yeah, it's all physics.
Everything that I'm doing now, I mean, obviously, is, is all physics.
And I never, when I was a kid, I never thought I'd be into physics,
but the only way physics, I understand physics,
it's through kind of these devices or kind of these approaches.
It's almost my, my version of math, you know, it's like,
well, if you take a board here and you do this and with the wind and you rotate that way, you know,
it's like, well, but let's talk about this in a weird context.
So there's that now there are these engineered waves.
Oh yeah.
And people are actually saying, look, if you want a regular experience,
we can design a wave in a wave pool and make it as pretty and regular as you want.
I don't know that we've gotten to the point where you can dial your own irregularities
into it, but maybe that's coming out.
Yeah, I think what makes surfing so fun is when you're on the wave, it's the unpredictability.
You can kind of read what the waves doing and you can make the most informed and best decisions
on it, but you get on these mechanical waves like at the surf ranch or this is Kelly Slater's
pool and it's almost like too perfect.
You get on it and you're, it's like you're all of a sudden having to figure out your own runs,
right?
You're like, okay, I can do two turns here and I can get feraled and I can do this and
you could sort of do that in the ocean.
But I mean, the wave pool is insane if you want to get better because you get the wave
of the day every single time you stand up.
And a lot of times you never get the wave of the day when you're surfing in the ocean.
I think there's something about being in saltwater and I think there's something about
kind of that natural element and being in line with nature in one of her most dynamic
moments that is, that is, it makes you feel good, like really, really good.
But that being said, as a professional athlete, the more time I could spend in a wave pool,
the better because it just means that I'm able to focus on things that I couldn't,
I may only get one chance to try.
So I surfing so hard.
It's the hardest board in the world because you go out there with the intention to learn
a new trick, you may never get the opportunity one or you may get one opportunity and you
may blow it because you're trying to learn how to do it.
You need a high end and the only way to get high end is in a pool like that or to live,
you know, or travel.
You end up traveling a ton and for most people, they can't travel a ton.
For me, I'm lucky that it's in my job description to do it with big waves surfing.
Now, think about this with big waves surfing.
Big waves surfing is so rare.
The times when I most want to go out there and do something and the most motivated,
the most physically fit, it just doesn't exist.
Nowhere in the world, there's moments like right now, there's nowhere on earth that is
breaking the way I would want it to break or big enough.
And so it's like, right, you know, you're looking at the forecast and you're jumping on flights
two days before the swell hits, you arrive the day before jet lag from Hawaii all the way to Europe.
You said surfers, you said to me surfers are some of the world's best meteorologists.
Yeah, no, surfers without a doubt are probably some of the best meteorologists because
there's more at stake than just a huge storm destroying something.
There's what's at stake is your enjoyment and it's personal.
It's really personal.
So the people I talk to that are surfers that know how to read the ocean, read the information
that comes out of NOAA or any of these other buoys that are scattered across the planet,
satellites, they can tell you to basically the minute when a certain wave is going to come in.
And that's what's really cool is like you, without you knowing it, you're a meteorologist
because you're like, okay, this tide mixed with this swell direction mixed with these winds
is going to make it this way.
And in the really good guys, girls, they can call it like, okay, at 7 a.m., the waves are
going to be pumping, it's going to turn on.
And then you show up 6 a.m., it's not really that good.
7 a.m., boom, it hits.
So it's really almost predicting the future.
So another question I had is about physics is there's this question about what is possible.
And I remember a description back in the early skateboarding days of like Dogtown.
There was this question about nobody knew what would happen if you went over the lip of a swimming
pool. I think they couldn't calculate the actual physical consequences.
What do you mean the lip of a swimming pool?
Well, you had this drought in the early 70s in California.
Oh, right, right, right, right.
Okay, gotcha.
I was, for some reason, I was thinking something different.
But with skating, go above it, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I think Tony Alva, if I recall correctly, was the first air or something.
Was the first guy who said like, I'm going to try it and we'll find out whether, like,
they didn't know what would happen physically or something.
And it turned out that it worked.
And then it was like, oh, OK, that is possible.
Now look at them.
And now look at them.
My God.
And I wonder, like, are there things where you're pretty sure it's possible, but you like,
you don't know whether it's physically possible?
Usually you get, I feel like I get about three quarters of the way there and any,
you can't go any further and you have to just try it at a certain point.
It's like, it's like, I think I could do that.
And you've wrapped, you've kind of played it all out in your head.
Like, I got this equipment.
This equipment's going to allow me to do that.
OK, I need this type of way because it's going to allow me to do this.
So what are you thinking about?
What's up next that might be possible that you don't know that's possible?
You know what?
It's so funny because a lot of the things just sort of hit you like an epiphany.
Like, or like, hit you.
It's like a baseball bat to the head.
All of a sudden you're just like, what?
And I can't tell you what's next because...
Because you'd have to kill me.
Well, no, no, I don't know.
It's what's crazy.
I'll, this is how it happens.
I'll literally be sitting out in the water and it's like all the stars, all like,
the five brain cells I have kind of go tink, tink, tink.
They all line up and all of a sudden it's like, oh, oh my God,
that was right in front of me the whole time.
It's like staring me in the face, but you don't see it.
Give me an example of one of those in the past that actually work.
Well, the epiphany was the hydrofoil for one because everyone was riding big waves.
And I was doing a lot of channel crossings on stand-up paddle boards
or prone paddle boards or on a canoe.
And that's where your board is the wetted surface.
So you were the guy who thought to put the hydrofoil into channel crossings?
Yeah.
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
So that was kind of like, I guess my sort of contribution to the sport.
And it was, it came from necessity to want to go faster.
So I, I basically pushed my physical limits and I could probably be faster now
as I'm older and I'm better trained, blah, blah, blah, equipment's better.
But on my stand-up paddle board, for example, it was like, gosh, I just want to go fast.
All my other sports are, I'm going fast all the time.
And here I'm limited to maybe maximum 14 miles an hour downwind at peak speed average,
let's say nine miles an hour, 10 miles an hour.
And, and so it was like, gosh, like all of a sudden I put like two and two together.
I'm like hydrofoil.
And then I put downwinder and they sort of cross and it's like, well, yeah,
obviously that should work.
I just need a bigger wing.
They were just using two small of wings.
That's why you couldn't, you need more lift, you get a bigger wing.
And the first time I tried it in a wave, I was like, this is going to work.
Oh my God, this is going to work.
And then I went and did it.
And I ended up paddling like three miles in the middle of the ocean
and got up for a hundred yards, maybe.
Because the equipment wasn't quite there yet, right?
Right.
But I got up and it was just enough to go, oh my God.
And just hit me like in the heck, because I had been foiling since I was nine years old,
like on a tow board with the jet ski and how you would do it in bigger waves.
And, and then with this, it was like, God, I've been doing it since I nine
and it took me until now.
