Hello, this is Eric and I wanted to give a small note to say how today's episode fits
into the general arc of the portal.
As many of you know, I'm a critic about what is going on in academics and in science and
in the economy with respect to innovation.
I feel that we're experiencing some kind of a very broad malaise and slowdown.
On the other hand, whenever you allege that something is going generally, environmentally
wrong, it is incumbent upon you to check that you aren't in fact in the middle of a depressive
or negative episode.
One of the things that I like to do is to check and see where are the bright spots,
what are the things that inspire me, where do I see people actually pushing the envelope,
making breakthroughs.
If I can spot those, then I can realize that it's not me who's dead, but in fact a memory
of what is possible that is actually causing the frustration.
And in these circumstances, I sometimes look very far afield to see where people are actually
innovating.
And one of the places that I see a tremendous amount of innovation right now is surfing.
At some point out of the corner of my eye, one particular surfer caught my attention.
His name was Kai Lenny, and it wasn't as clear as it is now that he was on to something
really special.
As his skill has increased, he's been taking home larger and larger waves, and I don't
know how to say this exactly, but playing with them.
So before you watch today's episode, put in the name Kai Lenny, K-A-I-L-E-N-N-Y, and
maybe words like Jaws or Nazare.
And watch what he's doing, because it's unlike anything I've ever seen.
Every time I look at it, it looks more like art than surfing.
He's effectively playing with some of the most frightening and dangerous waves in the
world, and in some sense it seems like a metaphor for where we are, that with many forces that
are potentially incredibly threatening, a small number of us have the courage and strength
and discipline to instead of fretting and becoming innervated.
We start playing with what the possibilities might be.
Kai is experimenting in every technological dimension, every athletic dimension, and I
dare say every artistic dimension that you can imagine.
His famous phrase is, I feel like we're just getting started.
It's hard for me to believe that there's that much headroom given how close to the edge
it seems that he's always playing.
But even though I know that he's taking his life making these videos for us and experiencing
these waves in the kind of perfect solitude that must accompany being inside a gigantic
barrel or falling down the face of what can only be called a liquid cliff.
I know that Kai is actually serving something greater in the human spirit, and even though
we can't necessarily be in the wave with him, through the magic of helicopters or GoPro
videos or any of the incredible technologies that we're now able to use to bring the experience
closer to home, Kai is reacquainting ourselves with the sense of the possible.
What might lie within us?
With as individuals and as a society.
So I hope you'll see this in this light.
I hope you'll take an interest in surfing, whether you live in a landlocked country or
whether you're old and maybe even disabled.
What he's doing is in fact, to me, hugely inspiring, and one of the places that I turn
to when I start to feel extremely frustrated.
So I feel hugely honored to be able to bring you Kai Lenny.
Please take a look at his videos beforehand.
And then once you've understood what it is that we are all capable of through his efforts
and antics, I think you'll find that this interview is much more enjoyable.
Hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
Thanks.
Hello, you found the portal.
I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I am thrilled today because my guest is not other
than Kai Lenny, who I've been stalking on the internet and recently in Maui, actually,
Kai, welcome to the portal.
Thanks for having me on the portal.
OK, well, look, the aim of this program is to talk about breaking through to worlds
that people can't even imagine exist.
And there is no one who better exemplifies this at the moment than you.
Because what I see you is doing before even people, a lot of people aren't even going
to know who you are, is that you are right now in the process of expanding the vocabulary
in a very unusual area so that I'm seeing things I've never seen before, even though
I'm not expert in your area.
We talk about big wave surfing and what you're doing to it.
Oh, my favorite thing in the world is to talk about big wave surfing because it's like the passion.
I mean, just a quick background for everyone.
You came and visited on Maui and you saw my boardroom and you saw all this equipment
and stuff where I grew up.
It's just down the road from what would I would call the Mount Everest of big waves.
Jaws, Peiahi in Hawaiian, Peiahi means the beacon or to be called, which is a perfect name
because when it starts to break, it almost sends this signal out to the rest of the world
and people come from all corners of life to either surf or watch or film, take photos
of these giant waves.
And so when you're born and raised with Mount Everest in your backyard, it's inevitable
you're going to have to go try to climb it, right?
And big wave surfing, it's inevitable you want to go surf it as a little kid because before,
you know, comic books and comic book movies, mainly comic book movies were really big in
the mainstream media.
They're my superheroes were the guys that were riding these monster waves.
You know, there was there a comic book hero called the Silver Surfer.
The Silver Surfer, yeah, sure.
I guess, but it was like, I guess like in Hawaii, we do live in a bubble, not arguing
against that at all, because we're we're not a part of the continental United States.
We're middle of the ocean, 2000 miles away, the most isolated landmass on the planet.
And you everything that's going on around you in Hawaii is what's going around you.
You know, it's there's not a lot of there's influence from other places
thanks to the internet and stuff, but it's such a scene over there.
And Hawaii is a powerful place as well, like an energy.
You can really feel that.
And it's almost unexplainable.
There's a frequency that if you can match it will give you some of the most incredible
moments of your life.
And we'll get into that more when when when I start talking about like the art of
actually riding big waves and being in tune with the ocean and the frequency.
And I mean, why not just stop, start talking about it now is the the no offense.
I'm going to start off by just contradicting you.
You say that if you are out there, of course, you have to ride it.
You're too modest because I talk to people who are living out there who are surfers
who love it. When I when I ask them, do you go and surf this particular wave?
The usual answer is, no, dude, I'm not crazy.
I mean, this wave when it when it breaks is really it's a beast.
It's a beast. But OK, so throw it back to when I was.
Gosh, I think one of my earliest memories is a child.
You know, all of a sudden it's like you don't remember anything.
And then maybe when you're four years old or even younger,
like three years old, all of a sudden there's like a distinct memory.
One of the most distinct memories I have as a kid is standing on the cliff,
watching Jaws break.
So there was already a seed plants from an early age.
Highly, you know,
curious kid, super my superheroes, the guys
the equivalent of the Justice League and the Avengers
were called the Strat crew.
And they were the ones that pioneered peyote, aka Jaws and Jaws.
Do you want to name check them? Huh? Yeah, no, absolutely.
So who who made up this Strat crew were guys that invented
toe and surfing, which was the first the first or still probably
the best way to ride big waves on a high performance level.
Laird Hamilton, people have probably heard of him.
Dave Kalama was another Rush Randall, Derek Dorner,
Peekabrina, Robbie Nash, Mike Walts, Brett Lickle.
Those guys kind of comprise this strapped crew.
And they're all different characters.
A lot of them win surfing champions.
A lot of them from different parts of the island.
Islands, you know, from Oahu as well as Maui, of course.
But they kind of were on Maui.
Jerry Lopez, who's like, I would say the equivalent of Yoda in surfing, you know,
like he's the all wise, basically all knowing like master the guru.
He showed Laird this wave back in the day.
Like this is in the he'd been watching it since the early 80s.
And very early 90s.
They Jerry's like, OK, like you notice Laird was really taking interest
in big waves surfing on Oahu, which at the time was considered
the best big waves on the planet.
He's like, I got something you might want to see.
And they walk through the pineapple fields.
They get to the edge of a cliff and all of a sudden Laird has shown.
The the golden goose, the the the the best big wave on the planet.
It's so perfect that if there's not someone on it for scale, it looks like a small wave.
It's rare to find big waves that look six feet, but are really 60 feet.
And so Jerry told me when I was a kid and I always try to get him to repeat it.
Is a story of like in the 80s when a giant swell came in.
They were surfing this other break, which is also known as one of the best
waves in the planet, not best big wave, but best wave.
And it's very similar to how Jaws breaks, just on a smaller scale.
It's called Honolua Bay, beautiful, epic sunsets there.
And he said one day after surfing, they went up to Jaws to go check it.
And it was so big that where we surf now would have been whitewater
and where the boats are would have been where the barrel was.
So where the wave was breaking and creating a giant tube.
He would he would approximate the waves were probably in the 100 foot range.
And there was other nicknames or other names.
They called it before it was coin Jaws.
Jaws sort of came when Laird landed on the cover of National Geographic
with a giant wave and he was just in board shorts.
And it was like unbelievable shot, which I think he's still the only
surfer to ever be on the cover of National Geographic.
Well, there's so many ways that I want to get in underneath the story
before I even get to like you and what it is.
Sure. So but I don't even know where to begin.
So first of all, one, the only thing that connects us really
is that we're both fascinated by waves.
I'm fascinated in physics, you're fascinated by ocean waves.
Yeah. And one of the things that I find fascinating
is that these these waves have are sort of like intercontinental
intercontinental exploration that has only happened recently.
Like we mapped all the land masses, but somehow they're still
relatively recently.
Only relatively recently have there been certain discoveries
of these really important surfable waves like Mavericks in Half Moon Bay
has not been explored for that long.
And then. Yeah.
And then, you know, you're saying with with Jaws, Jaws and Piaje,
the thing that I find fascinating about this is that there was also this taboo
around toe in surfing because of the purity of surfing culture
and the ethos of it.
Like you're talking about it both as a sport and the beauty of the wave
and the sunsets like it is this sort of kind of complete picture in world.
And there was something transgressive about toeing in.
Is that right?
I think before anybody started kind of pinning toe and surfing
as being unnatural or not so full or whatever other kind of term they use.
People were just blown away by the fact that you could ride away that big.
And so it didn't even matter at that point.
Now, fast forward to present day, people are paddling in and toe
and surfing is widely regarded within core surfers as cheating.
But I think they forget that it's the
it would be the equivalent of going and climbing the mountain and skiing down
versus taking the helicopter up and doing it 50 times.
Well, isn't there an issue about how fast the wave is moving?
And if it's moving too quickly, it's almost impossible to paddle in or is that changed?
I think it's changed a lot.
I mean, I think what people thought was impossible to paddle into is possible.
It's just the best way I can describe it is when you're trying to paddle
into a really big wave, just imagine there's a platform or like a launching pad
