And you realize how life fast life moves because in there, it's like,
you have all the time in the world, it feels like.
And it's, it's what it's probably the pinnacle of what you could do surfing
better than any maneuver, any aerial acrobatic trick, being in the tube.
Well, so that tube, I just, I geek out on it because it's such an incredibly unbelievable.
I can't even imagine that something that beautiful and perfect exists.
The other version of beauty that I'm drawn to is this other totally different wave,
which I think you said you may be headed towards,
which is the Shipstern's bluff in Tasmania, which is the gnarliest, ugliest.
It's waves within waves.
And, you know, quantum field theory is this concept beyond quantum mechanics.
It's waves upon waves.
And so there's waves within waves concept, even though it's all obviously classical,
is really evocative to me.
And there's this thing inside of this crazy Tasmanian thing,
which people, which forms like a ledge and I've watched people fall off of it a bunch.
You want to use it as a jump.
Oh, absolutely.
Well, you know what's interesting?
There's not that many crazy big waves in the world.
They're big waves, but then there's waves that are in the league of their own.
You could say Chopu's in a league of its own, Jaws, Nazare, Mavericks,
which is here in California, and Shipstern's is one of them as well.
And they all have different personalities.
And the art of riding these big waves is finding their personality
and kind of matching the best of you with them.
But what makes Shipstern's exciting, and the reason why they call it Shipstern's
is because the way the cliff is situated, it looks like the front of a massive ship,
maybe the Titanic or something.
You've been there?
No, but I know all about that wave, you know?
Because I've been studying it, kind of getting ready to go.
And I've had opportunities to go, and it hasn't worked out.
I mean, big waves surfing, you could be halfway across the world on your way,
and the forecast can switch in a flash, and you turn around and go home
because it's not going to even breaking, or the winds are going to be bad.
And Tasmania is very susceptible to bad weather,
just because it's really as close to Antarctica as you get.
And all those massive storms that produce these big waves,
oftentimes slam that island.
But what makes that wave so raw and so heavy is, well, it is really cold water,
but it's the bathymetry, the bottom, what we would call the reef,
which is really just rocks there, has a bunch of, it's an uneven surface.
You've seen it mapped?
No, but I just know from experience.
And I mean, if you can look into videos about,
they basically talk a lot about all these other big waves in the world.
I think in Chopu, I've saw underwater photography of the wave breaking from below,
and it's one of the most confusing and gorgeous things I've ever seen.
It's pretty, I mean, there's always like hidden features to reefs,
or to the bottom contours that you don't necessarily realize,
but for the most part, if you've been surfing a long time,
and especially in big waves, certain things equal other things.
So you can infer what the bottom must look like from the gnarly aspect of that face?
Yeah, just by seeing those ledges in the ledges within the face.
So this wave, the way it breaks is it's like a right-hander Chopu,
but maybe not quite as displacing of the ocean,
but it has all these steps they call them in the face of the wave.
So miniature waves within the wave.
You could have like four miniature waves in the face,
and that is like, if you go to a river, and you look at a river,
and you see a little standing wave,
right before you'll see some turbulence right before.
That's because there's slightly uneven rocks right before it.
And so under water, there's these rocks that come up
that kind of ever so slightly displace the wave
in such a way that it makes these mini waves in between.
But everyone, the way people typically ride it is they kind of,
those are speed bumps, and they try to get through that as quick as they can
to get into the barrel.
And I'd say my vision for it, and it's a scary one,
anything you try new in big waves is horrifying
because it's like the consequences are severe beat downs
and possibly drowning,
but is hitting these small little waves
and doing aerial maneuvers off of them,
and then as soon as you land,
have the whole wave break over you and you're in the tube,
and then come out.
It's really like being a drug addict,
and you just need a harder drug or something
because you can ride big waves all the time,
you can surf in general all the time,
but for me, I feel like I need to constantly be upping it
because it's not as satisfying as the last time I did it.
And also, I'm all about progression as well,
like I love getting the feeling of getting better
and maybe that coincides with it.
Right.
Never done drugs in my life,
but I can imagine what it might just be like.
Yes, you have.
Yes, you have.
I guess it is a drug, but a natural one.
Right.
Well, this is the thing when I look at,
I mean, and again, I don't view you within surfing.
I view you as like Rodney Mullen
or Eddie Van Halen or Alex Honnell,
like they're just these people who are meant to change
what we know about each of these sports.
Now, they're all within a context.
You have a lot of colleagues who you're learning from
and you're teaching, but I do see you as,
what do you see as differentiating your approach that,
you know, if everybody's got kind of a secret signature
and you were talking about your own expression
relative to the wave, what would you say
is defining the difference?
What am I picking up?
And I don't know anything about surfing at all.
Well, I think from my own personal perspective,
I'm just kind of, and I think a lot of other people
that do really cool things.
Like I think I've heard Alex Honnell talk about this as well.
It's like, you don't really know any better.
It's just kind of who you are.
And it kind of sort of happens.
And it's, and in my perspective, it is sort of the environment
that you spent the most time in or that experience
that led to this point.
And so when I go out on the water,
it's not like I'm going out there
with the intention to change things
or try to recreate the landscape.
It's more like, oh, son, I got this idea
and that sounds really fun.
And I think I could do it.
You know, it's like, it starts with a little whisper
in your head like, maybe this is possible.
Then you do it.
And then all of a sudden you look around
and people appreciate it.
And without people appreciating it,
I don't think I would know if it was significant or not.
You need the feedback loop.
Like I think Rodney Mullen was basically
to have a conversation with himself.
Yeah.
Like, well, I know what I want to do,
but sometimes when you're surfing a big wave,
you don't know how big the wave is behind you, for example.
If I never saw a photo or if no one told me
if it was an Harley, I might get so used to it.
It's so comfortable.
I was talking to my brother about this the other day
about being starting to get desensitized
by certain size waves now.
I mean, I spent out of the last two weeks.
It's a little terrifying.
Yeah, it is.
But you get comfortable.
You know, you spend so much time in it.
Spent the last eight days surfing big waves out of two weeks.
And I was at Nazarene and then I went to Jaws.
So Nazarene is this Portuguese wave
that comes out of an underwater canyon
where all of the energy is being focused.
And it may be the tallest,
close to the tallest surfable wave in the world.
Yeah, that's probably the most consistent big wave.
And I think we should.
That's an in-depth conversation that plays.
But real quick, I'm just to kind of finish off this.
Sorry to be the...
No, no, no.
But to finish off sort of this kind of thought
on becoming desensitized a little bit
and talking about like how you kind of need feedback.
There was this one particular wave.
I'm not meaning to toot my horn at all,
but there was this one particular wave
where I got interesting feedback from my brother afterwards
where the way I was approaching it,
and you might have seen it on my social meet on my Instagram.
It was that really big barrel is wearing an orange vest.
And I rode it for a long time and I ended up getting spit out.
It was probably one of my best big wave barrels ever.
But the interesting about that is I was so focused
on reading the curve of the wave.
And when you're taking off on a wave at Jaws,
the whole thing is a horseshoe.
It bends around you.
And taking in certain aspects of it,
I could read what it's going to do.
It's like predicting the future.
Like if it hits the reef just in this way,
the waves going to barrel really hard,
I'm going to be standing in a cave
or standing in like a huge tunnel.
And without thinking twice or how big it was,
I just bottom turned.
I did what we call a check turn.
So it's a turn mid face to burn my speed off the tow board.
And then I just stood there and I lived inside this tube
for a couple of seconds.
But afterwards I was talking to my brother and he was like,
he's like, how was that barrel earlier?
You know, he jumped off the cliff and I picked him up
on the jet ski and I was getting him some waves.
