Yeah.
The way I look at like riding a big wave is
you have the baseline, which is just the act of riding it,
going straight, surviving it, kicking out.
You have that 30 second experience.
And then you can and then there's and that takes a certain amount of focus.
And for me doing maneuvers on big waves,
all of a sudden it's it's it's like putting that one scary experience
and putting it to the side.
And as I'm rotating through a maneuver or a trick,
like a 360 down the wave, I have to I'm looking at the water.
I'm focused on what's going on with myself.
And then it's like when I land,
I pop back into a different part of reality.
And then when I kick out, I'm back to like normal reality, my my my baseline.
So you're aware of several different Kai Lenny's living
between the same set of ears that trade off on an individual wave?
Hundred percent.
Yeah.
So when I could go like I feel like the most I've been able to go
is maybe three levels deep or maybe four.
When you go four levels deep, it's when you're riding a wave
and all of a sudden you don't you're not you're on such the edge.
You don't know that you don't know what you're doing to make it work.
And when you kick out, you start questioning what you did.
And then you actually forget how you did it.
You're like, what just happened?
And it's kind of like me sitting here in the heart of Los Angeles.
I almost feel like that other Kai Lenny that does it,
I sometimes question like, gosh, well, like I've done it.
Like, let's say I did it a hundred times,
but I question if I can ever do it again.
Like, I don't know if I have the confidence to say that I did it again.
In this kind of different person in this conversation,
you're just some cool dude that I met in Maui.
And there's nothing that suggests that the person that I've seen
on these myriad different videos is that guy.
In other words, you're talking about this.
But there's no aspect of the person who does those incredible things.
You're just now just saying, well, here's what I remember about that.
And so when you meet somebody, like, you know,
if you if you're talking to Albert Einstein
and you were going to McDonald's with him
and you were just ordering a hamburger,
there would be nothing Albert Einstein ish about his act of ordering a hamburger.
And so, like, it's a very weird thing the way the mundane
and the transcendent collide.
And sometimes the person who has this transcendent ability,
when they're in their mundane head,
they can't even imagine that that's who they are.
Do you ever have that?
Oh, yeah, no, I totally have that.
It's kind of like the fear, will I ever get to that level again?
Sort of thing.
But there's a there's a moment where I I'm starting to identify
when the switch happens.
And it usually happens because to get to big waves,
you usually round a corner, whether it's on a boat or a car, whatever,
or walking down the beach, you come around a corner
and all of a sudden the wave is revealed.
It's like the reveal of a movie.
Like, all of a sudden you see the monster or you see the building
or you see whatever it is that you're still feel that with Pi.
Oh, my God, every time.
So you turn the corner and you see plumes of spray
going hundreds of feet in the air.
And in the distance, maybe a mile away,
you see this monster breaking and and your heart starts to skip a little bit.
And you're like, oh, my gosh, like, here we go.
And I could start feeling the switch kind of starting to move.
And then all of a sudden I pull up and I see the the canvas that is the wave
breaking and the perfection and any fear that I had the night before.
Because it's not like I don't live in fear at all.
Like the night before I'm like scratching my head.
I'm like, what have I gotten myself into?
What am I doing?
Is it like Bruce Bruce Banner is going to have to fight.
And he's not the Hulk yet.
And so he has to approach the fight.
And before it becomes the Hulk at some level,
it's terrifying because you're signing up to do something
that you're not capable of doing until you make the transformation.
It's a great analogy.
Definitely.
Because I'll pull up on the jet ski and all of a sudden to see a wave just spit
and it's a 64 wave and it's terrifying.
And and and, you know, everything about it is like you want to avoid being caught in there.
You know, like how can the human body live through something like that?
But then all of a sudden I get all this energy and I and I'm like, let's go, let's go.
And I'm whoever I'm with, I'm trying to rush them off the jet ski or I'm trying
to grab my board to paddle out or I'm getting them to drive me.
And I'm like, let's go and I'll find myself sitting out on the water
doing like I have kind of this breathing exercise I do where it's like breathe in
for two seconds out for two seconds.
It's just really mellow.
And it's just really to get a lot of oxygen in my lungs,
but it's also to like have like sharpness of mind.
And and then sometimes four waves and a set will come in.
So it's not like just one big wave comes in and breaks.
There could be four stacked in the horizon.
We call those a set.
And and it's like it's always a bit of chess to try to figure out which one's
going to be the best wave because I've had millions of waves where I've kicked out.
Not even not millions, but lots of waves where I've kicked out and you see
the perfect big wave behind it.
And you're like, oh my God, why did I go on the first one?
And you're kicking yourself.
But so so I'm usually I'm usually really like I would say reserved in the fact when
like I hate asking people for to go out of their way for something like, hey,
you know, is it okay?
Like even if I'm staying at someone's house like, it's okay if I get some water,
you know, it's just who I am.
I would say on like a base level.
But all of a sudden I think my commander inside me or kind of like the general sort of comes out
where it's like my driver.
I'm telling me exactly when you say I'm like number two,
which is the second wave.
No, no, no, no, faster, faster, let's go.
And I'll send I'm yelling and I love this person.
And later on, I feel guilty and I sometimes apologize.
But they understand that I'm out there with a purpose and trying to catch a wave.
And it's like, yeah, you do have a trying to command a situation.
You do have some kind of a split personality because like when we came out and visited you,
you could not have been more hospitable to some like, I mean, the funny part is if I
understand correctly, you first found out about me because you were a Joe Rogan watcher.
Yeah, exactly.
And I said, Hey, are you watching what's going on and surfing?
That's where innovation is happening now.
And I shouted out your name that I see on Instagram.
Hey, this dude shouted out my name or something.
I'm thinking like, how does that guy even know that I exist?
That, you know what?
It's the same way.
How does someone like, you know, I exist.
Oh, no, it's like, it's funny.
I just feel like, you know, in my world, I'm trying to break out of my own personal bubble.
Like, and it's not a bubble in terms of like, get seen by other people more.
But it's like, I think we all find ourselves in our own world.
And, and, and if I, if I've learned anything from big wave writing is trying to be uncomfortable
more often, like every day, if I can be a little uncomfortable, it's probably positive
because it means that I'm experiencing something that I'm not used to it whatsoever, you know.
Let's talk about some of the technology that's changing what it is that you do.
If you think about like, you're a painter, you talk about canvas.
All right.
Well, now you've got more brushes and paints to paint with.
So what I see and correct me if I'm not getting it from outside is that this foil,
the hydrofoil underneath the boards is making it possible to be like effectively
a laden on a magic carpet where you're surfing above the water.
Then there's this kite thing going on where you're really accessing the wind to jump at levels
that just seem absolutely insane.
There's safety equipment, which is weirdly like only recently available to decrease the
probability that you're going to get held down.
I think what all those things have in common, and this is what's really cool about water sports
and the real connection is things are invented out of necessity, just like everything in life.
But really it's, it's in created in the name of fun.
Like how can I have more fun?
What can we do to make it more fun?
Oh, this is the solution.
And like big wave surfing, it's fun until you drown.
So that inflation vests are talking about.
It's a similar concept is the one that's under your seat when you fly on an airplane.
CO2 canister and airbag in a wetsuit.
Polacord, the thing inflates and you become a buoy.
And it's in the name of fun because now all of a sudden it's given people like me the opportunity
to ride these big waves and focus less on trying to not drown.
But more on what can we do on these big waves?
Like how, what kind of experiences can I have on them?
And that's where I say that the limit is still yet to be totally tapped into,
especially with toe and surfing.
Paddle and surfing, people are put constantly pushing the edge because it's, it's an act of,
it's, it's really like going hunting with, you know, a knife, you know, it's like going hunting
with a knife versus, you know, going out with all the technology in the world.
And it's just different.
It's a different approach.
And some might say it's, it's not pure or whatever.
Well, those people don't actually surf big waves though.
Who cares?
But for me, I love technology and I love when they merge with like the passion.
What's the craziest thing that you're thinking about with technology?
Well, I'm constantly trying to figure out how to do something better, you know?
And I think what blows people's minds away the most is the hydrofoil and what those capabilities
are. It's like an underwater airplane attached to a large fin, attached to a board and lets you
glide like you're a seagull and gives you an illusion of flight.
And I think almost everybody has a dream of wanting to just soar through the air, you know,
like be a bird.
And you can't see what's lifting you up out of the water when you're riding these things.
All you can, all you feel, see is the board around you and the water moving.
And when I first did it, I started when I was nine years old, but when I kind of-
How old are you now?
I'm 27.
But there was- 2016 was kind of the year of reinvention of it, kind of the rebirth of it.
Originally, it was adopted from the air chair, which was what you would ride behind a waterski boat.
And those guys would sit down on, they do incredible maneuvers, but they had the rope and,
you know, you had to be towed around a lake.
And then Laird Hamilton, Rush Randall, Dave Kalama, Derek Dorner, all these guys strapped crew,
took it, put snowboard boots on it, and their goal was to ride the biggest waves ever ridden.
Another problem with riding big waves, and this is what led them to the hydrofoil, was
the chops going up the face of the wave get so big that on normal board, you can't go fast enough.
Hydrofoil's a giant fin, it cuts right through it like a hot knife through butter.
And so they, that was, they were pushing it in the big wave realm.
