You have to make sure that the thing is like a Mexican standoff.
It has to be in check.
You have to, anything, you have to face everything.
Like if it's, I was telling my friend, I had like a certain situation that I was kind
of going through like maybe end of last year.
And it's like, I told myself for this situation when I was a young kid, like, because I was
pretty aware about like my people, the people around me and the mistakes they had made and
how I was like, I always, I always, when I was really young and when my ego is definitely
very strong, inside I was like, I want to do everything perfect and I want to do it the
best anyone's ever done it.
I want to be the best ever because as a kid, there's, you don't have to confront it yet,
you know, but you can imagine, you can believe, you can do all these things because, but you
don't actually have to go through it yet because you're still a little kid.
Anyway, so I told myself this one particular thing, like, I'm going to avoid this and I'm
going to, and I'm going to make sure I never end up in the situation.
Inevitably, the one thing that you try to avoid is the one thing that'll end eventually come
for you. You know, you'll eventually meet it. And I learned that at the end of the year.
Are you a fan of Kung Fu Panda?
Great. Yeah, I love that movie.
Yeah. So remember, one often meets one's destiny on the road one takes to avoid it or something.
Oogway. Yeah, Oogway.
Exactly. I know that movie was so smart for, and it was a kid's movie or whatever, but...
It was not a kid's movie, dude. That was a really profound movie.
Yeah, right. Exactly.
Yeah.
It's true, though. No, it's, I know that quote exactly what you're saying, and it's like, it truly...
And in that movie, sorry, I don't mean to cut you off, but Oogway is weirdly putting Shifu
on the road to his destiny as he tries to avoid his destiny. So like, there's this extra layer of,
is Oogway actually...
Great filmmaking.
Great storytelling.
Great storytelling, but at least it's telling, it's...
Whether you don't know it when the first time you watch it or you figured out later,
it's helping you along in your life, you know? There's lessons,
and that's what stories were all about. It was meant to pass on lessons, right?
What happens when you bite off more than you can chew in a situation where you think you can
handle something and then you look up at this thing and you're saying, I don't really know
that I can handle this, but I got no choice now. I'm past the Rubicon.
Does this happen to you recently or more from before?
More from before. I mean, it's still, I mean, no matter how comfortable I've gotten in big waves,
it's impossible to totally be comfortable, because it's just terrifying, you know? It's just,
it's huge monsters, but the thing is, is I've many times, you know, you pop up, you, like,
this is a perfect example, actually. You're standing out there paddling,
you paddle over a giant wave, and then there's mist in the air. Like, there's just, it's, it's
so much spray that's coming off. It's hundreds of feet. It's torrential downpour. It's sunny,
but it's downpour. And in the distance, you see this black face, this black kind of wall coming in,
and your heart just instantly drops and you're sprinting for your life.
And you're, and all of a sudden you're, you're trying to escape the feeling or the situation
by looking at little things and focusing on that. Like, look at the water just rolling off there.
Like, look at the sticker on my board. Just like, you're trying to find any escape, but
do you realize that there's no escape? There's no hiding.
Did you see Interstellar?
Yeah, I love that movie. I love that.
Do you remember when they end up on the water planet and the wave starts to form?
And it looks just like that. And if I ever get to meet Christopher Nolan, I'm going to tell him that,
that was the, that was the biggest surprise I've ever seen in a movie, because as a big wave surfer,
I was like, that's so rideable. And look, you can do a step on it.
Is that what you really thought?
100%. Oh man.
Who's, any big wave surfer, I don't know if any, but I mean, think about, okay, so in the movie,
the waves are created by gravitational forces, right?
And, and that's a lot, like the moon helps pull our tides, right?
But in the film, here I'm seeing a thousand foot wave that's never breaking and it's continuous for,
around the entire world. And I'm like, that seems like the sick. You could ride a thousand foot wave,
biggest playground ever. And if you fall, if you fall, you just kind of go over the back.
And then there's another one. And I mean, the person, the character dies, because I can imagine
if you're going over a thousand foot wave, you get really high in the wave and it flicks into the air
and you fall a thousand feet and you die, right? Or 200 feet, whatever it is. Because I'm just trying
to, I was always trying to imagine how the person died in that film, because I had to
leave him behind or whatever. And I'm like, well, the solution would have been, right as you get to
the top, you just duck under the water and you stay, the water kind of conceals you and you come back
down the backside of it. And then you can stick your head back up and get air. Or in that case,
you're all wearing spacesuits. Perfect. You don't even have to like hold your breath underwater.
That's one, one problem taken care of. And, and they're pressurized. So you can just go through it.
But anyway, I was just like, that is like, that would be, that's one. And it made me actually
start thinking, I'm like, gosh, I wonder if in my lifetime, if space travel is really going to be a
thing and maybe someone goes to Titan or Europa, like, because they're supposedly water or something.
Are you obsessed with Titan? I mean, I'm obsessed with the idea of surfing waves outside the world.
Yeah. Sure. Like, if you have the right suit on, I mean, in any element, you could probably go in,
unless it's like lava, maybe, or I don't know, I'm not that smart. But what I do know is that
just think of all the waves in the universe that is just firing right now and no one out.
And if we, maybe we have the best waves in the universe, but there has to be better waves. I
often look back in time at just how do you think they're in great undiscovered waves?
100% where we're on earth, on earth. Do you think we do think we've mapped all the great waves?
No. Well, okay. A great example is this wave of Nazare. This is a great lead into Nazare.
Nazare was discovered nine years ago, nine years ago.
By Scott McNamara?
By Garrett McNamara.
Sorry, Garrett McNamara.
But okay, this is just, it's so crazy. Portugal, part of European Union, like in the middle,
the heart of Portugal, like there's this wave, Nazare, biggest wave possibly in the world,
tallest, most consistent big wave, that's for sure. And you know, it's 2011 or whatever,
2012, 2011, and it's discovered.
How?
I don't know. It was just hiding in sight. It's the things, it's okay. We go back to that point
where it's like the things that are the most obvious aren't always recognized right away.
You know what I mean?
What, see, I never got the history of it. It's always photographed. I mean, the most dramatic
shot of it is somebody gets a picture of the observation deck looking at the wave.
So yeah, I mean.
And that observation deck looks like it wasn't built recently.
No, it's a lighthouse, but it's so old, it looks like a castle.
Right.
And so Nazare was first served, whatever, eight or nine years ago, less than a decade
in a modern era.
Is Garrett Hawaiian?
Garrett is from Hawaii. Yeah, he's from Oahu, and he's always been on the search for the best big
waves. And it took someone who was always seeking it out that long to find something because
with big waves, if they're not breaking, you don't know they exist.
You know, they're dormant. We could literally go down to a coastline we haven't been to,
somewhere in Africa that's exposed to a great part of the Atlantic Ocean and look at a point
and be like, whoa, that could be a wave one day, but you don't realize that it's a sleeping giant
and when it wakes up, it's the biggest wave on the planet.
Like that may exist. That totally could exist.
But if you were mapping the seabed, Portugal should stick out like a sore thumb, no?
Well, okay, the bathymetry is a freak of nature.
If we say that word again, because I don't know it.
Bathymetry, which is kind of the bottom contour.
I'm going to start dropping that into lots of sentences from now on.
It makes you sound smarter than, well, it makes me sound smarter than I am.
So what's unique about Nazare is it's the largest trench in all of Europe, and I believe it's an
ancient, it was once a glacier that carved out a huge valley.
And when all the ice caps melted, it filled in the ocean and it covered that trench.
Now the trench allows the swell, this raw energy from the Atlantic to come in.
It gets sucked into that deep water. It focuses it and it comes in.
And then this is where the wave comes in.
They call it Praia de Norte, which is the North Beach, North Point.
And that's where the wave breaks in Nazare.
And so what happens is all this swell comes in and then it all of a sudden gets accelerated onto
shallow water. So there's a point with a ledge and it's all sand.
It's a giant beach and it comes in and then it focuses.
And what makes Nazare so big is two peaks, two waves, and this is the concept of a rogue wave.
You know, you can have a really big ocean of big waves and then it's when two big waves come
together. It's the superposition.
It's the superposition. Yeah. One, the swell comes in this way
and it matches with another one and the energy combines and it doubles in height.
So it jacks up twice as high and it's just the perfect bottom for that perfect situation.
And it produces the tallest waves in the world consistently.
And yeah, that's Nazare. Nazare is a trip. You go there and it feels biblical.
I mean, the word Nazare already sounds like it's from, you know, the Old Testament.
And then add to this, there's a guy there named Jesus that stands up on the lighthouse
and calls out sets if you're toe surfing. It's like, okay, second set, get out there,
you know, or like get the second one. And his name is Jesus from Nazare.
Jesus from Nazareth. That's great.
And it's just, it's kind of a hilarious situation.
So when you're out there, all of a sudden you're seeing this massive cliff,
200 foot cliff, and you're seeing waves that are like half the size of it.
And on really big days, the same size as the cliff, because it gets that big.
We haven't seen it in the time that we've surfed out there though.
You see this sort of castle lighthouse on the point spray in the air and you're like,
where am I right now? I feel like I got thrown back in time and this just doesn't feel real.
And you're looking at these towering mountains of water that look like
interstellar, looks the same. It's just walls popping up everywhere.
And it's not like there's one breaking wave. There's six breaking waves at once.
And there's no channel, which is the channel is the safe zone.
It's where the deep water is and where it doesn't break.
It's kind of breaking everywhere. It's a beach break.
It's the world's biggest beach break.
It's maybe one of the world's most terrifying big waves to challenge in that there is no safe
zone. When you're committed, you're committed and I've seen some disastrous rescue attempts on
this thing. Oh, it's great. And every time I go there, we lose a jet ski at least once.
Is that right? Luckily there's sand, so it pushes back up. But
imagine like everything around you was built bigger and all of a sudden you felt like your
scale just went really down. That's what it feels like there because the waves are so big.
All of a sudden you feel like really small. The beach, the beach is really steep and massive
and large and you feel smaller on the beach. The way the waves move up and down,
it'll travel 50 to 60 yards up the sand before it returns back to the ocean.
And you feel like this is what it feels like to be the size of a Chihuahua.
Do you get off on your own insignificance, like your significance coming from your
insignificance? There's no place on earth like that place, that wave, to make me realize how
small a human being is. Yes, I've definitely gotten used to feeling like insignificant and
my place in this whole crazy world is not as important necessarily as I might one think.
Because you look at these waves and they're just this power and you're trying to find
kind of like symmetry with it. You're trying to be one with it for just a brief moment
and you just realize like it's just wasted being here forever for a long time.
And I guess if I can be just in line with something that's bigger than myself,
that's what makes me feel really good. The best feeling I get from riding big waves is the drive
home because you just went through this whole crazy experience. You're relieved, you just went
through that and you tapped into something bigger than yourself, physically bigger than yourself
too. Well, I'm used to seeing you on some of these monster waves alone and then recently I saw you
get a ride that looked like it jaws with a friend of yours. Yeah, Nathan Florence. And I thought
what is it like to actually ride a wave like that with somebody that you know and care about?
Does it feel totally different? You know what? There's camaraderie involved. You still feel kind
of alone because it's you on the board. It's you on the board and it's your decisions that
make the outcome and sometimes it's not even your decision that makes the outcome. It's the
waves that make the outcome. You know, like you could choose a wave and all of a sudden it does
something completely unforeseen and different. Riding that wave with Nathan, we ended up getting
a really big barrel out of jaws together and for both of us to be in the barrel at the same time was
amazing. It's finally you're sharing the experience with somebody and I think that's why
there's a real brotherhood, sisterhood out in big waves surfing because you're sharing an experience
that's so extreme that, you know, it's like you can tell everyone all about it, but you know,
you still feel like they don't understand. How do you translate the feeling? You can translate the
emotions, the ideas through like words, but that physical feeling. Like I wish I could just
plug my head into your head and you could just feel it for a second because I'm pretty sure
it messes you up. Dude, I've gotten off my carrot. I wish I could do the same thing
for you with mathematics in part. See, I'm carable with math, but I want to be good at it.
You don't know that you are. You don't know that. Well, you brought up an interesting question about
the brothers and sisters. Now we just had, I follow this other woman whose name I don't want
to mangle, who's just the first woman a year or two ago to be invited into this Eddie Invitational.
Say it and I'll help you. Kiala? Kiala. Yeah. Yeah, she's like, she's a chart. She's amazing.
