And he was like, he's like, how do you stall for that?
And, and, and like do that.
And I'm like, honestly, like, I don't know what big,
like it didn't feel that big.
And he's like, that was the biggest wave of the day so far.
And, and I was like, that's really kind of weird.
I think I'm like getting a little desensitized by what I'm seeing
because it's becoming such an often occurrence
that it's becoming my normal all of a sudden.
And yeah, it's still terrifying surfing big waves
at all is terrifying.
You took like a huge drop on, I think it was on JAWS
that like the world was buzzing about.
Yeah, yeah, that was like last year.
And can you talk about that?
And is that an example of something
where you didn't realize just how gnarly it was
until you looked at the footage?
Yeah, absolutely.
So I had been riding, we had a big wave competition
and it got too big for paddle and surfing.
So the waves were in the 60 to 70, 80 foot range.
And I decided to go toe and surfing because.
So they called this off?
Yeah, so we're in the middle of this contest
and the waves just got too big.
And the problem with it getting too big
was also the wind factor.
It got really windy and the wind was blowing up the face,
making it really difficult to catch the wave
because it was just trying to blow you at the back and.
So your surfboard turns into an airfoil?
It becomes a wing.
Yeah.
And you start flying through the air
and to do that in competition.
I mean, it's just really dangerous.
I mean, that morning, the heat before they canceled it,
guys were passing out underwater,
hitting the water so hard, having concussions,
they were blacking out.
People were coming up, spitting blood out of their lungs.
Maybe one person in the final heat made a wave
and that's when the decision came.
Okay, it's like too gnarly.
Like we're all for big wave surfing
and big wave competition.
But in a contest, it's never worth losing someone's life
over anything.
You know, it's not like big wave surfers
get paid that much either to compete.
And so they ended up canceling it.
It was a group decision from most of the surfers
that they didn't want to continue
because for fear of someone not coming home to their family.
And.
But on the other hand, a total moron
might think, cool, there's no one in the water.
I'm going to go for it.
I guess I'm that moron.
That's what I'm talking about.
It's talking about what happens next.
Well, so.
I mean, I just saw the stuff and I flipped out.
The footage is insane.
Well, so I couldn't paddle anymore.
And with toe and surfing, which is when,
and to explain to people who don't know what tone surfing is,
it's a jet ski with a wakeboard rope on the back of it.
And you use it to get towed into these massive waves.
So you eliminate paddling altogether.
And it's just a slingshot into these giant waves.
And you're riding a board that's much smaller
versus a 10 foot board.
You're on a six foot board.
And so I just ended up having the best session of my life
up to that point because there was no one around.
Everyone didn't want to surf
because they didn't want to get injured
because the contest was going to run the next day
because the waves would be smaller.
But for me, big wave surfing was never about competing.
It was always a spiritual aspect.
That's where I found my kind of it was almost became my religion
because when you look at a big wave,
it's like looking in a mirror in that moment.
This is the most transcendent thing.
I think this goes into the name.
You can find it on Kai show, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So there's they made videos and they called it the Kai show
because I was the only one out.
I'm just saying that it's you can you can search on it from that.
Yeah.
And what I got out of it was was transcendence.
Like there's this one man in this very vulnerable position.
You don't need to know much about surfing,
you know what kind of risks you're taking out there.
Yeah. Well, so it stems from passion first.
And then it stems from a lot of hard work
and focus and determination and over not overcoming fear
but being kind of in line with it.
As soon as you eliminate fear,
it's when you get injured, especially in big waves
because you make brass brass decisions.
So you are in essence to me a risk manager.
Like you you wouldn't be here to be having this conversation.
If you weren't playing the same role
that like if you were running a hedge fund,
you have to figure what can I afford to take?
What can I afford to take?
It's a calculation.
It's a calculation.
And so like we all look at this stuff.
I mean, and it's also there's like a very weird aspect of the psychology.
I mean, I don't know it in surfing,
but I know it in other places.
On the one hand,
it's like a very alpha male dominant sort of activity looking.
But on the other side of that,
you have to submit to the wave.
Like it isn't going to win.
It isn't it is an act of submission, right?
And acceptance and acceptance
because once you've committed to that thing,
your choices disappear to an extent.
You have a limited amount that you can't.
You can't say too big for me once you've already committed.
You're in.
Oh, yeah.
No, like, I mean,
what I love most about big wave surfing in the draw is
you look at a big wave and it's a mirror
and you realize who you like.
There's no hiding.
There's no lying to yourself.
Who you are in that moment in your life is right in front of you.
And you know it clear as day.
And you can either work on it
or you can be stoked that, you know,
of who you are in that moment
because it's it's you're you're you're facing death straight in the face
and fear has never been more relevant
or more powerful in that moment.
And there's there's something so satisfying
and scary though, accepting acceptance of fear.
It's like a release.
It's like relief.
You kick out of a big wave
and you were just on that the edge of your life.
And if you fell, you were just worried
you may never come back up
or you might get absolutely destroyed.
And the fear just washes off of you like,
you know, dirt in a shower.
And you just stand there and it's just you feel pure.
You know, it's like all your sins are forgiven or something.
And and that's what I love so much about Big Wave Surfing
is it just makes me feel most alive.
And the more I do it,
I think it's given me it's making everyday normal life harder
like to cope with.
So I've talked about this recently
with a pornographic actress
that there's an issue about what happens
when you do something that hyper stimulates you.
And you have a trouble getting back to a normal baseline
because there is this sort of hedonic shift
in what your normal is.
And in large measure, what I see is
how do you have a normal day after your day at the office
being playing on the sides of temporary cliffs?
Oh, it's I mean, if I'm being at all honest,
it's a normal average day is torture, like it's it's like
because you don't have that same stimulation.
You're not there's I guess things start to lose purpose
because when you're riding a big wave,
there's a purpose of living, you know,
and the purpose of like living in as you're not you're
you don't want to die, but you're also you're also
experiencing something so pure and profound.
It feels bigger than yourself, you know,
like the act of riding a big wave feels there's almost
like that the egotistical kind of feeling godly for one moment,
you know, like so this is the thing flying too close
to the sun like Icarus, you know, and exactly waiting
for your wings to melt in front of the gods.
You see, that's the first element of Greek tragedy.
And what I see is that I'm used to watching big waves
where there's some different dot on every wave.
And I watch the dot, which is this human being.
Just just hang on for the ride.
And if they can just do that, that was that was what I was used to.
Then like I see the dot jump and do a 360 on the way,
like it's playing and it does it feels like mythically wrong.
Like wait, that wave is huge, but I'm going to play with it
rather than just just submit and accept it.
Well, so kind of like if you have you've watched
Christopher Nolan's Inception, right?
You know how they go from a dream into another.
