that you can go from.
But the bigger the wave gets, the smaller that launching pad gets
where you can take off and make it.
Yeah, because it's all about positioning.
It's triangulating yourself with the land around you.
So looking at shore and finding two trees or two points that you line up with.
OK, this is where I am on part of the reef and then looking to your left.
And finding another point and lining up with the point.
And so you kind of triangulate yourself in.
And that's where you buy by checking where the waves are breaking.
That's how you figure out that you're going to be in the right spot
to get on that launching pad.
Because if you're too much on the shoulder, which is kind of away
from the critical part of the way, you're not going to catch it.
If you're too deep, you're going to become part of the wave and go over the falls.
So it's that's paddling, given that this is a non surfing program.
Can we say that over the falls means getting swept up over the crest
and being just shoved into the.
I guess over the falls would be the equivalent of jumping
into the water and going over Niagara, right?
Like, that's the same thing like, whoa.
So you become the lip, the wave picks you up.
And what we call it is the ride after the ride.
OK, so what I don't really want to object in any way to toe in.
I don't have these issues.
So the main issue for me is innovation, right?
Like the reason that I find this so fascinating is that I wasn't around
and conscious like in 68.
I was three years old when Dick Fosbury came up with the Fosbury flop
and changed high jumping.
And if you think back to like table tennis, this guy from Japan,
I think his name is like Hiroshi Satouj put rubber on a hard bat
paddle and change the game of table tennis forever.
What I see you is doing and I could be wrong about this.
I've been looking at you for several years, not knowing because I'm not a surfing guy.
Why am I caring about this one guy?
And it wasn't quite so evident earlier than it as it is now
that suddenly I'm seeing things that I just can't believe I'm watching.
And essentially what I think I'm seeing is that you're taking some of the world's
largest waves and instead of just like showing that they can be written
like actually just playing and doing tricks and pushing every available
corner of performance to eke out things that nobody knew was were possible.
So you're really inventing your own vocabulary of surfing to me.
And then the thing that you said that just, you know, tore at my soul.
Um, I was watching you on some kind of unbelievable wave doing some trick.
And you said, you know, the thing that blows my mind is I feel like we're just
getting started.
And I thought, I thought we were already at the limits of what is doable.
And your point of view was I can see how much headroom I have and it's enormous.
It's, yeah, I mean, it's crazy.
The there's, I think there's more room for growth than high performance,
big wave riding than there is in any part of surfing, maybe even in any part of
action sports, because, you know, I'm just starting now to do three sixties on
big waves and do it confidently, but there's really no reason why I shouldn't
be doing a triple cork, something that Sean White can do, you know, in a half
bite, you know, something like that.
So your feet aren't tethered to your board.
Are they on tone surfing?
It is.
I mean, it's really the only way to do it in big waves tone surfing because of
the speeds you're reaching, the amount of winds, even on a glassy day, when
there's no winds on the face of the wave, waves are moving fast enough.
They're producing their own local winds at the top.
So, you know, probably 20 knot winds, 25 mile an hour winds on the top of these
breaking waves.
And so you and the boards are heavy to go through all that chop because I'm
probably hitting 55 miles an hour at times and even faster, potentially in
certain waves, riding my toe and surfboard.
Got it.
Got it.
So what I want to sort of just induce people to do is to Google and search
for some of the epic rides that you've taken that also alerted the world to the
fact that something crazy was going on.
So, you know, with Laird Hamilton, a very famous alert that went out to the
planet was this photograph of him in Tahiti, which must have the millennium wave.
Did you want to talk about how that affected you?
I mean, Laird was my, was a superhero to me, even up to that point.
And this was 2000 and Laird was known, is known as riding and kind of like
pushing the limits of big wave riding where people didn't think it could go.
Part, I think that's why I'm kind of inspired to follow in those footsteps.
Like, and it might be a little different approach, but for Laird, when
he rode that wave in 2000, he just kind of like blew the door open
on what was possible.
So what what wave was it talked is this is Tahiti?
Yeah.
So this is in Tahiti, French Polynesia, most beautiful day ever.
There's this wave called Teahupo, people call it Chopu, people call it Chopes.
And it's this wave that breaks in six feet of water on a shallow reef,
comes from the depths of the ocean.
It's really deep on the other side.
And what makes this wave so unique is it can displace the entire ocean.
Instead of being instead of standing up vertically, it just folds over.
So it's almost like it's the closest thing to a rideable tsunami there is
because there's no back to the wave.
It's just the whole ocean behind it.
It is the most beautifully perfect wave I've ever seen.
And I'm there are two waves that have captivated me just visually.
And they're the exact opposite of each other.
So this in how should I say, should I not say Chopu?
Well, you could say it however you want.
What does it mean? Can you translate? It's got a good name.
Oh, yeah, this is this is great.
So Teahupo Chopu is translates to broken skulls.
Yeah. And it's not because of the wave, but that area is like culturally significant.
They call it the end of the road.
It's where the road ends.
And that's where that wave is right at the end.
But back in the day, there used to be really big battles in Tahiti.
I see. And people's skulls were put on stakes
and they would be stuck in the sand there.
And it just kind of fit perfect that one of the gnarliest waves
that could stick you on a stake is just maybe 200, 300 yards off shore.
It's a fairly shallow reef.
So shallow, so sharp razors.
Just imagine razor blades on the bottom.
You touch it barely.
It's just you're you get ripped apart.
And a classic Tahitian tradition is you lime them after to kill any bacteria
because the reefs are so alive there that it's really easy to get staph infection.
And so instead of using anything
that's like by modern medicine standards or less painful, they lime you.
And it is it's like putting acid in your wounds.
It hurts so bad because, you know, the acidic
the nature of limes are pretty acidic.
And so it just feels it's killing everything in there,
but it's also stinging horribly bad.
And there's nothing worse when you get cut.
You try to hide it from like all your friends and the local Tahitians
because they seem like lime and people it's it's hilarious.
Find so much pleasure in seeing you just like squirm as they like lime your back.
And it's good because it kills, yeah, any staff that could possibly take you.
But at the very same time, it's miserable.
You already go through a horrible experience.
I think you have to do it again.
Well, this this wave is not the tallest,
but it's one of the heaviest waves in the world in terms of the mass of water.
Yeah, I mean, it kind of defies like belief when people first see it,
especially in person.
It's not that the wave necessarily it's not like the wave gets displaced
as it comes in and hits the reef.
And typically what happens is water is shot vertically and what creates a tall wave.
There's a back to the wave.
It's usually half the size of the front of the wave,
but because there's all that mass pushing behind it.
But at Chopu, the way it hits the reef, it just shoots the lip forward
and the whole ocean is behind it and it draws all the water off the reef back
into the ocean. And so you're surfing at below sea level.
If you're riding a 30 foot wave there, you're 30 feet below sea level.
You're in like a pit and you can see the water going back up the reef
in front of you. It almost doesn't make sense.
Yeah, no, it's just it's a freak of nature and certain waves do that.
But this one's the king of it.
It's the best.
It's I like to call it the most perfect closeout on the planet
because in all the photos you see of it, it looks like this perfect wave.
And it is for a little bit.
But as you're riding, there's a right hander that's coming at you.
So there's a wave that's equal in size.
That's going to close out all that mist that right at the end.
So that's called spit.
You know, when you see a breaking wave as it barrels,
it'll shoot like a cannon and all that water.
It's the compression of water.
These big waves, waves in general are like cannons or like guns.
So when you're riding in the tube, you can feel air.
It's a vortex. Right. It's a vortex.
And so it's sucking air in like a jet engine, like and then the wave,
there's so much water moving, the air can't escape.
So it goes the least resistance, which is back out the tube and it explodes
and it shoots chunks of water that can knock you off your board.
Probably hundreds of pounds of like water that are like shooting you.
And it hurts really bad.
Like it feels certain waves.
It feels so good.
Like getting just it's the only time it feels good to be spat on.
Well, you said this thing to me about barrels that I never thought of.
And maybe it's a commonplace in surfing, but I'd never heard it,
which is that a barrel is a unique experience because of.
You said something about the only time that.
Yeah. Well, riding inside a tube, a barrel, a wave,
basically the hollow part of the wave as it pitches over,
it's unique because it's the only way we can breathe underwater
without any other breathing apparatus.
So that was amazing.
And you feel like a fish for a second, you know, and there's something about
waves that break and the negative ions they produce that, you know,
make you feel so good.
So you can imagine being in this kind of capsule or this vortex.
You're so focused on making it.
It's all that's on the front of your mind that.
There's a moment when nothing else exists and time slows down.
It's like you really are almost, I don't know if accessing more parts of your brain
or what it is, but what feels like tense, what is four seconds feels like a minute.
That's amazing.
And you're just in there and I'm watching water droplets move by me at like matrix speed.
Everything looks like the matrix.
And if you're really calm and you're really comfortable, you can look,
you have time to like look around and absorb all this information.
And then all of a sudden, as it spits and you come out of the tube,
it's like life just starts going back to normal speed.
