I think I was like, what, 24 or something, no, 25, 2016.
And, um, it's for it to click.
And I'm like, oh God, it was right there in front of me the whole time.
I don't know if you've ever heard about this guy, Freeman Dyson,
who was at the Institute for Advanced Study.
And he was a great physicist, also a mathematician, did not have a PhD in either subject.
He wrote an article, which I think might be called missed opportunities.
And he talks about Freeman Dyson, the physicist needed a result of Freeman Dyson,
the mathematician.
And Freeman Dyson, the human being who was both of these people was not having that
conversation.
So the only person who had the result was Freeman Dyson, the mathematician,
but the physicist who was himself could not figure out how to ask the question to make the
connection.
And so there is this feeling that like the feeling of discovery is often a feeling of
stupidity.
Like, oh my God, I could have done that at any time, and I just didn't.
Well, you just don't see it.
It doesn't, it's invisible.
And then all of a sudden it's just there.
That's the whole portal.
And it's clear as day.
And you're just like, it's like, how do you find your way out of your,
how do you find these epiphanies when, and, and like, then you go back and you say to yourself,
what was it on that particular day that caused me to look at a wall and really see that there
was probably a door in it, you know, or something like that?
And it's about being kind of open-minded to anything.
And that's, I think, permeable.
We're going back to being uncomfortable all the time.
If you're willing to be uncomfortable all the time,
you're willing to see things from very different perspectives.
And oftentimes you're going to surprise yourself.
I always find myself talking a lot.
And then I'm like, but I, everything I'm saying, I already know.
I kind of, okay, you got to listen to yourself.
You're listening to yourself talking.
If you don't do that, I mean, how shocking.
This is something I don't know how to convey to people.
How shocking is our own voice?
Like the, if you go into a room where there is nobody else and you actually start talking
and you realize that you're only talking for yourself,
it is a terrifying feeling realizing that the listener and the speaker are not the same person.
I know.
No, it's, it's split personalities for sure.
Or I loved your inception comment along those lines.
It's layers and layers.
There's just layers and layers.
And I think some people don't ever go beyond layer one because they don't want to.
Or they don't know that it, or they don't know, but here's the question.
Once you've seen that there are layers and layers,
do you start looking for that everywhere in your life?
Like, okay, so give me some, are there any other transferable examples where
the same kind of breakthrough takes place that you can talk about?
I mean, I think nothing, I, well, there's a lot of things, but there's,
there's little wins I call them, you know, when, when you have like minor epiphanies
or little things that sort of just become apparent and, and, and obvious.
And, and I think it happens with everyone, whether we know it or not, where you're doing
something and you've been trying it for a really long time, like a trick on a wave.
You're trying it for a really, really long time.
And then all of a sudden you decide to, to change one little thing.
And a really good saying for surfing is letting go.
Yeah.
And it's not letting go in the fact that you relax completely, or it's relaxing,
but it's different.
It's not like letting go.
It's like letting go of your problems, you know what I mean?
It's like letting go in the sense that you have any control and, and you just kind of like feel.
It's, you let your physical being kind of.
You go to a flow state.
The flow state, but you also let someone else take the driving wheel.
You know what I mean?
Like in surfing, it's such a connection.
And that's, this comes to, to these moments where I feel like I'm in a movie sometimes
and I'm in the passenger seat and everything's happening around me.
But I don't feel like I'm doing it.
I feel like there's someone else doing it for me and I'm in the movie.
You know, I'm like seeing it through someone else's eye.
So this is a weird case.
Like before we're talking about surrendering to the wave,
there's also this question about surrendering to the parts of yourself that you don't yourself control.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Well, so it's like all of a sudden I'm in a wave and it's survival and my, what I call it,
you know, survival mode comes on and I'm seeing everything, but my body is moving to make it all
happen to work because it wants to make it out.
And it's like, it's fully in control and I'm just visualizing and seeing it.
And then I get back to the shore and I get back on the beach and all of a sudden it's like the
switch flips back over and all of a sudden I'm just going like, how did I do that?
Like, I don't, I couldn't tell you really.
I can imagine.
I can try to recall, but like, I don't really know what happened.
Like, um, like, like, I'm scared.
I'll never be able to repeat that again.
Well, because, well, first of all, each, it's really weird that you have things that are highly
regular and things like a bowling alley that those pins are always more or less the same.
And the wave, it's always different.
Well, I, so I struggled for a while.
Like when I, it's not like I started big waves surfing and it was like,
I want to be a big way through this.
It was like being a kid, standing on the cliff, going, figuring out the wave from that perspective.
Got it.
Feeling like I knew it like the back of my head better than guys that were riding it.
All of a sudden I blinked.
I'm down in the water and I'm going, oh my gosh, how this happens so fast.
I thought I had so much more time and then blink again.
And it's all of a sudden it's like, how did I get myself into this mess?
You know, like, how did I get myself into the point where I feel like I'm going to die all the time?
You feel it regularly?
Well, I used to.
When I first started, it was like going, oh my God.
And then you have like sponsors and then you have like boats and you have safety team and your
people are on payroll.
It's expensive to surf big waves is what I'm saying.
Well, am I right that you got yourself into trouble at some point when there was a helicopter
that had been hired and you wanted to perform for the helicopter and you took on risk that you
shouldn't have?
Yeah.
And that's just, that is a natural sort of, that's just natural to big wave surfing in general.
Like you're going to have to go through, everyone goes through those type of situations if
they're willing to go to the level that they want or the highest level.
The degree in which would be like a black belt or like you have to go through that at one point.
There's just, it's like someone telling you what to do and they have all this wealth of
knowledge.
But until you go through the experience on your own, you don't truly learn it for yourself.
You don't go like it doesn't have the weight necessarily.
You can be told all you want, but you almost have to experience it on your own accord.
Well, am I right that this is so unpredictable that like you can't say I've got this because
anything can happen in a big wave?
Absolutely.
And if I understand it correctly, your foot at some point had the surfboard come right at it
and cleave it in two?
Oh yeah.
No, that was like a classic example of like kind of going into what you were saying is,
it was probably my third full season surfing big waves.
The waves were giant and we hired a helicopter, we were filming and it was like,
I really want to get a shot for this movie that I'm working on.
I really want to like have it blow people's minds.
You know, there's that ego part.
Ego is just the worst in big waves.
It's the best and the worst in a way because you kind of need an ego to like make yourself,
kind of prop yourself up to match power with power.
But am I right that this is something I talk about and pisses people off like you wouldn't
believe the necessity of being both incredibly humble and an egomaniac and having the two of
those selves fight each other constantly?
Yeah, I think it's it's because I know a lot of people say your ego or you have to
undergo ego death and I'm thinking, no, you don't.
You have to actually make sure that well, that's the thing.
It's like when people talk about he's fearless.
No, everything we have has been an evolution in nature and there's a necessity towards it.
Ego is okay.
There's certain situations.
It's it's awesome and it's more pleasurable for everyone around you not to have an ego.
But there's other situations like in survival situations where you want to think of yourself
as the best there ever was because it kind of as a male and this is the only way I know it
because I'm a male is it's it's that alpha inside you.
And it's like going against it's it's the the tribal instinct of protecting your your tribe,
protecting what is yours, your family.
But in this case, it's it's the experiences in big ways where it's like,
you got to David and Goliath, you got to match yourself with the impossible, the undefeatable.
I also met your mom and your mom is a total badass.
Like, yeah, you got to you got a situation where if you're going to make mom proud,
you have to go above.
No, exactly.
And it's you know, I've I've definitely one thing that I remember when I was a really little
kid being told all the time was like, don't no one likes a big head.
No one likes this.
And it beat there was like kind of beat into my head so much from like my mentors and
certain people around me that it made me really shine reserved and felt like
it felt I always felt like I could handle anything.
But I don't think anyone else could like like if I said something that was maybe the truth,
or if I said somebody that was like something that was hard or very critical,
it would it would be damaging to someone.
And I never wanted to hurt anyone.
That's like the last thing I'd ever want to do.
And so it was actually it's been a long process trying to overcome kind of that
that habit of like giving your power away, giving the power away when in certain it's
okay to be like, I think the the the most powerful, the best right the the best athletes
that I've ever met.
Yeah, the true Alphas, they know how to switch it on and off like they they're they're able
to be so humble and kind and they don't feel like they need to exert some.
But when the time comes for whatever it is that they do, they can turn it on all of a sudden,
they're just these beasts, these monsters that are able to accept what it is that you are.
I mean, let's be honest, when I when I called you out, there isn't another surfer on the
planet that I was dying to meet.
Because this this is not even I'm aware of who Larry Hamilton is.
I'm aware of Kelly Slater.
There are tons of people like this guy, Phillip Toledo, I'm watching all of these guys.
Um, you were the only one from outside that I absolutely had to meet because of the level
of innovation.
And then when I met you, it was so disarming that you clearly know that you're doing something
very different.
You can't actually deny it.
You can't fully embrace it either.
And so I think that one of the puzzles here is that we have to sort of pass power back
forth, which is that you give your power away to some extent.
And then the community kind of with love just says, you know, no, you really need to take
this on because people are looking towards you.
And it's a very weird thing to sort of have to balance these things.
I think we do a terrible disservice when we tell people to get rid of their egos because
that'll never work.
