wouldn't be able to find jobs if life is that simple.
So real life is not that simple.
There are complications, and that perhaps makes their life a
little more interesting.
So some complications that come into the work of a Bayesian
statistician is in the first place.
Before it gets to the complications, one complication
is that we deal with vectors instead of just single random
variables.
I use the notation here as if x was a single random variable.
In real life, you get several data.
Does our story change?
Not really, same argument.
Given all the data that you have observed, you should still
report the conditional expectation of theta.
But what kind of work does it take in order to report this
conditional expectation?
One issue is that you need to cook up a plausible prior
distribution for theta.
How do you do that?
In a given application, this is a bit of a judgment call.
What prior will you be working with?
And there's a certain skill there of not making silly choices.
A more pragmatic, practical issue is that this is a formula
that's extremely nice and compact and simple that you can
write with minimal ink.
But behind it, there could be hidden a huge amount of
calculation.
So doing any sort of calculations that involve
multiple random variables really involves calculating
multidimensional integrals.
And multidimensional integrals are hard to compute.
So implementing actually this calculating machine here may
not be easy, might be complicated computationally.
It's also complicated in terms of not being able to derive
intuition about it.
So perhaps you might want to have a simpler version, a
simpler alternative to this formula that's easier to work
with and easier to calculate.
So we will be talking about one such simpler
alternative next time.
So again, to conclude, at a high level, Bayesian
estimation is very, very simple, given that you have
mastered everything that has happened in this course so far.
There are certain practical issues.
And it's also good to be familiar with the concepts and
the issues that, in general, you would prefer to report the
complete posterior distribution.
But if you're forced to report a point estimate, then
there's a number of reasonable ways to do it.
And perhaps the most reasonable one is to just
report the conditional expectation itself.
