But where every thing is a representation, at least half consciously experienced as such,
there is as yet no such contradiction. For a representation experienced as such is neither
literal nor symbolical, or alternatively, it is both at the same time. Nothing is easier for us
than to grasp a purely literal meaning, and if we are capable at all of grasping, in addition,
a symbolical or fancy meaning, as we do in poetry, we are in no danger of confusing the one with the
other. Before the scientific revolution, on the other hand, it was the concept of the merely literal
that was difficult. And therefore, the writer who is referred to as Dionysius the Areopagite,
and Thomas Aquinas, and others after him, emphasized the importance of using the humblest
and most banal images as symbols for purely spiritual truths or beings. For only in this
way could a representation be safely polarized into symbol and symbolized, into literal and
metaphorical. We have seen that phenomena are experienced collectively as representations,
and not as idols, where there is a survival of participation. In attempting to show that,
right down to the period which ended with the scientific revolution, there was such a survival,
I can do no more than give a few selected indications. The reader must go elsewhere for
a full and detailed account of the medieval outlook. Since participation is a way of experiencing
the world in immediacy, and not a system of ideas about experience or about the world,
we obviously shall not find any contemporary description of it. When we come to contemporary
philosophy and theories of knowledge, we shall indeed find explicit reference to participation.
But for the moment, we are concerned with the ordinary man's experience, and not with what
philosophers thought about that experience. Contemporary books were written, and contemporary
science was expounded, for people assumed to share the collective representations of the writer,
and accordingly our evidence must be sought more often in what is implied or assumed than in what
is actually affirmed. We can only reconstruct the collective representations of another age,
obliquely. Let us make the attempt for a moment. Let us try to place ourselves inside the skin
of a medieval man in the street, and imagine ourselves looking out at the world through his
eyes and thinking about it, not speculating, but thinking ordinary habitual thoughts with his mind.
We are not concerned with what he believed as an obligation of faith, or a point of doctrine
remote from experience. We are concerned with the sort of thing he took for granted.
To begin with, we will look at the sky. We do not see it as empty space, for we know very well
that a vacuum is something that nature does not allow, any more than she allows bodies to fall
upwards. If it is daytime, we see the air filled with light proceeding from a living sun, rather
as our own flesh is filled with blood proceeding from a living heart. If it is nighttime, we do
not merely see a plain homogenous vault pricked with separate points of light, but a regional,
qualitative sky from which, first of all, the different sections of the great zodiacal belt,
and secondly, the planets and the moon, each of which is embedded in its own revolving crystal sphere,
are raying down their complex influences upon the earth, its metals, its plants, its animals,
and its men and women, including ourselves. We take it for granted that those invisible
spheres are giving forth an inaudible music. The spheres, not the individual stars, as Shakespeare's
Lorenzo instructed Jessica much later when the representation had already begun to turn into
a vague superstition. As to the planets themselves, without being specially interested in astrology,
we know very well that growing things are specially beholden to the moon, that gold and
silver draw their virtue from the sun and moon respectively. Copper from Venus, iron from Mars,
lead from Saturn, and that our own health and temperament are joined by invisible threads to
these heavenly bodies we are looking at. We probably do not spend any time thinking about
these extrasensory links between ourselves and the phenomena. We merely take them for granted.
We turn our eyes on the sea, and at once we are aware that we are looking at one of the four
elements of which all things on earth are composed, including our own bodies. We take it for granted
that these elements have invisible constituents for, as to that part of them which is incorporated in
our own bodies, we experience them inwardly as the four humors which go to make up our temperament.
Today we still catch the lingering echo of this participation when Shakespeare makes Mark Antony
say of Brutus, the elements so mixed in him that nature might stand up and say to all the world,
this was a man. Earth, water, air, and fire are part of ourselves
and we of them, and through them also the stars are linked with our inner being,
for each constellated sign of the zodiac is specially related to one of the four elements,
and each element therefore to three signs. A stone falls to the ground. We see it seeking
the center of the earth, moved by something much more like desire than what we today call gravity.
We prick our finger and a drop of red blood appears. We look at the blood,
but for the moment I will not pursue this any further. The reader who is at all acquainted
with the productions of the medieval mind, its alchemy, its medicine, its herb lore, its bestiaries,
and so forth can do it better for himself. For the reader who is not so acquainted,
there are the libraries. Better still, there are those inexhaustible encyclopedias in stone,
the cathedral carvings. Whatever their religious or philosophical beliefs, men of the same community
in the same period share a certain background picture of the world and their relation to it.
In our own age, whether we believe our consciousness to be a soul ensconced in a body,
like a ghost in a machine, or some inextricable psychosomatic mixture, when we think casually,
we think of that consciousness as situated at some point in space, which has no special
relation to the universe as a whole, and is certainly nowhere near its center.
Even those who achieve the intellectual contortionism of denying that there is such a thing as
consciousness feel that this denial comes from inside their own skins. Whatever it is that we
ought to call ourselves, our bones carry it about like porters. This was not the background picture
before the scientific revolution. The background picture then was of man as a microcosm within
the macrocosm. It is clear that he did not feel himself isolated by his skin from the world
outside him to quite the same extent as we do. He was integrated or mortised into it,
each different part of him being united to a different part of it by some invisible thread.
In his relation to his environment, the man of the Middle Ages was rather less like an island,
rather more like an embryo than we are.
