Saving the Appearances A Study in Idolatry by Owen Barfield, 2nd Edition
10. The Evolution of Phenomena
I shall have succeeded very poorly with the opening chapters of this book if I have not
succeeded in making one thing plain. It is only necessary to take the first feeble step
towards a renewal of participation, that is, the bare acknowledgment in beta thinking that
phenomena are collective representations, in order to see that the actual evolution of
the Earth we know must have been at the same time an evolution of consciousness. For consciousness
is correlative to phenomenon. Any other picture we may form of evolution amounts to no more than
a symbolic way of depicting changes in the unrepresented. Yet curiously enough, as already
observed, this latter kind of evolution is just what is assumed not to have taken place. We look
at a fossil-bearing rock and prove how things have changed by describing the appearances which
can never have appeared unless there was, at the same time, consciousness. We fix the date of
those appearances and exclude the possibility of consciousness by measuring the radioactive content
of the rock on the footing that the behavior of the unrepresented has remained unchanged for
millions of years. By treating the phenomena of nature as objects wholly extrinsic to man,
with an origin and evolution of their own, independent of man's evolution and origin,
and then by endeavoring to deal with these objects as astronomy deals with the celestial
appearances or physics with the particles, 19th century science and 19th century speculation
succeeded in imprinting on the minds and imaginations of men their picture of an evolution of idols.
One result of this has been to distort very violently our conception of the evolution of human
consciousness, or rather it has caused us virtually to deny such an evolution in the face of what
must otherwise have been accepted as unmistakable evidence. For the biological picture of evolution
was imprinted no less deeply than on other men's on the minds of those scholars, etymologists,
mythologists, anthropologists who made it their business to study the human past and it was
accepted by them not as speculation or hypothesis but as established fact. It was the given framework
into which they had to fit any theory they chose to form. It was treated as part of the
appearances they were setting out to save. Consequently, in their endeavors to explain
the mind of early or of primitive man, they set him down in fancy in front of phenomena
identical with their own, but with his mind tabula rasa and supposed the origin of human
consciousness to lie in his first efforts to speculate about those phenomena. In this way
was evolved the doctrine of animism, according to which the fancy of primitive man had peopled
nature with spirits. Now in order that nature may be peopled with spirits, nature must first be
devoid of spirit. But this caused the scholars no difficulty because they never supposed the
possibility of any other kind of nature. The development of human consciousness was thus
presented as a history of alpha thinking, beginning from zero and applied always to the same
phenomena at first in the form of erroneous beliefs about them and as time went on in the form of
more and more correct and scientific beliefs. In short, the evolution of human consciousness was
reduced to a bare history of ideas. No doubt the history of consciousness does include the story
of any number of erroneous beliefs, but the erroneous beliefs of human beings about phenomena
are neither the most interesting nor the most important thing about the human beings or about
the phenomena. It may be objected that what I have recounted in the last three chapters is itself
very like a history of ideas and beliefs. This is quite true. It had to be what it was because
I wished to begin by showing how our present collective representations arose, and it is just
a fact that these are determined by ideas and beliefs rather than, as is the case with participating
consciousness, productive of them. At the same time it does raise an important question. Granted
that for the past two or three thousand years the process of evolution has consisted in the
gradual ousting of participation by alpha thinking is even the history of alpha thinking
itself, just a history of thought in the ordinary sense, or can we also detect in it the subliminal
working of an evolutionary process. A history of thought as such amounts to a dialectical or
syllogistic process. The thoughts of one age arising discursively out of, challenging,
and modifying the thoughts and discoveries of the previous one. Is this all we mean by the
history of alpha thinking? The evidence points in the opposite direction. Many indications suggest
that, in addition to the dialectical history of ideas, there are forces at work beneath the
threshold of argument in the evolution even of modern consciousness. Go far enough back and it
is obvious. The comparatively sudden appearance, after millennia of static civilizations of the
oriental type, of the people or the impulse which eventually flowered in the cultures of the Aryan
nations, can hardly have been due to the impact of notion on notion. And the same is true of the
abrupt emergence at a certain point in history of vociferously speculative thought among the Greeks.
Still more remarkable is the historically unfothered impulse of the Jewish nation to set
about eliminating participation by quite other methods than those of alpha thinking.
Suddenly, and as it were without warning, we are confronted by a fierce and warlike nation
for whom it is a paramount moral obligation to refrain from the participatory heathen cults
by which they were surrounded on all sides, for whom, moreover, precisely that moral obligation
is conceived as the very foundation of the race, the very marrow of its being.
We owe to the Jews the pejorative significance in the word idol. The representative images,
the totemic idola which ritually focused the participation of the surrounding Gentile
nations are either condemned by their prophets as evil or denied as unrealities, as when the
psalmist sings, their idols are silver and gold, even the work of men's hands. They have mouths and
speak not, eyes have they and see not, they have ears and hear not, noses have they and smell not,
they have hands and handle not, feet have they and walk not, neither speak they through their
throat. To this I shall return later. But even when we come to the last seven-legged step in
the development of our modern mechanomorphic consciousness, which occurred at a time when
alpha thinking was already far advanced, we are forced to the same conclusion.
Why should the scientific revolution have occurred when it did and at no other time,
although men had been busy saving the appearances by abstract hypotheses for century after century?
We might be tempted to answer this question by saying that it came when alpha thinking had
succeeded in developing more efficient instruments of observation, so that observation of the
phenomena themselves became at last a viable and more attractive alternative to the traditional
medieval practice of merely glossing Aristotle. The scientific revolution, it is often suggested,
came about because men began at last to look at nature for themselves and see what happened,
and we are referring to Galileo's telescope and Jupiter's moons. But this will hardly suffice.
For although post-Copernican astronomy certainly was based on more and better first-hand observation
than the old astronomy, yet in the case of physics, as Professor Butterfield has pointed out,
it was the other way about. A very long step, and a very difficult one, was taken in the final
ousting of participation when the Aristotelian and medieval doctrine that all bodies come to rest
unless they are kept in motion by a mover was at last abandoned. Yet if we base our hypotheses on
the behavior of the bodies we actually see in motion, this is the only conclusion we can possibly
come to. The theory of impetus, which later developed into the concept of inertia, requires
not observation, but the abstract, geometrizing supposition never realized in practice, at least
on earth, of bodies moving through a gravity-free, frictionless vacuum. In this case, therefore,
the change of outlook, and there could hardly be a more significant one, must have been hindered
rather than helped by observation. No. Although alpha thinking is itself dialectical,
I do not think it can be convincingly maintained that the historical development of alpha thinking
is a purely dialectical process. The evidence in such matters is naturally not of the sort that
can be measured with a slide rule or broken with a hammer, but it does not require all that finesse
of perception to discern behind the evolution of consciousness the operation of forces beneath
its threshold. There is some internal evidence, too. Men concerned with the development of any
branch of thought, if they happen also to be acutely conscious of the workings of their own minds,
are sometimes surprised that the ease and the force with which ideas tending in a certain
direction have come to them. They have been known to speak, not without a kind of bewilderment,
of certain thoughts being in the air. The following passage from the autobiography of
John Stuart Mill appears to record just such an experience. What thus impressed me was the chapter
in which Bentham passed judgment on the common modes of reasoning in morals and legislation
deduced from phrases like law of nature, right reason, the moral sense, natural rectitude,
and the like, and characterized them as dogmatism in disguise, imposing its sentiments upon others
under cover of sounding expressions which convey no reason for the sentiment, but set up the sentiment
as its own reason. The feeling rushed upon me that all previous moralists were superseded,
and that here indeed was the commencement of a new era in thought.
The italics are mine, but the sentiments are those of that least excitable of men, John Stuart Mill.
I quote them only because of the strong feeling I had when I read them, that here,
where one would most of all expect the development of thought to be simply the process of its own
discourse, something else was going on underneath it. We must defer until nearer the end any
consideration of what that something may be. 11. Medieval Environment
When the distinction has been appreciated between, one, an imputed evolution of some
wholly objective and therefore wholly unrepresented base, two, a fancied evolution of idols, and three,
the actual evolution of phenomena, including, as that does, a correlative evolution of consciousness.
We may be compelled to revise some of our ideas on the amount of time required for the process.
It follows, for instance, from what was said in Chapter 5, that the period during which the
phenomenal earth has been evolving is probably much shorter than is now generally assumed.
Another consequence is that evolutionary changes are not purely biological and that
they are not limited to prehistory but can be detected even in the relatively recent period
for which historical records or indications of some sort are still available to us.
They include changes subtler in their nature and observable over a different timescale altogether,
changes measurable by centuries rather than millennia and by millennia rather than eons.
It has already been suggested that the last of these changes occupied only the three or
four hundred years which divide our own epoch from the one which preceded the Scientific
Revolution. For this suggestion was implied throughout in the attempt which was made in
Chapters 6 and 7 to trace the coming into being of our own collective representations.
It is now the task of this book to demonstrate in rather more detail, if that be possible,
that the men of the Middle Ages and their predecessors did indeed live in a different
world from ours. The difficulties in the way of such a demonstration are very great because,
as I have pointed out, it is the very nature of our own representations that they are fixed
as a sort of idols to which all representative significance is denied and which cannot therefore,
so it is felt, have altered merely with the alteration of human consciousness.
Since it is, for us, a matter of common sense, if not of definition, that phenomena are wholly
independent of consciousness, the impulse to ignore or explain away any evidence to the contrary is
almost irresistible. Yet as with most inveterate prejudices, the reward of overcoming it
requites the exertion. The idols are tough and hard to crack, but through the first real fissure
we make in them we find ourselves looking how deeply into a new world.
If the 18th century botanist looking for the first time through the old idols of Linnaeus's fixed
and timeless classification into the new perspective of biological evolution felt a sense of liberation
and of light, it can have been but a candle flame compared with the first glimpse we now get of the
familiar world and human history lying together, bathed in the light of the evolution of consciousness.
That in a colloquial or metaphorical sense, the man of the Middle Ages lived in a different world
from ours, is obvious enough from the record. Half an hour spent with the illuminated manuscripts
in the British Museum would be enough to convince anyone of this, even if there were no cathedrals,
no mystery plays, no frescoes, no heraldry, no psychomechanics, no Virgil legend, no divine
comedy still surviving. But we have here not merely to notice the fact that medieval man expressed
himself in so different a manner and in such different terms from those which are natural to us,
but to ask the question why he did so. Besides producing representations in perception and memory,
men reproduce them in their language and art. It is indeed in this way that the representations
become collective. Through language and traditional art, we come without effort to share in the
collective representations of our own age and our own community. But where we are concerned
with those of an alien or a vanished community, we cannot bring ourselves to the point of sharing
them without making an unwanted effort. We have to try to experience them as vitally as if they
were ours, but our own keep on getting in the way. The first obvious impression, which the art and
literature of the Middle Ages makes upon us, is one of quaintness, that quaintness which disgusted
the 18th and fascinated the 19th century. If we go farther and ask in what this quaintness consists,
I think we shall find that it arises above all from their combining and, as we should say,
confusing two ways of approaching phenomena, ways which we are accustomed to regarding as
quite distinct from one another. These are the literal, on the one hand, and the symbolic or
metaphorical on the other. In their art, for instance, they felt none of the awkwardness we
do about representing invisible or spiritual events and circumstances by material means.
The same human figures, costumes, artifacts, etc., could be used in the same picture or carving as
literal reproductions of the physical world and as representations of a spiritual world.
A farm cat would do for Elijah's fiery chariot on its way up to heaven, and look at any fresco
of the last judgment. In the 18th and 19th centuries, men who wanted to paint or sculpt an
angel, for instance, or a departed spirit, felt obliged to supply him with a special unearthly
costume, often rather like a nightgown, but then there seemed nothing in Congress in using the
garments of every day. Certainly in both periods, angels were often represented with wings, but
this really only emphasizes the difference, for they would add wings to the ordinary human figure
ordinarily attired, whereas it would clearly be aesthetically impossible and theologically a joke
in bad taste to attach wings to a lounge suit. It may be suggested that there is a very simple
explanation, namely that lounge suits are prosaic, whereas armor, tabards, and hose are not. But this
is no explanation at all, unless we can also say what we mean by prosaic, and therefore why our
clothes are prosaic, whereas medieval clothes were not. If we cannot, then we are merely left
with another form of the same statement. A prosaic object, in other words, is a non-representational
one, and our clothes are prosaic, because our minds are literal. It is very important to realize
that when it is said that the man of medieval and earlier times confused the literal and
symbolical approach, what is meant is that he confused or rather combined the two states of
mind, which we today mean by those words. Indeed, we shall find throughout that the main difficulty
that prevents us from breaking through the idols to the actuality of history, that is, to the evolution
of consciousness, lies in the fact that we go on using the same words without realizing how their
meanings have shifted. Thus, exceptional men did sometimes distinguish between the literal and
the symbolic use of words and images before the scientific revolution. On the question of hell,
for instance, John Skotys' Irogena, distinguished in the ninth century between the symbol and the
symbolized, or the representation and the represented, emphasizing that the sufferings of hell are purely
spiritual and that they are described physically for the benefits of simple understandings.
The point I am making is that precisely to those simple understandings, the physical and literal
themselves were not what physical and literal are to us. Rather, the phenomena themselves
carried the sort of multiple significance which we today only find in symbols.
Accordingly, the issue, in a given case, between a literal and symbolical interpretation,
though it could be raised, had not the same sharpness as of contradictories.
Later, as the representations hardened into idols, the distinction between the two grew
sharper and sharper until in the 19th century the strain of a literal interpretation became
intolerable even to simple understandings, and the notion of, for instance, a physical hell
was decisively rejected as an impossible superstition. And so indeed it is, if by physical, we mean,
the idols of which our physical world today consists. Who now believes, inquired FC Connebert
in 1910, in a god who has a right and a left hand. When the things of the physical world have become
idols, then indeed the literal interpretation excludes the symbolical and vice versa.
