We've got a cat in December.
Yeah, cats are perfect.
Yeah. What's the the dog that the queen likes?
Those are Gorgies.
Yeah, corgis are.
Oh, I got it.
I actually think that they're really intelligent and get bored really easily.
Yeah, they are. They are among the smart tier of dogs.
You wouldn't think that is adorable and cute.
Their faces are. Yeah.
But they're that's the dog we would plan to get eventually when we have a yard.
But like right now we we have I mean, we have access easily to greenery,
but not just somewhere for it to go run around and run circles in the grass.
You know, so what were they originally bred for the corgis?
Anyone know? I should know.
Because I've watched a lot of stuff about corgis.
But it's not coming to mind.
Weiner dogs made to like chase down ferrets and other burrowing creatures.
That's why they're so long.
I think all dogs had a purpose when they initially like separated them
into distinct breeds like that dogs were tools for most of what tools
and companions. Yeah, but this is the tool that we use to turn grass into meat.
Yes. But as Eddie has pointed out, like animals also have mental health issues.
Yes. So we are still on topic.
That's right.
I was actually just reading.
It was a book called Animal Madness and I'm only a couple of chapters in,
but it's talking about how structurally similar,
especially a lot of mammals brains are to human brains and the animals
mirror many of the same mental illnesses that humans have.
Anxiety, depression.
There was a series of books that the nurse at my work keeps in her office.
And it was like all birds have anxiety.
All dogs have ADD. All cats have autism.
And they had like an excellent picture.
They're like children's books, like board books.
So there's just an excellent picture on the front of each one.
Like the old birds have anxiety was a picture of like a snowy owl
with like its eyes really wide, just like a comical sort of like wide eyed face.
But yeah, like.
I love it.
You said at the very beginning that like our community is particularly
prone to depression.
I was I've always wondered about that.
Like we certainly say that and I think we're more open about our depression.
But now we build it.
But like I wanted to bring up the Slate Strike Codex.
I kind of always assumed that everyone has these same mental health issues
and they just don't admit it.
Now, there's distinct trends, like at least like Scott pulls
a pretty large number from his Slate Strike Codex community surveys
that he does yearly.
And there's a lot of things that are overrepresented
and underrepresented in the rationalist community, more so than like if you compare it
to just like numbers of polls of the general community.
A lot of mental illnesses, LGBTQ.
But if the general community, the general population is basically always lying
about how happy they are, then that would be reflected in polls, too.
They'd be like, yeah, no, we're totally great.
Like I've never gotten to know someone and talking about diagnoses.
I think they had actually, I think, distinguished or differentiated in the poll.
Do you have a do you have, you know, ADD?
Do you have a diagnosis for ADD or you want to ADD medication?
Do you not have ADD, but do you self diagnose?
And then also they had like take the test.
And there were the various diagnostic criteria tests that they actually use
in psychiatry that actually diagnosed me with ADD before I was officially diagnosed.
Yeah, I wanted to move on with this to kind of get more into the meat of this.
So I like the the the person who wrote in said, to be clear,
I'm not asking you to solve everyone's problems.
Well, thank goodness, because that'd be hard.
But and I agree with the sentiment.
That's why I really wanted to cover this in the episode.
But hearing about others' experience could definitely help with the parts
of the community like me who feel isolated and can't handle talking to people
who frankly just don't want who just don't want to get it.
And like that that's the thing is especially now where everyone's at home all the time.
I'm not sure what the situation is like in Sweden.
I think can't be worse than here.
But yeah, we're closing in on 200,000 deaths in the US from covid.
And like so where, you know, I haven't been to work since the last week of February.
It's weird, you know, you can do video calls
and stuff with the coworkers, but that's never the same because it's just so easy
to not you don't have to engage.
So all that social engagement goes completely to crap.
I like this.
He says, or they say rather, I'm a physicist.
And when I've studied some psychology, I've gotten so frustrated
that they hand away the nature of it.
Damn it.
Why is it too much to ask that we clearly define problems and find solutions?
Why must our monkey brains be less intuitive and consistent than quantum mechanics?
Because they're built on quantum mechanics.
Bad news psychology is when compared to physics, like almost crank science.
But I mean, don't get wrong, it's science.
It's scientific, but like physics is the the gold standard for me.
Especially if you were talking about p-hacking earlier,
like the, you know, p values in psychological studies are like 0.05.
And I think in physics, it's like 0.0005, I forget.
But like a one in 20 chance of this being a chance in physics would be
you'd be laughed out the door, right?
But you're allowed to publish a paper with saying, yeah, there's a 20,
but there's a 5% chance that this is a, you know, complete randomness.
It's like, what are you fucking kidding me?
Get back here with real numbers.
So that said, we have made strides in the the field.
And it depends on, you know, what subfield you're looking at, too.
Yeah.
You know, social sciences are harder because you can't do random,
you know, experiments on large populations that involve like, well,
what happens if you improperly nourish somebody from ages, you know,
0 to 5, like you, so those, those sorts of things,
you just have to look at the data that is available.
That's part of what makes up psychological science and social science
harder is that you can't do the proper kinds of experiments.
And before we continue real quick, you actually have a degree in psychology.
Yeah. Oh yeah, I suppose so. Yeah.
So you have some relevant knowledge here.
Yeah, I went more for the cognitive stuff, not the psychotherapy stuff,
but you have to take all the things to get a degree because that's how degrees work.
Oh, they would make it take like the old Freudian bullshit stuff.
The what? The old Freudian bullshit stuff.
I'm not sure what that is.
Oh, Freudian. I think he said 40 and.
Yeah. I mean, you hear about Freud.
I don't think I was ever.
They didn't make you like seriously study his stuff.
No, I don't think so.
I mean, like you become familiar, kind of like my why.
History of psychiatry. Yeah, exactly.
You learn about Freud and Young and.
Yeah, I learned about him more in history of psych classes
than I did like an actual psych practice stuff.
Now it's all about cognitive behavioral therapy, which I think is the
if we have anything like a silver bullet for this, it's that.
And I know Jason knows a lot more about CBT
because cognitive behavioral therapy is a lot of of syllables than I do.
And I want to get into that at length at some point in here.
So yeah, although we're not going to try to solve everyone's problems.
No, no, no. And I may be promising a silver bullet is too much.
But I do think that like, in fact,
this I'm glad this brought to mind, I was listening to an interview
with Jonathan Haidt on the drive over and he wrote or co-wrote a book
called The Happiness Hypothesis, which might be worth reading.
I haven't actually read it, but the way he sells it, it sounds very valuable.
He talks about like the values of meditation, CBT and Prozac.
And like the these all work for different, you know,
populations across different cases and the combination of them
probably works for many people in many cases. Again,
the combination intends to be what works best.
Right. Yeah, exactly.
Just like with with most any sort of ailments, you know,
like what do I do to fix my sore ankle?
Well, you take anti-inflammatory meds and you do physical therapy for it.
Like, you know, the more things you're doing to make it better,
the more chances you have of it working. But yeah,
many of those compliment each other as well. Exactly.
So we'll get into that.
But I did have a recommendation for something that I haven't read personally,
but it was sold to me very well by its author who stands to make money
from it being sold called the Happiness Hypothesis by Jonathan Hyde.
For what it's worth, I think he's a sane guy who didn't write this to make money.
He wrote it because he was very interested in it. So at least there's that.
Anyway, I don't know where to go from here.
Well, what the person, what our sweet friend was asking for is a conversation
sort of about mental health with like hearing others' experiences.
So I think something funny that happened was that we were trying to record
this a few days ago and all of us were too depressed to do it.
So yeah, it's like cancel it and then put it off.
Well, there's also like technical difficulties and stuff.
But but we could have gotten around those.
But like definitely can relate.
I mean, I am not to say that I was like happy to get this email, you know,
of like someone struggling with depression.
But at the same time, it's sort of like, yeah, this is really relevant,
especially right now, I'm dealing with a lot of like stuff myself.
I love a lot of my friends and partners are and they're like, you know,
stuff exacerbated by covid, but it's lifelong stuff too.
I'm just like starting to finally get diagnosed properly and seek proper
treatment for things that I've had my whole life because I was raised
in a family that did not believe mental illness was real.
And I guess the religious thing or no, like it was, I don't know.
My family is descended from Puritans.
We're actually like offshore of a couple of like dry towns where you just
they don't even let you bring alcohol there.
Alcohol is illegal.
So like very much like stoicism, hard work, self sacrifice,
like sort of whether or not they're tying it to religious beliefs
because my mom is super religious, my dad's not.
But like they both have this sort of cultural beliefs.
And it's also about like no whining, no complaining.
Basically, no, no, like asking people for help because that's a sign of weakness.
And essentially toxic, toxic masculinity, toxic boomerism in a nutshell.
It sounds very much like a very masculine kind of thing.
There's like, yeah, they also don't believe in science based medicine.
So like we never went to doctors.
Very rarely got anything stronger than aspirin, regardless.
Luckily, like me and my siblings never got like seriously injured or ill.
Although I do suspect at that point, like my parents would have gone to the doctor.
But maybe it's because of all your ancestors that had gotten seriously injured
