like go dig a hole or whatever. Make your bed. We're biological machines, and we just keep getting
that feedback where we did a thing and it worked, and you realize it slowly gets hammered into your
brain. I can do things which will have an impact on my life, and they work, and I'm good enough to
do stuff, and it's really a fucking tragedy that the one institution we have that really teaches
people how to do this well, also teaches people how to kill other people in other countries,
because that's really fucked up that you have to make that trade off to get that. I would like
there to be an institution that does the same kind of thing, and it has the same sort of like
boot camp, no bullshit, you have to do this thing, but that doesn't also require you to
risk your life to murder others. That is a tragedy of how that worked out, because I'm
ideologically opposed to doing something like joining the military, but the other aspects of
it all sound great. It's just the goal of it, it's not what I'm going for. I can't tell you how
many times I've considered joining, doing boot camp, and then dropping out and being like, yeah,
thanks. Thanks for the life skills. But like, oh, I was still talking about the procrastination
thing. The tools to go back to that thought for a minute, and I kind of want to go to your
boot camp thing. The stop procrastination tools are like meant to, or rather like everyone who
does them successfully for a while, and then you like crash. A funeral happens, and you've got
like this big project coming up, and then like your sleep gets interrupted because your dog was
keeping you up on it, like whatever. And then like, or just depression hits, and you can't keep up
with it. And you have to just learn to forgive yourself, be kind to yourself, do self care.
That's another important thing that should be part of this whole like, you know, the basics,
the low hanging fruit self care, like get a massage. The whole date your issues are in your
tissues thing is like, actually, I have like chronic pain in certain areas that are, it's just
from stress. Or maybe it's not just but like, I have like neck pain and lower back pain that is
from tensing my muscles because I'm anxious. And being able to sit and meditate regularly and like
push down the anxiety and the tension alleviates the pain in my body. You can also sort of do it,
you know, the other way where if you get regular massages, it eases the anxiety and tension just
because the you're relaxing those parts of your body. There's a feedback loop.
And that's that's part of biofeedback, right? Is that the
yes. And so that is another aspect that I think I got like a head start in from like having to
manage to our wasn't you know, clenching muscles and something because then I'd be crippled with
headaches or you know, whatever. So, you know, it's a bummer that it the lesson had to come into
me informally through that process. But on the on the plus side, like, I notice when I'm clenching
my jaw, I notice when I'm, you know, flexing my hands or, you know, my shoulders are tense or
whatever. Like because I'm not constantly but frequently doing just a quick head to toe check
in on my body to see how stuff is. And it turns out that like, flexing uncomfortably leads to
like actual physical stress, which leads to mental stress. And I think what do they call it
wagging the dog's tail, where like, you can't wag in the dog. Yeah. So like, exhibiting the
behaviors of a happy person actually makes people happier, I think. Yeah, fake it till you make
it. I mean, that was how I have managed to get over imposter syndrome in the different like,
I've changed careers a bunch of times in totally different fields. And I always struggled really
badly with imposter syndrome. And I realized like, what you do is you just, okay, I'm a librarian.
This is my job. I'm doing my job as a librarian. And like, I'm doing the same thing as all these
other people who are also librarians. And I like, I'm confident and I know what I'm doing. And if
not, I can ask someone for help or I can figure it out. And you sort of just have a mantra. I
actually had to when I was like, walking into the library, I would like, there was a tap, which is
a thing from like, CIFAR strategies is trigger action plan. But basically, it's like, when X,
I will do Y. When I would get to the front step of the library, I would smile. I would like,
straighten my shoulders, smile, and then like, walk in and try to like, make eye contact with
some of my coworkers or some of the like, patrons of the library and smile and wave and say hi,
and just like, project an air of like, I belong here. I am happy. See you guys. And like, we're
gonna have a good day. And like stuff like that, you know, it does sound incredibly hokey, but
but it worked. It works. I think I read a book back when I was first dealing with depression
by Richard Wiseman called Oh, I can't think of it. I think it's only book on happiness or that's
where the thing that he wrote. So I could probably find the title, we'll put it in the show notes.
But like the he talked about like the experiment where they had people hold a pencil between
their teeth while working on something. And then other people like were to hold a pen
with pursed lips or something. And at the end, they asked people how happy they were. I think
on average, the ones who held the pencil between their teeth, thus forcing a smile, smile,
facial facial structure. But like, yeah, but it pulled the lips back like this.
Like they seemed to have enjoyed whatever stupid task they were doing more than the people who
had to hold kind of the scowl to keep the thing in their mouth. And they're both holding things
in their mouths. So like that they controlled for that. But I don't know. Okay, I think those
have because I remember that there's been a bunch of different studies along the same lines about,
well, hmm, actually, you know what, I'm not going to go out on a women's say that that has
replicated because I think I remember one about like power posing, not replicating.
That's always the first thing I got to ask now whenever I see a psych study, I'm like,
oh, question number one, anecdotally, I've noticed that if I'm in a bad mood, and I smile,
it actually makes me it actually perks me up. I get I notice a jolt of positive feeling in my
brain. Whether or not that psychosomatic or not, it works. Yeah, it's definitely like a somatic,
but I mean, that's the point. Yeah, whether or not it sort of like, if it's purely placebo or not,
I always have this thing of like, Oh, it's all in your head. Where like, this usually comes up when
I'm trying to like explain my thing with my parents where like, it's like, Oh, you don't have ADD,
it's all in your head. And it's like, I mean, like, where else would it be?
You're like, no, it's my kidneys.
We are, we've been going on for a while. Was there things that you guys wanted to
mention before we wrapped up? This is a really good topic. And I am, again, like sorry to hear
about the original posters struggles, but I'm glad to have gotten the question because I feel
like it's a good time to talk about mental health. And I'm sure there's more that we
could get into as well. This is definitely, you could probably tell like a special interest of
mine and I'd go on forever about whatever details. So thanks for letting me rant about my special
interest. And I hope some of this was helpful. I knew you'd be eager and equipped to talk about
this better than me. I was eager, but less equipped. I think I just wanted to say,
to say thank you for the listeners for writing in about this. I think reaching out and talking
about it is the hardest step. And then the next step is taking action. And, you know,
if you want to, if you want to talk more over email or something, I'm open to it. I can't
there pies for you, but I can give you the nudge to go get therapy. And, you know, whatever it is,
like the, and again, therapy might not be a magic bullet, but it's something that just
talking to a professional and, and this is, I always equate it to like, you know,
physical ailment, you know, if your leg is bothering you, you know, you can try to look
up a YouTube tutorial on, you know, what do I do? What do I do about a sore knee? Yeah,
leg stretches, et cetera. But there's nothing wrong. In fact, it's almost nonsensical to say,
I'm not going to go see a doctor about it. It's like, well, why not? Especially if you're in
Sweden, you've got medical access. So like, sorry, people from the US. But, you know,
in a pinch, sometimes seeing a doctor in the US is worth the visit. But well, I'm being tongue
in cheek. It is like it, you can try and fix it yourself. But like, why not just get a professional
opinion on it? And if they can't fix it for you on that trip, they can at least give you some
nudges in the right direction, right? And more often than not, hopefully. So I think just, just
reaching out and seeking help is the, is the only major piece of actionable advice I can give. So
I'll take that a step further and say just take an engineer's approach. If you find a bug, throw
everything at it, like attack it from all angles, get a checklist, sort of. Checklists are huge.
Yeah, okay. Feeling depressed. What can I do? You know, therapy, medication, regulate your sleep
better, wear like, you know, blue blocking glasses at night, cut down on the caffeine,
exercise, like try all the things and try the things like, in combination with each other,
because generally it is a combination, you know, of stuff that you're doing yourself,
like the diet, exercise, meditation, sleep, a drug and therapy, it's going to be like,
probably the most powerful combination until we get legalized psychedelic therapy,
which is, I had to throw it in there. I don't want to talk about it for the entire episode,
but maps the psychedelic research Institute is their studies of curing mental illnesses or
making significant progress with a specialized combination of psychedelics and therapy has
shown remarkable results and I'm super excited about it. And I'll stick some info in the notes,
but I'm not going to just start talking about psychedelics now, because that'll never end.
I would like to point out that a lot of people say, and this is true, that like just taking
the action is very hard, like taking that first step is tough. And I want to point out to the
writer of the email that like, they've already taken the first step, they've moved into action by
writing us an email, that is doing something. And like, now just keep that momentum going and
take that next step with the the movement you've already started. Oh, yeah. And I did, I forgot,
in the beginning of the email, they had mentioned that they're not on the discord,
but might join soon. Yeah, I'd recommend them. If you have the time for it, join the discord. And
I'm sure that like, you'll find there's a lot of people with this interest, the there's people on
the sort of sister discord, the, what was it, Institute of Bays? University of Bays. University
of Bays, yeah, who talk about this stuff a lot more too, but you definitely can find people to
compare notes with or to vent to or maybe help other people with some of their problems if you
happen to have a solution. And yeah, community is great. And just have a community when you're
stuck at home. Yeah, and a community of like rationalists, because you had mentioned, I'm
so tired of talking to people who don't want to get it, which was well phrased. And yeah, no,
I feel you. There's times I want to go off on things. And like, they just, I restrain myself
from doing it on Facebook. And then I come to the discord and I talk with people who are actually
saying I'm like, Oh, that felt so much better. I didn't have to go on a rant or anything. It was
just a nice conversation. Although I will say, as nice as the discord is, and sometimes it can be
a lifesaver, it's still not quite a, it's not a true substitute for face to face physical
interaction with humans. Right. And I guess, so last thing, I know we're kind of doing our wrap
up thing for 10 minutes, but on the path to progress, there will be stumbles and back steps
that doesn't mean failure. It just means pick yourself up and keep going. Pretty common two
steps forward, one step back is the pace. Yeah. And but every step back feels like, Oh, this
isn't working. Or Oh, I might, you know, might as well just give up. And I'm not saying this as like,
this is how you will feel listeners. I'm saying this is just how it feels from the inside in my
experience. And apparently what the textbooks say, like, it's pushed past that. It that that is
the anticipated experience of like the process here. And so when there's a stumble, just say, Oh,
that was one of the stumbles I was told to expect, I'm going to keep going. It does not mean failure,
just like, you know, like Jay said, you were saying the people who practice procrastination
techniques stick to them for a while and then stop, you know, maybe they've then up their
for their ability to not procrastinate a bit in the time that they were practicing the techniques
deliberately. But like tapering off or giving up on them doesn't mean necessarily failure.
And it just means like, maybe you got to take a break for a while, do some self care. Yeah.
Was it the Dave Allen, the GTD author actually has this surfing metaphor where he's like,
think of it like surfing, it's fun, you ride the wave, you crash, you fall off, you pick your
board back up, you get back on. And like that falling down is part of the process as well.
Just try not to get stressed out by it. Awesome. Thanks for vindicating me. Like I said,
I know you're the expert. So I'm an expert, but it's special interest. Yeah, that counts. Yeah.
All right. Well, I don't have, I think that's about it. But any further conversation anyone
wants to have, you can, you know, hit me up on the discord or write us in at the email at the
I always get confused because the website and email don't match up. The email address is
basingconserviercypodcast.gmail.com, I think that's the one. Yeah, cool.
So yeah, perfect. I think that's all I've got to say for now. But thanks again for writing it. I
really appreciate it. And we do also have in addition to the email and the discord, a subreddit,
which is not used nearly as much now because most people may migrate it to discord, but every
every now and then there's still something that shows up at the subreddit that you can check out.
Or you can write and review us on any service that you use to listen to us. Yeah. I mean,
that that's not a way to get in contact with us, but it is appreciated. Right.
That reminds me one more thing. I, as far as a quick technique that I got a lot of value of
that took three minutes to read and implement was post on less wrong by friend of the show,
Matt Freeman, more dint of mail on less wrong spamming micro intentions. I, it was like a
it's this bizarre little brain life hack that I got a lot of mileage out of very quickly
where you're thinking about, oh, I got to do this thing. And then you just,
you think of that thought and then just kind of ignore it or try to suppress it.
Or like you subconsciously just, but like this other thing is attracting my attention. I should
think about that. Right. So the idea of spamming a micro intention is just to keep telling your
brain, you know, like, you know, raise your left hand and like you think the thought and then
eventually you kind of just want to do it. But the idea of just spamming it over and over and over
really quick for a few seconds is usually all it takes. And then you finally just do the thing.
I mean, I use the technique to finally like start doing like, I think in the, in the post
he gave the example of doing pushups. So I've been doing pushups every night for like the last year
as just like a way to prove to myself, to continue to prove myself that this works.
And the cool thing about it is that like once you've been spamming micro intentions for a little
while, you get like this even faster track to like achieving whatever he's trying to do because
you know, at the end of spamming micro intentions, you're going to just do the thing anyway.
So the idea occurs to to spam micro intentions, you just skip straight to the end and start doing
the thing. I might as well get it over with. Right. I have an addition to that too, which I
forget where I read this, but it was really useful when you're having a lot of trouble getting started
on something and feeling a lot of resistance to it, along with trying just spamming the micro
intentions. It's really helpful to ask yourself, when will I be ready to do X? And sometimes
like framing it that way will calm my brain down because it's like, I think there's usually the,
Oh my God, I don't want to stop whatever I'm doing right now. I don't want to do this right now.
There's this like anxiety about, but like you could be like, okay, in 10 minutes, I'll go get a
shower. Cool. And then you can stop having the like repetitive thought, or like the repetitive
aversive thought rather. I hadn't heard that one and I like it. All right. It's helpful if the
micro intentions thing, like if you've tried that and you're stuck, or yeah, if you're finding lots
of like aversion coming out. Anyway, and that's the thing too, I should mention that maybe spamming
micro intentions work abnormally well for me and it won't work abnormally well for everybody else,
but with a lot of these, your mileage will vary, which is why it's nice to have a community slash
navigator through the in the form of a therapist that helps navigate this terrain. So anyway,
what was the thing you want to talk about in the ash before we wrap up?
So a small piece of follow up from an episode several episodes ago, which is very timely right
now due to the wildfires that are happening in California. I am harkening back to the episode
where I said that the Black Lives Matter movement is not doing themselves any favors by painting
all police as like death squads that are roaming the streets hunting down black people because,
yes, there's huge problems with the police and they need to be reformed and the black people are
adversely not adversely disproportionately affected by this. But but giving people the
impression that there are these death squads makes things worse because when people who didn't know
about it find out about this and then later find out that there aren't death squads and this isn't
