Welcome to The Basin Conspiracy, I'm Imiyash Brotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, I'm Jay Sticky,
and for the first time since July, we don't have any guests.
Yeah, we checked.
It's, I think July 15th was our last episode without a guest on, so back to the trio.
Just gonna be us bullshitting in your ears for a while.
No, it's gonna be fun.
Come on.
Yeah, it'll be fun.
Before we start in on our topic, do we want to do our normal reading the sequences thing?
I think we have to.
Contractually obligated.
Damn, those contracts are harsh, man.
At least this one's fun.
So yeah, first one was radical honesty, which at a quick overview is that he's much harsher
of it than we were on the episode that we talked about.
Well, actually, I was not on that episode, but when this podcast covered it, we had proponents
of it, and I think that I was interested in his take on the idea.
So let's dive right in.
We'll link our episode as well.
Or you can just search radical honesty.
Yeah, that's true.
Oh, I haven't updated our archive page in a while, though, I should do that.
So yes, the radical honesty post, he starts out basically just saying, Crocker's rules
are great.
They're a mirror image of radical honesty, where you, rather than telling the whole
truth to people, you always strive to allow others to tell you the complete truth without
being offended, which I just bring up because I know you, Steven, are a big fan of Crocker's
rules and tried info come often.
Yeah, we've talked about it here on the show, too.
I think I haven't, I don't think I mentioned it to anybody, but maybe it would be something
to bring up.
I think I mentioned an episode or two ago when David messaged me and he's like, hey,
you're misusing the word, I think misnomer or something.
And he's like, would you mind if I, you know, would you be offended if I corrected him?
Like, no, fuck no, tell me.
I should, you know, I could just have like as my status or like my reply to that could
have just been a link to the Wikipedia page for Crocker's rule.
Yeah.
I actually, I liked what you said about that, where you were like, other people would be
like, oh, you're trying to make me look stupid and get all mad about it.
And you're like, no, I already look stupid.
Now I'll look less stupid if you like, tell me what the correct version is.
And I'm like, yeah, that's like, basically how I wish everyone would respond to criticism
where it's just like, oh, am I doing something wrong?
I would like to be better, please help.
Right.
And you know, the thing, Crocker's rule is the kind of thing that works with certain
kinds of relationships.
Yeah.
Like assuming the person was trying to do that in good faith and not like, exactly.
It's there.
It's not an invitation to be an asshole, but it's like, do you want, do you want feedback
on this and not have me spend 30 minutes dancing around it?
It's like, yeah, totally.
Just give me the five second version.
So kind of wish more of the world invoked Crocker's rules just because I have a lot
of anxiety sometimes, like trying to tell people something that I don't think they're
going to take well.
And I end up just not doing it and living with, you know, this thing about them that
keeps grating on me or whatever.
And it's just, it's not great.
Oh, yeah.
And like 90% of the time, once I do actually bring it up, they're like, oh, yeah, that's
that's fine.
Thanks for telling me.
God damn it.
This whole time.
Yeah.
All right.
So next thing where you said that he's rather harsh on radical honesty, I, the pull, the
quote that I pulled that I think is what you're getting at is he says, I wonder whether
practitioners of radical honesty tend to become more adept at self deception as they stop
being able to tell white lies or admit private thoughts to themselves, which is a hell of
a take which I wish I had thought of myself because if it becomes really uncomfortable
to tell people the truth, but you have this, this philosophical commitment to only say
the truth, maybe you start lying to yourself without knowing it.
This is, I should mention, they're talking about Blanton's take on like the original
person that coined the term radical honesty.
And that's the one that I disagree with too, where it was literally just like brain to
mouth, whatever random ass thought pops into your head, say, you know, like you go up to
Starbucks and you're like, Hey, I'd like a lot say nice ass, by the way, like, that's
obviously not the type of radical honesty that I practice or endorse.
Yeah, I want to, I'm glad you reminded me of that because I feel like that's almost
a straw man.
And like rent, even if it is the original, that it's still like, all right, cool.
Yeah, your original was straw as fuck, because there's a difference between being able to
be forthcoming with people in a way that you feel good about, and just not having no filter.
I feel like even makes you almost like slightly less human to have to literally remove the
filter between your brain and your mouth.
That's like, that's part of where your introspection and your inner life comes from is the
Yeah, of your own thoughts.
I've done a lot of work towards being able to say like, kind of what you're saying a
minute ago, and he asked it being hard to give people criticism or like admit certain
things.
But I've had a lot of good progress towards being able to say like, I have this thought,
I don't endorse it, but like, I have this anxiety thought that's like saying this, can
you tell me something, you know, that counters this so I can stop having this thought.
And that's the kind of thing that you need to have that level of, okay, like stop, notice
you're having a thought, do you endorse this thought or not, where is it coming from like,
this is, yeah, this whole like skill that will help improve your self knowledge or relationships
with others.
I think it's an interesting social experiment to try to do this sort of thing.
And like, but yeah, I would never try to do this as like a life philosophy.
It's a great way to get your ass kicked or slapped or something, right?
He suggested only being radically honest with others who have also taken the valve radical
honesty.
Essentially, just like two people who have openly said, we can apply Crocker's rules
to this conversation, which I feel like is basically what Jason's version of radical
honesty entails.
Yeah.
You want the consent of the other person, like, I don't think the other person has to
be practicing radical honesty or whatever, but like, I at least like try to like, if
I'm, you know, real with you, is that going to offend you or like, do you want to hear
a possibly a thought that might be hard to hear a difficult thought, you know, like
it feels a lot like radical body acceptance.
We're like, yeah, it's a good thing, but there's social rules against walking around
naked.
And if you have accepted your body, body that radically that you're comfortable walking
around naked, you still got to remember that other people are not in that space yet.
And we have laws.
My main thing is that I just think it was fun because this was the first time I'd heard
about it.
And I feel like the concept has evolved to a much more like likable and defensible position
rather than just word vomit.
Like what was your phrase, Jay's brain to mouth, perfect.
That is not how anyone ought to conduct themselves, I think, in real life.
So the version now seems to be like the grown-up version of it, and I'll get more.
He ends with saying that, or I think it was near the end, that maybe radical honesty would
be best reserved for matters that are sacred to a rationalist.
Then he points out in some domains, this is already the case.
We believe that scientists should tell the whole truth about science in italics.
It's one thing to lie in everyday life, lie to your boss, lie to the police, lie to your
lover, but whoever lies in a journal article is guilty of heresy and will be excommunicated.
First of all, I love that concept and up until maybe a few months ago I would have cheered
and now instead I made the crying eyes emoji after this because first we have China with
their literal, blatant paper mills where they make up fake science to get a publication.
And then just a few days ago, Wes posted in our Discord a thing, which we'll probably
bring up in the next Mindkiller, about the replication crisis.
A guy read over 2,000 papers and came to the conclusion that most scientists kind of know.
They have not been misled by p-hacking.
They kind of know their papers probably bullshit and everyone else cites papers without even
reading the papers.
They just look at the title and say, Yeah, everybody in the industry knows about it.
It's like the replication crisis was pointed out by people in the industry and it's probably
like, I'm glad that at least it's something that is talked about openly and people are
trying to address.
And I think even like the Chinese paper mills, which it sucks, but on the other hand, it's
like, Oh, good, this is going to like make it necessary to do replication.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's a lot more application because right now it looks like pretty much everybody is
guilty of some level of heresy and no one has been excommunicated.
And this makes me sad.
I think a few years ago, there was an episode of the Julia Galef on rationally speaking,
I forget who their guest was.
So I couldn't cite this, but it was talking about the replication crisis and this person
was involved in a project to like basically say, I will, I commit to publishing this paper
before I do the experiment.
And so whatever the result is, I will publish it.
And that will help not necessarily just with their application, but with a P hacking.
And then they were like, yeah, what our goal here is to get like a little badge on every
site where you go look for stuff and says, yep, this has the badge of they committed
to publishing this.
Yeah.
Pre-registering your hypothesis.
This is already.
It's already a sacred value of science, but like actually saying it's already being done.
Oh, good.
A lot of like in clinical research.
Nice.
Yeah.
This was, this could have been almost 10 years ago when I heard this episode.
So don't most journals not publish negative results though?
Yeah.
I think that's part of the problem.
But like any online repository of journal articles or of art of findings, I guess.
Yeah.
I mean, that's, that's what an insane incentive there would be one thing for some lesser domain,
but for science to say, no, no, we're only going to publish the interesting positive
stuff.
It's like, what are you fucking talking about?
Finding there's nothing there is very valuable at the very least it'll save other people
from digging in there unless they find fault with the way we did it.
Right.
Absolutely.
God.
Yeah.
Like, honestly, discussion went a number of places.
I had originally pitched like we should just skip this since we did an episode on it, but
I'm glad we didn't.
It was all new stuff.
Yeah.
This one was kind of fun.
We don't really want your participation.
It sounded condescending as hell at a glance.
And I think it's, it's defensible, especially with like the last sentence in the post.
Yeah.
I think it's a deliberately inflammatory title, which I don't know, I actually sort of love
those.
I forget what it was like Buzzfeed or something.
