for shows like the Colbert.
That's going to say for late night shows, audiences after well, no,
they do they still film in front of.
Yeah, they'd film in front of a live audience.
Those types of shows, the the whole David Letterman Jay Leno style shows
where they bring people on and interview them and have comedians and shit.
I don't know very much about that, but I do remember recently
I was watching a show about the creation of a show.
It was meta and they had like it was actually I think like six people
sitting in a row like in front of the stage.
But like and I guess the rest was CGI dinner.
They only ever like just turned the camera slightly.
So you saw sort of the backs of the first people's heads.
But it was supposed to look like there was a studio audience when they're like,
yeah, weird. Cool.
It's weird that like the whole idea of a studio audience is weird.
But anyway, I'm getting off topic.
It's I mean, I'm glad we're not doing this in front of people.
So the I like his Drake just like sit here and watch.
Every now and then we'll flesh an applause light and he claps.
Hold up a sign.
I like the reversal test to see if this is like to check
with something is an applause light.
And it's like just put if someone says something
and you just reverse the intent of the statement, is it completely pointless
and ridiculous? If so, it's probably an applause light.
So he goes, for example, suppose someone says,
we need to balance a risks and opportunities of AI.
If you reverse the statement, you would get we shouldn't balance the risks
and opportunities of AI.
Since the reversal sounds abnormal, the unreversed statement is probably normal,
implying it doesn't does not convey new information.
It's just an applause light.
I've seen applause lights in real life.
And I think I probably brought this up years ago when it happened.
And I mean, you see them all the time.
But I was after reading this article, something like that everywhere.
I was I was just at a party at someone's house years ago
and we were playing like Cards Against Humanity or something.
And people would just say things that were like if you asked.
It's all applause.
Yeah, and it was so like kind of anti applause lights.
If it's Cards Against Humanity, it depends on the group you're playing with.
Yeah, they would be like, oh, yeah, not in America or something.
It was like, you know, like prison, something.
And then like everyone laughs and some people might have literally clapped.
Maybe that was made it so seem so surreal.
And it's like this.
That's like the easiest pot shot joke.
And it's you're not you're not like, again, you're not trying to do this.
Wasn't like the same thing as like a reversal test.
This this wouldn't pass that.
But like it was just so weird.
Just like it was like really cheap.
Cards Against Humanity.
Yeah, like I it was apples to apples originally.
Like there's so many parties I went to that like everyone's like, oh, my God,
let's play this. It's the funniest.
Then I was just like, it's not it's really not.
I've grown to unhate it now because when you only play it,
like maybe once every couple of years, it's pretty good.
It's the fact that like it seemed to be some the only thing
everyone wanted to do for the longest time.
And like any gathering would devolve into playing cards against humanity.
And I was like, oh, God, I'm so sick of this.
How many times can you make Hitler jokes?
The one time I did find it really funny is when I played it with my parents.
Because they were just so insulated from anything that like they're like,
what is a bigger black or dick?
Yeah, it was funny seeing which things they didn't
like recognizer didn't know what to do with and then also having them
like sort of aggressively play a card.
And they just be like, oh, my God, yeah.
That actually sounds like a lot of fun.
Next opportunity I get, I'm going to play with my family minus my grandmother.
I won't I won't expose her to maybe apples to apples for grandma.
Yeah, we've done that before, but I feel like cards against humanity
just be really funny.
I'll put some horrifying shit out and they'll be a gas and it'll make me.
Every time you draw cards, my parents would cringe and go,
oh, no, can I put this one back?
No, I don't rush Limbaugh's soft, shitty body.
That's mean. That was one of the cards.
I know. Yeah.
I mean, it's mean, but it's like a lot of them are mean.
Yes, they are like a windmill of corpses like just random bullshit.
Perfect.
All right.
I believe that is all the things we have.
And yeah, people who were not familiar with the applause
lights concept before now will probably start seeing a lot more of it.
And read the post. It's funny. Yeah.
All right. For next time, we have the episodes,
rationality and the English language and human, evil and muddled thinking.
Those sound fun. Hell, yeah.
Everyone buckle up or the laundry deliver.
You know, I don't remember the I probably remember the content.
It's one of the titles of either of these subtly fun cool beans.
All right. Was there anything else that we want to touch on
or are we going into our topic?
I think I'm ready to go into the topic.
OK, so you're kind of trying to like before recording,
we're doing our usual pre like pre recording bullshit chat.
And we kept sort of being like, oh, wait, I'm talking about this topic.
So yeah, let's we got this listener mail
titled wire human mind so frustrating, which is a good question.
Does anyone want to summarize it?
Yeah, I'll summarize a bit.
So an anonymous was it Sweden?
Yes, Swedish listener wrote in person from Sweden, person from Sweden,
wrote in and basically like in a sentence,
what are some good mental health tips?
But I don't feel like that encompasses the bulk of the emails.
So like this is what I replied with and I totally agree.
Like with covid currently, but also both
intelligence and depression is overrepresented in our community.
This seems like a permanent problem and like a pertinent one right now.
Like given how depressing the fucking world is right now, I think pertinent is what they meant.
I think so. Yeah.
But in any case, like just to touch on that, Colorado has been smoky
for the last six weeks or weeks. I have no idea.
And yeah, so like we haven't been able to go outside and get fresh air.
We haven't been able to go do anything socially in six or eight months,
however long it's been.
And it's it's a great time to be depressed.
Like I mean, well, let me take that back.
It's a terrible time to be depressed,
but it's depression is very much in vogue right now
because everything's super fucking depressing.
I saw that puppy sales had doubled.
That's actually a positive.
That's something they're getting from like rescues.
Well, they're like it was said like puppy prices from breeders
has doubled because of high demand for dogs during lockdown.
It worries me that after the lockdown is over, maybe the puppies won't have as much, you know,
that's what I'm worried about, too.
I'm always worried when people suddenly like animal sales are up,
like, oh, it's Easter and like bunny sales are up and I'm just like,
great, everyone's going to buy their like kid of bunny.
And then they're going to realize that this isn't actually a stuffed animal.
Bunnies are mean.
I love I love bunnies there.
And they live so fucking long.
They're incredibly like, I don't know, psychologically complex, socially interesting.
But like they scream, they make these like growling noises.
They will bite and kick you.
They are strong.
They aren't potty trainable.
So they just kind of poop everywhere with that with their cage up.
Yeah, although luckily their poop is like, yeah, it doesn't smell.
And it's these like little babies.
It's a bit more poop.
So yeah, it's pretty much fine.
But still, it's annoying.
I know that some places don't sell bunnies around Easter, which is nice.
My thing with the dogs, I just assumed because I'm just too
rosy eyed about the world of that once you have a dog and you've known dog love,
you'll never like start neglecting it because who could ever do that?
Well, also, I recently read a post which I would like to share at some point.
I'll put a link on if I can find it again.
That said, basically most dogs have been bred throughout human dog
co-evolution times to have a job, like they're supposed to go outside and do stuff.
And a lot of dogs that are bought nowadays are bought from those breeds,
but they're kept in houses and so they get neurotic.
They don't get enough exercise.
They don't have a job and they have anxiety their entire lives and it's terrible.
So it's actually great.
Like if you don't have a large property, like a ranch or something,
you should probably buy a lapdog breed of dog, the kinds of dogs that are bred
to lay around the house and be social rather than shitsies do things.
Yeah, shitsies are the best lap dogs.
Shitsies are great.
They're so dumb.
I love them.
Yeah, that also helps that they can't get neurotic or bored because they're just
too stupid and we had a shitsie growing up.
But my brother has a border collie and yeah, it's got some neurotic.
The border collie is like the worst dog to have as an indoor dog.
Oh, God.
And they go outside every day, but she is a little neurotic and she is obsessive
about reflective lights on the ground.
Like if there's prisms or like a cell phone reflecting, she goes for the carpet
like hardcore.
Like she has the need to like hunt and herd whatever she just saw,
but she never gets to hone that urge because she's a herding animal.
But I think that she's, you know, she's had a good life.
It's just she hasn't had.
She hasn't been able to maximize what she's been built to do.
Not to say that people shouldn't like if you're prepared for the responsibility
of having whatever dog you want, then like by all means do.
I'm just like talking shit on people that, you know, like, oh, it's Cocker Spaniel.
Look, it's got the puffy ears.
Or a dog to cat.
If you can't take your dog hunting regularly or doing whatever it was meant to do,
it's going to be and not simulate those activities.
You know, like you could take your dog to the bark and have it like and throw a ball
for it to catch like for a couple of hours.
As long as you're going to do it at least like twice a week.
Yeah. Otherwise get, get, get a dog that is meant for being indoors.
I'm just saying cats are fun too.
