lot of people's depression. Um, it's a wakefulness agent, but the thing is that it elevates
Erexin and histamine. Just having sometimes that boost of extra energy is what people need to like
get up and start doing things. And then once they start doing things, the feedback loop kick
starts itself. Doesn't the histamine also give you more allergic reaction type stuff though?
Histamine just, it's a neurotransmitter like serotonin or dopamine. There's actually, like,
there's a bunch of different serotonins. Serotonin is responsible for nausea. That's why, uh,
when you take on Dance of Tron, it's blocking, what is it? It's blocking one of the serotonin
receptors, um, HT3, I think. So like, I actually am a little bit, um, frustrated at the neurotransmitter
model of various mental illnesses because there's a lot more going on than just neurotransmitters.
And we don't even like have a proper understanding of what they do. Again, like dopamine, the reward
chemical, but like people think of dopamine as being like the happiness chemical and serotonin
is like the calmness chemical. And no, histamine can give you an allergic reaction, can calm it
down, can make you awake, can regulate your sleep. Yeah. Anyway, pet peeve, um, tangent.
I hear you. I was going to say too about just like the, um, you know, meaning and mattering,
like a lot of the words you're using about happiness. I think, I mean, that actually might be
where some of the happiness hypothesis that book has mentioned comes in. Like, I think he pulls
every chapter from like, quote, ancient wisdom. You know, like Boethius wrote his, uh, meditations
the day before he has executed. Oh. And I think that's in the book. Um, he was laying and he
was sitting in prison and he, I'm, I, who knows how much this is, you know, uh, allegorical or not,
but like it is possible, I think, in principle for a human mind to be happy, even knowing that
you're going to die in two hours or, um, now I don't know if that'd be possible for my human mind,
but like it's allegorical. Did you mean not necessarily literally true? Yeah. I think you
might have meant to use apocryphal. Thank you. Yes. Um, thank you. See, yeah. Appreciate it.
How dare you correct me? Fuck you. Um, uh, I knew when I said it, it didn't sound right. I think
that's why I said the word slowly. Um, yeah. So I, but it might be true. I have no idea. But the
point is like, uh, it, I think it's tough because like it, I don't want to like just push past the
meaning and mattering and saying you're asking the wrong question, but it might not be the most
useful framing. Cause like if you're saying, Oh, well, I need to have a meaningful impact on the
future light cone of the entire universe. It's like, well, then good fucking luck. So like,
if that's your goal, um, manage your expectations a little better, but also just why I need to live
forever. It's very hard to impact the future light cone when you're not around for not impact the
future. That's true. Just by existing, you're changing things. But, um, uh, sorry, go on Steven.
No, sorry. I was just going to say like, for, for what I do, like what actually like helps
to make me happy is like making other people happy. Not at the point where I'm making myself
miserable. That's the lesson I learned a decade ago where you're stretching yourself too thin.
I'm still working on that one. I'm the worst people pleaser. I, I'm not much of a people
pleaser. More of like, I just try to like, you know, like you give all your spins away.
Well, no, not even that. That's, that's, that's the, that's the bad part. Like,
you know, um, pass a downed car on the highway and it's like, Oh yeah, you need to push the gas
station. I'll get out and help you push. Like little things, you know, if I'm not, you know,
if I say if I'm in a rush or something and I can't, but like, that's the sort of thing where
like if someone did that for me, it makes a big difference. And it's like, I know that, you know,
the little things I do, I try to make that I try to do for people that those experiences
hopefully impact them in a positive way for the rest of their lives. And that makes the world
literally a better place. Um, granted, granted on a smaller scale, that doesn't necessarily impact
the cosmos at large, but like it, that, that is the scope of my ambition for now is just to like
try and make the, the world I interact with better. Um, but I just, I just see we're coming from with
the, the larger existential question nihilist, you know, uh, uh, that the crushing hammer of
nihilism looming above you, but we're, we're gonna say about hedonic treadmill. Um, we got
derail. Sorry. Uh, that someone once said that, uh, happiness is what it feels like from the inside.
Uh, the algorithm updating to, uh, I expect a greater reproductive, uh, outcome in the future.
Like this will help my, my reproductive chances, uh, going forward, at least in the ancestral
environment. Someone does not understand happiness. I don't know. Like every single time I've done
something to be happy, like when I look back on it, I'm like, in the ancestral environment,
this would have either brought me more resources or more status or just more lovers. So I guess
all these things do technically increase my, uh, my potential for reproductive success. And,
and, uh, since it's an actual predicted increase in reproductive success, that means eventually
you're at the level of reproductive success you've reached. And so you drop back to normal to be
happy. You need a predicted increase in success in reproductive success. So you always need to
chase more to get the happy feeling, but I don't know if any of that is true. It's just my own
little bullshit thing. Can I say something about that? Yes, please. There's a phenomenon where
if you, um, survey people in developed countries versus like what they used to call the third world,
um, and people living in hunter gatherer tribes, uh, people are much more depressed and much more,
um, undergoing like different kinds of psychosis. There's, you know, more anxiety, depression,
uh, mania, so forth and so on, gambling addiction in developed countries, um, with the more
connectivity as well. So like you're correct. I mean, we did evolve to live in small, like,
familial groups or small tribes. It was where the things you did mattered. Yeah. Like you wouldn't,
um, that like strangers weren't really a thing. Uh, you sort of know everyone's status in the tribe.
And yeah, exactly. Like you, you contribute because you had to. And if you did, then you
were doing your job and you're a good human, you know, kind of like the dog needing a job. It's
like, yeah, humans also have this feeling of needing a job. Um, the job quote unquote, you
know, in parentheses doesn't have to be literal working for the man. But like it feels like
you do need to do something maybe for others. I mean, specifically, I think you would get like a
big reward signal from doing things for others because you're advancing the goals of the tribe
and that would increase everybody's like survival and reproduction, uh, resource rates. So a lot
of people are now able to compare their lives to everyone's lives on Instagram, where everyone's
lying about how happy they are and everything anyway. But like, you know, we're like bombarded
with visions in the media of perfect bodies and, you know, like unrealistic, unachievable, uh,
perfect lives. So it's like literally there's there's unachievable goals that are sort of
being presented as the norm or the thing everyone's trying to achieve. So yeah, that's a recipe for
misery. But there's also just so much more like feeling of not belonging that people have. You
don't have a tribe. Um, dear actions matter to like the world at large. No, it doesn't feel like it.
So that is really isolating. And we're like uniquely bad at dealing with that hunter-gatherers,
even if, um, well, not even hunter-gatherers. Let's talk about like agrarian societies. They
live kind of miserable lives comparatively. Um, if you think about just like, you know,
backbreaking labor from dawn till dusk, eating simple foods, having shitty clothes, not having
like really any sources of entertainment. But a lot of people in those societies are,
they suffer from mental health, much less mental illness, rather, they have much better mental
health because they're just living in more closely to the environment that they evolved to be in.
So part of, I think the issue here is just going to be like some kind of brain hacking.
Well, right now, until we can hack brains, I think one of those other low hanging fruit that
everyone needs to grab is to see some other humans regularly, like have them be the same humans. And
I mean, ideally see other humans in person at least once a week for a few hours, which I know
is harder now with COVID. But I think there's some level of health, mental health that you just
absolutely criers that. And like, we, we meet up for this podcast in person now when we can.
And I think that helps a lot. We have our monthly less wrong meetups that we started up again
outside. And that helps a lot. Like I just think we're social, we have to have some social interaction
or we start going crazy, like, like the dog that's never let outside. Yeah. And I, I'm fortunate to
have, you know, a cohabitator that I love living with. I have a coworker who actually I have two,
but I only mainly talk with one because we have opportunities to collaborate once in a while.
And it could be a 10 minute collaboration, but we'll usually stretch it out. Like just the
time we're on the, on the call together for like an hour. And that's mainly because I'm mindful
of the fact that he lives alone and he's probably going insane. And so I'm like, you know, hey,
let's talk, let's talk, let's hang out, like what are you working on, what are you doing? And,
you know, it helps that we have a lot in common stuff to talk about. But like as long as far as
like the work specific stuff, we can knock out in a few minutes, but then we'll just stay on and
chat while we're both doing something separate. And yeah, I mean, right now it's, this is not a
good atmosphere for mental health, you know, flourishing, but it's never a bad time to think
about it and what steps you should take to try and make things better. I thought I had a thought
on like the hedonic treadmill or something other than like, that's not how I experience happiness,
I think. I mean, it could be, you know, if I feel happy when I do something nice for somebody,
that to my apish hindbrain could be like, aha, you've curried favor among your tribe,
and you're seeing as somebody who is valuable to the community, therefore you'll get laid. Well
done lizard brain. But like, I mean, that's the thing. It's like our, now Wes would be making fun
of us for evo psych. Right. And like, it's one of those funny things like we're not,
our brains are shaped by evolution, but our, our, our modern minds aren't even aware of it.
Like otherwise, I think this, this sounds like a Stephen Pinker quote, where it's like, otherwise
the most fulfilling activity any man could do would be donating sperm to a sperm bank. Right.
Right. And it's like, since most of us never do that, like we're clearly not driven by our
evolutionary impulses in a way that actually increases our fitness. Well, there were no
sperm banks in the ancestral environment. Right. Otherwise, maybe that'd be all we're doing.
But now intellectually, we know that like, Hey, I could sire offspring that I want to
take care of. You know, where do I sign up? But none of us really give a shit about that.
Right. No, not even. Yeah, your brain doesn't actually track the like,
you know, that's the whole like, we're reproductive fitness maximizers, but there's all
these like, we're adaptation executioners, not fitness maximizers. Yeah. Like, you know,
you can sit there and eat like four candy bars. And the stupid reptile brains like,
yeah, all those cheap, easy calories, man, we're going to have so many babies.
And yeah, no. Obviously, there's parts of our brains that are unsuited for the modern world.
I had one more thing and this might dive us into CBT a bit, because I want to talk about that for
sure. The our Swedish friend wrote in and said, well, I will read the whole thing. It says,
I'm a pathological liar, both to myself and closest friends, promissor and underdeliverer,
permanent procrastinator. I don't know what much to say about that. But I wanted to dive
into the next sentence. It just didn't make sense of the previous one. I don't know how to handle
it. And it mostly feels like I don't even have the energy to start. That is the one I identify
with a lot. And I think that that's the sentiment behind a lot of like, just getting the ball rolling
on tackling mental health stuff. What was funny, and I might have mentioned this on the air before,
when I made the appointment, my first appointment with a psychologist in January,
he called a few days in advance, and he was like, hey, do you still plan to keep
appointment on Thursday or whatever? And I was like, yes, that's why I made it,
I would have called to cancel if I didn't. And I was just confused that he had, you know,
even check, like, otherwise, people just do that, right? Like they just show up or they
tried to non showing up fee. And then he's like, okay, cool, I'll see you then. Then when I had
a couple days to think about it, I came in and I was like, you called to ask because I imagined
a lot of people say yes, or say no, and you call and ask that, right? And he's like, yeah, exactly.
I think because for some people, when you decide to take charge, that is almost like that,
for some people that is the shove they need just to actually start taking charge, they don't need,
they might need to do some more stuff on top of it. But that decision to take ownership of it,
I think actually helps a lot of people just by itself.
Such a positive hypothesis. I think often people just who, you know, suffer from depression and
have executive function things and just don't show up to their appointments, and doctors offices
or well, psychiatrists and et cetera are booked really tight. I know my neurofeedback place,
if I'm like five minutes late, then they have to put the next person in and reschedule me for
another day. Yeah, you're probably right. It's probably more the sad interpretation. I was thinking
that kind of thing probably does also happen though. Yeah, maybe I'm just still too rosy about
stuff. But you know what, if that keeps me happier all to the point where I'm not, as long as I'm
not violating reality and, you know, distrusting the truth, I'm going to stick with my optimism
to prove it otherwise. That's kind of CBT actually, like forcing your brain to start having an
optimistic pattern instead of a pessimistic one. Right. So let's talk a bit about that. And I think,
like I said, I think you know a lot more about this than I do. I want to talk about CBT at some
length as much as you want. But I think, correct me if I'm wrong, in broad strokes, the approach
of it, and you can go to Wikipedia and look at like psychotherapy or something. And it'll show
you the seven modern approaches, the 15, you know, historical approaches or something.
I think most of those were just made up by one or two people, you know, 150, 100 years ago or
whatever. And it's like those were in the wee early days of the field where no one knew what the
fuck they were doing. Cognitive behavioral therapy to me is like, okay, let's identify what thought
patterns are going on in your head, and which ones are healthy, which ones are productive,
and which ones are like actually accurate, and teach you to be perceptive of them, and how to
address the quote, the bad thoughts when they come up. Like a lot of people will catastrophize
about something like, Oh my God, if this happens, then I'm gonna, everything's gonna be terrible.
And then my partner will break up with me, and I'll just be homeless bum on the street, and then
I'll die in a trash can. Right. And these p in my head. And these these spiraling thoughts that
catch you all the way, like catastrophizing turns out to like almost never pan out in the way
the things actually happen. Like you lose your job, and you get another one is how, you know, life
often works. So every time. Yeah. So like, it's just one of those things where catastrophizing is
one example, like black and white thinking, like, Oh, it wasn't perfect. It was bad. And like not
just being able to enjoy the part you like, there's a whole list of cognitive distortions.
Let's let's take the wheel. Yeah, gestures to chase because no one can see that. So one thing I
do want to point out is that there's a lot of different forms of psychotherapy that are science
based and have been developed for a long time and have efficacy for different purposes. Like
right now I'm doing internal family systems. That's the one where you have like, Harry has
all those different houses in his head. Everyone has different parts of their brain that like,
how does that work? I mean, how has it been working for you? I guess is what I meant. Is it
effective? Oh, really? Well, because I have a lot of sort of different brain parts that have formed
in isolation or like, in opposition to one another. And sort of it's like play acting these parts
talking to each other or just like talk having the therapist talk to a part, analyzing like,
okay, what like caused this to realize I'm talking about IFS and CBT. So either way, whatever works.
That's what I care about. I'll talk about IFS some other time. I really like the concept behind
IFS. I just feel like I would feel silly trying to do it. You probably won't. I mean, you're a
writer. So you already are used to kind of thinking about characters. It's sort of like you're
writing a story. Yeah, but these are characters too. I mean, there's an extent to which you're
like, okay, this is just me. This is just the part of me that lectures myself when I like, eat
sugary things. You've never done that thing where like, not to sound insane, but like,
where in methods of rationality, Harry like, bifurcates himself into parts and let's say this
is what this is literally how brains work. I love reading those sorts of things. And that's
among my favorite fiction where people do that. Or just, you know, due to science fiction reasons
actually have multiple people in their head, like, face. Yes. Yes. Oh, I love that stuff point
to Christian society. Yeah. But no, I've never actually done that in my real life. It might be
worth trying next time you feel anxious about something. And so, you know,
well, I don't know exactly how to tell people to get started with it. But for like, for me,
