especially when something is very stressful, part of me is able to do my regular life, you know,
make breakfast, do dishes, etc. Well, part of me is screaming in my head. And so, like, just spending
five minutes or more, but like just actually sitting down and kind of separating my brain out
into different versions of myself and letting that one just like, say what it needs to say. And the
rest of me, like, visualizes listening and looking at that version of, see, it sounds like I'm,
it sounds, it sounds hokey. Don't get me wrong. But like, oh, it sounds even hokeyer when I say
that I do this. This is actually scientifically how brains work. You can take parts of the brain,
like, physically and separate them from the other parts and the person will like speak from the
different parts individually. No, I totally, it sounds crazier when I say I do it in the
council room at High Harathkar from Skyrim. No, like, Matt has, Matt Freeman has, like, talked
about this a number of times. And like, it is super convincing. And it's how I try to model
other humans as having various competing drives in them. And I know that I also work that way.
But like, I've gotten so really good at being like, no, there's just this one unified me that
it's, it's, it's like a foundational myth of my inner society now. And if I were to deny that,
who knows what could happen? There'd be chaos, dogs and cats sleeping together in my brain.
Can't have that. The dog part of me says wolf. The cat part.
Yeah, we'll, we'll, we'll dive into that at some point. Yeah. I actually almost want to say that
IFS is like sort of more advanced CBT was where I got started and had like the most success with
because it does really feel, it feels very rationalist. You do have a list of thought
distortions. It's like the, I don't know, the 20 most common thought distortions, those are your
catastrophization, the black and white thinking, blaming, magnifying negatives, minimizing positives,
which is the opposite of that over generalizing that sort of stuff. And so like, what you do is
you realize, I don't know, like you're ruminating about something. Say it's your word, you're going
to lose your job since we talked about the one earlier. And then there's sort of a grid where
you go, okay, like you sit down and you're like, all right, what thought distortions are going on
right now and you identify them and say it's like catastrophization is the main one there. And you're
like, okay, so let's actually look at this catastrophization. What do you think is going
to happen? And then something like often it got to the point of me just like, actually following
the thought all the way to the end. That's why I was kind of like, nodding when Steven was saying,
well, sometimes you just have to get the thought out. And I'm like, well, actually, yeah, I mean,
sometimes you have this sort of like ball of tension in the back of your brain that you're
just trying to not look at every time it comes up, you try to not look at it. But then when you
really look at it, you're like, okay, what do I think is going to happen? You're writing it down,
you're like, well, I'm going to lose my job, my partner's going to break up with me. And then I
will run out of money and I'll be a hobo living in garbage can to cattle pee on my shoe. And you're
sitting ahead last time. That's much worse. I mean, like, I think just really, you know, like,
then you look at it and you're like, that's absurd. And like, when you're actually looking at it,
instead of just constantly trying to shove it away, then like, you can see, oh, that seems more
improbable than I had been thinking. Or you can, if it doesn't seem improbable, you know, like,
it seems pretty likely I'm going to lose my job. And then like, I, you know, my partner has told
me that if I lose my job, they're going to break up with me. So like, but you can be like, okay,
well, like, you count what's the likelihood that this will happen, you look back at previous times
when like, you've been in this sort of situation, like what happened then? Was I okay? Did I make
it out of it? Okay. What are my options? Like, you really can dig really deep into these things.
But it's actually just taking the facts of the situation and looking at them objectively. And
from there, you can actually like the part of the technique is doing that and just like sort of
calming down. Part of the technique is then reframing towards a more healthy view, like where
you can say, I'm doing my best right now at my job, I'm doing all I can. If I get fired, then
like, there was nothing I could have done and probably I needed to get a job, a different job
anyway, that's more suited for me. If my partner really does break up with me, then like, that
sucks. But oh, well, they're not supportive. So, and like, you sort of, that's not even like a very
good example. That's sort of just a, that's like a realistic look of things as opposed to the
catastrophic view. But then you can sometimes be, okay, my thought is, my coworker hates me.
Okay, how do I know that? Well, they didn't say hi when I said hi this morning and they gave me
dirty look. And it's like, okay, you look at past interactions you've had with this coworker,
they've all been neutral or positive. What are the chances that this one negative one,
like, is happening? Why would they hate you? Like, and you can reframe as, I'm sure they're
just like having a bad day and probably where, or like, you know, maybe we're just completely
spaced out thinking about something else that they're upset about. I'm sure it has nothing
to do with me. And I predict that next time that I say hi, I'll be like, oh, hi, yes, sorry.
I was just having some bad thoughts about something. So basically cognitive behavior
therapy is a great tool. Yes. And I have a quick anecdote actually about that last one. And so
at a high level, like, part of the CBT thing about like reframing things,
it almost sounds like lying to yourself. Like, well, let's just look at the positive side.
But while that sounds like, when especially when you say it in that tone of voice,
wishy-washy and pointless, like, there actually is a positive side to things.
Yeah. And if you're predisposed to look at things negatively, then sometimes bumping it
in the other direction is where you need to get to be to like be normal and
Yeah. Disqualifying the positive is actually one of the main, what were we calling them,
cognitive distortions, where it's like, you don't get to appreciate the positive thing because
it's not perfect or something, right? I think that is one like, what was it, rejecting the good
for the perfect? Yeah, don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. Yeah, I think that's actually
more of a pithy saying than a cognitive distortion. But yeah. Well, I think disqualifying the positive
is on the Wikipedia page. And it's something that I've definitely noticed. And man, I could
actually go on at length about a tangent that's related to this, but related to the coworker
thing. I have a similar example. And this is how it pays dividends in real life. So like,
at my first job, I had a very smart coworker who loved to like, you know, jump in and help you
learn something and understand something. At my second job, I had a very smart coworker who never
did that. And I'm like, maybe he just doesn't like me. And then I thought about that. And I was like,
well, hold on, let's think about another explanation for this. Maybe he just doesn't
like volunteering to teach something. And so the next day, I tested this empirically
by asking him to show me something that he was working on. And he very enthusiastically
showed me and explained what he was doing. It was awesome. Probably just never occurred to him to do
it. Exactly. And so like, it's the sort of thing where it's not just like putting, you know, shiny
bow and string on this on the shitty reality that actually is, you might actually uncover that
reality is much better than you thought it was based off your first and first thought. And
what were you going to say a minute ago in Yash? Oh,
um, real quick, they might have also been another reason that he I'll get back to that in a second.
Another reason that he might not have wanted to jump in and explain things is like, I personally
am much less likely to explain things nowadays because of the fear of being called out for
mansplaining things. And I don't want to take this cultural or stuff, but it's just like, you know,
that doesn't have to be a cultural or thing. Like I could see that maybe this is a nerd who's been
trying to like talk to his brother about like programming and just like, Oh, shut up, dude.
Like you're always talking about functions and whatever I've got. I'm just breaking that up
because I've gotten that from like my sisters or my peers growing up when I would be excited about
an animal fact. And they're like, Oh my God, shut up about the alligators. Yeah, it could well be
that he didn't want to come off as kind of sending or something too, which is which is valid. But
when I anxious or shy, yeah, but when I expressed an interest and, you know, gave him an opportunity
to talk about it, he was enthusiastically responsive. And so yeah, there's all kinds of
reasons why he might not have done it. But the point is, is that the reason that he didn't
didn't appear to actually be my first thought, which was he doesn't like me, right? Right. Okay,
so I was just kind of looking over your shoulder and I wish I'd pulled up the email myself, but I
saw this line near the bottom. It says he the writer says, like my mind is a tangled ball of yarn,
and I accidentally fused the ends when he's talking about like how complicated all this these problems
are. And for a physicist, you're very poetic, which I really appreciate. That's awesome.
I doubt that English is his first language. And this is really, I'm always really impressed by
I think it was actually there was a Swedish person that was friends with who spoke like,
I forget if it's six or eight languages. And I would not have known she was not an
native English speaker. Very impressive. The guy who wrote the Quantum Thief is Swedish,
I think. I'm very impressed with recommended that a few times. It's good. Anyways, so I really
feel that because there's sometimes you get in these situations and like,
maybe it's a bad relationship. And you're like, I just fucked this up so much. There is,
there's no way to recover from this. And brains feel very much the same way where it is so big
and so complicated. And so many things have gone so wrong. There's just, there's, you can't,
it's too big. It's overwhelming. You can't fix this thing. But what I want to say is that's true.
Brains are big and complicated, and you can't fix that thing. But like, maybe with a, with a help
of a therapist or CBT or drugs or just implementing low hanging fruit grabbing, you don't want to
fix the whole ball of yarn. You're just going to pick out one little thread, you're going to pull
it out, you're going to straighten out that little thread. And that's going to be your project for
the month. And afterwards, you're going to have a big old complicated messy ball of yarn with fused
ends. But there's going to be this one little piece that's nice and straight and that piece will
be nice. And that's all you really want to do. I was also really poetic. Well, thank you. I like
that. Yeah. And maybe over time, you can do another little piece in some other month. And
maybe at some point you get something that is approaching some decent order that you can
torture analogies as a past time of mine. It's like, I've ever untangled a pair of headphones.
And like, you do it one small piece at a time. And what was originally this impossibly convoluted
mess? And maybe this is overly ambitious to say you can straighten out everything in your whole
life. You never can. But you can get many of them manageable. Where right now it's this disgusting
spaghetti mess. And it's like, well, you start with one thing. And depending on the state of
depression, I have a friend or whatever. I know somebody. And part of their... I actually don't
if he would say he's depressed or not. But I think he is. Like, one thing you could benefit
from and this is something I try to do, you keep your house clean. You know, and this is like...
Jordan Peterson. I know. But it is really a big deal.
Have you seen my house? Like, I'm a CD about...
I'm not a Jordan Peterson fan, mainly because he first came to my attention under like the
insane religious bullshit that he was talking about on Sam Harris' podcast.
There's something lobster transgender.
Yeah. I never got on board with any of that stuff. But I think from my limited
understanding of having read the synopses of some of his books on Wikipedia,
he seems competent at the area of his actual domain, which is like psychopsychology.
Yeah. I shouldn't have brought him up.
Oh, no, it's fine. Well, but as long as he's up, I think his sentence is like, clean your room.
And it's like, you know, this is where you spend your time. Make it livable, make it manageable.
And when it looks better, you'll feel better. And that just turns out to be the case.
Yeah. I think you phrased it more strongly, which is like, oh, you have all these ambitious
goals about how you're going to be CEO. How are you going to be CEO if your room's dirty?
I forget if that was him or someone paraphrasing him. I just find that anyway.
I like that, though. It almost makes sense. Like how, you know,
Pick up your socks.
Yeah. And I mean, as far as that, like the procrastination thing is real, too.
I have a thing where like my kitchen and living room are all downstairs and my bedroom and office
are upstairs. Every time I go downstairs, I bring something downstairs that needs to go
downstairs like dishes. And every time you do upstairs, do the same.
If there's anything I need to bring, but like, I never be like, I'll get on the next trip.
And it's like, no, no, get it this time. And it's always go somewhere with empty hands.
And it's a small thing. And it, but it really, it adds up. And it's just like, it's,
I think that's the step is like it, there isn't going to be a fast track
past to like the end of the line. It's just every step along the way. Right?
Yeah. Yeah. I actually wanted to say two things. One was the thing that Yash was talking about,
the, the tangled bowl of thread metaphor. A really important thing to get a handle on is like,
and I'm working on this, but like, be kind to yourself. I am the biggest dick to myself in
my head. I'm still really bad at it. I've gotten a lot better at it. But I used to talking about
parts. I used to have a part that was just in the back of my head being like, you stupid asshole,
get up, you know, like, lazy bastard, pick that thing up. Come on, like, we got to, oh, look,
like people are going to laugh at you if you see that. Like, it's just the meanest, like,
possible drill sergeant voice. And I felt like that was the thing I needed for the longest time
in order to, because I had this mental image of myself and some of it's like from my parents
and upbringing of just being like, you know, lazy teenager, you can't do anything right and always
fucking things up. A lot of that really pushes down on your ability to cope though. And if your
motivation is driven by like guilt shame anxiety, that's not good. Even if it does help you.
I was like, I did find that to be helpful. A lot of people have guilt motivations. That's
actually why I want to like plug replacing guilt again, which goes much deeper into that whole
idea of having extrinsic or intrinsic motivation and using that to replace guilt driven motivation.
Yeah, like, it's rough having mental issues. And beating yourself up about it is going to
just make things worse. So the other thing I wanted to talk about was this last line about,
I have no idea how many stop procrastinating videos I have saved in a watch later folder.
That's always the top comment on the red at the right about like, hey, look,
there's this great TED talk on procrastination. Great. I'll watch that later.
I don't know how often I fail with the Pomodoro technique, knowing there are solutions,
and I fail even when using them sucks. If your efforts aren't working, go deeper,
but where is that? Where do you begin? Which I also want to sort of say, first of all,
there's all these like stop procrastination tools. Pomodoro is one getting things done. The GTD
system is one. I started doing the Atomic Habits system, which is a book that I recommend.
Yeah, you can watch all these videos, you can learn all these techniques, but the thing is you
have to apply them and applying them is hard and applying them consistently is really hard.
And everyone who does this stuff, the people who are the most obsessed with these,
like me, I have a special interest in these kinds of life hack type things,
usually are people that have executive function issues. That's a really common thing. Again,
if you look at the Slate Star Codex, polls of trends in the community, there's a lot more
people with the crazier or executive function things, which probably comes from there being
a lot more people with mental health things, which probably comes from there being a lot
more people with higher IQ than average, but that's a hypothesis of mine that I'll shove into a
drawer for now. I think having social support systems makes this much easier. One of the reasons
I signed up for the Guild of Servants, which we had a two episodes back, I think, was because
they do have a social support system and a community, and I would recommend getting into
something like that, if possible. I know I've said this before, but I think the military
is one of the best institutions for making functional people out of fuck ups that there is,
because they not only show you what you need to do, they will consistently give you a series of wins
throughout the training process. They tell you to do a thing, they show you how to do a thing,
you do the thing, and you're like, oh my god, I did a thing, and yet it may be something simple,
