There was one of those like major online publications that for a while was doing this trolling
article style of actually like the truth is that pickles are terrible and people who
eat them are bad people and here's why or something like that.
Like it was just like excessively like one person's pet peeve that they like wrote as
that.
Okay.
Look, we all know that this is.
Anyway,
Mike, Mike Rubickley does the thing like that when he's talking about late people.
Oh yeah.
And then he's like, you know, and they're so racist.
That's the other thing about them too.
People are so racist.
He just keeps horns affecting everything onto people who can't be on time.
Anyway, who wants to sum this one up?
Well, I suppose I could do it.
All right.
Somebody has to.
All right.
So there was, he was at the Singularity Summit.
These next two posts are about this conference of people working in AI stuff.
And a question came from the audience at the end of a panel and they was an artist asking,
what can we do as artists to help in this process?
Yeah.
Well, that they were saying a bunch of speakers had were like, oh, we should reach out to artists
and poets and get them to participate.
And then a woman stands up like, hey, I'm an artist.
What can I do?
Yeah.
And then he says, no, you misunderstand.
He didn't actually say this, but he's like, this is what my thought process was because
there was just sort of an uncomfortable silence after that question.
He says, we're just calling for greater participation by artists.
We can get plenty of credit for being enlightened just by issuing the call.
If we really cared what artists thought, we would find some artists and ask them questions,
not call for artists to participate.
We don't actually want to hear from artists.
We think your opinions are stupid, which it's kind of mean.
But on the other hand, you know, if you're an artist, there's not much input you can
give directly on issues of programming and AI.
And like, so in a way that makes this not condescending, look at it from the other side,
if there was a panel on advancing some mathematical domains and they are like, Steven, what do
you think?
You'd be like, why the fuck are you asking me?
You don't want my participation.
Or just like someone from a completely different domain, like if you imagine there's some kind
of art theory, like, I don't know, like it's a Monet Appreciation Conference and they're
like, hey, AI developer, come over here.
What do you think?
Is this like the impressionism?
Yeah, they definitely don't want my opinion on that.
I went to some art walk a few years ago and I was just offendedly aghast at how expensive
everything was.
And then I went to the, you know, like real museums with real art are fun.
I went to the Museum of Modern Art in New York and it's like, there were black and white
pictures of like gum melting off the edge of a table and I'm like, squint, like that's
not art.
Like is it?
If this is art, then what the fuck isn't art?
Like art, we know what art is.
It's cool shapes and colors.
It's not like sure that meant something to somebody, but like, I feel like there's some
railing on art later in the sequences, but I have no grasp of it.
So anyone who wanted my opinion, they don't want, they don't want really my, my participation
in the conversation.
I think the reason art, one of the reasons art is so expensive, I mean, there's many
signaling reasons and stuff, but I think one of them is just that like people almost never
buy art.
So for an artist to make any sort of a living at all, they have to charge in a outrageously
high price so that one of the few times someone buys something, they're like, oh good, I can
eat for three weeks.
Well, often it's also actually an hourly wage plus the materials used.
I don't realize how long it takes to do an oil painting or how much work it is.
Like I have a friend that is a professional oil painter and sort of like almost sells her
stuff at cost.
If you consider an hourly wage and the amount of the materials and like it's paintings that
range from like 300 to $700.
Nice.
And not just that, like the years of practice it took to get that scale.
Yeah, that too.
I mean, like I'm always reminded of the lock picker who comes over here, opens your lock
up in a matter of under a minute and he's like, that'll be 60 bucks.
And you're like, for one minute of work, he's like, if you want to spend 10 years learning
how to pick locks, then you also can get paid $60 for one minute of work plus 10 years
of learning.
And yeah, art is very much a thing that takes a long time to master.
I don't think that that gum picture took that much time or money to make.
Probably not.
But what about that picture?
What about that urinal?
There was like a yeah.
And it's like when you stole a urinal for a urinal or for a gum picture to be considered
art, it has to be framed by someone who already has a huge name as an artist.
And that takes a lot of effort to get.
I think a lot of the art price, too, at least at the high level, is just money laundering.
Yeah, yeah.
Hey, once you get to the really high levels, yeah.
Hey, you took a picture of whatever a drawing of yourself.
Great. I'll give you $10 million for it.
Oh, man, what was that?
I tried to remember the name of it.
There's a movie on Netflix that I want to recommend.
It was about like professional visual artists.
And it's like a murder mystery.
But the thing is that it's like the friend I was talking about,
he's an oil painter and I'm like technically an artist, I guess.
We're watching this and just laughing our asses off because the point of the movie
is everyone is just so incredibly pretentious and like living in their own
weird art world that even though there's like murders and weird shit going on,
like it's sort of is in the background of the other drama that's going on in their lives.
For for for anyone who is not familiar,
Jace made the logo for the base and conspiracy,
but he's just technically maybe sort of an artist, he guesses.
I mean, I don't do professional art currently.
I guess that it's called Velvet Budsaw.
It's not like you stop being an actor just because you were only in one movie.
Fair. OK.
You professionally made this art and everyone loves it.
Anyway, this movie is called Velvet Budsaw.
It's very weird and funny.
I recommended it.
But right on back to the post.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
I guess that's sort of the whole point of the post where it's just sort of
we don't need people from like cross genres coming in and giving their opinions.
It's not like maybe zero value, but what I think was trying to point out
is that like we were doing a signalling thing.
And then like, I think that this sort of leads into applause lights.
Yeah.
Did either of you have more to say about participation?
Pretty much all I had. Yeah.
I mean, he mentions how like bizarrely
not condescending, but how uncomfortable it would be for someone to show him an art
and be like, say something and be like, oh, it's beautiful.
I love the cemetery.
No, no, say something mathematical.
You're a mathematician.
And it's like, I don't have anything unlike that to say.
Like, what are you asking?
What are you soliciting my opinion in that domain for?
Just so like, even if you reverse it, that's I think he put that in there.
So it's not just seeming like he's just merging one area.
He's saying this does work in reverse.
Like, you can't just like ask somebody for a token opinion.
I didn't think this is a dig on at all.
I just, yeah, I think that was he was trying to make sure that he wasn't
like being misrepresented that way, either.
Totally. I kind of like how he gave an example of them doing
applause lights by saying we call an artist participation.
And then the very next post is called applause lights.
Yeah, I actually forgot about we don't want your participation,
but applause lights is one of those ones that once you hear it, you'll never forget it.
This is another one about the Singularity Summit.
And one of the speakers called for a democratic multinational development
of artificial intelligence.
And so Elias are asked for some more details, outline some specific scenarios
like with more like this or more like this.
And the speaker was like, I don't know what.
Yeah, I think the two the two scenarios were almost worth laying out.
Let me I want to find the whole thing.
Basically, it was like, would you rather have an AI that is built by everybody?
Like they all get to vote on how it's made or once every human in the world
is given a cell phone number where they can answer some questions or something.
And that was the second option where like just everybody on the planet
gets to vote on how this works out.
And the first option was more like a committee of representatives.
He actually says, suppose a group of rebel nerds develops an AI in their
basement and restricts the AI to poll everyone in the world, dropping cell
phones to anyone who doesn't have one and do whatever the majority says.
Which do you think is more democratic?
And would you feel safe with either?
Yeah, and the first option he gave was something like a United Nations
Yes, come committee, something designed by committee.
Always a great idea.
And the guys like excellent products.
Yeah. And the guy basically had no answers for him.
And then Eliezer says in the post, look, the substance of a democracy
is the specific mechanism that resolves policy conflicts.
If all groups had the same preferred policies, there would be no need for democracy.
We would automatically cooperate.
The resolution process can be a direct majority vote or an elected
legislature or even a voter sensitive behavior of an artificial intelligence.
But it has to be something.
What does it mean to call for a democratic solution
if you don't have a conflict resolution mechanism in mind?
I think it means that you have said the word democracy.
So the audience is opposed to cheer.
It's not so much a propositional statement or belief as the equivalent as it is.
As sorry, it's not so much a propositional statement or belief
as the equivalent of the applause light that tells a studio audience when to clap.
This case is remarkable only in that I mistook the applause light
for a policy suggestion with subsequent embarrassment for all.
Yeah. And if just in case you don't get the reference
often like live action TV or I don't know if they do this anymore, probably.
But like they will instruct the audience when to react in the way
that they want them to react to whatever the speaker is saying.
So they're used to actually just be a big like was it a neon sign that just said
applause and they would light it up and darken it?
That I mean, I guess they they probably still have applause lights
