or ill died instead of reproduced.
So now you've got the no illness genes.
I mean, it does. It kind of works.
As long as you don't mind all the death along the way.
Yeah, or like you're unlikely to die in the 21st century right now from like, you know,
measles or whatever.
Again, if we had gotten sick enough that we required hospitalization,
I'm sure my parents would call an ambulance like they're not.
They're not fanatics.
Yeah, my mom still goes to the doctor for, well, it was two.
She has a certain, well, she has a hyperthyroidism.
I wonder if my parents would have gotten any of us kids a blood transfusion
if we needed it to live.
Oh, yeah. You had a whole trial as a witness thing going on.
Yeah, like from what I know of them now, I think they probably would have been like,
no, fuck it, give them the blood transfusion.
But it's weird because when I was a kid and I really believed the stuff,
I would have been like, no, I'd rather die.
Don't give me the blood transfusion, you know, which is kind of.
Also you would be in my heart and you'd be subject to whatever they decided though.
Yeah, exactly.
But it kind of reinforces the whole, the way you get people to convert
is they don't have to actually convert.
They just fake it for long enough that their children and grandchildren
don't realize that they're faking it and really internalize those things.
Like the church plays a long game.
I remember what a mind-wame it was for you, what, five years ago or whatever
when you learned your dad didn't believe this shit.
Then like a year later, your mom said something similar.
And you're like, then what the fuck?
And wasn't the answer something along the lines?
Like, well, we wanted just a community to fit in when we got here.
Yeah.
It's like, then pick a less crazy one.
Come on, guys.
This could have been a lot easier on us.
Of course, the more crazy the community, the harder the tighter the community it is.
That's what I, yeah, I have to say, the new place I just moved into,
there's a ton of Mormons that live there.
And they just seem like the happiest, nicest people, if I didn't know.
That's my experience with Mormons too.
Same.
They might be the only people that don't have depression in the United States.
I mean, again, they're humans.
There's variants in their population, I'm sure, but they seem to be,
you don't hear a lot about Mormon aggression or the Mormon war on this or whatever.
They seem to just chill as fuck.
And like everyone that I've interacted with, the families are all nice.
They're very welcoming.
They're very like, as far as neighbors to go, it's hard to think of better.
If I had to pick a religious denomination of neighbors,
I think I'd pick Mormons in a hot second.
It depends.
Like in Salt Lake City, apparently gay couples would be attacked by like church elders.
If they were on a park bench holding hands or something.
Fair point.
Let me caveat that and say, depending on who I was, that'd be my favorite neighbor.
Obviously, yeah.
I don't know how much power they have.
Any other group, when they're the minority, they're nice.
When they suddenly have the power, it's like, oh yeah,
being a different religion is against the law.
Yeah, I think 50 years ago, Black people weren't...
We're going to limit how many Opaques you could have.
Black people weren't recognized as human by the Mormon Church until like 1974,
76 or some bullshit.
They had a new revelation that, oh yeah, it looks like Black people are human after all.
Not just like inferior human, like every other brand of racist asshole,
but like literally non-human.
Okay.
And it's like, okay, yeah.
So don't get wrong, there's the magic underwear and the craziness involved.
But as far as just polite neighbors, I don't know, maybe I'm being too general.
I was saying, yeah, like specifically from the outside,
if I didn't know what a Mormon was.
And I was just like, man, there's all these very well-dressed young white gentlemen here
offering to help me carry groceries and saying hello,
and seeming just very wholesome and playing ping-pong together and being like,
hey, come play ping-pong with us.
And I'm like, yeah.
Literally every Mormon I've met in real life has been great.
But again, I've only met them in context outside of Salt Lake City where they were not the ruling
majority.
The reference to the Opaque thing is when Phoenix and I went on a road trip one time,
we stayed at an Airbnb that was also an Opaque farm and we found out the family.
It was a bunch of former Mormons who got in trouble with the local Mormon government
because there was some power struggle going on between the two different sects,
and the one decided to punish this group by trying to limit how many Opaques they could have.
And that was the straw that broke the Opaques back.
That's awesome.
And so they rallied together all their friends and overthrew the government
so they could have as many Opaques as they wanted.
That's how shit gets in the Bible.
Do not mix clothes of two different fabric types because those assholes over there were
trying to grab power.
So you know what, it's part of our religion now.
I love it.
I feel like one of the things that helped me confront mental health issues in my own life
is the writer wrote about the sense of isolation.
And if you feel like you're the only one with these problems, it's really easy to think that
there's not an avenue towards resolution.
And that's why I'm a big fan of just being open about it and talking with people about...
There's a difference between just shoving it in people's faces, but not hiding it.
If anyone asks me, I'm very forthcoming about it.
Yeah, there's a lot of stigma against mental illness.
Less of less now, I think.
Yeah, if I don't know.
Certainly our parents' generation, the ones who didn't believe mental health was a thing,
we don't want their participation in this conversation anyway.
My peers anyway seem to be more willing to talk about it.
Yeah, you work with a bunch of programmers that are your age though, right?
Oh, I didn't mean my coworkers.
I meant my peers.
Well, in my age group community, et cetera, I have a pretty small monkey sphere,
so maybe that's part of it.
But in any case, I think I'm trying to actually just deliver something actionable
that is generalizable to just about everybody.
And the main thing is that especially if it's depression, it's so easy for you to...
Especially when you've had it for years.
I've been clinically depressed for something like a decade.
And when it first set in, I'm like, this fucking sucks.
I need to fix this.
Tried some medication, didn't really work.
It also set in around the same time as my chronic pain,
so I'm assuming there's some causal error there.
Your issues are in your tissues.
Well, I just remembered that.
I was trying to remember that all day yesterday.
That's hilarious.
It's a good line.
I mean, I assume the fact that like, oh, suddenly now I'm physically limited
and tired all the time, that probably played a big role.
But I tried something for...
I tried antidepressants for a year.
It didn't really work.
So I went off it, and then I was like, I'll just try and muscle through it.
And then it wasn't until this year in January where I'm like, you know what?
Let's just get back in there, start talking to people.
And I went to a psychologist who I didn't like.
And so that's going to be another thing about seeking treatment.
If you're not vibing with your therapist, get a different one.
Yeah, shop around to start with too.
And I think, even for me, knowing this,
it still felt a little awkward breaking up with the guy,
saying, you know, I don't think this is working out.
I'm going to look for another practitioner,
because they have a different billing code for last visit.
So you kind of want to tell them it's your last visit,
because they'll ask you.
And it feels like you're dumping them.
And it's like, it's not you, it's me.
But the thing is, it's their job.
They get it.
And if they, if they're good at their job, they'll say, you know what?
I think I know somebody who'll work better for you
on the point you in the right direction.
The guy I was seeing was not a cognitive behavioral therapist.
He was just a sounding board.
And the way I, you know, and I was, yeah.
And like I told him very politely, I was like, you know,
I haven't had a conversation in here that I haven't had by myself already.
Like I want, I want this to be something where I'm gaining something from it.
I, you know, again, this is all conversations I've had,
either with my friends or by myself.
And like I need, I need like steps.
I need a device or whatever.
Are you an anti-depressants right now?
I am.
Yeah.
I started at the beginning of August.
I actually just went to my primary care physician telling him,
like, this is what I want.
And it helps a little bit, right?
Yeah, I want to get to that too.
But if, you know, it's probably better to do a combination of therapy
and drugs if you're going to do them.
But right now, I guess virtual therapy would be an option.
But I, you know, whatever, I'll get around to that.
But yeah, I'm doing virtual,
uh, actually doing internal family systems therapy with, uh,
psychologists that I just see on Zoom or one of those things.
It's a, like, medical, hippocomponent Zoom.
Interesting.
Yeah.
I mean, so that's, that's an option.
I think, um, I've been, I've been on anti-depressants for more of my life than I haven't.
Like the first 15 years, no anti-depressants,
the next 25 years on anti-depressants.
And, uh, so I'm definitely a proponent of they help.
They, they take the edge off and they make other progress possible,
but also like you can't just do anti-depressants because that does nothing.
You need other things in combination.
Cause I mean humans aren't just the brain chemicals.
Like, yeah, you need the brain chemicals to work,
but if you're still like not doing anything with your life
or not getting socialization or something,
then it's, it's, you're still going to be feeling bad all the time,
even with anti-depressants.
They're just going to correct some basic biological issues
without all the other stuff that needs to be fixed.
