Yeah, and they're not even necessarily correcting some biological issues.
Our understanding of mental illness is shifting quite rapidly.
Um, so like I'm actually undergoing neurofeedback
where they will target specific areas of the brain
and apply current to them
and do an exercise where there's a reward signal sent
when you are able to bring your brain waves in line
with what the healthy pattern is
or the one they're trying to encourage.
They're able to tackle multiple issues.
They're working on ADD, anxiety, and sleep
by targeting like the thalamus, uh, the other parts of the brain
that I can't currently remember.
It's, it's a process.
But I can see it working.
And I could also see the brain maps that they scanned.
I, we went over them.
I went over them with the technician.
And it's just, uh, in a way, it was very affirmatory.
Um, just to see, like, okay, like, so here's your brain's attention center
and, uh, you see the big orange dot right there?
That's a deficiency.
So here's the, like, typical ADD pattern.
And it, like, look, see, I can overlay them.
They're almost identical.
I was like, yeah, cool.
Okay.
So that's not just me, like, being lazy.
I had such a, like, inability to admit to myself that I had ADD, too.
And I don't know where that came from.
Probably it was just, like, the upbringing thing that I just absorbed.
But, like, part of it was just that I know I already have anxiety and depression and OCD.
And now, like, transgender stuff going on.
I'm like, I can't have another thing on top of that.
That's, I'm not that much of a special stuff, like, or something like that.
I was like, it's also, like, pretty clear that my dad has undiagnosed ADD.
And I was, and I, like, most, I'm sort of like a mini version of my dad.
I seem to have gotten a lot of my dad's side genes.
And like,
all right, that's too many flaws.
Where's the bonuses that I get to compensate?
Well, I do have bonuses.
My high beta is good.
Well, it's actually funny that the part of my brain that controls drive, motivation,
vision, et cetera, like the ones that like, oh yeah, a lot of like artists and entrepreneurs
and stuff have like this, what's actually a low beta.
And but like, they're like, but then you've got all this blockage here in the part of the
brain that actually like, so the executive function part of the brain's all fucked up.
So I'm like, oh, okay, that like accounts for a lot of my like,
I have lots of highfalutin goals and drive and wanting to do this, that and the other
thing. And then I crap out halfway through all the time.
So yeah, this, this explains basically all my issues.
It's right there. It's in the brain maps.
Before I interrupted you to do the quick digression on anti-depressants,
you, you're in, are you in therapy again right now?
No, no, because I've, I've done therapy multiple times throughout my life.
And like a couple of times it helped me to make a big decision that I was reluctant to make.
But in general, I've never found it to be very helpful.
So I've just kind of stopped even trying. Is that a bad idea?
Like, was I just doing it wrong? How does therapy work? So it is good.
I'm not an expert on that. I think, I mean, part of it is like,
you want to find somebody who can't in my, it's people want different things.
Like talk therapy is a thing where just for somebody needs somebody to just
untangle their brain. Also like a lot of people just don't even know
that the way that they're thinking and behaving is pathological or unwilling to admit it.
And like some people just need someone just to talk to or just, you know,
somebody who won't tell their friends or their family or whatever.
Like for me, what I want is like actionable steps.
And so the reason I'm not in therapy now is partly because the world is on pause,
but also like I have already a lot of the techniques that I would want to learn from a
therapist anyway, basically the cognitive behavioral therapy techniques where I mean,
and that's, that's again where meditation comes in as well.
Like just being aware when my mind is spiraling and like most people,
I mean, this is just the high level thing of mindfulness, but most people go,
most of their day not realizing their brain is running through thoughts all day.
And, you know, once in a while, you'd be like, oh, I've been thinking about that for a long time,
or somebody will point out like, you seem anxious and you're like, oh, yeah,
I've been anxious all day. I've been thinking about this, but for the most part,
and I'm not saying I'm perfect at this. I think it was something that I had like an early
aptitude for because I had to be physically mindful of my body since I was like 14, 13,
I don't know, whenever I hurt my, hurt my neck when I was a kid. And so like I needed to make
sure that I wasn't like in a good posture. So I'd be kind of doing like constant mindfulness
check-ins of my body. And there's just another step there to checking how your brain's doing.
And so like I went through like a very mild trauma in like August. And I, my mind like continues to
race on those thoughts most like several times a day. And it's nice just to catch those thoughts
and like, oh, yeah, you're doing that thing again, just think about something else. Or,
you know, do you want to finish the thought and then get it out? Because sometimes just like
grabbing the wheel and shoving it doesn't quite work. But saying, all right, last,
you get your 90 more seconds, then you're done with this. Do people, I think people's approaches
are different. And that's not very like actionable. But like, so the, when I wanted to do medication,
this was first week of August, I think. And basically, I had just contacted my primary care
physician and asked if I could just do it over the phone. And they were like, no, I need to come in.
I'm like, are you sure? Because this is something that, you know, I've got a pulse oximeter and a
blood pressure cuff here and a scale for all my vitals that you guys are going to take. I can
give you those over the phone too. But I didn't end up going in and said, look, I want Adderall or
I want Wellbutrin. I know both make me feel more awake. And that's mainly my main complaint. I
resolved the, oh, I am ameliorated the, my poor ability to sleep like a year ago. So I'm sleeping
better, but I'm still fucking tired all the time. So I want to kind of tack this from the other side.
And Wellbutrin is, first of all, it works because I'm depressed, but also, like it's, or rather,
it's an SDRI, selective dopamine and serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Yeah, it's dopamine one.
But the main feedback I'd heard from people who had it is that it makes you feel more energized.
And so far, that's been the case for me. It sort of does by backdoor routes what Adderall does
directly. Adderall adds more dopamine to your system. Wellbutrin prevents you from reuptaking
the dopamine you're already making. Great. Yeah, I mean, it works for me. I mean,
you did mention the sleep thing just now. I guess, I mean, we've mentioned this before, but I get it
since this is on topic, it would probably be good to hit real quick, like the very low hanging fruit.
Get plenty of sleep, like get your sleep schedule on track. That is a big thing for mental illness.
And get some exercise, like exercise, diet, meditation, sleep.
We were just talking about how like dogs need their exercise, they need a job if they're the
right breed. I mean, humans are also of the mammal breed and we need some exercise, which
a lot of us don't get in the modern day because our jobs consist of us sitting at desks.
And it's hard, you know, as far as like why I felt like this was a topic I wanted to hit so
immediately was because this is super pertinent. You know, I can't even, I used to go for walks
at lunch. And I can't even do that now because the air is complete dog shit. Yeah, right now,
there's a hint of blue sky, but it's the second time I've seen blue sky this week.
Like I, it, my throat's been, you know, you wake up to, you know, scratchy,
throat, water, you know, itchy eyes and stuff because there's smoke in the air constantly.
I mean, this is a very local, oh, a mostly local issue, but like California's got it too.
That's why Phoenix moved here originally because the smoke was too bad.
Phoenix brought the smoke here.
They're burning giant walk thing.
But it just, it just seemed like even now I can't even do like the, the exercise stuff that I
like to do. Like just the light cardio, just being out and enjoying the sun, walking around.
But like, like I said, I think the main thing for me, and this, this only happens when, in my
experience and from people I've talked to, when you've been in it for a long enough, when you've
been in a depressive state for long enough, where it stops feeling like a state and it just feels
like the way the world is. And you're like, well, there's nothing there to fix. This is just me.
I finally just, you know, come to my senses. This is how reality is. It's not. I'm lucky that my
depression didn't set until I was like 20 because I am able to remember not always feeling like this.
And I want to argue with you about that a little bit at some point. Let's do it. Well, I mean,
when you say it's not like this, I know. Unless you don't feel like it's appropriate to do it.
No, okay. So it, someone mentioned recently that they had like a psychedelic trip and afterwards
they kind of felt like, sort of down about it, because the after effects were like things seem
to have lost meaning, like nothing's really all that important. And I was like, that's, isn't
that just normal? I mean, that eventually you just have to come to grips with the fact that
nothing means anything and we're all going to die. And, and you said that's like not normal. But I
think isn't, I think, isn't that just deluding yourself and the practice of becoming human is
realizing that none of this matters. But we go on anyway, because there's good stuff too. And that's
it's worth it. You're talking specifically about meaning, which I don't think is the same as things
like depression. You don't think I think they're related like types of depression that are just,
for example, I get an hadonic depression, where I just lose any motivation to do things even
that I love that I have interest in. That's my style too. This is going to be, of course, because
with Steven, everything always goes back to the Marvel Cinematic Universe. When Endgame came out,
I was nonplussed. I was stoked for months leading up to it. Then like in the months before that,
I'm like, yeah, I'll see when it comes out. It sounds like a stupid thing.
Something's wrong, right? Sort of feedback. It sounds like a stupid thing because it's a movie,
but this was a part of an experience I've been enjoying for the last decade and been hyped
about. And then I'm like, not excited about something I should be excited about. I'm like,
wait a minute, I should be happy and excited about this. And really making myself have to,
and again, it wasn't just about the movie, but it was me realizing like, oh yeah,
I haven't played video games in a year. I haven't like, I don't enjoy the parts of my job I used
to enjoy, like all the things. It was kind of just like,
Yeah, you don't have a looking forward to a thing feeling anymore.
Well, I think,
Or even enjoy it. Yeah, exactly.
Or enjoying it when you're doing it.
I am strongly of the opinion that humans do have to feel like they're doing something that matters
and not having that leads to great depression.
Some people do.
You can be on antidepressants, but if you're just like kind of playing video games all the time
and not doing anything else, you still get super depressed.
And like one of the best times in my life was when I was doing the Harry Potter and the Methods
of Rationality audiobook, because I felt like I was doing something and contributing something
to the world and other people appreciated it. And now one of the things that keeps me going is
like having these other two podcasts, because they feel somewhat meaningful, but it's, I mean,
if you don't have some kind of project that you're doing, or that you think your actual day job is
contributing to human welfare, it's really hard to not be depressed.
I think you're typical minded. I was just going to say those exact words.
Although I can completely relate because I have the same thing, but that's from my upbringing.
Yeah. And to be clear, that might be, it might be typical among 70% of people or something,
but like I can be happy. Like yesterday, I played God of War for like five hours and I had a great
day. Yeah, no. I mean, and so, you know, like, but the other thing too about being productive and
having that add to happiness, one of the things I was talking to my therapist about was like,
you know, he's like, well, what have you done that you've accomplished lately? I'm like, well,
I helped overthrow my old HOA board and we're turning the community around high five, whatever.
Like, yeah, but like, and then, you know, I've got these two podcasts,
you know, like, so what'd you do this week? I'm like, well, I recorded this one. Oh, well,
how many, you know, that podcast, how many listeners and oh, you've got two of those. Well,
you must be feeling pretty accomplished about that. And I was like, no, I'm not.
I feel nothing about it. Like, I, yes, I suppose if I were telling my younger self about like,
hey, these are the things I'll be doing. I shouldn't think about it. Like,
my younger self might be like, oh, that's cool. I used to think that I wouldn't be able to like
drive a car or have a job. Like, I was just like, how do people do these things? I don't,
I don't think I'm going to be able to handle all that. I think if I went back and told my past
self all the shit I've done and I'm currently doing, I'd be like, wow, I'd grow up really cool.
But in my like current state, I'm kind of like, man, I'm not doing anything,
not living up to my potential. I told you about my, my theory of the,
what causes the hedonic treadmill, right? I don't remember this. Let's go over it again.
But I wanted to finish my thought on the, um, like my, my issue wasn't that I like,
well, I guess what I was getting at is that doing things might be part of the solution,
but it's not the whole thing. Cause like I was doing stuff and I just wasn't feeling anything.
And like, I'm not, you know, a hundred percent better, but I have noticed an improvement. I'm
on a low dose of well butchering and it's helping. Yeah, you know why that is? A dopamine is actually
the reward chemical. Yeah. So if you're low in dopamine, regardless of what you're doing,
your brain's anticipating getting your reward signal for having done it. When you keep not
getting it, then your brain done regulates your desire to do that thing. And that, that's part
of why I selected it too. Why one of the dopamine one rather than the serotonin one. Um, like,
it's experiment for sure. Uh, but yeah, I mean, obviously with like medical supervision, but
a lot of people have been on just whatever SSRI or whatever they got prescribed. There's a lot
of newer ones. Um, there's a lot of other types of drugs that aren't SSRIs. Um, Madafino treats a
