The following is a conversation with Daniel Schmacktenberger, a founding member of the
Consilience Project that is aimed at improving public sense-making and dialogue. He is interested
in understanding how we humans can be the best version of ourselves as individuals and as
collectives at all scales. Quick mention of our sponsors, Groud News, Netsuite, FourSigmatic,
Magic Spoon, and BetterHelp. Check them out in the description to support this podcast.
As a side note, let me say that I got a chance to talk to Daniel on and off the
mic for a couple of days. We took a long walk the day before our conversation. I really enjoyed
meeting him just on a basic human level. We talked about the world around us with words that carried
hope for us individual ants actually contributing something of value to the colony. These conversations
are the reasons I love human beings, our insatiable striving to lessen the suffering in the world.
But more than that, there's a simple magic to two strangers meeting for the first time
and sharing ideas, becoming fast friends and creating something that is far greater than
the sum of our parts. I've gotten to experience some of that same magic here in Austin with
a few new friends and in random bars in my travels across this country, where a conversation leaves
me with a big stupid smile on my face and a new appreciation of this too short, too beautiful life.
This is the Lex Friedman podcast and here is my conversation with Daniel Schmacktenberger.
If aliens were observing Earth through the entire history just watching us and we're tasked with
summarizing what happened until now, what do you think they would say? What do you think they
would write up in that summary? Like it has to be pretty short, less than a page. Like in The
Tracker's Guide, there's, I think, like a paragraph or a couple sentences.
How would you summarize, sorry, how would the alien summarize, do you think, all of human
civilization? My first thoughts take more than a page. They'd probably distill it.
Because if they watched, well, I mean, first I have no idea if their senses are even attuned to
similar stuff to what our senses are attuned to or what the nature of their consciousness is like
relative to ours. And so let's assume that they're kind of like us, just technologically more advanced
to get here from wherever they are. That's the first kind of constraint on the thought experiment.
And then if they've watched throughout all of history, they saw the burning of Alexandria. They
saw that 2000 years ago in Greece, we were producing things like clocks, the anti-Catharea
mechanism, and then that technology got lost. They saw that there wasn't just a steady dialectic of
progress. So every once in a while, there's a giant fire that destroys a lot of things.
There's a giant like commotion that destroys a lot of things. Yeah, and it's usually self-induced.
They would have seen that. And so as they're looking at us now as we move past the nuclear
weapons age into the full globalization, Anthropocene, exponential tech age,
still making our decisions relatively similarly to how we did in the Stone Age as far as rivalry
game theory type stuff, I think they would think that this is probably most likely one of the
planets that is not going to make it to being intergalactic because we blow ourselves up in
the technological adolescence. And if we are going to, we're going to need some major progress
rapidly in the social technologies that can guide and bind and direct the physical technologies
so that we are safe vessels for the amount of power we're getting.
Actually, Hitchhiker's Guide has an estimation about how much of a risk this particular thing
poses to the rest of the galaxy. And I think, I forget what it was, I think it was medium or low.
So their estimation would be that this species of ant-like creatures is not going to survive long.
There's ups and downs in terms of technological innovation. The fundamental nature of their
behavior from a game theory perspective hasn't really changed. They have not learned in any
fundamental way how to control and properly incentivize or properly do the mechanism design
of games to ensure long-term survival. And then they move on to another planet. Do you
think there is in a more slightly more serious question, do you think there's
some number or perhaps a very, very large number of intelligent alien civilizations out there?
Yes, it would be hard to think otherwise. I know, I think Postrum had a new article not
that long ago on why that might not be the case, that the Drake equation might not be the
kind of in-story on it. But when I look at the total number of Kepler planets just that we're
aware of just galactically and also like when those life forms were discovered in Mono Lake,
that didn't have the same six primary atoms that I think you had arsenic replacing phosphorus as one
of the primary aspects of its energy metabolism, we get to think about that the building blocks
might be more different. So the physical constraints even that the planets have to have might be more
different. It seems really unlikely not to mention interesting things that we've observed that are
still unexplained as you've had guests on your show discussing tic-tac. Oh, the ones that have visited.
Yeah. Well, let's dive right into that. What do you make sense of the rich human psychology
of there being hundreds of thousands, probably millions of witnesses of UFOs of different kinds
on earth, most of which I presume are conjured up by the human mind through the perception system?
Some number might be true. Some number might be reflective of actual physical objects, whether
it's, you know, drones or testing military technology that's secret or otherworldly technology.
What do you make sense of all of that? Because it's gaining quite a bit of popularity recently.
There is some sense in which that's, that's us humans being hopeful and dreaming of otherworldly
creatures as a way to escape the juroriness of our of the human condition. But in another sense,
it could be, it really could be something truly exciting that science should turn its eye towards.
So what do you, where do you place it? Speaking of turning eye towards, this is one of those
super fascinating, actually super consequential, possibly topics that I wish I had more time to
study and just haven't allocated. So I don't have firm beliefs on this because I haven't
got to study it as much as I want. So what I'm going to say comes from a superficial assessment.
While we know there are plenty of things that people thought of as UFO sightings that we can
fully write off, we have other better explanations for them. What we're interested in is the ones
that we don't have better explanations for, and then not just immediately jumping to
a theory of what it is, but holding it as unidentified and being being curious and earnest.
I think the, the tic-tac one is quite interesting and made it in major media recently, but I don't
know if you ever saw the disclosure project. Guy named Stephen Greer organized a bunch of mostly
U.S. military and some commercial flight. People who had direct observation and classified information
disclosing it at a CNN briefing. And so you saw high-ranking generals, admirals, fighter pilots,
all describing things that they saw on radar with visual, with their own eyes or cameras,
and also describing some phenomena that had some consistency across different people. And
I find this interesting enough that I think it would be silly to just dismiss it.
And specifically, like we can, we can ask the question, how much of it is natural phenomena,
ball lightning or something like that? And this is why I'm more interested in what fighter pilots
and astronauts and people who are trained in being able to identify flying objects and
atmospheric phenomena have to say about it. I think the thing, then you could say, well,
are they more advanced military craft? Is it some kind of human craft? The interesting thing that
a number of them describe is something that's kind of like right angles at speed, or not right
angles, acute angles at speed, but something that looks like a different relationship to inertia
than physics makes sense for us. I don't think that there are any human technologies that are
doing that, even in really deep underground black projects. Now, one could say, okay, well,
could it be a hologram? Well, would it show up on radar if radar is also seeing it? And so,
I don't know. I think there's enough, I mean, and for that to be a massive coordinated psi op,
is it as interesting and ridiculous in a way as the idea that it's UFOs from some extra planetary
source? So, it's up there on the interesting topics. To me, if it is at all alien technology,
it is the dumbest version of alien technology. It's so far away, it's like the old, old crappy VHS
tapes of alien technology. These are like crappy drones that just floated, or even like space,
to the level of like space junk, because it is so close to our human technology. We talk about
it moves in ways that's unlike what we understand about physics, but it still has very similar
kind of geometric notions and something that we humans can perceive with our eyes, all those
kinds of things. I feel like alien technology, most likely, would be something that we would not
be able to perceive, not because they're hiding, but because it's so far advanced that it would be
much, it would be beyond the cognitive capabilities of us humans. Just as you were saying, as per your
answer for aliens summarizing Earth, it's the starting assumption is they have similar perception
systems, they have similar cognitive capabilities, and that very well may not be the case.
Let me ask you about staying in aliens for just a little longer, because I think it's a good
transition talking about governments and human societies. Do you think if a US government or
any government was in possession of an alien spacecraft, or of information related to alien
spacecraft, they would have the capacity, structurally would they have the processes, would
they be able to communicate that to the public effectively, or would they keep it secret in a
room and do nothing with it, both of to try to preserve military secrets, but also because of
the incompetence that's inherent to bureaucracies, or either?
Well, we can certainly see when certain things become declassified 25 or 50 years later that
there were things that the public might have wanted to know that were kept secret for a very
long time, for reasons of at least supposedly national security, which is also a nice source
of plausible deniability for people covering their ass for doing things that would be problematic and
other purposes. There are, there's a scientist at Stanford who supposedly got some material that
was recovered from Area 51 type area did analysis on it using, I believe, electron microscopy and
a couple other methods and came to the idea that it was a nanotech alloy that was something we
didn't currently have the ability to do was not naturally occurring. So there, I've heard some
things and again, like I said, I'm not going to stand behind any of these because I haven't
done the level of study to have high confidence. I think what you said also about would it be
super low tech alien craft? Like would they necessarily move their atoms around in space?
Or might they do something more interesting than that? Might they be able to
have a different relationship to the concept of space or information or consciousness or
one of the things that the craft supposedly do is not only accelerate and turn in a way that looks
not inertial but also disappear. So there's a question as to like the two are not necessarily
mutually exclusive and it could be possible to, some people run a hypothesis that they
create intentional amounts of exposure as an invitation of a particular kind.
Who knows? Interesting field. We tend to assume like SETI that's listening out for aliens out there.
I've just been recently reading more and more about gravitational waves and you have
orbiting black holes that orbit each other. They generate ripples in space time
on my for fun at night when I lay in bed. I think about what it would be like to ride those waves
when they, not the low magnitude they are as when they reach earth but get closer to the black holes
because they'll basically be shrinking and expanding us in all dimensions, including time.
So it's actually ripples through space time that they generate.
Why is it that you couldn't use that? It travels at the speed of light.
It travels at a speed which is a very weird thing to say when you're
morphing space time. You could argue it's faster than the speed of light.
So if you're able to communicate by
to summon enough energy to generate black holes and to force them to orbit each other,
why not travel as the ripples in space time? Whatever the hell that means somehow combined
with wormholes. So if you're able to communicate through like we don't think of gravitational
waves as something you can communicate with because the the radio will be have to be a very
large size of very dense but perhaps that's it. You know perhaps that's one way to communicate.
It's a very effective way and that would explain like we wouldn't even be able to make sense of that
of the physics that results in an alien species that's able to control gravity at that scale.
I think he just jumped up the Kardashev scale so far. You're not just harnessing the power of
a star but harnessing the power of mutually rotating black holes. That's way above my
physics pay grade to think about including even non-rotating black hole versions of
transwarp travel. I think you know you can talk with Eric more about that. I think he has better
ideas on it than I do. My hope for the future of humanity mostly does not rest in the near term
on our ability to get to other habitable planets in time. And even more than that in the list of
possible solutions of how to improve human civilization orbiting black holes is not in
on the first page for you. Not on the first page. Okay I bet you did not expect us to start this
conversation here but I'm glad the places it went. I am excited under my smaller scale of
Mars, Europa, Titan, Venus potentially having very like bacteria like life forms just on a
on a small human level. It's a little bit scary but mostly really exciting that there might be
life elsewhere in the volcanoes and the oceans all around us. Teaming, having little societies
and whether there's properties about that kind of life that's somehow different than ours.
I don't know what would be more exciting if those colonies of single cell type organisms
what would be more exciting if they're different or they're the same. If they're the same that means
through the rest of the universe there's life forms like us something like us
everywhere. If they're different that's also really exciting because there's
life forms everywhere they're not like us. That's a little bit scary. I don't know what's
scarier actually. It's both scary and exciting no matter what right. The idea that they could
be very different is philosophically very interesting for us to open our aperture on
what life and consciousness and self-replicating possibilities could look like. The question
on are they different or the same? Obviously there's lots of life here that is the same in
some ways and different in other ways. When you take the thing that we call an invasive species
is something that's still pretty the same hydrocarbon based thing but co-evolved with
co-selective pressures in a certain environment we move it to another environment it might be
devastating to that whole ecosystem because it's just different enough that it messes up the self
stabilizing dynamics of that ecosystem. The question of would they be different in ways
where we could still figure out a way to inhabit a biosphere together or fundamentally not.
Fundamentally the nature of how they operate and the nature of how we operate would be
incommensurable is a deep question. Well we offline talked about memetic theory. It seems
like if there were sufficiently different where we would not even we can coexist on different
planes it seems like a good thing. If we're close enough together to where we'd be competing then
you're getting into the world of viruses and pathogens and all those kinds of things
to where we would one of us would die off quickly through basically mass murder
without even even accidentally. Even accidentally. If we just had a self replicating single celled
kind of creature that happened to not work well for the hydrocarbon life that was here
they got introduced because either output something that was toxic or utilized up the
same resource too quickly and it just replicated faster and mutated faster. It wouldn't be a
memetic theory conflict theory kind of harm it would just be a von Neumann machine a self
replicating machine that was fundamentally incompatible with these kinds of self replicating
systems with faster ootaloops. For one final time putting your alien lies God had on.
You look at human civilization do you think about the 7.8 billion people on earth as individual
little creatures individual little organisms or do you think of us as one organism with a collective
intelligence? What's the proper framework through which to analyze it again as an alien?
So that I know where you're coming from when you have asked the question the same way
before the industrial revolution before the agricultural revolution when there were half
a billion people and no telecommunications connecting them? I would indeed ask the question
the same way but I would be less confident about about your conclusions. It would be an
actually more interesting way to ask the question at that time but I was nevertheless asked at the
same way yes. Well let's go back further and smaller than rather than just a single human
or the entire human species let's look at a relatively isolated tribe. In the relatively
isolated probably sub Dunbar number sub kind of 150 people tribe do I look at that as one
entity where evolution is selecting for based on group selection or do I think of it as 150
individuals that are interacting in some way? Well could those individuals exist without the group?
