Hello. First, I'd like to warmly welcome you to the Anna Freud Center,
to our second series of transformation seminars. Today is the third seminar of the series.
We are really delighted that so many of you are able to join us.
These debates are about your questions, about your thoughts, about us collectively developing
a new vision for mental health. We look forward to receiving your comments and questions and hope
that you all will be inspired to continue these discussions after the seminar.
We are holding these seminars because we feel there is an urgent need for a national discussion
around mental health of children and young people and their families.
Mental health has become a focus during the pandemic and we hope that once we are beyond
the crisis, we will be able to rebuild better for all of us, also in terms of the mental health
of our young people who are at the sharpest end of their current pressures.
The theme of the transformation seminars is thinking differently about mental health.
We invite speakers to respond to a simple question and ask them what is their idea to transform
children's and family's mental health in the UK. The seminars explore areas beyond clinical
authorities are to ask about how we can think about do things differently, individually,
collectively and as a society to reduce the growing needs we have as individuals in our
complex and interconnected social world and tackle some of the underlying causes of mental health.
After the presentation we would like to invite you to ask questions.
You'll see at the bottom of the screen that there is a space for Q&As
and if you'd like to submit your questions we'll try to get through as many of them as we can
in the time that we have available. Finally, if you are tweeting please tag us
at EFNCCF and use the hashtag transformation seminars.
Today I am honored and delighted to welcome someone who is a world-renowned exceptional
thinker in his field. When I say his field it truly is his because no one has the breadth and
depth of understanding of the human mind quite like Carl Frister. Carl is a theoretical neuroscientist
and a world authority on brain imaging and computational neuroscience. He's one of the
most innovative thinkers about mental health alive today. He's welcome professor of imaging
neuroscience at UCL. He started off in psychiatry but has been an independent and
extraordinarily creative thinker blinding his own original furrow. His revolutionary impact on studies
of the brain derives from his inventive use of probability theory to analyze neural imaging data.
He invented the technique statistical parametric mapping or SPM
that is now widely used almost universally to look for correspondences in brain activity as
measured by magnetic resonance imaging and cognitive function.
He also invented voxel-based morphometry a sensitive method for measuring
the volume of brain structures. One classical well-known application demonstrated the increased
volume of a region underlying spatial memory and the brains of London taxidramas. Carl
is dynamic, Carl's dynamic causal modeling is used to estimate how different cortical
regions of the brain influence one another. His current thinking about brain function is
revolutionizing our ideas about perception, consciousness, mental disorder and the nature
of experience itself. The active inference framework or prediction error minimization
is a relatively recent theory in mathematical neuroscience pioneered by Carl and his collaborators.
It holds considerable promise to be the unifying theory of the brain.
It is used increasingly to support theoretical predictions in experimental research as well
as advance the existing theory of perception and action. My deep admiration for Carl reached
new heights through reading his contributions to independent sage or scientific advisory group
for emergencies. A group of scientists who are working together to provide independent scientific
advice to the UK government and the public and how to minimize deaths and support Britain's recovery
from the COVID-19 crisis. Carl's awards and honours are far too numerous to mention. I will
just pick up a couple. He's a fellow of the Royal Society, a fellow of the Royal Society of Biology.
In 2003 he received a golden brain award, an international science award in the field of
neuroscience given to people who made breakthroughs in research on vision and the brain.
In 2013 he was awarded the International Weldon Memorial Prize, which is bestowed
on the person deemed to have published the most noteworthy contribution to the development of
mathematical or statistical methods applied to problems in biology in the previous decade.
In 2016 he received the Charles Branch Award for unparalleled breakthroughs in brain research
and the Glass Brain Award for his lifetime achievement in the field of human brain mapping.
This evening we will hear Carl discuss the emergence of selfhood and how our sense of
ourselves emerges in interaction with the minds around us. The seminar intriguingly
entitled Me and My Mark of Planket. We are very, very privileged to welcome one of the greatest
thinkers in neuroscience today. Welcome Carl. Thank you very much for that lovely introduction.
It's a true honour and pleasure to be with you this evening.
I am going to take the challenge of thinking differently about mental health very literally
to the extent that I feel I should apologise for
how different this lecture might be from the kind of lecture that you would anticipate
in this series. I'm going to attempt to provide a first principal account of
dietic interactions speaking to selfhood as an emergent property of those interactions,
but I'm going to do so from the point of view of a physicist. So I'm going to present a lecture
of two halves. The first, again I apologise, is really a foundational course in the way things
work, the physics of self-organisation. And I'm going to lift from that an understanding of
sentience as an emergent property of self-organisation. So I'm going to talk basically
about the maths of the mechanics of mind. And I'm going to illustrate some of the simpler
principles that emerge from this treatment using simulations of a primordial soup.
And the end point really is a synchronisation between what's on the inside and what's on the
outside of anything that exists or self-organises itself to a state of existence. Then I'm going
to tell exactly the same story, but using the words and the language of a clinician or a neuroscientist
focusing on predictive processing and predictive coding formulations of how our brains work.
But the end point is exactly the same. It's the demonstration that the things that matter in
terms of our engagement with the world out there behind our sensorium rests upon a degree of
synchronisation. At the end I'm going to offer as a metaphor for alignment and the thing that glues
together you and me in any dyadic interaction. So that's the roadmap over the next few minutes.
I normally start the physics part of this talk with the question posed by Schrodinger.
How can the events in space and time which take place within the spatial boundary of a living
organism be accounted for by physics and chemistry? Now clearly we're not going to be able to answer
that question, but what we can do is just focus on the notion of a boundary of a living organism.
And of course to define anything and specifically a living organism you have to define what separates
the organism from not the organism, me from everything else, me from other. And Schrodinger
would be the first person to acknowledge that this boundary is in and of itself a statistical
process. And I'm going to read that boundary by borrowing from Bayesian mechanics the notion
of a Markov blanket. So a Markov blanket for those of you who don't know is a very simple
concept. It's a statistical set of states that insulates or separates internal states from
external states on the outside. So graphically we can consider some little universe here where each
of these circles corresponds to some state of this universe and the arrows or edges denote
an influence of this state on that state. And what I can do is I can identify a set of states
here encoded by blue as internal states and then I can define the Markov blanket or the blanket
states in terms of the parents, the children and the parents of the children. So that affords
a set of states that in effect provide all the information I need about the universe beyond
those states that will enable me to predict what will happen on the inside. So in other words,
statistically speaking, whatever is happening here is independent of what's happening here because
given or conditioned upon these blanket states, these blanket states hold all the information
that I need to tell me about how am I going to evolve about my dynamics. I'm going to make a
further move here. I'm just going to split by partition these blanket states mathematically
into two sets. One set which we're going to call sensory states that influence but are not influenced
by the internal states and another set active states that are influenced by internal states
but are not influenced by external states. And with that partition in place, I can now define
the states of any particle or person, a priest, anything that exists as the internal states
of that particle and their blanket states that comprise the sensory and the active states. And
you may be asking why have I done that? I think the intuition is more readily available if you
think about some of your favorite systems. So one of my favorite systems is the brain.
And one can consider the internal states of the brain as every state of synaptic activity,
efficacy, connectivity that constitutes a particular internal state of the brain.
And these internal states in your activity are communicated or influence active states,
my actuators, my autonomic nervous system that produces changes in the external states out there,
the physiological states of my body or the motor states of my motor plant that change the
sensations, the sensory states that are picked up and impinge upon my internal states so that
I have this sort of circular causality where the internal states exchange with the external states
through the Markov blanket, a dual carriageway where the influence of the inside on the outside
is mediated by the active states and the influence of the outside on the inside is mediated by
the sensory states. And these arrows are what license my attribution of states to internal
or external sensory or active in the sense that they denote the conditional independences that
we've just described that define the Markov blanket. But this structure can be found anywhere
that you can separate something from the rest of the universe. So for example, a little cell will
have internal states will correspond to the intracellular states, the active states could be
the actin filaments that support the surface states and push the surface states into the
external milieu, the external states that reciprocate by changing the cell's surface
sensory receptors that cause changes in the internal states. And so this perception action
cycle at this very elemental level is still in play and rests upon this Markovian partition
into internal, external and intervening blanket states. So what I want you to do now is to bear
that in mind, but forget about it for the moment. What we're going to do next is just to consider
the physics of systems that self-organize. And then what we're going to do is to put the Markov
blanket back in play and see what implications it has for the relationship between what's on the
inside and what's on the outside. So this is a bit heavy. Again, I apologize for the mathematics.
You don't need to understand the functional form of these equations, but I think they are useful
just to sketch the architecture of the ideas. And in fact, if you are mathematically minded,
they're simplicity. So what I've done here is just drawn the kind of universe that I'm interested in.
And I'm interested in universes that exist, that persist over time. So mathematically,
that means that they have an attracting set. Another word for that is that they constitute a
random dynamical system with a global random attractor. So more intuitively, I've just sketched
out two states here. It could be the temperature of my body, so the concentration of oxygen,
if I was a physiologist. And I've traced out over time the way that these states might change.
This could stand in for anything. It could be very fast fluctuations and electrical and chemical
constituents of a part of my brain unfold over milliseconds to give me
synchronized activity in the brain. It could be my heartbeat, two aspects of my heart contracting
every second or so. It could be me getting up in the morning, having a cup of coffee,
doing my emails, looking forward to lunch. It could be Christmas, Easter, some holidays,
birthday. This structure has to exist at any scale, at any spatial and temporal scale, crucially,
embodying the fact that its existence depends upon revisiting the same states, the neighborhood
of the same states, time and time again, after a suitable period of time. So these are the states
X, they change according to some flow here with some random perturbations or fluctuations
denoted by omega here. Now, the reason I've gone to some length in just casting the mathematical
basis of the arguments in terms of the flow of dynamical systems is it was a well-established
and very ubiquitous formulation of the behavior of these kinds of systems that inherits from the
fact that if I keep revisiting the same states, then I can treat this attracting set of states
that I keep revisiting that characterize me or things like me in terms of a probability distribution
that you will find me in this state if you sample me at any random time. And I can write down the
mathematics of the way that this probability distribution itself evolves. But we've just
said it doesn't change with time because we exist over time. So what we can do is we can solve
the equation describing the density dynamics, it's called the Fokker-Pank equation, you may
know it or you may not as the Schrodinger equation or the Maastre equation, they're
effectively all the same things. The solution to that, the particular solution for things that
exist over time is remarkable in the following sense. Using a particular decomposition, the
Helmholtz decomposition, it tells me immediately that things that exist will flow in a way that
can be described as a gradient flow on the log probability of being in any particular state.
I'm going to give you some intuition as to how this equation unpacks because I think it's quite
interesting but also just to illustrate its simplicity. What we're basically saying is that,
well let's imagine that I placed a drop of oil in some water or on say a sheet of dotting paper.
Now the kinds of systems that dissipate that were not interested in, that don't self-assemble and
don't have this attracting set of characteristic states, they would behave a little bit like this,
that the ink molecules would diffuse throughout the solvent until they dispersed everywhere
subject to the random molecular fluctuations. The systems that we're talking about, usually
living systems behave very differently. They appear to gather themselves up and assemble
in a restricted number of states or places that they could be. In other words, it looks as if
their states are flowing up concentration gradients, resisting or offsetting the random
fluctuations that will be dispersing them and that's all that this equation says. It just says that
any system that exists can be described in terms of its dynamics, its flow, its movement, its evolution
and that that flow can be decomposed into two components. There's the part that gathers things
up that resists the entropic erosion and dispersion, dissipation, decay, dilution that is this
component here that's proportional to the amplitude of the random fluctuations gamma and then there's
another component that's at right angles to that that circulates on the isopropability contours,
it's called solenoidal flow and this is denoted by the Q here. So anything that exists can be written
down in terms of its dynamics, in terms of this decomposition into a gradient flow that flows
up the concentration gradients and this circular or solenoidal flow and you'll all be familiar
with this very ubiquitous description of dynamics when you're looking at water flowing down the
plughole so the gradient flow is going downhill and this circular flow is the swirling around
one witnesses. So that's how things that exist behave dynamically. What about the Markov blanket?
Well what is true of all the states is true of the active and the internal states.
So at the same time that the internal states look as if they're performing a gradient flow
on the log probability of the blanket states it is also the case that the active states are doing
the same and I'm going to offer this as a mathematical image of perception changing our
internal states and action changing our active states but in the service of looking as if we're
increasing the same quantity and that quantity is this log probability of the blanket states.
So what does that mean? Well it's probably something that you're very familiar with depending upon
your commitments academically or the way that you understand optimization processes.
I've just listed a few things here and in the hope that you will recognize at least one if not all of
them. The first interpretation of this quantity here this log of the probability of my blanket
states being characteristic of the kind of thing I am me or my Markov blanket. We can interpret this
as simply an expression of value. These are the states that I aspire to that I am generally
found in. Mathematically we can approximate this quantity with something known as a free energy
or an evidence lower boundary machine learning but the perspective I'm selling in this interpretation
is that all systems that exist will look as if they are performing a gradient flow on this value
function and of course this is exactly the assumption, the foundation of reinforcement
