with systems that are not necessarily down here, but might be actually at higher levels on this
hierarchy. And by the way, for many of them, we don't know where they are on the hierarchy,
which means we need to find out. So let's look at anatomical kinds of behavior or morphogenesis.
The first thing we know is that development is very reliable. So in the vast majority of cases,
an egg will give rise to this particular target morphology. So so far so good, very reliable.
But then we know that actually, it's reliable, but it isn't hardwired, because if you come along
and you cut this animal in half, right, or this embryo could take it apart into quarters, for
example, you will not get two half embryos, which you get are two normal monozygotic twins,
which means that we have something like this, the ability if this was morphospace, if this was,
you know, boiled down to two dimensions, the shape of all possible anatomies,
you would be able to get to the right ensemble of target states from different starting positions,
and you would avoid local minima and various other traps, and you would get there and we'll
talk more about this. So we're starting to understand that we can get to the same outcome.
This is again, William James's definition, we get to the same outcome, despite perturbations
from diverse starting positions. Here is another example of that in an adult organism. So this
is an axolotl. These guys regenerate their limbs, their eyes, their jaws, their spinal cords,
their ovaries, and so on. And what happens is that if you were to amputate anywhere along this limb,
the cells will very rapidly start to build, they will build exactly what's necessary, no more
and less, and then they stop. That's the most amazing part of this whole process is that
they stop. When do they stop? Well, they stop when a correct salamander arm has been completed.
So that now starts to suggest the process of anatomical homeostasis, meaning that this walk
in the space of possible morphologies that it does, the system not only ends up where it needs
to go, but then it actually can stop and stabilize where it needs to go. By the way,
regeneration isn't just for worms and amphibians. Humans have a highly regenerative liver,
even the ancient Greeks seem to have known that, I have no idea how they knew that.
Deer every year regenerate huge amounts of bone and vasculature and innervation, so these antlers
grow at a rate of a centimeter and a half per day of new bone, so remarkable regeneration of an adult
mammal, and human children are known to regenerate their fingertips up until a certain age. So if
they have a clean amputation and you don't close it up, you'll get a cosmetically a very nice
finger regenerate after that. So the other interesting issue about this is that, yes,
the systems get to the same point in morphospace, even from different starting positions,
but they don't all get there the same way. So this is worked on by Kelly Chang, a postdoc in my
group many years ago, showing how frog legs regenerate. And what you see here, we've induced,
so frog legs at this stage normally don't regenerate, we've induced them to do so,
but using a method I'll describe in a few minutes. And what you see is that while the
developmental path is to create a flat paddle and then sort of kill off some cells in between the
fingers by apoptosis, that isn't how the regenerate forms. The regenerate, and you can see here with
these little green arrowheads, you've got this middle stalk that creates the central axis with
a toenail at the end. You've got some toes that come off the sides. It looks a lot more like the
way a plant grows than the way the limb developed in the first place. So different paths through the
space, but reaching the same final shape. And this is perhaps my most sort of favorite example ever
of this creative problem solving process, which is this. This is a cross section through a
newt kidney tubule. So normally what you'll see is that there's eight to 10 cells that cooperate
together to build this kind of structure. Now one thing you can do is you can make polyploid
newts that have multiple times the amount of genetic material of a normal cell. So the first
amazing thing is that if you do that, these newts up to I think 6n or 8n are still perfectly normal
animals. Having multiple copies of your genome doesn't apparently hurt anything here. So that's
kind of amazing. Second amazing thing is that the cells in large in proportion to the amount of DNA
they have, so they become bigger. The third thing is that when that happens, the cells scale their
number to the right to the task, meaning that the bigger cells, there's now fewer of them,
that will come together to build the same size structure. And the most amazing thing of all
is that when you make the cells so gigantic, and I think these are the 6n newts, when you make the
cells so gigantic that they simply cannot fit with others to do this, what will happen is that
one cell will bend around itself and form the exact same anatomical structure. Now what's crazy
about this is that this is a different molecular mechanism. This is cell-to-cell communication
and some sort of tubulogenesis. This is cytoskeletal bending. So what you have here is an example of
top-down causation. In the service of maintaining a specific anatomical structure, meaning in order
to stay in that region of anatomical morpho space, or to reach it rather, you can call up different
low-level mechanisms. This of course is something we see in neuroscience all the time. When an animal
has a certain goal in behavioral space, it will often execute different specific behaviors,
different low-level modules will be activated to get to the final state and development is no
different in the morphogenesis process. So the final kind of example of this before we go on
and look at the mechanism is this. This is something we discovered a few years ago that
a normal tadpole becomes a normal frog by rearranging its face. So the eyes have to move,
the jaws have to move, the nostrils and so on. And so this used to be thought of as a hardwired
process. Every organ just moves in the right direction, the right amount and there you have
your frog. So we decided to test that and what we created was these so-called Picasso tadpoles.
Everything is in the wrong position. So the eye might be off to the side, the mouth might be on
top of the head, everything is scrambled. And what we found out is that these animals give rise to
basically normal frogs because each of these components doesn't just move in the same position
that's default for development, it actually will move in new ways and if it goes too far it'll
actually move backwards in order to give you the right frog face and then they stop. So what
the genetics does is not specify, even if it could specify some sort of specific motion,
what instead it does is gives you a error minimization machine. It gives you a system
that can flexibly take action to minimize some kind of error parameter and in this case the
error parameter is morphological distance from this from this target. So the way we think about
these things is like this, that this is the mainstream story of morphogenesis, that you have
some gene regulatory networks, some of them make proteins that do things, they diffuse or they're
sticky or they exert force or something. And then you have this process of emergence and this is the
dominant idea in this field. The idea is that when individual components act according to local
simple rules, out will come complex outcomes. And so the idea is that this notion of emergence
plus complexity science will be able to be able to explain these kinds of things. And this is true,
there are many simple systems in which following local rules, even though the rules are simple,
give you something quite complex at the end. Okay, so this is all true. But there's a big
problem here, there's a huge component missing. The thing that's missing here is that this is a
feedforward open loop kind of process, which means that if you want to make changes down here,
let's say convert this guy to threefold symmetry or make some other kind of change,
this process is not reversible. It is in general impossible to know which genes you're going to
tweak to do that. So this greatly limits the opportunities for let's say CRISPR, genomic
editing, because beyond some low hanging fruit, we're not going to have any idea of what genes
to tweak, right, to get a particular outcome. This is an inverse problem that is generally not
solvable. And we think biology doesn't work like this either. What exists on top of this emergent
dynamic is a set of feedback loops, which if this system is deviated from the correct shape,
these feedback loops, and so that could be through injury, mutation,
teratogens, whatever, these feedback loops kick in both at the level of physics, which is what
I'm going to show you next, and the level of transcription to try to get back to the correct
state. Now, on the one hand, well, biologists know all about feedback loops, right, and there are
many examples of homeostatic cycles. But on the other hand, there's something weird here, which is
that in this case, the set point of the homeostatic process is not a single number the way it would
be for pH or some metabolite level or something like that. The set point here is some kind of
anatomical descriptor. It's a complex data structure. It's not a scalar. It's not a single number.
And so this scheme, this way of thinking about it makes a very strong prediction. The prediction is
that if this is true, then your opportunity to make changes is not limited to down here. What you
could do is to take advantage of what's great about this architecture, which think about your
thermostat. The amazing thing about your thermostat is that you can change the temperature if you
understand where the set point is encoded, and you don't need to rewire the machine. In fact,
you don't actually even have to understand everything about how your thermostat works.
The only thing you have to do is recognize that it is in fact a homeostat, and you have to know how
to decode and encode the set points, and then the system takes care of it. So if this is all true,
what we ought to be able to do is to find, decode, and rewrite set points, anatomical set points,
and let the same standard wild type cells do what they do best. We don't need to rewire the hardware.
So is this possible? And if so, we spent the last couple of decades looking for this, and
how we started thinking about this was, okay, so if this is a goal, kind of a goal seeking
error minimization system, what inspirations for that do we have? And the obvious one, of course,
is the brain. In the nervous system and the brain, what we have is a collection of cells
which work together to allow flexible problem-solving towards specific goals. How do we do that?
Well, there's this hardware, which is a network of these neurons that has ion channels on its
surface. Thus, you have a voltage state, and that voltage state is communicated to the neighboring
cells. And that hardware underlies the cognitive software. So this is a zebrafish brain. You're
seeing all the electrical activity as this fish is thinking about whatever fish think about,
and the commitment of neuroscience is that if we understood how to decode these physiological
events, we could literally know what the animal was thinking, what memories it had, what preferences
it has, what behavioral repertoires. Everything is actually encoded in this electrical activity.
That's a very profound and bold claim. Well, it turns out that every cell has this. Every cell
has ion channels. Most cells have gap junction, these electrical synapses with their neighbors.
And this system is way older than neurons and brains. This was actually invented around
the time of bacterial biofilms. Evolution discovered this. And so you might say,
could we port from neuroscience all of the tools and concepts to basically do the neural
decoding that people do in the brain and do it during morphogenesis? To ask, what is the collective
whereas here what people are doing is asking, how does this electrophysiology help us understand
what the collective intelligence of these cells is doing? We ask exactly the same question here.
How is the electrophysiology of morphogenesis helping us to understand how that collective
behaves in morphospace? Because there is a very strong kind of invariant between these two fields,
whereas the results of these electrical networks, the computations that go on in these
electrical networks, control your muscles to move the animal through three-dimensional space.
Exactly the same system was the ancestral form. And what it used to do was make computations
to control cells to move your body configuration through morphospace. And what evolution did was
then simply pivot this thing from one space into the other. But all the mechanisms are the same,
and many of the algorithms are the same, although it's much slower. And so you have to make a couple
of changes, including speed. But otherwise, what we think is that neurons and synapses
basically just speed-optimized some things that cellular networks were doing long before
behavior showed up. So we developed some tools to try to read and write this information into
the collective computations of cells. So first, voltage-sensitive dyes. So this is
a voltage-sensitive reporter dye that helps you image what all the electrical states are in this
early frog embryo. This is a time lapse here. And then we do a lot of biophysical modeling to
understand how these gradients arise from different channels and pumps that all of these cells have.
So I want to show you two quick examples. And this is the work of Danny Adams in our group.
And what she did was make this video of this frog embryo that is putting its face together.
These are the early steps of craniofacial formation. And again, we're using this voltage-sensitive dye,
the light colors are depolarized, the dark are hyperpolarized. And what you see is that prior
to the gene expression that regionalizes the face, you already see, here's where the eye is going to
go, here's where the mouth is going to go, here are the lateral structures, these cells, this
tissue already has a pre-pattern, an energetic pre-pattern of where the different organs are
going to go. And we know this is instructive because if you alter this pre-pattern, then the
shape of the face is changed accordingly. And I'll show you that momentarily. So this is a natural
pre-pattern that is required for normal morphogenesis. This is a pathological pattern where we can inject
human oncogene into these tadpoles. What the oncogene does is cause them electrically to
disconnect from their neighbors and to depolarize. And at that point, they just become amoebas. The
boundary between self and world shifts, they scale down to the kinds of things individual cells know
how to do as opposed to large cellular networks, and they become a tumor, and they metastasize,
and they sort of treat the rest of the animals just external environment. So this is how we trace
and track these communications. Now, the more important thing, which is the functional tools.
Basically, what we do is we steal everything from neuroscience. We don't use any applied
electromagnetic fields. We don't use electrodes. What we do is we target using molecular tools,
such as pharmacology and optogenetics. We use molecular tools to target the natural interface
that these cells offer to us and to each other. That interface is, of course, the gap junctions that
determine the connectivity of the network and the ion channels that determine their electric
state at any moment in time. So we can open and close these things with drugs. We can use light,
in the case of light-gated ion channels. We can use neurotransmitter signaling directly.
All of the same tools that work in neuroscience work in every other tissue of the body.
And here are some examples of interesting things that you can get that way. I showed you a special
bioelectrical pattern that indicates where the eye is going to go. So what we decided was to
reproduce that pattern somewhere else. And this is the work of a graduate student at the time,
Sherry Au, in my lab, and Vypav Pai, who's a staff scientist. What they did was to introduce
an RNA encoding a particular potassium channel into some cells that are going to be
the various other parts of the embryo, for example, the gut. And what you find is that
even in tissues that were, according to the textbook, not competent to become eye,
you can still form an eye if you first establish this particular bioelectrical pattern
that says build an eye here. Now notice a couple of critical things. First of all,
these eyes have the same sort of internal components that normal eyes are supposed to have,
lens, retina, optic nerve, all that. But we didn't give them enough information to specify any of
that complexity. All we did was specify actually a very informationally poor stimulus that didn't
include all the details. This means it's a modular, almost subroutine call. It's a trigger
that all the cleverness is in the substrate. It's the cleverness isn't in what we put in.
That's just a simple trigger. All the intelligences in the rest of the tissue,
which can see that simple signal and interpret that at the scale of organs. We're not telling
individual cells that this stem cell should become a retinal cell. That's not the information.
The information is an organ level modular trigger. The second amazing thing is this.
Look here, this is a lens, an ectopic lens sitting out in the tail of a tadpole somewhere.
These blue cells, which are labeled with a beta galactosidase lineage label,
these are the ones that we injected with the potassium channel. But there's not enough of them
to make a proper lens. What do they do? They do exactly what another familiar kind of collective
intelligence does, which is ants. They recruit their neighbors to participate. While there's
not enough of these cells to build a proper lens, they take cells that are perfectly wild type that
were never directly modified by us, and they recruit them into this project to build an exactly
lens of the right size and shape. Not only the ability to specify organs at a high level,
but the ability to take care of all the morphogenesis and, in fact, the recruitment,
the scaling of agents to your task is done in an automatic way that we do not have to micromanage.
This is great for engineering, for bioregenerate medicine. This is great. These things have all
kinds of interesting capacities that we do not need to micromanage. We can take advantage of.
