What else can you do this way? Well, we can build ectopic. We can ask for a topic,
otorcists or inner-ear organs. We can make extra hearts. We can make extra forebrains,
extra limbs. Here's our six-legged frog. Or we can make fins. Now, that's kind of weird.
Tadpoles aren't supposed to have fins. That's more of a fish thing. We'll get to that momentarily.
Of course, this is all potentially very useful for regenerative medicine. This is our project on
limb regeneration. Adult frogs at this stage do not regenerate their legs. We came up with a
bioelectric cocktail that triggers a build a leg here kind of cascade. What happens then is after
24 hours of exposure to this bioelectric stimulus, immediately the MSX1 blastema markers are turned
on. You've got this blastema forming. Within about 45 days, you get this nice leg and eventually
you get a pretty respectable leg out of it. At this point, I have to do a disclosure. Dave Kaplan
and I are co-founders of a company called Morphosuticals Inc. We're now taking the same thing into
mammals. The idea is using David's wearable bioreactor technology to stimulate the wound and
try to get back some sort of regeneration after injury. Remember, we are not micromanaging this
process. We're not putting in stem cells. We are not directing differentiation over that time period.
24 hours of stimulation gives a year and a half of leg growth in the frog. It is not controlling
that process. It is convincing those cells right at the beginning when they're trying to make a
decision between scarring and growth, which way they're going to go. After that, we take our hands
off. That's a key strategy from the perspective of engineering that you want to exploit the
autonomous capacities of your material. You do not want to try to have to micromanage it.
I want to shift gears to this organism and really think again about this notion of memory
and goal-directedness in morphogenesis. These planaria are immortal. They do not age. They're
such great regenerators that they regenerate everything continuously. One thing you can do
in these planaries is this amazing experiment. Here's one head, one tail. If I cut off the head
and the tail, this middle fragment reliably, 100% of the time, gives me a normal worm.
What we discovered was how does this piece know how many heads it's supposed to have?
We discovered that this is the work of Wendy Bean in my group, that there's actually an electric
circuit that tells these cells how many heads are supposed to be built. What we can do is,
here's the voltage pattern that represents their memory of what a correct planarian looks like.
What we can do is we can go ahead and edit that, again, by targeting specific ion channels
to look like this. It's messy. The technology is still being worked out, but you have now
clearly these patterns as two heads instead of one. When you do this, you get a two-headed
worm. This is not photoshopped. These are real animals. Here's the most amazing thing. Not only
is this electrical pattern instructive for how many heads you're supposed to have, this pattern
is the readout of this animal, not of this animal. A single-headed body with normal gene
expression, so anterior genes in the head, no anterior genes in the back, can have two different
representations of what to do if it gets injured. In other words, I claim to you at the very beginning
that morphogenesis is a homeostat because it stores an explicit target morphology. It stores
the information on what the correct pattern is going to be. Now, this is one of those cases
where we've decoded it. I can show you that. This is that pattern. This is the pattern that
determines it. It's there long before the situation actually comes up. In a way,
this is an interesting example of a counterfactual memory. This is not what's going on right now.
This is a stored data structure about what you're going to do if you get injured in the
future. That's a really primitive version of something that brains do very well, which is
this kind of mental time travel where you remember what happened before. You can predict what happens
next. It doesn't have to be happening right now. Now, why do I keep calling this a memory?
This is the work of Nestor Oviedo that what we did was we took these two-headed planaria
and we simply recut them again in plain water, no more manipulation of any kind,
and we found that you might think that, well, the genomics are wild type. We didn't do any genetic
editing here. There's nothing wrong with the genome. If we get rid of this ectopic primary head
and we get rid of this ectopic secondary head, get rid of the primary head, and this nice middle
gut fragment that has normal genetics, well, surely it should go on to be a normal worm.
That's not what happens. What happens is if you keep cutting these guys, this middle fragment
will continue to generate two-headed worms, and you can see them here. This fulfills the basic
criteria of memory in anatomical space. It's long-term stable. It's rewritable because we can set it
from here to here. Actually, we now also know how to take a two-headed worm and get it back to
a one-headed state. It has latency, conditional recall, what I just showed you a minute ago.
The question of what determines how many heads this animal has, and that's an important question
from the engineering perspective. If you want to engineer life, you need to know what the
determinants are. It's really interesting. The genetics only insofar as the genetics creates
the hardware where the default behavior of that circuit is to specify an electrical
pattern that says one head. That's the default pattern that happens when you turn on the juice
of this electrical circuit. The cool thing about this circuit is actually reprogrammable.
Experience, not genetic change, but experience in physiological space
will convert it to store a new piece of information, and that new piece of information
is stable. It will keep until you reset it. What we're doing now is trying to refine these
computational models that merge the state space of the electrical circuit that maintains this
information with existing thought-in-connectionist architectures where people are now working on
understanding how electrical networks store and encode information in a way that allows them to
regain that information when pieces of the material are gone. There's lots of work being
done on this in computer science and machine learning and things like that. Now, it gets even
more interesting than just head number, because that's what this is all about, the number of heads.
It gets more interesting than that. It's also about head shape. You can take this triangular
shape planarian, amputate the head, and perturb the electrical connectivity of the rest of the cells
as they are trying to figure out where the electric circuit should settle. Here's the
normal attractor. It gets confused, and sometimes you get these flat-headed pifilinas, and sometimes
you get round-headed S-mediterrania. It's not just the shape of the head, but it's also distribution
of the stem cells and the shape of the brain that's the same as these other species. These other
species are about 150 to 100 million years distant from this. Without genetic change, what you can
do physiologically is to explore the different attractors that are the standard outcome for
other species, but you can explore them with exactly the same hardware. Not only can you explore
those attractors, there's a huge latent space of possible shapes that you can make. These are all
wild-type planarian cells. This is some kind of crazy, spiky-shaped form. You can change the
symmetry type. You can make composite forms like this. This is not some weird feature of planaria.
This is ubiquitous. Look at this. Look at the example from the plant kingdom. These are galls.
This bizarre-looking thing is formed out of the plant's own cells because it's being hacked by
signals from a wasp embryo that's in there. These are not created from wasp cells. The wasp
is putting out signals that hijack the normal morphogenetic machinery of these cells that
normally make a nice, flat, green architecture. Instead, they make this round, red, spiky thing.
That's because morphogenesis from the beginning is reprogrammable. It is amenable to being hacked
and because the cells are normally doing that to each other to get them to undergo complex
morphogenesis. I'll show you some examples of that in a minute. A couple of quick medical things,
and then we'll get to the xenobots. I just want to say that the key to all of this is getting a
nice multi-scale view, a full-stack model of what's going on from the molecular networks that express
ion channels. Here's where your hardware is determined. Then, to understand the physiology
that gives you the bioelectric gradients, and we have a simulator that allows us to do all this,
written by Alexis Pytak. Then, to understand the logic and eventually get it down into an
algorithmic model of how regions make decisions about what they're going to be. To scale up the
decision-making progressively from the hardware all the way to anatomical level and decision-making
where the regenerative discovery of regenerative interventions is the easiest. This is just a
quick example of how we did that, just to show you that this whole thing is possible.
Here's a normal frog brain. Here's a forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. When these guys are
exposed to various teratogens like nicotine, alcohol, or even mutations, the brain has all
kinds of defects. What we wanted to do was to build a model that would help us find
repair interventions. As engineers, we want to know what's the easiest thing we can do to get
this thing back to normal. We make this computational model that explains how the
bioelectrics of the early ectodermal cells dictate the shape and size of your brain.
We do this. We ask the model in a scenario where that bioelectric shape is wrong. Here,
for example, this is the hardest case. This is a mutation in a gene called notch.
Notch is a really critical neurogenesis gene. With a dominant notch mutation,
the forebrain is gone. The midbrain and hindbrain are a big bubble. These animals have no
behaviors. It's just a radical defect. We asked the model something very simple.
Which channel could we open and close to get the bioelectric state back to normal? The model
knows nothing about the pathways that are downstream of the bioelectrics, all the gene
expression. All we asked was how do we get back to the correct high-level pattern that tells these
cells what a normal brain looks like? The model said that under those conditions,
this is a good channel to open. I can tell you exactly why. It's a whole story here.
This is the HCN2i channel. Then we did something very simple. We either introduced extra HCN2
channels or we just used two known drugs to open the existing HCN2 channels. Lo and behold,
they get their brains back. They get brain structure back. They get gene expression,
and they get their behaviors back. They get their IQs become indistinguishable from controls.
Even though they're still bearing this really nasty notch mutation. This is an example, and I'm
not saying this will work in every case, but this is an example of fixing a really drastic
hardware defect in software. If you override, despite the fact that you've got some broken
signaling machinery, if you override it with a top-level signal that says,
this is what your brain should look like, you can rescue a very drastic fundamental kind of
defect. What we're working towards is this kind of computational environment for designing
electroseuticals. You should know what your desired electrical state is. You know what your
disease state is. You use the simulator to say, how do I turn the disease state into the healthy
state? Then you go to the drug bank and you pick out an existing ion channel drug. Many of them
already approved for human use. Then you do some filtering to make sure you don't hit the cardiac
rhythm circuit and all of that. A couple of things just to kind of end on a couple of quick things.
What we see in evolution is this amazing process of scaling up of goals. These individual cells
have very local homeostatic set points that they can pursue, so metabolic and various other things.
What evolution did is allow them to form electrical networks that communicate,
that merge these little homeostats into something that can pursue a much larger goal. They can
pursue navigation policies and anatomical morphospace, something that the individual cells cannot do.
But this has a failure mode. This is human glioblastoma. When this process breaks down,
the cells revert back to their unicellular single cell goals, which is every cell wants to become
two cells and eat as much as it can and go wherever life is good. That's metastasis.
If you have this kind of unusual view of cancer as a problem of a shrinking computational boundary
between self and world, this idea that when cells connect to each other, they have a bigger
perceptual kind of cognitive light cone that allows them to hold on to bigger goals, bigger
homeostatic set points, you can think about engineering a therapeutic like this. We put
in the human oncogene. Normally, it makes a tumor. What we'll do is we'll co-inject a specific ion
channel to keep these cells connected to their neighbors. This works for nasty K-RAS mutants,
P53 and so on. You can see the oncogene is labeled in red. It's still blazingly strong
expressed, but there's no tumor. This is the same animal. There's no tumor. Because what drives is
not the genetics, what drives is the physiology and in particular the scale at which these cells
make decisions. In this case, they're making individual cell decisions of what's good for them.
They're not more selfish than other cells. Their cells are much smaller. The embryo is just
external environment to them. In this case, they're making collective decisions. The collective
is looking to make a nice muscle, nice skin. It's navigating this different space that the individual
cells can't. When we start to think of it this way, we can ask, well, where do the goals of
these collectives come from? Furthermore, what kind of goals are they capable of pursuing,
and where do the specific set points come from? That leads me to the last quick bit,
which is this. This is the work of Doug Blackiston, did all the biology, Sam Kriegman,
the computer science. This is a project with Josh Bongard at the University of Vermont,
with whom we've started this institute. We asked a simple question. If we were to liberate cells
from the normal boundary condition, could they reboot their multicellularity? Do they like to
cooperate fundamentally, and what would they build if they were out of their normal environment?
What we did here is this. This is an early frog embryo. We take some cells up here that are going
to be epidermis, so skin. We dissociate these cells. We put them in a little pile and get rid of
everything else, so just skin. Now, what could they do? Well, they could do a number of things.
They could crawl away from each other. They could die. They could do nothing. They could form a
two-dimensional monolayer. Many things they could do. Instead, here's what they do.
They coalesce together into this little fragment, and they become this compact little round thing,
the flashes you see are calcium signaling. What it does is this. It becomes a xenobot.
Xenopus laevis is the name of the frog, biobots, so we call them xenobots.
They're using the little hairs that they normally have for pulling mucus down their bodies. They
use them to swim. The ones on this side row to the left, the ones on this side row to the right,
and this little patch of skin starts moving around. They can go in circles. They can go back
and forth. We can track collective motion like this, where they interact with each other when
they take various long journeys. We can make them into various shapes. Doug does all this.
He can, under the directions of this AI program that Josh and Sam have written,
they can make various shapes. Here's a xenobot doing a maze. Still water, no water movement,
so it takes the corner without having to bump into anything. At this point, it spontaneously
turns around and goes back where it came from. This is skin. There's no neurons here. There's
no brain, just skin. You're starting to see the novel behaviors and capabilities, both more for
genetic and behavioral, that are in this tissue. It regenerates. If you cut it in half, just about
here, look at this 180-degree hinge. Boom, it folds up like this. They have some really interesting
calcium signaling that we are in the process of analyzing to see if there's evidence of mutual
information and who knows how many of the tools from neuroscience will fit here. Then
I'll just end with this. This is the most amazing part of all. We have made it impossible for these
animals, for these creatures to reproduce the normal froggy fashion because they're just skin.
Turns out that if you provide them with loose skin cells, what they do is they run around and
they collect these skin cells and they shape them into little balls, and because they are working
within a gentle material, just like us, we were working with these skin cells, and so are they,
because of that, these little balls become xenobots overnight. They mature to become the
next generation of xenobots, and guess what they do? They run around and repeat the cycle,
and they do exactly the same thing. This is kinematic self-replication. This is von Neumann's
dream of a robot that goes around, finds parts in its environment, and makes a copy of itself.
Now, this is extremely primitive. There are many things missing. There's no hard heredity,
meaning that the offspring don't particularly look like their parents. They all sort of look
like the same thing, but it is kinematic replication, and so here's the most amazing
piece of this, which is that what did the Xenopus lavas genome actually learn during evolution?
You might think that while it learned to make this, it learned through eons of shaping, through
selection, it makes this developmental sequence, then it makes tadpoles, but actually we find out
that, well, that's what the, and so under this scenario, the skin cells have an invariant outcome.
They have this boring two-dimensional life being the outer layer of the embryo,
but that's not the only thing they know how to do. If you take away all of the other cells,
