meaning we don't engineer by adding different trans genes or things like or circuits,
all we do is take away the other instructive influences that basically bully these cells into
being this boring two-dimensional layer. What you then find out is that in the absence of that
behavior shaping, this is what those cells actually know how to do, and this is what they do by
default. This is what they want to do, which is to form a Xenobot with its own bizarre developmental
sequence. This is several weeks of development. What the heck this is that nobody knows. This
never existed before. There's never been evolutionary pressure to be a good Xenobot,
to do kinematic replication. All of this is completely emergent in the latent space of
behaviors from the machine that this genome encodes. So I would argue that in some cases,
evolution is not creating specific solutions to specific problems. It makes general purpose
problem-solving machines that are able to navigate different kind of spaces in new ways.
And as engineers, this is what we need to learn to manipulate. And I think because of this, biology
is incredibly interoperable. So every combination of evolved material, meaning genetic sequences,
cells, tissues, organs, whatever, and some kind of designed matter and some kind of software,
every combination is going to be some kind of viable creature on this enormous option space.
So all of the natural, you know, all of Darwin's endless forms, most beautiful, they write the
natural forms on earth are here. And all of this hybrids, cyborgs, every kind of
combination of these things is here somewhere. And that has huge implications for trying to develop
not only a science but an ethics of relating to organisms that do not share any path on the
evolutionary tree with us and have potentially radically different embodiments and thus minds.
So I'll stop here and just to say that if anybody's interested in this stuff here are
kind of a variety of papers that you can take a look at. I want to thank the postdocs and the
students who did all the work that I showed you today, our funders here, all the illustrations
by Jeremy Gay and the two company disclosures and always most of the credit goes to the model
systems because they do all the happy lifting. So I'll stop here and thank you for listening.
