Okay, hopefully everyone can see that. Thank you so much for the opportunity to visit with
you all virtually and share some thoughts with you. If anybody wants to get in touch with me
or download the software, the primary data, any of those things, everything is here at this website.
So today what I want to talk about is this notion of agential materials and how we are
going to engineer with such materials. These are the main points that I would like to transmit
to you today. First, that most problems in biomedicine and also in synthetic bioengineering
boil down to the control of morphogenesis. And I'm going to frame this problem as the behavior
of a collective intelligence of a cellular swarm in a particular problem space we call anatomical
morpho space. I'm going to emphasize that biology uses a kind of multi-scale competency architecture
which consists of hierarchical problem solvers in various problem spaces. And we and evolution
and various parasites and so on can exploit this kind of architecture and the interface that cells
and tissues use to shape each other's behavior. I'm going to, in particular, tell you that
bioelectrical networks are a large part of the medium through which this collective agent
processes information and they're basically the ancestor of the nervous system and brain function.
And I'm going to tell you that tools now exist that we have created to read and write memories
into this software layer that sits between the genome on the one hand and the anatomy
and function on the other hand. And there are many, many applications here in birth defects,
regeneration, cancer, and synthetic bioengineering. So I want to start with this idea.
Most of the problems of biomedicine, so we're talking about birth defects, traumatic injury,
cancer, aging, degenerative disease, they all have one fundamental thing in common which is that
if we understood how to convince a collection of cells to build a particular structure,
these problems would be solved. So I see the end game of our field as something I call the
anatomical compiler. So let's have a vision of what success for us would look like.
Success means that if we knew what we were doing, we could have a system where you sit down at a
computer and you draw the animal or plant that you want to have at the level of anatomy. And then
what the system would do is compile that description down into a set of stimuli that would have to be
given to some kind of source cellular material to get it to build exactly what you want. So in this
case you might draw this three-headed planarian and there it would create that. So the crux of our
problem is how do we control the emergence and scaling of cellular activities towards your desired
complex three-dimensional outcome. Now of course we don't have anything remotely like this, we have
a very few examples where we can actually control shape in this way. And part of that is because
we are still largely thinking about engineering in this way. Now of course we're moving, but
we're moving from this position where for many, many, in fact thousands of years we've engineered
with passive materials. What's important about this kind of spectrum is that the question of
what can you expect the material to do when you are not around to micromanage it. So this traditional
material, pretty much the only thing it does is it maintains its shape. That's the autonomous
feature that it has. Once you've created it you put it in place and it maintains. Now of course
more recently there has been a lot of exciting work on active matter and computational materials.
And today we're going to talk about what I call agential materials, which is what happens when
you come to living cells. And that's why this anatomical compiler idea is not a 3D printer. The
idea isn't to micromanage and place every cell where you want it to go, but actually it's a
communications device. It's a way to transmit your desired target morphology to the computational
agent that is this collective of cells. Now that's a very weird way of thinking about this
problem, so let me try to explain how we got there. This here is a single cell. And so this is a
lacrimaria. And what you can see is that if you're into soft robotics or active matter you can see
the incredible control that this little guy has over his body shape. It manages to solve all of its
local goals, so metabolic needs, physiological needs and so on, at the level of a single cell
with there's no brain, there's no nervous system, everything is done within this one cell. And so
each of us has taken this incredible journey from being some kind of an unfertilized oocyte,
so a little collection of quiescent chemicals, to being something like this or perhaps even
something like this, a metacognitive human that's going to make statements about how distinct humans
are from mere matter that was here. And of course what developmental biology shows us is that this
process is extremely continuous. It's slow and gradual. There's no magical bright line that
you can draw at which you stop being a physical dynamical system and you start being a cognitive
system. This is a slow process. So that means that certain capacities that we recognize up here,
which are very common, we need to ask where did they come from and what other unconventional
systems might have those properties. And this is the field of basal cognition. So cells do many
interesting things. This is a cell. So cells have these interesting morphological capabilities.
This is also a cell. This thing can be up to 10 centimeters tall. This is an acetabularia.
It has a stalk. It has some roots down here. It has a cap. The whole thing is one cell. It has
one nucleus. The whole thing is one cell. So as you think about morphogenesis and this idea of
differentiation and different cell types, you can actually do all of this quite large in one cell.
This here also is one cell. This is a physarum polycephalum slime mold. The whole thing is one
cell. And so this is the work of Neurosia Murugan in my group. And what she's done is to place one
glass disc here, three glass discs here. They're just glass. They're completely inert. There's no
chemicals. There's no food gradient, nothing like that. And what you'll see is that for the first
few hours, it sort of grows in all directions like this. And you think it might just keep growing.
But what it's actually doing during this time is using biomechanics to pull out to pull on the
medium that it sits on and receive back the mechanical signals that allow it to measure
strain angle. And even though these glass discs are extremely tiny and light, what it will do is
reliably realize that there's more of them here than there is here. And this is quite a reliable
process. And so all of this time is spent acquiring information from the outside world, making a
decision. And at this point, boom, right here is where you see that it's already decided what it's
going to do. And you can play all kinds of interesting games about stacking these on top of
each other and tilting it and do various things. So even even very primitive single cell organisms
have these amazing morphological and behavioral capacities. And in fact, here, your your behavior
is the change of morphology. This animal sort of this this creature sort of straddles those two
problem spaces. So, so here's what we're looking at in biology, we're looking at a multi scale
competency architecture where every layer is not just the nested doll of structurally, but it's
actually a set of nested problem solvers that are able to have various capabilities, so not
passive materials, but various capabilities, including down to the level of protein networks
that solve problems in anatomical space, transcriptional space, physiological space,
and so on. And this enables some amazing capabilities. I just want to run through with
you some of the things that life is capable of that we don't hear a lot about in our standard
textbooks. So this is a flatworm, a planarian. And the amazing thing about planaria and they
have a true brain and all the neurotransmitters that you and I have and so on. And what you can
do with these planaries, you can cut them into pieces and every piece will give rise to an entire
perfect worm. So they're they regenerate. What McConnell learned in the 60s was that if you
train this animal to recognize some some kind of specific stimulus, you cut off the head,
the tail sits there doing nothing for about eight to 10 days, eventually it grows a brand
new brain. And then you find out that this animal actually remembers the original training.
So what you have here is the ability to store behavioral memories somewhere outside the brain,
and then to imprint that information onto the new brain as it develops. So the movement of this
of information throughout the body and a tight integration of morphological information. In
other words, how do we create this new head with behavioral information? What was the content of
the mind that this primitive animal had? And this is this kind of plasticity, this amazing
plasticity both of behavior and of morphology is not just for invertebrates. Here's something that
Doug Blackiston in my group did years ago. He created this tadpole, which has no primary eyes.
So this is the tadpole of the frog Xenopus lavas. Here's the mouth, the nostrils, the brain, the
gut. And so you'll see there's no eyes. But what he did do is to put some eye cells on the tail.
Now, these eye cells, first of all, had no trouble becoming an eye, even though they were sitting
next to muscle instead of where they belong next to the brain. But then what we found out but having
built a machine to automate the training and testing of these animals, they can see quite well.
And this eye confers vision. It doesn't connect to the brain, actually. In some cases, it connects
up here to the spinal cord. And you can sort of trace the optic nerve. It connects to the spinal
cord. And just think this animal, which had a very particular sensory motor architecture for
evolutionary time periods, all of a sudden in one generation has a totally different architecture.
So now there's this weird itchy patch of tissue on its back that gives some kind of electrical
signals. And this brain has no trouble recognizing that this is visual data and to behave accordingly.
So that ability to adjust to novel scenarios on the fly without needing eons of evolutionary
selection for it has massive implications. It has massive implications for evolution itself,
for biomedicine, and for our ability to use cells and tissues in engineering, because they are not
passive elements. They are actually problem solving, little problem solving engines. So
the thing is that now that probably sounds very strange to many people in the audience,
because we as many animals are very good at recognizing intelligent behavior in the three
dimensional world. So our sense organs, our cognitive apparatus is really tuned to pick up
a gentle behavior from middle sized objects moving at medium speeds in three dimensional space. So
when birds and mammals do clever things, it's very easy for us to know that. But there are other
spaces, including transcriptional spaces, morphological spaces and physiological spaces,
that where biological systems execute very similar kinds of intelligent behaviors. And if we had
imagined, for example, if you had an innate sense of your blood chemistry, the way that we do with
vision and smell and so on, if you could feel the different components of your blood chemistry,
you would have no trouble recognizing your liver and your kidneys and so on as intelligent agents
that were navigating that space with all kinds of interesting competencies. I'll give you a
simple example. Here are, again, these planaria, what we did, and this is this is the work of
Maya Emmons Bell and Angela Tong in our lab. And what they did was to take a planaria and put them
in the solution of barium. Barium is a nonspecific potassium channel blocker. What it does is it
makes it impossible for the cells in the head to exchange potassium. That makes the cells extremely
unhappy, of course, especially the neurons, and their heads explode, literally just overnight,
boom, their heads are gone. But the amazing thing is that if you leave these planaria in barium,
in fact, refreshing the barium as needed, they will soon build a brand new head, and the new head
is completely barium insensitive. Now, that seemed very strange to us. How could that be? And so
what we did was we did a very simple experiment, which was to compare the gene expression of barium
adapted heads with normal heads, and we found that there's only a small number of genes that are
different. So out of the whole genome, some tens of thousands of genes, it found exactly the right
transcripts to up and down regulate in order to make up for this really drastic environmental
stressor. Now, here's the most amazing part, which is that, of course, planaria never encounter
barium in the wild. There's no evolutionary pressure to know what to do when you encounter barium.
That just has never happened. So what we're looking at here is an amazing ability to navigate the
very large dimensional space of gene expression to find exactly the ones you need to solve your
problem. I often envision this as sort of being stuck in this nuclear reactor control room,
where the thing's melting down, you have 20,000 different buttons. How do you know what to do
if you've never seen the stressor before? And the key, of course, is that you don't have time to
simply start turning genes on and off to see what happens, and there's no time for that. And,
of course, most of that would make things worse, not better. So they have this really incredible
ability, which we still really don't understand, although I have a hypothesis about what's going
on here, that allows them to navigate competently this kind of space. This is a problem-solving
example. They are able to adapt to a new stressor that they've never seen before.
Now, this is transcriptional, and there are many such examples that I could give you,
but I want to, in particular, next focus on morphogenetic space, problem-solving in anatomical
morpho space. So we start life like this. This is a collection of embryonic blastomeres,
and then eventually, we get to something like this. This is a cross-section through a human
torso. Look at the amazing order. Look at all the organs, the structures. Everything is in the
right place, the right shape and size relative to each other. So you might ask, where is this
pattern encoded? It's got to be somewhere. And of course, one is tempted immediately to say DNA,
but we can read genomes now. We know what's in the DNA. What's in the DNA is the descriptions of
the micro-level hardware that every cell gets to have, the proteins. The genome doesn't say
anything directly about what the layout here is, what kind of symmetry it has, whether it's
regenerative, how many fingers does it have fingers. The DNA doesn't say anything like that
anymore than the DNA directly specifies the shape of termite colony nests or spider webs.
These are all the results of a physiological software layer that sits between the genome
and the anatomy. And so what we would like to understand is a few things. How do these cell
groups know what to make and when to stop? How, if something is missing, how do we repair it?
And as engineers, and this will be the last part of the talk, how far can we push this? So what
else can you build given a default genome? Does it have to be this or can you build something else?
Now you might think that, well, this problem really should have been solved a long time ago. We
have all kinds of genetic information, molecular biology and so on, genomics. Well, here's a very
simple example. These are baby axolotls, and baby axolotls have little tiny forelegs. This is
tadpoles of the frogs and a puslavus. They do not have legs at this stage. In our lab, we make
something known as a frogolotl, which is part frog, part axolotl. Okay, so now I ask a simple
question. If I were to make this frogolotl, is it going to have legs? After all, you have the
axolotl genome, you have the frog genome. Can you tell me if a frogolotl is going to have legs or not?
And if it is going to have legs, can you tell me whether those legs will be made only of axolotl
cells or whether the frog cells will somehow participate in this process? And by the way,
what will the shape of those legs be? Will they be like axolotl legs or like frog legs or what?
And of course, we have no ability to derive any of these things from genomic information.
So here's where we stand today. Biologists are very good at manipulating cells and molecules,
and of course, information about those cells and molecules and pathways. So we have a really
good handle on stuff like this. We are a very long way away from control of large-scale form and
function. If we wanted to change, you know, if you wanted to convert an axolotl to three-fold
symmetry instead of bilateral symmetry, what genes would you change? You know, we have absolutely
no idea how to do things like that. And so I think that both biomedicine and engineering are where
computer science was in the 40s and 50s. What she's doing here in order to program this computer is
she's physically rewiring it, right? She's having to interact with a bare metal, with a hardware.
And all of the most exciting kinds of advances in molecular medicine is this. It's a genome editing
protein engineering pathway rewiring. It's mostly focused at the hardware. And I think that we need
to complement that with the approaches that computer science took, which is to now understand, go up
and understand and take advantage of the software of the system. And I'm going to argue that biology
is reprogrammable in exactly the same way that universal kinds of computing devices are reprogrammable.
And in particular, what we're missing and what we are trying to work on is being able to
exploit higher level information processing, what we call agency memory, decision making,
problem solving, goal directed activity. Now, I'm going to use some terms from time to time as
things like intelligence and problem solving. And what I mean is not some sort of mystical
magic, magical feature that only humans have. So what I mean is a definition like one used
by William James, who said that intelligence is simply the degree of ability to reach the
same goal by different means. There's also a quantitative cybernetic version of this,
which is due to Wiener and colleagues, which basically looks like this. This is a spectrum
of competencies all the way from passive matter, all the way up through to let's say human level
metacognition and things like that. And so the point is to benefit from ideas and behavioral
science and cybernetics and computer science to understand how we deal with and how we engineer
