Oh yeah, we were going to start with Le Chatelier's principle and talk about that.
So what we've said so far is that once you once a chemical reaction reaches equilibrium,
it should stay in equilibrium forever, assuming nothing changes.
And Le Chatelier came up with some ideas about what to think about when or if a reaction
changes.
What happens in a reaction, for example, if you add or remove some material from your reaction,
will equilibrium be reestablished? And if it is reestablished, what changes? Does the reaction
shift to the reacted side or the product side? What happens to those concentrations? So these
things are really kind of practical. So if you're a practical working chemist and you're trying
to make a reaction go, or the reaction has gone, but you want to get back to the products,
you know, you can fiddle some of the stuff we're going to talk about today to make a reaction
change its stripes. So let's talk about a particular example. Sorry.
So a good example is this equilibrium between hydrogen gas and iodine gas. So that'll reach
some kind of an equilibrium with hydrogen iodide. And this is a balanced equation,
stoichiometric coefficient here is two, and it's one and one. So right away, we can write down the
equilibrium constant. So if we get this reaction to go to equilibrium,
you know, if it doesn't go so far that it's either all product or maybe the reaction
doesn't occur at all, and it's all reactants, then we can wait a while and we can measure these
concentrations. And so just to refresh the numerator is the products. So it's a concentration of HI,
and it's squared because the coefficient here in front is two. And then the denominator is the
concentrations of the reactants. So H2 concentration at equilibrium times I2 concentration at equilibrium.
And actually, so the units for this one, it's molarity squared on the top and molarity squared on
the bottom. So this k, this equilibrium constant would be dimensionless. And we didn't have to
bring in any of our special rules. Remember, we had some rules for if any of the reactants were
solids or liquids, we would not include them in the reaction in the equilibrium constant.
All right, so let me check that. I want to check that real quick. Oops, let me go back. Didn't we talk about that?
Yeah, here's where we talked about that. We do not include solids in the equation
or liquids in the equation. So and that'll be real important a little bit later as well.
So there's our reaction and there's the equilibrium constant for this reaction.
But let's go back. Remember, in the previous chapter, we talked about rate constants.
So let's talk about the forward reaction rate for this guy. And when we apply our rules,
now we don't have enough information right now to put coefficients on this. But we know that the
forward reaction rate is going to depend on the concentrations of the reactants. So there's a
concentration of hydrogen raised to some power and the concentration of iodine raised to some power.
And then this coefficient out front. Now we don't, if you remember back, we talked about the fact that
we cannot, we cannot use the balanced chemical equation to write these coefficients. This is kind
of important. And then the reason I'm emphasizing it is when we wrote down the equilibrium equation
up here, we did use those coefficients. Alright, so we did use this too and make h i squared.
And we left the power of one here and the power of one here because there was a coefficient of
one here. Okay, so yes, on the equilibrium constants, we do have everything we need to know
in the equation. For the reaction rates, we do not. We need experimental data to determine the x
in the y and the k. And y'all have done some problems. If you've worked on the online lab,
you hopefully got to the point where you can almost do these mentally, at least the x and the y,
just by staring and looking at ratios. The k probably takes a pencil and some paper to write
down and maybe a calculator as well. Alright, so anyway, so the forward reaction rate is given
by a formula that's going to look like this. And the backward reaction rate, because remember,
at equilibrium, the reaction is also going backwards. It's only going to depend on the
concentration of h i. Now, it's also raised to some power z. And there's a different reaction rate
constant here. And so I put a k sub b, k going backwards. So this k is not going to be equal
to this k necessarily. In fact, without, again, without knowing the x and the y and the z,
I can't tell you what the units on k are. But there's a good chance that the units are going
to be different for the two k's and numerically they'll be different. But these are the two reaction
rates. And remember, at equilibrium, we find that these two things are numerically equal.
Alright, so this is important because this discussion that we're about to go through,
we refer to the equilibrium constant and the reaction rate both. And so we want to try to
keep that. So we're actually going to talk through it twice. So let's suppose that to this
reaction that's an equilibrium, we open a valve and squirt some more hydrogen in there.
That sounds just like that. Everybody do that. I'm teasing you.
Anyway, so we put more hydrogen gas into this reaction. So let's let's step through and see
if we can think about what happens. So the first thing that happens is that
the forward reaction rate will increase. So this forward reaction rate, which depends directly
on the hydrogen ion hydrogen concentration. So so really what happened is once we squirted in some
hydrogen, we moved away from equilibrium. So this equation actually we can't even use it at this point.
Because we're not this this says we have to use the concentrations at equilibrium.
And we don't know what the new equilibrium concentrations are because we just changed
the reaction. But we can say that the forward reaction rate increased because we know this
concentration increased. Are y'all following that logic there? All right. So once that reaction rate
increases, we know then that the amount the concentration of HI, the product is going to
increase. So we started moving faster in the forward direction. And the immediate result of that is
more HI is produced. All right. And so that to make more HI that uses some of the hydrogen we put in,
plus we need more of the hydrogen, iodine. So that means then that the concentration of hydrogen
is going to start trending down. And the concentration of iodine is going to start trending down.
All right. So now we're so the we jumped up the amount of hydrogen. And so now we're going to say
that the hydrogen jumped up. But now the concentration is going to come down. When those come down,
that means then this forward reaction rate is going to start decreasing as well.
All right. And then because we have more hydrogen iodide, it's iodic acid is what it is. Iodic acid
because remember things that start with an H. We're trying to tell you that it's an acid. So
iodic acid. Since that concentration has increased, the backward reaction rate is going to increase.
And so you've got a increased forward reaction rate and a that's coming down and you have a
backward reaction rate, which is going up. And they're going to meet, they're going to come and
reach equilibrium at some point. Okay. So that's a complicated number of steps. So let's go through
that again. All right. And this time we'll use the figure that's in the book. So there's a reaction.
And there's our equilibrium concentration, our equilibrium constant and our two rate equations.
So here's the diagram in the book. So initially, before at the first time, the hydrogen and iodine
were added to a reaction vessel. The reverse reaction wasn't going on because there was no
H. I produced. So but as time went on, the forward reaction was occurring hydrogen and iodine
were being consumed. And so that rate was slowing down. And then H. I was increasing. So its rate
was increasing. And eventually we reached an equilibrium point. And that's point number one
here. So the reaction was at some equilibrium rate constant, which we can write down.
All right. Then we added hydrogen. All right. And this is when things went wacky. All right.
And so immediately, when you added hydrogen, the forward reaction rate jumps up.
And so that's this immediate rise in the forward reaction rate, because all of a sudden,
the amount of hydrogen is increased. So you see then that since that's a multiplier in this
forward reaction rate, that reaction rate increases. So that reaction rate starts to go up dramatically.
Also, after some time, the forward reaction rate slows down because you're producing H.
I, which means then that both of these concentrations are starting to come down.
So the forward reaction rate starts to slow down. At the same time, the reverse reaction
rate is going up because again, you've got more H. I produced. So this backwards reaction
rate is increasing. And eventually, they will reach some kind of equilibrium.
So now this, this is, I don't know. I guess I don't know this reaction. I don't know if this is
a realistic time scale. But it might be, it might be that that's data from a real lab doing this
experiment. So now you have an equilibrium constant, which was initially down here for that first
mixture. And now it's up here because we can now calculate a new K. And so the hydrogen
iodide concentration is going to be different. And these two concentrations are going to be
just different. So we end up with our K being a different value. And that's shown here here.
Originally, it was about, what is that, level 0.0. Yeah. So, so you can see these, these two
things are going to have different numbers. I can't read them. All right. So the Chatelier's principle
gives us some idea of what goes on here so that we reach a new equilibrium when the conditions
change. So in this case, the way we change the conditions is we added some reactant to it.
And so let's talk about other ways. Well, let's write down. So the Chatelier says that when a stress
is applied to a reaction that's an equilibrium, the reaction is going to shift in a way
so that that stress is relieved and it restores equilibrium.
So one day, Ian was making a Mother's Day gift for his mom and she needed this three-legged stool.
All right. She just needed one because she cooks in the kitchen and she would love to have a,
like, a countertop-tied three-legged stool. Well, Ian does that. He's a great woods craftsman.
And so he makes it and he gets the legs where they're about
equal. And so the stool is nice and stable. But then his mom tries it and she realizes, well,
that's going to make it too tall. So she says, Ian, can you make this stool shorter for me?
Make it about a foot shorter. All right. Well, Ian's kind of mad at that point because he worked
is to hooties off to go make that stool in the first place and he got it stained and it's beautiful
and now he's got to cut the legs off. So he takes it to the shop and he's kind of mad. So he doesn't
do it very carefully. And so he cuts about a foot off of each leg. And so he takes it back in there
and says, try this. And now she gets on it. But since he didn't take his time and
measure the legs, he just did it by eyeball. Now he's got one leg that's shorter. And so now the
stool works. It's not going to, it's about the right height, but it's crooked. So now she sits on
the stool and she's, you know, she's got to decide that she want to lean towards the counter. She
certainly doesn't want to lean, set the stool so she leans backwards. So now Ian realizes he's got
some more work to do. So he has to go and he has to trim off the legs so that they are equal.
And so he makes a smaller adjustment because he knows if he cuts off another foot, it's going to
be too short and he's going to have to start all over again. So Ian is kind of like Le Chatelier's
principle. He's going to have to trim those legs so that the new equilibrium, which means the stool
is the right height and its level. And then his mom will be happy and she'll be very happy on Mother's
Day. Ian, Mother's Day is coming up in a couple of weeks. So be thinking, man, be thinking. So anyway,
so that's just a stupid example of how things can be an equilibrium that they change and they have
to reestablish equilibrium. I guess the other one I thought of was like the springs on a car.
So maybe you have a car and with you sitting in it, you know, it goes down the road pretty nicely.
But then you get all your teenage buddies in there. So now you got 20 people in the car.
They're all jammed in there. And so you're carrying 20 times as much weight.
The car is going to sit lower on the ground towards the ground, right? Because the springs are
compressed more. And also when you go down the road, it's going to bounce and feel differently.
So it might be too unstable to drive now that you've got all those buddies in there. So there's
lots of times when we understand that we have a mechanical system and equilibrium,
but we perturb it and it'll eventually go back to equilibrium, but it may take some time.
And the results may not be very satisfactory. But chemists do this as well. And so they depend
on the Chatelier's principle that if you have a system and you kick it, and we'll talk about
different ways to kick it, it can go back to equilibrium. So the other thing is that in this
principle, when we're talking about equilibrium, we're going to ignore any solids or liquids
that come about or that are in there as a result of the stress. So if your reaction involves a
chunk of metal in the bottom of the reactor, if you took out half of the metal, it's not going to
change this equilibrium in terms of the Chatelier's principle. So let's talk about other ways. So we
just did an example where we changed the amount of a reactant and we kind of hand-waved our way
through the fact that we get a new equilibrium. But what about pressure? Let's talk about what
happens when we apply an additional pressure. So you apply pressure, so you've got your reactants
in the cylinder with a piston, and maybe you press the piston down. And you want to know
which way the reaction shifts. Well, if you apply additional pressure, the reaction will shift away
from the side with the largest number of gas molecules. So if it's a gas reaction, like the
one we had, let's go back up to this reaction. So here, well, this doesn't work because we've
got two moles of gas on one side and two moles on the other. So that's not a good one. Okay, so sorry.
I didn't write down a good example. But there are some in the book. So if you have one where there's
say three moles of gas on the left side and two moles of gas on the right side, then when you increase
the pressure, it's going to shift away from the side with the largest number of gas molecules.
So in that case, you would shift towards the side with two moles of gas. And conversely,
if you decrease the pressure, it'll shift toward the side with the largest number of gas molecules.
But if there's, if it's a case where there's either no gases, so it could be an all liquid reaction,
or if the number of gas molecules is the same on both sides of the equation, there's no effect
due to a pressure change on equilibrium. So even though you've changed the pressure, if you, like
in this HI thing, I can use it for this. So here we've got two molecules on the left,
one molecule of H2 and one molecule of I2, and two molecules of HI on the right. And these are all
gaseous forms. So if I change the pressure, that wouldn't change this equilibrium constant
calculation. So we would not have the same type of thing for this reaction. It could change the
pressure. So I guess it kind of worked out there. All right. So that's, that's a pretty simple set
of rules. You just have to remember to count the number of molecules, not atoms, not solids,
and not liquids. Okay. Just the gases in the, in there. So let's say just on page 542,
there's a good example of this.
Okay. So yeah, there's a, so a solid ammonium chloride
is an equilibrium with ammonia gas and HCl. And so there's three questions there. It says,
which way was the reaction shift is pressure is increased. So on the right side, you have two,
two molecules of gas. And on the left side, you have zero. So if you increase the pressure,
it's going to move away from the right side, where you have two molecules of gas towards the left side.
And what will happen if you decrease the pressure? Well, it goes the opposite way. It'll go from the
solid side towards the gaseous side. And then the question is what, which way was the reaction
shift? If more of the solid is added, and we have the rule that if we add or subtract solids from
a reaction, it doesn't change the equilibrium constant. So I'm sorry, I didn't write down that
formula here. I guess I was being lazy. So, all right. So that's, that's how to rationalize.
So you can imagine trick questions. All right. I could give you a reaction where
everything is in a solid form or aqueous form and ask you about the pressure changes.
All right. You're going to have to remember this third rule. And so maybe it'll be hard to count
the number of molecules of gas in the equation. So depending on the exact form of the equation.
So, all right. So the other thing that we can usually pretty easily change in our reactions
is the temperature. So this requires a little bit of funny thinking or different thinking. So
remember back when we started doing the thermodynamics and we talked about endothermic
reactions and exothermic reactions. Well, we said that before we started talking about
enthalpy and the enthalpy of a reaction, we said that, for example,
reaction and endothermic reaction, we have the reactants, we may have to add some energy
to get to the products. And that energy as an entity shows up on the left side. So we
have the reactants and we add some energy to it and we end up with the products. And these products
have more internal energy, either in terms of bonds or whatever. And so the energy is accounted for.
It's just not, it goes in. So this actually starts to behave as if it's part of the chemical
equation. So Le Chatelier says that raising the temperature is like adding a reactant to this
equation. So it's energy, it's not the same as putting molecules in there. But what will happen
