then is if we add in some reactants, the reaction will shift to the right. So adding reactant causes
more product. So this reaction is going to shift to the right so that it can make more product.
And so the principle that Le Chatelier is this, that when temperature is raised,
the equilibrium will shift away from the side of the reaction that contains more energy. So it
shifts away from the higher energy products. And that makes sense because if you remember
we had those pictures of the reaction coordinate and the energy. So if we put more energy into it,
it's going to shift in a way to shove the products either to the right or to the left.
And when the temperature is lower, the equilibrium will shift toward the side of the reaction that
contains more energy. So you can make the reaction go to the right side or to the left side by either
adding energy or raising the temperature or cooling it, which means you're taking energy out
and you can shift it to the other side of the reaction. So Le Chatelier's principle
gives us the idea of some of the tools that a chemist might need to figure out how to make a
reaction go to completion. So like sometimes if a chemist is synthesizing a new drug,
well, this is way before it becomes a production drug. So he's trying to do a chemical synthesis
and make a reaction occur. The ideas of Le Chatelier's principle come into play pretty
dramatically. So one of the things they can do is salt in or salt out. So if you have a reaction
in water, one of the things you can add is sodium chloride. So that actually becomes part of the
reaction and you can drive a reaction. So say that you want something to precipitate out,
you can put salt in your solution and then all of a sudden you get more solid out,
it'll drive the reaction in a way to give you more solid of the reactor that you want.
So chemists use these principles all the time to shove this equilibrium from one side of the equation
to the other. So let's talk about that a little bit with regard to acid-base equilibrium. So remember
in an acid-base reaction, the fundamental form, and this was actually, I think, an extra credit
problem. So if you take an acid and a base and combine them, what we said then, we said that
that reaction would go all the way and produce salt and water. Well, it doesn't really do that.
Typically what happens is you end up with an equilibrium mixture. In the general form, so for
example, we would take, if we had hydrochloric acid and we put that into water where there was some
hydroxide in there, which is a counter iron. Sorry, got a dog interruption here. Thank you.
Come here, Maggie. What you got, girl? Thank you. I guess I'm babysitting the dog right now.
Come on, sit down. Oh, she's mad now. So the acid
reacts, and we can think of this as a two-step reaction. So the first thing that we can think
is happening is the HCl dissociates. This is a dissociation reaction into hydrogen ions
and chloride ions. Then those hydrogen ions in solution will combine with the OH hydroxide
ions to produce HCl liquids. That means then that really what's going on in an acid-base
equilibrium reaction. One of the things you can think of is this is an acid ionization reaction
and basically we produce a hydrogen ion separately from the acid molecule and they can be donated
to something else in a reaction. What's the matter, girl? Is this chemistry bugging you?
What you treat? Good girl. Sorry. That's my Maggie, girl.
All right. So what we talk about is we write down the general form of this. We say
that lowercase a moles of acid HA. Remember, we write the H. Typically, if we can, we write
the chemical formula where the H is out front so we know this is an acid. So H is going to become the
proton in solution and A is going to be the conjugate base. So this acid dissociates into
B moles of hydrogen ions and C moles of the conjugate base. Then we can write down this
equilibrium relationship. So in equilibrium, it's the concentration of hydrogen ions and then
we have the
conjugate base concentration. Again, without knowing the stoichiometric coefficients
in particular, we can't really put these coefficients on here. Let's look at an example
for water. Okay. Talking about pure water, what does it do? Well, it turns out that if you have
H2O liquid and if you remember, when did we do that? We wrote down that sometimes in a reaction
something can act as a base and sometimes it can act as an acid. But in H2O, what happens is you get
a dissociation. So you get some hydrogen ions and some hydroxide ions and that's an equilibrium
with the H2O liquid. So what we would write then is that the equilibrium constant of that
acid base equilibrium, because the H2O is a liquid, we ignore that. And so the equilibrium constant is
just for the hydrogen. It just involves the hydrogen ion and the OH ion at equilibrium.
And that's a special number. It turns out that for water at room temperature, that's a constant.
So that's the equilibrium constant for water. So k sub w. And people have measured that and we know
that for pure water kind of emphasis on pure. And it's very difficult to get pure water just so
you know. It's not the drinking water that you drink is very far from typically pure. And so that's why
sometimes when you buy, I don't know what the brands are, EVON and
Mountain Spring, water, Billy Bob's, Tetfosset, whatever. I don't know. So sometimes they'll give
you the pH of that water and we're going to talk about pH. But what that means, so when it's not
equal to a value, then that we're going to talk about in a minute, we find that
anyway, you'll find that for pure water, the equilibrium constant is 1 times 10 to minus 14.
And is that dimensionless? I guess.
I don't know why that doesn't have any dimensions. I'm going to have to think about that.
Okay. So and usually, and actually I left a line out and since this is an equilibrium
and the stoichiometric coefficients are one, we know then that at equilibrium,
the concentration, in fact, let me, let me fix that.
So what that means is that the concentration of the hydrogen ion,
oops, I don't need superscripts there.
So
hydrogen ion concentration is equal to the OH ion concentration.
And that's equal to 1 times 10 to minus 7.
Oh, that's a superscript.
That's a superscript.
Oops, hold on.
I'm touching my mouse in all kinds of weird ways. Okay. So
okay, so that means that for pure water, these two concentrations are equal
at equilibrium and they're both equal to 1 times 10 to minus 7.
And so what we do is we talk about with how close we are, what the equilibrium is when we add in
things. If we add in some other ion, what will happen is this will shift. And so what we do is
we calculate the pH, which is the negative log base 10 of the hydrogen ion concentration.
And so that means that if the pH is less than 7, we say we have an acidic solution.
If the pH is equal to 7, we say it's neutral. And if the pH is greater than 7,
we say that it's a basic solution. So pure water has a pH of 7. And that as minerals or as other
ions get added, it'll shift that equilibrium. And so the hydrogen ion concentration will shift
in this way. All right, so that's kind of all I got.
Boy, so we have lots of time to talk about stuff. I could talk about acid rain. So what happens
in acid rain is that, in fact, let me go ahead. I should have had an acid rain slide. So I'll say
see the book. So in acid rain, what happens is from smokestacks, from places that burn
fossil fuels like coal-fired energy plants, and so forth, you get things going up into the
atmosphere like carbon dioxide. And carbon dioxide will combine and reach equilibrium with water
and the equilibrium thing as carbonic acid. So since I just said it's an acid, it's going to have a
pH less than 7. And so if that water, that moisture in the air comes down to the earth as
water, it'll be acidic water. And maybe that's not so good for some of the wildlife that the rain
falls on. The other thing that can go up from burning coal and stuff like that is sulfate.
And so sulfate gets up into the atmosphere and it reaches the equilibrium with the water
to be sulfuric acid. And so
that can rain down on people on plants and stuff. So the thing about acid rain is that
usually they're very weak acids and usually they're not that concentrated for that long.
But the U.S. Congress and EPA came up with some regulations and that's why we limit what can go
up a coal-fired stack. And so they had to implement clean coal practices. They had to scrub out the
sulfates and try to reduce. Well, you can't really reduce the CO2, so we still have some acid rain
from CO2. But maybe that's a good argument for nuclear power plants.
