we have in the brain that make optimality impossible.
And then the last question to me, it's the most exciting one, is so how are these computations
implemented in the brain, so how is it that the brain leads to these sorts of behaviors
where being optimal or not, Bayesian or not, we do see integration of sensory information
and prior information, and the question really is, how does the brain do it?
And there's been a lot said about priors being top-down and likelihood being bottom-up, but
exactly where these things are encoded and how these computations are implemented in the
different parts of the brain and through connectivity, exchanges between these areas
is still unknown.
So that leaves me to thank Roshini Randini who led the study, the sources of funding
and all of you for your attention.
Thanks very much.
Thank you, Marta.
Thank you so much.
Does anyone have any questions?
If you do, can you move to the Q&A podium on the right?
I'm not sure if I stopped sharing my screen or not.
I think Kevin has a question.
Okay.
Hello.
Thank you for this talk.
It was really nice and very interesting.
I guess I have some pedantic questions about the sample size, and I guess, did you do the
power analysis on your term as well?
And also, what was the, maybe you mentioned, what was the kind of diagnostic criteria you
used to try to identify people's autism traits and those were not it?
Yeah.
So in terms of the sample size, it's not a huge sample size.
It's around a 20-something for each.
Although we actually had more neurotypical individuals than we had autistic individuals,
as it's always the case with clinical populations.
And it's just pretty hard to get big samples with special populations.
It's pretty hard to get.
But in comparison to other studies, it's surprisingly big in comparison to the other studies that
have been done with autism.
What was your other question, sorry?
I think there was a couple.
What was about the power analysis done, I guess, kind of beforehand or after planned?
And also, what was the diagnostic criteria you used to figure out if you had autistic
or not autistic individuals in the sample?
Yeah.
So the diagnosis was done with an adult's interview.
So that was run by a clinical psychologist.
So the way we did the recruitment was through different organizations and also on campus.
And so when people came to us, they would have a self-reported diagnosis of autism.
But then we ran a, or the clinical psychologist that was working with us confirmed that diagnosis
for all of them.
And as I said, in my talk, a few of them did not meet criteria for that diagnosis, even
though they were self-reported autistics.
So we left those out.
In terms of power analysis, no, we didn't do a power analysis for this study.
Mostly because we didn't really have anything to base on.
This study had never really been done in autistic individuals.
So the best we could do was to use the same sort of sample size that had been used for
neuro-typical individuals.
Yeah, I know that's not satisfying, but that was really the best we could do.
Of course now, in going into the future, that's something that we can do more confidently.
Awesome, wonderful.
Thank you again and appreciate you answering the questions.
Does anyone, sorry, does anybody else have any more questions?
If not, I will let Pierre come on to the stage for concluding remarks.
And I will thank Dr. Marta Garido for your wonderful presentation that is closing our
conference.
Thank you very much.
