Well, the title of the talk is social media platforms trading with prediction error minimization
for your attention.
And for starting this talk, it's important to know that the nature of human culture is
to guarantee that specific well-bounded and highly viable states are frequented.
So culture defines where individuals will deploy their attention, which is attentional
practices, the affordances that are relevant and salient in a given moment.
So cultural affordances, acquisition by regiments of attention, can be understood as shared patterns
of attention and shared expectations, which reduce metabolic costs to minimize prediction
error.
So individuals' concerns have been shaped by learning in their social-cultural practices
determining what shows up as relevant in the field of affordances.
So we have the landscape of affordances, which are all the available possibilities of action
in a given environment.
And we also have our field of affordances, which are the emergent possibilities of action
that stand out as relevant or salient in a situated moment, which includes social-cultural
practices.
And in this field of affordances, we spend approximately 16 hours of one full walking
day.
And this field of affordances can be also understood as cultural affordances, which are possibilities
of actions that human encounter in their niches.
And these cultural affordances include natural and conventional affordances, which are in
some way socially constructed.
So natural affordances are reliable possibilities of action in a given moment.
Conventional affordances are possibilities of action, which depend on explicit or implicit
expectations, norms, conventions, social practices in individuals' ability to infer
the culturally specific sets of expectations.
Importantly, here is the social aspect, the social affordances, which are possibilities
of social interactions offered by the environment.
Importantly, we respond strongly to emotional content related to social interactions.
Our field of affordances is heavily populated by social cues that grab our attention.
So nowadays, individuals are immersed in both an offline geographical situated culture and
also in an online digital culture.
So together, they determine the patterns of attention that will be learned.
As all we know, COVID-19 pandemic brought deep global changes, pushing societies to an
online digital way of life.
And given the importance that digital world has taken in our lives, digital affordances,
which are online possibilities of actions, have become an enormous part of our cultural
landscape.
So it seems relevant to ask how much daily time we spend online connected, how much daily
time we spend on digital social platforms.
So we can start by telling the world's population right now, it's 7.8 billion people around
the world.
So in terms of internet use, it consists of 4.8 billion people around the world, which
is 61% of the world's total population.
And the daily time spent using internet is approximately 6 hours, 55 minutes.
So returning to our field of affordances, we can see that now it's divided.
Our time is divided in cultural affordances, which are offline and situated in the physical
world and digital affordances online and situated on a digital world.
So in my point of view, this division, the way we divide our field of affordances in
the digital and in the physical world is becoming more and more relevant.
So now in terms of social media use, there are 4.4 billion social media users around
the world, which is the 57% of the world's total population.
And importantly, in the past 12 months, there are 520 million of new users, which is a 13%
increase.
So one out of nine total users started within the past 12 months.
So more than 1.4 million new users join social media every day.
That is 15 new users per second.
Importantly, the question is how much daily time does a user spend using social media?
And in this graph, we can see the daily time spent using social media by country and in
white we can see the worldwide mean time spent using social media, which is 2 hours 25 minutes.
So now returning to our field of affordances, we can also divide this time spent in digital
affordances but now using digital social platforms or digital social affordances, which are online
possibilities of social interaction, specific to the attributes of a digital social platform.
And as you can see, if we spend 2.3 hours a day, it is 16 hours per week.
So we spend a full working day in social media platforms.
So the main aim of this work is to analyze under the active inference framework how the
field of relevant affordances is changing as a product of the use of social media platforms,
specifically how digital social affordances mediated by third parties are manipulating
our patterns of attention, affecting the meaningful content that is acquired, the way self-identity
is built, how beliefs are updated, as well as how social norms are learned.
Social emphasis is made on the users' monitoring of prediction aerodynamics, which is the rate
at which prediction error is minimized over time during the engagement with digital social
affordances in digital social platforms.
So two questions are relevant here.
Is the field of relevant affordances moving towards a biases anticipatory digital affordance
responsiveness?
Are digital social platforms changing our patterns of attention?
So what are digital social platforms?
Importantly, we have to understand that we live in data-fied times, which are determining
the design behind digital social affordances.
So the main aim is to increase the daily time users spend on digital social platforms in
order to keep them producing more and more data, because data is what generates value.
The strategy behind is amplifying what attracts their attention, the attention of the users.
So for doing so, this strategy uses learning algorithms, needing active participation of
humans to generate relevant data for training.
They learn to predict users' behavior and preferences to determine the information that
is assigned to each user.
They are tools that will find those patterns that will change the behavior of the users.
So in the free online culture model, users do not pay for using data services and neither
are paid for the data they input to digital services.
The goal behind is to produce data to generate more and more value.
Digital social platforms are mediated by third parties with economical interests, and here
we can see that 58% of digital share of total worldwide spend on advertising media is digital.
And this corresponds to $378 billion annually.
And importantly, in a year, the annual change worldwide in digital ad spend is a 13% increase.
So this is really valuable, economical proposals.
And well, important to highlight that the problem is not the digital social platforms per se.
The problem is the manipulation engine behind them.
So digital affordances can be studied under active inference framework and also focusing
on the role of prediction aerodynamics.
So how are affordances, or digital social affordances, selected in a given moment?
And here embodied feelings are the key.
They allow a sensitivity to how well or bad an agent is doing at improving its grip on
what is relevant in the landscape of affordances.
The sensitivity to changes in the rate of prediction error reduction is known as prediction
aerodynamics.
So the steeper the slope, the faster the rate of reduction.
And prediction aerodynamics are manifested as changes on affect.
So if the rate of error reduction is faster than expected, a positive balance or a positive
feeling is experienced, and the action policy is more precise as a result.
And if the rate of error reduction is slower than expected, or increasing unexpectedly,
positive balance or negative feelings are experienced, and the related action policy
becomes less precise.
So users encode in their cortical hierarchy the sets of expectations that correspond to
prefer digital social platforms in order to selectly engage with those relevant social
digital affordances.
So responsiveness to relevant digital social affordances, which are solicitations, need
possibilities for action, plus affective attractiveness, plus individuals' concern shaped by their
social cultural practices.
And policy selection is determined in terms of how likely it will lead to expected outcomes
plus the expected rate of error reduction.
And digital social platforms afford two categories of actions.
Digital social instrumental actions, which are intrinsically motivated behaviors directed
towards preferred social outcomes, and digital social epistemic actions intrinsically motivated
explorative behaviors directed to maximize information gain and rewarding social experiences.
So digital social platforms provide many, many different types of digital social affordances.
And we analyze some common ones, placing them into two categories.
Self-identity formation and some relevant affordances are problem-making, editability,
audience-grating, information-insuring, and meta-voicing.
Also belief-updating, category of belief-updating, which is some affordances are infinite scrolling,
information search, cost-rebalance, and notification checking.
This division is based on the effect that error reduction and its expected rate has on
users' beliefs about themselves and user beliefs about others and the world.
So we are working on it.
We are making this table dividing digital affordances in terms of self-identity formation
and belief-updating and the digital action with they are related to, so they can be epistemic
or instrumental, and also the desired outcomes that the user is searching for.
And also they design strategy behind each one of these affordances.
So because of time's concerns, I cannot explain each one of them, but all these digital social
affordances become as highly silent in the field of digital affordances because they
share a fast-expected rate of prediction error reduction.
So I want to explain two of them.
The first one is appearance-changing.
Appearance-changing affords to users to edit versions of oneself that seem positive.
And digital epistemic actions are done to explore identity and self-appearance.
This situation, of course, in a high-speed, there are high-speed comparisons.
So we share expectations about how we should look.
And when editing appearance for social approval, first, prediction error rapidly increases,
but a fast rate of prediction error reduction is expected due to internalized social standards.
This policy becomes highly relevant.
Information gain about self-appearance and social approval is very important.
And self-appearance prediction error can be minimized online and extremely fast.
And so the offline self-image becomes uncomfortable.
We cannot minimize our image in the mirror, but we can minimize prediction error by using
AI filters with social-cultural appearance standards.
And this is the strategy behind these digital affordances, which is motivating information sharing.
We can immediately change our own image by applying filters of desired social-cultural appearance standards.
So this has been called snapshot dysmorphia because unrealistic social-cultural standards
are provoking a maladapted internalization of social norms.
And we share these pictures of ourselves with these filters that are under these desired
social-cultural appearance standards.
And the second affordance I want to explain is infinite scrolling.
Infinite scrolling affords to users scrolling and scrolling their digital social platforms
endless feeds.
And digital social epistemic actions are not directly related to a specific anticipatory
utility, but its aliens pertain to please curiosity-related behaviors.
So users select salient information of their feeds, but this information is optimal for
error reduction.
And why is it optimal?
It's optimal because of the design strategy behind the engineer preferences of the algorithm
has learned about the user, what the user is going to select, what is salient and relevant,
and the error is optimal for its reduction.
So infinite scrolling, importantly, also allows a digital social-instrumental action which
has as an outcome finding out relevant digital solicitation.
So monitoring of prediction error dynamics and the associated feelings will increase
the attunement with those digital affordances that stand out as relevant.
So it is an instrumental action because we know that when we engage with infinite scrolling,
we are going to find out relevant affordances to engage with.
So optimal grip and digital social platforms.
Optimal grip is experienced as equilibrium.
So this equilibrium is experienced as an effective tension.
Liquid performance is enacted in the particular situation to reduce effective tension.
So a nice example is to step back in an elevator to fill this equilibrium again and reduce
the effective tension.
So affectivity can be understood as action readiness, playing a central role in structuring
the field of affordances.
Effectivity emerged in part as a reflection of error dynamics.
So the field of affordances will also be structured in a way where we are able to stay in touch
with our various cares and concerns.
So there are three dimensions in the field of relevant affordances, the width, the depth,
and the height.
The width is the broadness of the scope of affordances, choices, or different actions
options.
Depth, the temporal domain, the future possibilities for actions, anticipatory affordances, responsiveness,
and the height is the relevance and the salience of the affordances.
So here we can see a representation of the field of affordances.
And these affordances have different width, depth, and height, and also they have a corresponding
expected rate of prediction error.
So affectivity as action readiness and the sensitivity of error dynamics is key.
So if the environment changes and the individuals' concerns change, the salience relevant affordances
