is something like 1%. If you have kind of, this isn't how lawsuits happen, right? But like,
we want to get people down using some Bayesian reasoning to a risk level of around 1% or 2%
with something as serious as a heart attack. And so basically, every single person with chest pain
gets a troponin drawn, which is a blood test that looks for an enzyme that should only be inside
heart muscle. If we see it in blood, then some heart muscles of, you know, cells have broken open
and spilled troponin. You know, so that is an enormous burden. We also have medical interventions
that, you know, frankly, don't have a big payback. A lot of actually cancer screening
has very poor evidentiary base in terms of on a population level actually saving lives.
That's not a popular thing to say, but it's objectively true. There's, you know, a lot of
therapies. I mean, there's cancer drugs that extend life by a month or two, right? That come at great
cost. I mean, I just lost my dad to cancer. He wasn't on one of those really expensive drugs,
but like, I get it. I absolutely get it. You know, very interestingly, just as a sort of side
note back to nuclear, my dad got a medical isotope that's produced in a candor reactor.
You know, it's tagged to a molecule that specifically finds, you know, a receptor on
prostate cells, binds to them. And it's kind of like a radio pharmaceutical that like radiates
just the cancer cells in that way. Anyway, you know, like, I don't know, if your loved one had
a really complex medical condition and need an expensive treatment, I think it's hard to say
no to that. So I'm not sure what it looks like, but certainly there's a lot of, you know, excessive
testing that goes on. And borderline treatments, like again, like things like, and I'm not about
to give medical advice on your podcast here, but like a lot of people have this concept that's,
you know, one intervention, one cure, right? It's called the number needed to treat. So if you
have appendicitis, and I either, we can manage it sometimes just with antibiotics, but if I do
surgery on you and I take out your appendix, I've done one intervention, I've saved you, you know,
saved one life, right? There's things like trying to manage cholesterol to prevent heart attacks,
right? And then the number needed treat goes from maybe one for appendicitis up to sort of three,
four hundred, you know, to prevent a single heart attack, you might need to be on that
anti cholesterol medication, or you might need hundreds of people to be on an anti cholesterol
medication for, you know, five years diligently to prevent one heart attack. On a population level,
is that worthwhile? Maybe. And with antihypertensives, we certainly think so, right? So there's,
there's a lot of nuance here, but you know, if you were, if you were kind of ruthlessly develop a
cheaper healthcare system, you'd probably look at the numbers needed to treat the numbers needed
to investigate to prevent bad outcomes. There's a way that the math whizzes could could do that.
I'm just not sure that we just as we won't willingly sign up to degrowth, I don't think
we're going to willingly sign up to sort of degrowth therapeutic options.
No, we're not. But I think as much as our society is unsustainable, our current Western
healthcare model is unsustainable. So maybe we come back and do a deeper dive on that sometime.
So in lieu of asking you medical recommendations for my viewers, what about just general lifestyle,
behavior, poly crisis, human predicament, preparatory recommendations for my viewers? Do
you have any? It's going to be, it's going to be very generic, right? I mean, like eat well,
get good exercise, stay fit. I mean, I think stay positive. And I'm kind of because I listened to
your podcast so much, Nate, I do know some of the questions that are coming. And a big part,
I think a biggest part of like, if you're wrestling with this question of a great simplification,
and, you know, I wrestle with it. Sometimes I discount it all together. I look at it as a
kooky idea, I come back to it, I read your book, I read your work, etc. But, you know, certainly,
it's do me, it can provoke a doom reaction, right? I know, and I know that's, that's not your
intention. But certainly, I think a lot of people come across it and they go, we're fucked, we're
in big trouble. And what's the psychological reaction to that? And the sort of mental health
reaction, I think, very important that this message is coupled with an idea of agency,
like the, the, the kind of climate concern amongst Western youth, for instance, is crippling,
like people commit suicide over the stuff, people fall into, they see therapists about it for years.
The antidote to anxiety is empowerment, right? And, you know, I would, like, I mean, a couple
friends have thought about this, but never taken it on. So I'll spill the idea out here. And if
someone wants to run with it, I'd be very happy if they did. But, you know, this kind of 50 careers
for climate book we were thinking about, like for myself, when I was thinking about getting into
medicine, or as a youth, if you're looking into like, you know, I don't know what I want to be
when I grow up, you know, teacher, okay, but there's so many uninspiring teachers, when you find that
one teacher, that one role model that just blows your socks off, that makes you want to be a teacher,
you want to be like them, you want to identify someone who's done something heroic and otherwise,
you know, medicine can be a really boring profession. There's a lot of mediocre doctors or
uninspiring doctors or unfriendly doctors, you know, you need to find someone who inspires you.
But I think, like, really having a culture of try of excellence, like, yes, we have a brutal crisis
ahead of us, equip yourself, empower yourself, so you can help your fellow humans, right?
Like, I think that's the vital part, you know, in terms of trying to answer your question there
about, you know, how to stay healthy in this, in this kind of coming meta crisis, if your
predictions are true to me. I totally agree with you. What I don't want to see is the sort of,
like, and what I do see all the time is the tune in and drop out, right? I guess, is that like
Timothy O'Leary? I can't remember my drug, 1960s drug culture lore well enough, but like, you know,
in terms of like the kids out at the climate protests, it's sort of like, yeah, okay, we get
to quit school for a day, awesome. And we don't make up for it by studying more on Saturdays so
that we can become whatever it might be, like one of these careers for climate, maybe you become a
biotechnologist and you become, you're able to genetically engineer a crop that's heat tolerant
or saline tolerant or instance, right? I mean, you can do everything. Maybe you become an artist
or a musician and you raise people's spirits in a difficult time. But don't tune in, drop out,
try, and like, let's organize our society. I mean, like, in response to the Cold War and the
space race, you know, there was a massive effort in the States to have rocketry clubs and a big
investment in education because we didn't want to fall behind on the missile gap. I mean, the
motivations might have been terrible. But like, when you face a crisis, empower your youth, right?
Invest in them, provide them with it with the compelling narratives, because I'm just worried
that with, with, you know, some of the reactions people might have to your message, they get
depressed, they get deactivated, they, they, they get disempowered. And so I think that's like,
that challenge of how to communicate realistically, as you see it, a bit of a, well, frankly,
pretty pessimistic future, how to couple that with like, humanity has been through brutal,
dark times. Like, fuck, we've been through the Holocaust, we've been through World War II, like,
the last 40 years have been pretty amazing. Some of us have been through the Holocaust.
But I, but I get your point. I totally agree with you. A few follow-on comments and, and
clarifications. I'm not so much predicting the future as I'm laying out the different scenarios
that I see and, and neither one is good. Business as usual, headed to a mortar economy,
fueled by new productivity increases, continue to widen the size of the straw that draws down
our finite natural capital and the ecosystem's sink capacity of the earth will eventually,
itself, lead to a simplification. Or if, if that doesn't manifest, we, we have the musical chair
situation of, of our financial claims not being supported by the underlying resource access.
So it's more of painting the, the scenarios. But I will say, if the result of this podcast is
generally tune, tune in and check out, I will have failed.
No, and I'm, I'm certainly not suggesting that, but that, that is a common reaction.
It's not in my control. It's in control of, of the viewer's response. And I guess I have a
responsibility as do you as a hosting of public conversations to steer towards the empowering
of people. But I'm just a guy. You're just a guy. We're just trying to unpack with the nuance,
complexity and context a very, very complicated emergent evolving situation. And it's, it's not
easy. So I, I really recognize the potential for getting mental stress from hearing these topics.
And so far, I still fall on the decision that that is much better than the alternative,
which is some sort of toxic positivity. Oh, no, no, no, that's doomers stuff. Ignore that.
We've always solved problems before and we will again. In order to solve our problems,
we have to understand the system that we're a part of, which is your work and mine.
Well, Nate, that's exactly where this question of like having diverse viewpoints is so important.
One person can't take on the burden of like, Hey, my message is a bit worrisome. I'm going to make
a few people anxious. And, you know, you're one voice in a wilderness of different voices. And
your voice is, you know, it's been very influential and powerful for me. And I think many others
that follow the podcast, but you don't need to take on all that responsibility. There's a number
of other voices. And like, thank God, there, there is a diverse opinion. Like the super
abundance people drive me totally crazy. This is, this is an example of, of, you know, sometimes
when, when well articulated, I'm like, Oh, it's interesting. That makes me think about it a bit
differently. But I mean, just to kind of summarize the thesis, it's like, listen, you know, Julian
Simons was right. Paul Ehrlich was wrong. They bet on a bunch of commodities. They got cheaper,
not more expensive, despite resource quality going down. It's all about human ingenuity.
The more humans, the better, as long as there's a free market and kind of liberal democracy or
whatever, right? And humans are the master resource. And it's like, it's interesting.
And it does point to the importance of technology. But like, as I've come to see it,
you know, there are three sort of fundamental variables to how long we can ride this, you
know, this, this roller coaster we've been on. And there's kind of materials. And we know that
we access the best first, or grades are declining. You know, we're in a bit of trouble there in
terms of materials, we're papering over that with, you know, still very abundant and relatively
cheap energy and technological innovation. So the super abundance people are right. Like the
technology, the human ingenuity part is really, really important. They're delusional, because
they're, they're ignoring those other two factors. They're saying they can just be papered over.
But like I ecosystem thing, which is a big part that's missing. Yes. Yes. I tend to like Nate,
like I'm, I'm definitely in camp human. I'm definitely like on the human side, like if I'm
in the zoo with Harambe and the kid falls into the enclosure, I'm sorry, I'm going to shoot the
gorilla. Right. And part of that comes out of being a father, like, again, I'm just saying, you
know, anticipating your questions. What's most important to you? I guess like my son, right?
My fiance is right, right up there too. I don't, you know, if she's listening, mom, etc. But like,
we are social creatures in the social web. I think there's a temptation amongst, you know,
people that probably don't like being called Malthusians of, ah, man, we're a virus. There's
too many of us. And of course, that is always sort of begins at the end of your moral community,
of your social network, of your family, friends, you know, when you get to sort of being able to
dehumanize people because you just don't have any social relations with them. But that's a really,
for me, this is like the most difficult thing to disentangle, because yes, I love the natural
world, right? And we need to also just for the benefit of humanity, you maintain biodiversity
and pollinators and insect populations and stuff like that. But I'm not sure what I'm willing to
sacrifice in order to do that. And I don't pretend to have an answer. But I think again, it's, it's
part of music, why should I'm confused? I haven't reached a conclusion. Why should I be talking
about this? But like, this is the discourse that we need. And we need those delusional super
abundance people, we need people that are saying, Hey, there's firm limits. You know, we need people
who say, Yeah, but we've overcome them before, many people will say, Yeah, but that that ends
somewhere. And maybe that ends because of material constraints or energy constraints, right? Because
technology ain't going to keep soaring if we don't have these other two, leaving with the middle
finger. You know what I'm saying? I'm going to take your previous answer on removing Twitter as
your magic wand answer, which leads me to the final question. If you were to come back to this
show, and I expect you will, what is one topic that maybe we touched on or didn't even cover today
that you would be interested in taking a deep dive on that you think is relevant to human and
planetary futures? You know, again, like I'm someone who's not siloed, I don't have like
medicine might be kind of an area where I've got a bit of deep depth and, you know, knowledge
because of all the years put into studying it, like, I find it incredible. Sometimes my influence
specifically kind of politically, like we've had really enormous success. And in terms of the
long shot campaigns we've run in Canada to save a nuclear plant called Pickering, for instance.
And I'm like, you know, why are people listening to me? I'm a doctor, hobbyist, podcaster.
And it's because I'm able, I think, to kind of weave compelling narratives and tap into an incredible
network of experts while not being an expert myself. So sometimes I'm a little insecure if
I'm coming on your podcast and we're going to deep dive something, I got to confess,
yeah, I'm not an expert on really any one thing. It's more sort of pulling together the information
that I have into narratives. I do think this question of trying to like for you and for your
project, you know, there's a lot of time spent in imagining a future of what a great simplification
looks like. I think that needs more voices. Again, I haven't listened to every episode, right? But I
think the people that you generally have on to kind of imagine that with, you know, if I'm frank
in terms of my judgmental opinions, which are under researched, I'll be fair, but tend to be
folks from the kind of progressive environmental left, you know, permaculture sort of crew,
and I would like to see and maybe could contribute as someone offering a bit of a different
perspective that doesn't, you know, it's not that I don't appreciate those voices. And I think
it's important that there's people that study some of those concepts. But anyway, so I don't
know if that answers your question, but I don't know that I'd be able to come on and talk, you know,
deep dive a topic, but like everything we've touched on today has been, you know, interesting
and we've scratched the surface so there's more depth. Okay, so we'll have to think of a title
for this episode. Oh, man, good luck. But the title for the episode that you come back will be
something like a non progressive lefty permaculture view of the great simplification.
Yeah, I don't I'm not in the permaculture camp, unfortunately. So you can't you see
a disgusted party, you can't you can't. Okay, the disgusted party. Dude, this has been great. I
really appreciate your authenticity and the fact that you're not siloed and the fact that you're
non political and the fact that you deeply care about all these things. Do you have any closing
words for the viewers and listeners? No, I mean, Nate, I again, your work sent me on a bit of a
roller coaster of my own in terms of, you know, I was like, should I keep calling my podcast decouple
is decoupling even possible? You know, for brand recognition, I definitely kept the name. But yeah,
I've really enjoyed and I'm not just trying to fluff your ego here. I've really enjoyed your
contributions to this question of the human predicament. It's shaped me quite deeply. So I
don't I just I want to express some gratitude. I would love it if people from you know, in terms
of some shameless self promotion, I'd love it if people who were interested in this conversation
wanted to jump over and, and check out the decouple podcast, actually the very first episode,
the audio is not the best, but it really sort of, it's a time capsule, it kind of elucidates my
thinking from 2020. This idea of decoupling, which I think has has holes in it now. But yeah,
I mean, let's just keep learning together. Let's be tolerant. Let's really pursue free
speech as a as a core core value. And let's, you know, fuddle through this and make the best of
it that we can. Thank you, Dr. Kiefer to be continued, my friend. Absolutely. If you enjoyed
or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification, please follow us on your favorite
podcast platform and visit TheGreatSimplification.com for more information on future releases.
This show is hosted by Nate Hagens, edited by No Troublemakers Media, and curated by Leslie
Badloots and Lizzie Siriani.
