reactor itself to grid connection. We've got Kanda reactors that in China went from shovel to
breaker in just over four years. So it's possible to build these things quite quickly. The innovation,
again, the venture capitalists are going, again, probably coming with that Silicon Valley tech
bias of, listen, I've made billions creating a social media platform where you had to click
less and then everyone went to it. I'm not trying to minimize some of the disruptions that
have happened in tech. That's a bit pejorative, but there's been some pretty big things.
Nuclear is far more slow moving and the innovations, if you look at the cost of
building a nuclear plant, only about 20% of it is in the actual reactor. 80% of it is in the
civil works and the balance of plants. And so the place for innovation is really in
project management, being more like the Japanese project. What does that mean? Civil works.
So nuclear plants are the most robust structures that human beings have created. Maybe you could
say the pyramids are a little more robust. But because of A, the dangers, which I think are a
little bit overhyped, again, the kind of culture of excellence in nuclear engineering that was
called the defensive depth is wild. Every potential thing that could go wrong is considered.
And obviously earthquakes are part of that story. So in terms of preparing a nuclear power plant,
you're digging 100 feet down. You're putting in certain types of fill that can absorb seismic
shocks. You've got a kind of a base mat of concrete. Again, I'm not a civil or structural engineer,
but those civil works are a lot. The water intake channels, it's a lot of concrete and
steel. And again, that contributes, as we were saying earlier, to the life cycle carbon. That's
really the main source of life cycle carbon emissions for nuclear. But that's what I refer to
there. All right. So one of the biggest concerns that I personally have had with regards to nuclear
power is the assumption that civilization will always continue and that there won't be
a hiatus due to an EMP pulse or a solar flare or a war or some massive reduction in complexity
that causes the 500-odd nuclear plants to then have their environmental costs all be
backloaded and Chernobyl on steroids. I watched the TV show Chernobyl. It was like a four-part
series. I thought it was excellent. Of course, you see the other TV shows that show the wolves
and the wildlife are thriving now where Chernobyl used to be. But you also hear stories of cows
with five legs and other things like that. So given the followers of this podcast are at least
emotionally and cognitively aware of the systemic possibility of diesel fuel that is used in the
backup generators at a nuclear plant suddenly being unavailable even after two weeks of backup
diesel supplies and that people then don't go to the nuclear plant because they can't get there
or their ATM cards don't work because of some loss in complexity. And so what are those risks
that in such a scenario and we could debate whether that's 1% or 20% possible in the next
century. But under that scenario, what are the nuclear waste, radiation, etc. risks to the areas
around nuclear plants? What can you say about that? Right, right. So first off, that electromagnetic pulse
scenario has been factored in since the 80s into this defensive depth mentality that nuclear engineers
have. And so nuclear plants are designed and hardened with that in mind. Narrow boundary though.
They're looking at the EMP to the plant. I'm talking about the EMP to society.
No, they're looking to the whole system. They're looking at the way that that's magnified through
electric lights. Trust me, these are some of the smartest people on the planet and they're
thinking through every eventuality. And one way to generate an EMP is stratospheric nuclear
detonation in terms of a nuclear weapon. So that has been very carefully looked at. The experts I've
talked to is that it would lead to a scram in terms of just a reactor shutdown, all the control rods
going in, and then the emergency cooling systems running. So not to say it's a nothing burger,
but this is a familiar territory in terms of because of people's apocalyptic fear of nuclear
weapons and that transference to nuclear energy, these kind of edge case scenarios are often brought
up to imagine, well, how can this turn into a nuclear apocalypse as we would see with weapons?
As we saw with Fukushima, again, the simultaneous meltdown of three large boiling water reactors,
and you can look at this because you're going to hear, but I heard a study that this many people
died from radiation from Fukushima. That's more the case with Chernobyl studies that you'll hear
say Greenpeace say a million people are going to die from Chernobyl or the Green Party of Europe
commissioned a study that said 50,000 people will end up dead because of Chernobyl prematurely dead.
The quality of that literature, you get to the unskier reports, this is eight UN agencies,
three countries participating consensus decision making hundreds of scientists,
and they're going down to 50 confirmed deaths and a possible three to 4,000 from thyroid cancer.
So you get these huge kind of disparities, but Chernobyl is even far, far worse than Fukushima.
I mean, this is a reactor without containment that blew its lid that caught on fire and burned for
12 or 13 days with a radioactive plume that went across Eastern Europe and into Europe.
And again, this is something that's a big part of medical education right now, critical appraisal
skills. As we saw with COVID, you find all kinds of studies, preprints, and in terms of the way
that social media amplifies things, if you find something that fits your cognitive bias, you
don't read the paper, you don't look at the methodologies any good, you share it. And that is
I would leave it to people to critically appraise the studies in terms of the health impacts of
nuclear accidents, even Chernobyl, which is far worse than Fukushima. And we don't build nuclear
plants like that anymore. The safety culture is so different. The health impacts very minimal and
less than running a coal fleet, certainly, where you're just constantly putting out PM2.5 particles
that even in what we consider to be good air quality conditions have a four to eight percent
increase mortality rate from things like lung cancer and cardiovascular disease.
So in terms of imagining these kind of worst case scenarios, it would be really bad if the world's
430 nuclear plants all simultaneously lost the ability to cool themselves. As you mentioned in
a war zone, this is not great, but the Zaporizha nuclear plant, I believe it's four large gigawatt
scale reactors, they're in cold shutdown now, but they manage those despite a war zone type event.
Not a Chernobyl style plant. And so the ability to keep the reactor core cool for
as long as possible, the reactivity comes down exponentially. But I'm not saying it's a nothing
burger, it's not a problem. But in terms of these apocalyptic fears, both for humanity and for the
biosphere, I can't think of anything that's more grossly exaggerated. So let me ask a follow-up
to that, Chris. So let's say that there's two different scenarios. There's one scenario where
something happens that none of us can anticipate, and these 430 plants don't have any warning,
and then they react. The second would be that we have a month notice of something happening.
There's a big war or whatever it is, and the operators of these plants have time
to shut them down properly. Is there a big difference then in the radioactive externality,
pollution risk between those two scenarios? Definitely the longer you can keep the core,
and Fukushima to be clear, they were able to keep the cores cooler. I think it was on the
scale of hours, but even hours, you're dropping the level of reactivity massively, the amount of
heat and energy that that core is producing. But again, in terms of that Chernobyl-esque,
far worst-case scenario, the health impacts we see are very small. So I don't want to minimize
and say there's no difference. Obviously, you can get the plant, I think, pretty close to cold
shutdown after a month, in which it's not much active energy required to maintain that core,
as it finally cools down into a state of cold shutdown. But in that worst-case scenario,
I don't want to minimize that. But in terms of, again, our apocalyptic fears of, what did you say,
five-footed moose or something, because this is a big story. There's a whole
Chernobyl children's charity, which brings children from Chernobyl, often with congenital
heart defects and other problems to Ireland, to Canada, and gives them a radiation retreat and
respite. And it's a beautiful organization in terms of these disabled children getting to live
in a wealthy country for a few weeks and be cared for and maybe get specialist care they
couldn't back home. There is absolutely zero evidence that Chernobyl caused these congenital
heart defects and other things. Indeed, there was a whole genome sequencing study that came out
a couple years ago, which looked at folks that got some of the highest doses at Chernobyl
and looking for germline mutations between parents and kids in a large sample of people
with high radiation exposures in the general public. No increased germline mutations were found
whatsoever in this study. They did find germline mutations if the father smoked, for instance.
So this gives you a sense of sort of, I don't want to say that radiation is a nothing burger.
Like, for instance, nuclear waste, that irradiated fuel, fresh out of the reactor,
if it's not shielded, you'd get a lethal dose in seconds and die, a horrible death.
And yet in the history of civilian nuclear energy in terms of storing and handling spent fuel,
not reprocessing it, but storing it, there's not been a single incident in terms of someone dying
as a result of exposure to radiation. And that's because radiation is very easy to measure and
it's very easy to shield. So there is a danger there, but we're able to manage those risks
very, very well as that 70-year track record of, for instance, handling spent nuclear fuel is
demonstrative of. So here's my last question on this and you could use this as a segue to
a follow-up question or my last kind of constraint. I got a lot of criticism when I had my great
simplification video, the animated video that we put out last year. People are like, ah,
he didn't mention nuclear. That means he doesn't know what's going on. So there's energy properties
and different energy qualities. And if we are worried about oil peaking and declining, which
is inevitable, I think AI may prove to extend the peak we don't know yet, but we're at or close to
the peak. Many countries have peaked already and most of what we plan on consuming in the future
is in countries like Iran and Iraq, which we may be at war with in the near future, who knows.
But one of the things that I'm curious about is nuclear is generator of electricity,
like solar and wind are, when only around 19% of global energy use right now is electricity. So
there's a mismatch with the end services of what humans currently are using. And there's a lot of
decentralized transportation in cars and trucks and things like that. So that's something that
I call attention to, but I'll let you comment on that. But then you can follow by answering this.
Assuming that there are different energy facilities in the future that use nuclear power,
what would be the three or four or five best use cases for if we're able to scale nuclear plants,
what should that base load power in those plants be best used for in our current society?
I'll let you answer any way you would like there.
Yeah, I mean, I'm very aware partially through your work and others, this question of energy
fungibility or energy quality, just because we have units like kilowatt hours that disguises
the kind of utility of each form of energy that we use. And for instance, liquid hydrocarbons,
I think you're very right to be concerned about peachy boil. You've mapped out supply chains
in your book, which I have here on my table. It's incredibly complex. And we have
complexified the hell out of our, we have six content supply chains. I mean, I was just reviewing
you know, there's a famous essay on how to make a pencil, right? And it's like
mine in Brazil, India, China, right? Need like aluminum and copper alloys for the little racer
stub. You need petroleum products for the eraser. This is a major concern. A nuclear
does not solve that issue, that service that liquid hydrocarbons provide, whether it's,
you know, agriculture running tractors, whether it's, you know, the vast majority of marine
propulsion, that's not aircraft carriers or nuclear submarines, whether it's, you know,
diesel trucks, which we're so dependent on, you know, diesel powered diesel electric trains.
So that is a major limitation. I think the problem with a lot of the energy transition debate
is that we have this existential problem and we're trying desperately to make,
I always forget if it's round pegs fit in square holes or square pegs and round holes,
I imagine they don't go well into either. But there's this, there's this forcing of we've
got to make it work. And you see that, I think, in some of the really, you know, frankly,
bullshit models from the IPCC in terms of bending that emission curve down. And often it relies on,
you know, insane amounts of bioenergy capture, carbon capture and storage, for instance, to kind
of force the model to work. But similarly, you know, amongst the Nucleus, the Panacea folks,
they'll say, listen, this is, you know, essentially limitless abundant clean energy.
We can use it to run a number of processes to make synthetic hydrocarbons. And don't worry
about it. I'm not of that mindset. I think that's similarly to yourself. We are running a red line.
Energy is the economy. I'm not going to repeat all your talking points here. But, you know,
if the price of oil goes to $150 or $200, a barrel that risks really tanking our economy and our,
you know, I'm not going to, people who are listeners of this podcast are familiar. So,
no, I don't think Nucleus can do that. But what it's useful for, I mean, so stationary
electricity generation. And you could argue, you mentioned about 19% of the world's energy
uses electricity. You could argue that we have a global electricity shortage. If we were serious
about decarbonization, for instance, you know, high temperature process heat, that's provided very
well by electric arc furnaces. But we don't have enough electricity to dedicate to that,
for instance, right? That's kind of hard path, you know, big hydrodams and nuclear plants that
kind of would allow that use of energy to get around some of those fossil fuel services.
We either have an electricity shortage or a complexity longage.
Or like a, you know, a surplus use of fossil fuels. And I know you'd probably say,
listen, you know, every time we discover a new form of energy, it's just additive, right?
And yeah, that's probably true, right? So far it has been.
There's no biological organism that will go, wow, there's a sweet, you know,
concentration of nutrients. Which is why I'm not so sanguine on AI's possible
optimism on developing nuclear fusion as an answer to all our problems.
Do you have any thoughts on that? I'm incredibly bearish on fusion. I mean,
from the first splitting of heavy elements, nuclear fission, 1932 to commercial nuclear power,
1956, that's a really short timeline. You know, our first sort of induction of fusion,
basically in bombs until now, we are still nowhere close to getting a positive Q value in
terms of the energy out versus energy in. And the engineering, these machines I've talked to,
you know, Eiter physicists running the Topomax in Europe, and they say this machine is eating
itself, you know, the kind of neutron bombardment of the materials, the complexity there. If we're
struggling to build a very complex nuclear plant, like the AP 1000s we just built in Vogel,
you know, multiply that complexity by 10 fold and tell me that you're going to deliver that
project more easily. And a lot of the hyperonfusion is it solves the so-called problems of nuclear,
these intractable problems of, say, waste and proliferation and accidents. And it really doesn't.
I mean, do you think that fusion research is not critical to thermonuclear weapon development?
Like, I've got friends who work in big laser laboratories like Lawrence Livermore. And
most of that research is for making sure that bombs will go off, right? There's a total link
there. There's kind of more intermediate level waste that's created, not so much high level
with fusion. But the biggest issue is these are engineering solutions to communications problems.
Nuclear waste is not that big of a deal. We don't need to develop a technology, I mean,
that I just frankly don't think we're going to harness anytime soon. If we are able to get that
positive Q value out, are we going to be able to build the goddamn thing? The project management,
the construction skills that are evasive to us in a much simpler, easier to force, you know,
harnessing of atomic energy? I don't think so. But there's my position.
And that doesn't even get to my point, which is, let's assume we have too cheap to meter or even
free electricity. Given our current cultural value system aspirations and scoring metrics of GDP,
we would fry the planet by bringing in lots of other non-carbon or carbon resources with
that energy underpinning it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't disagree with you,
so nuclear fusion, if it ever arrives, would have to also arrive with a better form of coordination,
governance, and cultural values in my opinion. And to take it to extremes, as your guest,
Thomas Murphy has shown, I guess, eventually with this limitless clean energy, would have to find
a way to get all the waste heat off the planet before we boil the oceans. That's right. That's
right. If with a few more doublings, I forget how many we would boil the oceans just from the waste
400 years of two to three percent growth. So I have a lot more to ask you. One more thing on
nuclear. What about the small modular reactors and SMRs and molten salt and some of the things
like that versus the tried and true conventional, large conventional plants that we know work today?
