And when pulled on that, as much as you can trust polling, 70% of people are in favor of not just
keeping our existing assets, but expanding the nuclear fleet, about 18% are against and 12%
undecided. So it's pretty favorable. So you've had 200 episodes on your podcast,
and I feel like I'm getting long in the tooth here and I'm at like 120. So good on you. How many of
those have been directly or indirectly related to nuclear power? I'm probably embarrassed to say,
but I would say probably about 180, 190 of those. Okay. So I have questions and, you know,
unfortunately, one of my skills and that of my network of systems, ecologists, people is,
I'm good at saying what won't work and less good at saying what might work or what will.
So I have some ideas that I want to ask you of things on nuclear that I am skeptical about.
But let me preface that, and I don't want to spend this entire time talking about nuclear,
because you're kind of a Renaissance man, and I do want to talk to you about the podcast and
medicine and other things. And I think we should just agree that this is a first conversation
and that you could come back and take a deep dive on something else. But what would you say in your
considered expertise and in discussing and focusing on the issue of nuclear? What are the
best three attributes of nuclear power that people should be aware of? And what are the
three constraints or limitations that people should be aware of?
Okay. So top of mind in terms of being a climate hawk is the low life cycle emissions,
actually the lowest of any power generation source as confirmed by recent work by the UN Economic
Committee of Europe. So 4.8 grams of CO2 per kilowatt hour for reference. I mean,
that's pretty close to wind and solar. And almost all that 4.8 grams is in the construction of the
plant. Yeah. And so the longer you run the plant, the better that number gets. And we're really
seeing economists and engineers sort of put an arbitrary lifespan of 40 years on, really,
for economic planning reasons. But a lot of plants are getting licensed out now to 50,
60 years. And our can do plants, we can do kind of engine swap out. So they're going to 60,
70, and maybe 100 years. So nuclear is a lot like hydroelectric dam, but I'll try not to get
tangential here. So the life cycle emissions, and again, this includes the mining, the milling of
the uranium, the construction of the plant, the maintenance of the plant, the storage of the waste,
incredibly low emissions. And by the way, Chris, I'm not in your podcast, you're on mine,
so you are allowed to go tangential if you like. Fair enough. Okay. So number two,
number two, I'd say it's really a question of minimizing that ecological impact and again,
why it's such a theme in the decouple podcast. Certainly because of that incredible energy
density of harnessing the strong nuclear force of the atom, which again is so destructive in the
sword application of nuclear, but I would argue so constructive in the productive side of nuclear
power is again, that we know we have a nuclear sector, which the mines, the factories, the power
plants occupies about 30 square kilometers of land in Canada. To give you a sense of that,
that's a little larger than the Toronto Pearson Airport. So a very small impact on nature. And
when you compare that to more dilute forms of energy, particularly wind and solar, they consume,
you know, vast amounts of lands and really industrialized landscapes. And we may be sort of
conditioned by compelling narratives and aesthetics to sort of see when turbines is almost like trees
naturally growing into the landscape. They do have ecological impacts. And, you know, one of the
biggest problems with the biodiversity crisis is trying desperately not to transform land from
wilderness into agricultural land or otherwise industrialized. So I guess that would be sort
of number two compelling reason. Number three, and this kind of, I guess, goes back to my lefty
politics. I'm wearing my Union Proud T-shirt here, Union Strong T-shirt. Nuclear, it's very
efficient in terms of, you know, the number of jobs created because it's so energy dense, you
don't have sort of sprawling numbers of workers needed. But the workers that are employed are
high-skilled, craft labor, really high levels of education to me. You know, one of my sort of
Myers-Briggs personality type features is I love seeing people kind of lean into and achieve their
full potential and be unleashed to do that. And nuclear is something where, you know, you can
start working with a high school degree, I was going to call it a diploma, and sort of on-the-job
training that's available can get people up to incredibly high levels of education, not to mention
the sort of the PhD reactor physicists, the, again, the skill trades people. There's a lot of really
amazing employment opportunities in traveling to a nuclear community. I was kind of joking about
that earlier, but you really see a vibrant, healthy community. So, and again, sort of contrasting that
with wind and solar in particular, the other sort of main sort of climate solution in terms of
electricity generation, we see really questionable labor practices, particularly within the solar
supply chain with forced weaker labor and pretty credible allegations coming out of China. You have
workerless facilities with very low-wage, low-skilled construction jobs available,
basically just in the installation in Canada anyway. But we need a lot more people in solar and wind
per kilowatt hour generated than in nuclear, right? I mean, there's no parking lots outside of
wind farm or solar farm, so there's no long-term employment. You need a lot of people in the
construction phase, and I'll give it to Solar. I mean, we've gotten really good at building
solar firms very fast, very cheaply, but no, there's not a lot of long-term jobs in it.
But at the end of the day, this is kind of what we talk about, which is net energy and
energy surplus. The fact that we have fossil gas and coal and oil and nuclear plants means that
there's less of us that need to work in the energy field. The rest of us can be librarians or doctors
or inventors or whatever. 15% of us can be basically in allied healthcare, whether it's doctors,
nurses, personal support workers, occupational therapists. I mean, you're going to have lots
of critiques of modern industrial societies and the kind of wasteful spending that occurs,
but I think that's a really powerful statement. I was just in preparation for this podcast looking
at US government spending. Military spending by the US is $800 billion, Medicaid and Medicare,
$1.6 billion. And again, there's a lot of inefficiencies, and I'd argue particularly within
the US system. That's not talking about the insurance money spent as well, but just that
commentary of, again, 15% of people in a modern society have jobs looking after other people.
That's incredible to me. In our ancestral time, it was 100% of people had jobs looking after
other people. I don't know that I would put it that way. I think you'd probably have some
few shamans and healers, but I think most people were pretty occupied and trying to scrape together
the calories necessary to kind of maintain them. For their clan, but that's what I meant.
That's what I meant. Okay, so those are the three positives. What about the three negatives or the
three constraints or the things that would give you pause when in a debate with the people who
love nuclear as a fix all solution? I would say nuclear is probably the most challenging,
the most difficult form of power generation. A lot of categories occur. There's this great
quote recently. It was attributed to me by Euripides. I don't think it was him. I've been
trying to Google the source of it, but man is blind until he finds a metaphor that allows him to see.
With nuclear, I would make the comparison. The best category error you could commit would be to
say it's a lot like hydroelectricity. This massively capital intensive, high-risk construction
project. It's an expensive way to make cheap electricity. It's an asset that lasts for
decades, maybe even up to a century. Once it's immortalized, it produces very,
very cheap low-carbon power, provides good jobs, underpins a lot of economic well-being,
but it's expensive up front. There's no getting around that. I think there's a lot of folks,
particularly in the venture capitalist arena, that commit a category error of thinking that
nuclear is a lot like tech, that there's a lot of opportunities for incredible disruption, that
these dumb nuclear engineers just haven't thought about using molten salts or sodium fast reactors
or burning waste. Nuclear is difficult. It's hard. You don't do it unless you have to, and
Ontario is a place that had to. We didn't have coal, we didn't have gas. France is a place that
had to. They were burning oil from Algeria in the Middle East, and the OPEC crisis came along,
and they needed to move fast in order to not bottom out their economy. Japan burned through
its fossil fuels for the Meiji Restoration and incredible breakneck industrialization there,
but it was going to come to a screaming halt if they didn't find ways to import fossil fuels in
a way to become more energy secure as a big nuclear fleet. South Korea, the list goes on.
It's generally an energy security play. I'd say the one exception would be maybe Russia,
where you don't get high in your own supply, you free up natural gas for export by using nuclear.
There's some soft power diplomatic reasons, but basically the underlying driver is energy and
security. You don't do it unless you have to because it's technologically complex, requires
the best of the best people, and that's the limit. That's complexity, great simplification.
I don't know. We were building good nuclear plants in the 70s. When people talk about a great
simplification, or when you do, I'm not sure what you imagine if it's Vatslav Smil saying,
hey, things weren't so bad in the 50s and 60s. Maybe we can shrink back to that level of GDP
and things would be more sustainable. We could do nuclear 60s and 70s. That was one of the great
build-outs were. Yeah, open question. No. I mean, simplification is something between a
collapse and a mortar economy of continued growth. It's after we run out of the ability to paper
over our financial claims and the decoupling between how much people think they own and what
our material substrate is to do that. It doesn't mean that we go back to the dark ages necessarily,
but there's going to be a transition, and we're still going to need a lot of energy,
not as much as we need today, probably, because there's this financial disconnect.
Yeah, most of our technology has created complexity, which has required more energy.
Artificial intelligence is now a huge demand and about to get huge. A lot of people that follow
this show think that AI is overhyped. I'm talking to a lot of people very close to it that give me
the impression that it's actually underhyped. A lot of the really pro-nuclear people I talk to in
the US investors are really high on nuclear right now because of AI that we're going to need so much
more power demand that they're looking to nuclear as an answer. Certainly, if they want to meet their
24-7 clean energy targets, base loads back, baby. I mean, AI data centers require that base load
24-7 power and the US grid is becoming increasingly unstable for a variety of reasons. My friend,
Meredith Anglin, calls the fatal trifecta of reliance on intermittent renewables just in
time natural gas and just trying to import electricity from elsewhere. With the glut in
natural gas prices and that surplus for the foreseeable future, they could power those data
centers and they manned up powering those data centers with combined cycle gas turbines.
Certainly, if you're trying to be low-carbon, nuclear would be the way to do it. I am not
a nuclear for nuclear sake kind of guy. It's a means, not an end. Yes, there's a lot of
pro-nuclear advocates that are celebrating this new surge in demand and maybe it's a way to kick
start the nuclear industry so it can meet other needs and decarbonize, but right now AI is a
carbon problem. It's not a solution. Yeah, and I'm going to have more on that in the very new
future. Okay, I interrupted you and you were going to tell me your third constraint.
That's a good question and this part sort of betrays probably my...
If you run out, I have like 10 that I could offer. Why don't you start just because I'm drawing a blank
and that reflects poorly on me actually, but go ahead. So there's only two constraints to nuclear.
Okay, fuel is a concern right now. I mean, nuclear, it's real selling point should be
fuel security because in terms of storage, you have two years of fuel inside the reactor. It's
such a dense form of energy. You can stockpile nuclear fuel on site or on the national level,
but due to an underinvestment in uranium enrichment and most of that uranium enrichment
actually happening in Russia, 46% of the world's uranium enrichment occurs there.
There's questions right now of fuel and security. A lot of the advanced,
so-called advanced reactor designs actually require a higher level of enriched fuel
and a lot of the aspirations of that sector are going to be limited by that not being present
until we potentially have the sort of policy solutions to upscale enrichment say in the US,
for instance. So that's another constraint. That's one of my constraints is the peak uranium.
I mean, the fact that the minable concentrated ores, if the world were to dramatically scale
nuclear power, and there's issues with that which I'll offer in a few minutes,
that we maybe have 50 or 60 years left, I think probably because we've not tried and
if we tried, we could extend that quite a bit. But what are your thoughts on the amount of uranium
needed and available for tripling to 10X-ish nuclear in the world?
I mean, first off, I'd say it does sound a lot like you said, peak uranium. I mean,
there was concerns about peak oil going back, I believe, to the 1920s, Haber-Bosch who invented the
Haber-Bosch process to fix ammonia also were involved in the Fisher-Trop process. And I remember
before I think the Texas oil field started gushing, there was concern amongst the automotive industry
in the US, there wasn't enough oil. And so these guys were actually trying to start a business model
of, I think, coal conversion. So I think part one is there's a lot more uranium than we know about
in terms of reserves versus resources. But fundamentally, you're right. And the early,
early history of nuclear was we really didn't think there was a lot of uranium around. And so
there's a lot of interest in a reactor technology called a breeder reactor, which actually produces
more fuel. You put a fuel load in, you create more fuel in the process through the alchemy of
nuclear power. Breeder reactors have not really gone far, partially because there hasn't been the
need because uranium is dirt cheap. Right now, in terms of if you're an investor in uranium,
you're pretty happy because the price has gone up a lot. But I mean, relative to the energy it
puts out, I'd say it's the most undervalued commodity in the world. So with breeder reactors,
you can extend, you know, my friend Nick Turan, who is not a fanatic, I'd say he's very reasonable
middle of the rotor type guy, but he's done calculations where you start getting out to
millions of years. There's uranium present in seawater. I haven't looked at the efficiencies
of extracting it, but for all intents and purposes, with breeder technology, I wouldn't say that's a
limitation, except that breeder technology is a bit harder. Give me a one to two minute overview
of the mechanics of what a nuclear breeder reactor, how that would work and what it would
accomplish. And are there any? I don't think there are other there are. So I'm stepping out of my
wheelhouse definitely, right? But we're getting into slow neutrons versus fast neutrons. So the
current kind of thermal reactors that we have, in order to split more uranium atoms, we moderate
the neutrons that are being released as part of the chain reaction, slow them down. And that is a
bit of a limitation in terms of using what are called fertile elements, where if you maybe add
a neutron to them, they become fissile and you can split them again. So breeder reactor,
in my understanding, again, as a medical doctor, but with lots of expert advice,
is able to use that fast neutron spectrum, blah, blah, blah, blah, and make these fertile elements
that are present into fissile elements, thus generating more fuel. Are other breeders active
right now? Certainly a lot of countries have poked around in it with this interest of closing
the fuel cycle. I'd say the Russians are probably the furthest along. They have a sodium fast reactor
program that's 50 or 60 years old. They've scaled that up to, I believe, 800 megawatts recently.
Have they felt a need to expand that? It's not as economic as their light water fleets, frankly.
It's more of a sort of, I think, research and development arm with the goal of maybe closing
the fuel cycle at some point using waste within those reactors, but also extending the uranium
reserves that they have. So I'll cut it there because I'm going to acknowledge the limits of
my expertise. Well, also, I have so many questions and there's a lot of other topics, too, that I
want to cover. What about the cost and complexity? One of my beliefs is we're kind of out of time.
We have a decade before this geopolitical financial system kind of unravels, and so I think
there's so many times that a nuclear plant is over budget and over deadline, and even if you agree
with all the positive attributes you said, to do a crash course nuclear thing only would make sense
if AI and productivity or some genie for our culture is able to extend our timeline. So what
do you think about that constraint? I'd say the timeline constraint is pretty much universal in
terms of looking at really any technological solution to our predicament. I agree things are
moving quite quickly. That's not a dodge, by the way. In terms of the ways that nuclear can improve,
really it has to do against hydroelectric dam. We got to get better at project management and
construction. The fastest built nuclear plant was done in just over three years in Japan by a highly
competent supply chain workforce and excellent project managers. They built a nuclear plant
from scratch in three years. Yeah, from what they call the kind of concrete base mats of the
