What is your sense on that landscape? So the nuclear industry is, as an anthropologist of it,
having met lots of people that work within it. It's absolutely fascinating. It's mostly these
really, really nerdy, smart engineer types, and they're brilliant engineers. And the way they think
is engineering. And so they come up with engineering solutions to social license problems and
communications problems, as is mentioning with waste, but also social license problem. Well,
if nuclear is unpopular, right? Then you rebrand it as a small modular reactor. You don't even use
the N word in there. And maybe you can convince people this is friendlier, it's different, it's
better, it's shinier, right? Or another issue, another reason that SMRs were in vogue, and I'll
really argue they're falling out of vogue, was this idea that government will never finance
nuclear anymore. So you need to get a plant down in terms of the financing to about a billion dollars
if you want the private sector to finance it. So there was a whole sort of paradigm that's a
little more than a decade old that went against everything and the entire track record of nuclear.
The big cost reductions that we see in the first 10, 20 years of nuclear, absolutely from scaling
from these 20 to 100 megawatt reactors up towards the gigawatt scale, where the grid size permits
it, we have always scaled to a gigawatt because economies of scale are real. The SMR advocates
are big fans of Wright's law, which is basically an economies of multiples. If you double the amount
of units, then you should get a sort of positive learning rate and it should reduce by whatever
percentage it is. We often don't see that a nuclear. That's really evaded us in terms of those
positive learning rates that are remarkable with things like wind and solar. And again, even the
use of the term SMR, it is like renewables, an incredibly imprecise term. It's this massive grab
bag. Probably what your listeners, in terms of those who kind of imagine the best case for SMRs,
they're like, oh yeah, these are plants you can deliver on the back of a truck, and there's minimal
civil works and they just snap together like Lego, connect them to the grid. And that's certainly,
I think the industry and the trade associations are guilty of selling that story and they've
really overpromised and they're about to under deliver. So scale is very real within nuclear
and the imprecision of SMR. So again, we're lumping together so-called advanced technologies,
things like molten salt reactors, sodium fast reactors, anything that's not sort of water
moderated and water cooled is now kind of considered an advanced reactor, despite the fact that
these reactor concepts were attempted in the 50s, 60s, and 70s. And for economic reasons,
they didn't make it. It's not to say that we shouldn't research them more and maybe develop
them, but they really need to be a side project of proven nuclear, which is already struggling.
But again, there's this narrative that's really exciting because, hey, you can breed more fuel
than you use. Maybe these things can consume nuclear waste. I mean, these aren't real priorities to
us in the here and now at the moment. And so I've consistently in my podcast, and I've been a bit
of a contrarian in this, been an advocate for, again, focusing on the project management,
focusing on the construction skills, the boring stuff of nuclear, right? And embracing the high
value long-term asset that is a nuclear plant, just like a big hydrodam is a long-term low-carbon
asset. It's a bit more of a boring narrative, it's less inspiring, but it's certainly what's
proven in what we know works. And in places that have sort of followed those rules of a
building a standardized gigawatt scale reactor over and over again, at least we don't see a ton
of negative learning curves. We see, you know, in France, for instance, 56 reactors commissioned in
about 20 years. And now, you know, essentially decarbonizing their electricity accidentally
in the 70s and 80s, a similar story in Ontario. I mean, there's really kind of cool and inspiring
stories here with doing what we know. And, you know, in terms of what has risen to the top,
what has actually advanced in terms of nuclear technologies, it's done it for a reason.
These things are easier to operate, easier to maintain. You know, we've been handling
high-pressure steam as a working fluid and pressure vessels, you know, since the dawn of
the Industrial Revolution. Adding fission into that wasn't a huge leap. Molten salt reactors,
you know, having a fuel that's melted, all the alchemy of a nuclear reaction happening,
you know, as a kind of liquid that's all throughout the reactor versus contained in a fuel
pellet and a fuel element, you know, I'm getting into specifics here. But I'm not particularly
bullish on advanced or small modular reactors as you can hear from this brief diatribe.
There's not an easy fix, Nate. There's not an easy fix to this.
I, there's a lot more I want to ask you on nuclear, but we might have to save that for
around two, because I want to give a whole view of Chris Kieffer renaissance man
podcaster in this first interview. One final nuclear question, though. How does the political
attitude towards nuclear differ between your country, Canada, and mine, the United States,
and is there a heavy political divide left versus right on this issue?
So I will say, looking from Canada, south of the border, I can identify one and only one
issue that seems to have bipartisan support right now, and that is nuclear energy. So
the Biden administration is all in on nuclear. The lone programs office, jigger Shaw, the
Department of Energy, they're all in. They're frustrated with the nuclear industry. They're
trying to push it along. There's massive incentives in the inflation reduction act for
nuclear, I think production tax credits that approach 50% if you build on a brownfield site,
use union labor, which basically is there sort of goes without saying and use a local supply
chain, which nuclear tends to localize its supply chain. So the social license is big. What's
different between Canada and US is the nonprofit industrial complex. So there's a beautiful tax
avoidance mechanism in the US, which is if you're a very wealthy individual, lots of generational
wealth, you start a foundation and you can decide how you want to essentially spend that
tax burden. You can move it into your pet causes. And so if you look at the value of the
nonprofit sector in the US, it's a larger economy than some pretty respectable economies around
the world. And particularly the combined revenues of Sierra Club, of Greenpeace, of Friends of the
Earth is approaching not into the double digit billions, but I think at last I checked five
or six billion dollars. They've been resolutely anti-nuclear. They've been very influential. A lot
of staffers that are sort of cultivated within the environment's movement become political
staffers and have been very influential. And so in Canada, we don't have that same strength of a
nonprofit sector. The anti-nuclear activists have been less influential and have really waned in
terms of influence partially as they've just grayed out because there's not a lot of young
people that are enticed by an anti-nuclear narrative anymore. But again, partially just because
not the same kind of money is at play in terms of influencing politics. And I will say the
anti-nuclear or the NGOs that have been pouring a lot of money into anti-nuclear, even the Rocky
Mountain Institute has really softened its views on nuclear. And I think the Sierra Club recently
defunded their main sort of legal branch that was fighting for the closure of nuclear plants,
for instance. It's a remarkable transformation in the last five years.
Thank you. That was a pretty good whirlwind overview. So Chris, please now shift hats,
put on your podcast hat. Is your podcast audio only or are you having a video on YouTube as well?
First 40 episodes, audio only, biggest mistake of my podcasting career. Yeah, YouTube is a
is a great place for a lot of the conversations happen in the comment sections on YouTube for
whatever reason, that's where a lot of interaction happens. And yeah, it's both.
So knowing what you know about our societal, our spectrum of societal narratives,
what do you anticipate will be the comment section this podcast so far on what you've
said on my channel? I think it's going to be interesting because I think you have a pretty
varied audience. Certainly, I think you attract for better or worse, a kind of certain degrowth
audience, probably sort of progressive environmental audience as a sort of core
listenership. And I know it's much more diverse than that. And I think they'll probably take
issue with the blasé way that I've probably talked about nuclear risks as they would perceive them.
So I imagine there'll be some of that. I think as well, in terms of again, you've
I think elucidated very well, a nuanced perspective on what you imagine a great
simplification to look like. But this isn't us going back to the Stone Age, perhaps.
But I'm not sure about your listeners in terms and there's a lot of romanticization,
you know, and I even I won't accuse you of it. But in terms of your question about child mortality,
like, was that just the last kind of, was that just since the agricultural revolution that it
got bad? Or, you know, was there some kind of illustrious hunter-gatherer past when we
lived in harmony with nature? One of my favorite physicians, Hans Rosling, has a great quote,
he says, you know, humanity never lived in harmony with nature. We died in harmony with
nature. And it was mostly women and childbirth and children under five. So I think that's a
fundamental tension to wrestle with. You know, and these gains in terms of, you know, early
childhood survival are recent. This is the last, like, 50 hundred years. I mean, Somalia, that's
still 14% of kids used to be 50%. And that's that's kind of throughout human history. So
I think that's the thing to wrestle with, because I think some people, I mean, we might get into
this later, but Cuba provides a really interesting example of an economic shock when they were cut
off from their Soviet sponsors and their GDP shrunk by 35%, you know, over a couple months.
And I used to be a sort of Cuba solidarity activist, it's a very, you have to be very
careful of discourse around Cuba, because ideologues are drawn to it on either side of the
political spectrum, like moths to a flame. But I imagine the comments section of this podcast
might wrestle a little bit with these questions of like, like, how bad is it going to be? The
Dumeras will probably be all over that. But I think, you know, romanticization, this idea, you
know, even in terms, I know that you touch on agricultural topics from time to time, Vandana
Shiva's been a guest several times. I think there's an idea based upon, if we imagine this
simplification future, we may think of like a camping trip and we're like, camping trips are
great. I love cooking over a fire and you forget that you drove there and you had a great tent made
in Pakistan with really waterproof fibers. Or you think about like a transition village you
visited or a permaculture farm you went to. And these, again, are islands in a sea of a
fossil field civilization and often have enormous fossil fuel inputs into them. So I think we have
a really hard time imagining and there's a lot of sort of idealism of sort of, oh, this industrial
society is really terrible. Why don't we simplify to something that's nicer? And I don't think you
share that delusion, but I think that that might be a theme. So I do want to ask you about
healthcare and medicine approaching during and after a great simplification. But let's stay in
the podcast theme. Since 180 of your 200 odd episodes have been on the topic of nuclear,
presumably you have attracted an audience that is very interested in the nuclear question.
Whereas I'm covering anthropology, neuroscience, climate, biodiversity, debt, energy properties,
geopolitics, everything, and invariably, and it's getting worse, whatever episode I cover,
the ideologues will show up and criticize. I mean, it's not everyone. There's more positive
comments than negative. But my question to you as a podcast host is in this polarized social media
ideological tribal identity laden world, how do we have a conversation and integrate the broader
societal narratives and suppress our identities, at least temporarily in order to have a discourse
on the things that matter? What have you learned? And what are your core insights on this?
I mean, I've really learned to sort of depersonalize and not take anything personally,
and also delight in ideas that well expressed ideas that trigger all of my cognitive dissonance.
And that's maybe it's like a training process. But I love hearing well articulated arguments
that I absolutely disagree with. And I think as a society, I do explain that. I don't know. It
hasn't always been that way. Like again, coming from like even the hard left, the romantic left,
the Marxist ledonist left, I wouldn't say I was ever like a, you know, again, I'm a member of the
disgusted party. I've never really felt at home in any ideology. But on the extreme or hard left,
as on the extreme or hard right, I think there's an idea that like, you know, people that don't
agree with us are just kind of stupid. If they only knew if we could just explain to them,
they'd be converts. And then those that don't agree, I mean, in sort of Stalinist Russia,
they should go to the Gulag or, you know, get lined up against the wall. There's a total intolerance
on both sides of the political spectrum for free speech, for a diversity of opinions.
And it cripples societies. One of the reasons that I think, you know, there's many reasons that the,
you know, liberal capitalist system went out in the Cold War. I don't want to simplify this too
much. But the free exchange of ideas is just so vital. Like, we're in a whole number of different
predicaments. And if we don't have a breadth of opinion, and maybe I hate to kind of weigh into
COVID because it's so politicized, right? But this is potentially an illustration. And I'm sort
of drawing from Jonathan Hayd's work in the righteous mind. You know, we are a species that
evolved as a social species, in terms of a sort of selection pressure. We always see within,
you know, basically every human society, people on the left, people on the right,
conservatives, liberals, authoritarians, communitarians, libertarians, right? And that might
frustrate us in our various political polls. But when we recognize that all those voices are
really necessary, that's a good thing. So let's take COVID, for instance. You know, when I'm
working in the emergency department in Toronto, and we're seeing these tsunamis, right, in Iran,
for instance, in Italy, in New York, right, doctors, you know, freezer trucks outside in terms of,
you know, for dead COVID patients, doctors intubating in scarves, like we were terrified in
Toronto. I was a huge advocate. I was messaging my MP and saying the military should be out in
the streets enforcing lockdowns, right? And that kind of authoritarian impulse in the face of a
threat that, you know, we thought there was a case fatality rate of 5% with COVID, you know,
that 10% of people would end up in the ICU, that 20% of people would be hospitalized. And I ran
the numbers in my emergency department. And I was like, you know, we're going to lose 15,
20 people in this department, right? There's going to be 40 of us that will end up on
ventilators. And in that context, with the limited information we have,
an authoritarian impulse, I think absolutely appropriate, right? As both, you know,
natural immunity, vaccine induced immunity, and an attenuation of the virus occurred,
there was a kind of hangover that authoritarianism that went on too long. And so libertarian voices
came in, you know, they didn't necessarily, they weren't sort of savory voices per se,
maybe like, you know, have a different opinion, or there's a diversity of opinions on, say,
the trucker's protests in Ottawa. But I would argue that that authoritarian impulse
was stale, it had gone on too long, it was no longer appropriate, it was causing damage.
You only have so much sort of public health social capital until you burn through it.
And, you know, there was a hangover that needed a course correction. And so the libertarians
came in. And that was, this is just one example where it's, I think, important,
we're faced with novel challenges and a sort of diversity of opinion is super important in terms
of both understanding the new predicaments and how to engage and deal with it.
So more important than being able to suppress your identity and be a good listener, what I'm
hearing from you is, is the ability to change your mind. Absolutely. And again, just to reference
Jonathan Haidt for a second, he had this great example, right? If a farmer is trying to get the
most eggs out of a chicken, if you select an individual, you find that hen that just lays
like crazy. And you try and breed her, you end up with less eggs, because alongside that trait
for laying more eggs is aggressiveness. And they peck each other to death. And the overall
production goes down. So what you do is you grab groups, you segregate chickens into groups of
12. And whichever group lays the most eggs, that's your breeding stock. And it's, it's,
I think a lot like humans, which evolve, and I'm just quoting Haidt here, this isn't, you know,
my original thoughts, but we evolve collectively in small groups of hunter-gatherers, you know,
25, 50, 100. And there's a reason, genetically, I think, why there's this political spectrum.
Like in every society around the world, there's liberals and conservatives. Like why, why isn't
there some country or some village where everybody is super liberal? I think there's a reason for
that. And I think there's a evolutionary advantage to a diversity of opinions. And again, this,
this contradicts my sort of hard left past, but I'm really glad for that nuance. And again,
a big journey of myself, not into the political right, but for appreciation of certain arguments
and elements and viewpoints from the political right is, is, is that, is that understanding
that we do need a diversity of viewpoints to identify and understand the problems that we have
