and to generate solutions. And for our solutions to change over time, as the facts on the ground
change is in the sort of COVID example I gave. So, so given your experience as a podcast host,
in addition to your emergency room role and as the president of the Canadian Nuclear Society,
what, how do you think we can change that? How do you think we can change the discourse
in the direction that, that you would aspire to? Are there, are there, is there anything you've
learned that gives you some hints or clues or, or avenues that give you hope?
Well, you have this magic wand question that I know you asked, right?
Well, I'm going to ask you that.
Maybe if you had, well, maybe I'll intercept it early on, but if you had a magic wand, maybe you
could, you know, make Twitter disappear or make TikTok disappear.
So you think social media is the cause of polarization?
It's not the cause, right? But Nate, I think, you know, like we all have like a window into
reality. We all have cognitive biases. I think you've elucidated very well in your work. We all
have blinkers. You know, again, we can't see the world until we have a metaphor that explains it,
and the metaphors that we have are all constrained by our individual experiences of the world.
So everything is very narrow. And now the way in which we perceive the world is largely,
and the information we gather is largely through our smartphones and the screens we have,
and then the platforms that present us the information. And, you know, and, and the platforms
that are trying to keep us on them as long as possible by presenting us with information that
suits our cognitive biases and makes a little dopamine receptors fire, right?
So that's incredibly damaging to, you know, again, a diverse, robust, tolerant,
you know, environment that's, that's prioritized as free speech. So I'm, I'm, I think that's a
major barrier. It's not that the root cause, right? The root cause is just our basic kind of
paleo psychology that persists today. But your question of how to overcome that, I think the
podcasting medium is, is really interesting. Like everything has become short attention span,
right? TikTok is, you know, down to a minute or whatever, right? Like, and people probably,
if you look at the metrics, you know, people probably, they watch the first 20 seconds before
they're distracted and move on. The emergence of long form podcasts that are, that are popular,
it speaks to something, it satiate something, I think in people that crave nuance and want to go
deeper. So I'm actually shocked by that myself. Like I, I don't listen to podcasts unless I have
to for prep reasons, or they're really, really exceptional. Like I watched Tristan and Daniel
Schmacktenburger on Joe Rogan, for instance. But I'm shocked that so many people have the appetite
to listen to a 90 minute conversation between two people. I really, it actually is heartening to me,
because I think most people, like you say, have a two minute or less time span. So maybe that is
an emergent phenomenon of nuance and complexity and context that our society needs.
Well, you don't have the patience maybe to listen to many podcasts, but you engage in hour, hour
and a half, two hour long conversations on a regular basis. And that's also, and again,
in terms of like the social capital of podcasting, I mean, how, how like maybe like, I love going
to parties where there's really cool people and I generally pick one or two of them and we just go
deep for an hour. These are weird parties. This is not your average party going, right?
So maybe we do that in our natural light, but it's very rare to sort of like, we're kind of
looking each other in the eyes across this platform and having a deep conversation, exploring
each other's work and thoughts. So even though you're not a listener, like you're engaging in this,
the same thing, you have a thirst for it as well. And that's why we, you know,
do this insane thing of putting an episode out every week or I think you do, you do more than
that. But well, maybe if, if I was far less busy, I would listen to a lot more podcasts. I just,
I just don't have the time. So that was a good answer. I like that. And I need to think about
that more. Okay, switching hats again, because I don't want this to go three hours. I mean, to be
honest, Chris, I have so many questions I'd like to ask you. Let's just do what we can on this and
have you back for, for that one to two hour party deep dive on something. So wearing your
emergency room physician hat, I've been very concerned about this. I've had a former governor
of Oregon, John Kitzhaber on, I've had Robert Lustig on, talking about the healthcare system.
The United States healthcare system is 20% of our GDP. Americans have 50% of the world's,
the entire world's medical prescriptions, which implies we're either sicker, our doctors are
prescribing them more for some kickback thing, or we're babies or some combination of the three.
But I do not believe that our, our current growth based system and by implication, our medical
complicated just in time throw this plastic tube that used once out system is sustainable.
So it's my belief that in the not too distant future, and I can't put a date on it,
we're going to have to gradually or suddenly go to getting 80% of our healthcare and medical needs
with 20% of the resources that we do today. And I'm sure you've thought about it, especially from
your, your trapper intentional community, Cuban solidarity past, what insights can you merge
with your decouple hat and your medical knowledge, knowing about a potential great
simplification in the future? What are your, your thoughts? Well, I mean, first off, I think
we'd be unlikely to see sort of this 80, 20 rule playing out. I think 10% of the population would
continue to get outstanding, you know, healthcare and 90%. That's what we see, right? And if we
want to talk about like more sort of simplified societies, I mean, there's an upper crust elite
usually with the private healthcare system that gets, you know, US style or similar sort of levels
of care and there's MRI machines and everything else. If society has 20 or 30% less resources,
your, your view is just stretches. So got it. Absolutely. But, you know, but I do think it's
a really interesting question. You know, I was looking at some Medicaid data recently, and I
don't have a photographic memory for numbers, but there's this idea of super utilizers, right? So
something like three or 4% of people on Medicaid use 25% of the resources, right? And these are
people with a lot of comorbidities, diabetes, heart disease, et cetera, that predispose them to
be sicker and who need a higher level of care. So how do we, how do we manage that? While still,
you know, I hope maintaining an idea of sort of universality, universal respect for human rights
and human health. And this is where I do not want to romanticize Cuba or the Cuban system. I've
done that in the past as a, as a kind of, you know, 20 year old Cuban solidarity activist. I
think there's really, really interesting things about the system, a lot of nuance there, right?
But in Cuba, for instance, which, you know, the health spending would be a fraction of what they
have in the US, they have pretty similar life expectancy stats, you know, child mortality
stats as the US on a, on a much smaller dime. How do they accomplish that? There is a huge element
in terms of preventative care. You know, things are stretched now because they send a lot of
doctors on humanitarian missions to earn foreign exchange to prop up the economy. It's actually
most of Cuban foreign exchanges earned through export of pharmaceuticals that they've, they've
got a biotech sector, but also human resources doctors, right? They're kind of like the Philippines
in that way, I guess, in terms of not remittances, this comes back through the government. But
they have a very interesting healthcare system that was constructed after the 1959 revolution.
And what it consists of is about 12,000 family doctor offices. It's a family doctor and a nurse,
they live embedded in the community and they make house visits. Every Cuban is labeled with a number
one to five. And one means you're healthy, you got no issues. And you might get a doctor's visit
a couple of times a year. Five on the other extreme is, you know, again, you're diabetic,
that's had one of their legs cut off, their glycemic control is terrible, they've had a heart attack,
you're getting a visit a couple of times a week or every week, are you taking your medications?
These are the super utilizers, right? And so there is a very aggressive preventative medicine
side of things and chronic disease management side of things, which occurs because of a, you know,
highly structured and centralized and organized healthcare system, which does value universality.
And I'm not romanticizing it again, because Cuban resources have been stretched thin and has the
highest, you know, doctor to patient ratio in the world, something like one doctor for every 200
people. But about 50,000 of those doctors are off on medical missions, earning the government
foreign exchange. So talk to the average Cuban, just like any, any person in the world, they're
going to bitch about their healthcare. But what one doctor for every 200 people, and that's the
highest amount of doctors in the world? Yes, sir, per capita. How much is it in Canada or the US?
We're talking one per, I don't know the data in front of me, but high hundreds, one per 700.
There's countries where it's in the thousands, obviously. So anyway, so you have this, this
primary care network, doctors and nurses embedded in the community. Like, again, how do you achieve
really low neonatal mortality? Well, you're on top of your prenatal care, right? And their schedule
for prenatal care puts us to shame. You know, maybe it's even excessive, but like, you're
getting blood pressure checks frequently does detect something called preeclampsia or pregnancy
induced hypertension. You're getting a lot of health surveillance throughout your pregnancy.
People don't fall through the cracks partially because, hey, this is kind of a police state
that has information on everybody. But there is a kind of nanny state element where people are
looked after and, you know, and preventative medicine is really essential.
You know, so the health system is organized again, with these primary care clinics dispersed,
you know, right throughout the country, right? There's not areas where there's,
you know, the rural areas in particular really prioritized. And then you have, you know, this
next section of poly, they're called polyclinicos, probably about 500 throughout the country. And
they have, you know, basic specialties, internal medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics, gynecology.
And they're kind of referral centers for those, those, those primary care doctors. And those are
also really dispersed throughout the country. And then you have 13 specialist hospitals. So,
you know, neurology hospitals, trauma hospitals, transplant hospitals. So they have,
you know, very specialized care available in terms of doing, you know, complex congenital
cardiac malformation surgeries. But the focus is really in terms of getting the bang for the buck
on that preventative care, that chronic disease management. And I will also say, if you go to
Cuba, everybody plays an instrument or play sports, like it is insane, the sports culture.
The number of Olympians that Cuba produces is absolutely nuts. And again, I'm starting to
sound like a blathering Cuba solidarity activist. And I really want to acknowledge complex society,
a lot of nuance, a lot of stressors internally imposed and externally imposed. But the health
system is fascinating. I spent, I've been to Cuba seven times. I got to, I did a research project
with American scholarship students studying medicine in Cuba. Fidel gave as a bit of a
FU to George Bush, he gave 500 scholarships to mostly black, Chicano and indigenous
Americans who couldn't afford to study medicine in the US. And they went to what's, I think the
world's largest medical school, which is a scholarship school for the global south, apparently,
to come study medicine in Cuba for free. And they were really interesting windows through
which to see Cuban society, because they're Americans, they shared, you know, my cultural
formation and background and questions and curiosities. And they were embedded very deep
into Cuban society, providing healthcare, like nothing puts you in touch with human beings,
like providing healthcare to them. Like as an emergency doc, I see kids, I see elderly, I see
women, I see men, I see the whole spectrum. And it's an amazing window into life. So anyway,
so they've been really useful at giving me sort of a nuanced sense of a Cuban reality. And the,
you know, some of them had kids down there and could comment on that obstetric care.
So anyway, just to, just to sort of, I guess, give you context for, for these, these opinions.
So as an ER doc, although you just said something different than ER or emergency,
you said you're an emergency doc, which is kind of an interesting Canadianism. Yeah.
Is it? Okay. Yeah. Well, I would think that, that there are emergent things that happen in,
in those facilities. So like how much of our medical system is just treating the symptoms and
not the disease? And how much of our effort as a society, as a culture, as individual
responsibilities should be towards prevention and sports and music and all those other things.
Because once you get to the hospital, it's almost too late. You're in the system and,
and all that. Do you have any words of wisdom on that front?
I mean, we're really like, one thing you didn't mention is infrastructure, right? We talk about
social determinants of health, things that make people sick. And, you know, there's biologic
determinants, like maybe just have really bad genes, right? Philadelphia chromosome, and you're
going to get leukemia as a child or something like that. But there's, there's social determinants.
And some of those, again, are sports or diet, nutrition, you know, mental health as a product
of living in an alienating environment. But some of them are just infrastructural. And maybe that's,
you know, to the environmental crowd less sexy, there was a really interesting study done in
Mexico as a health intervention. And it was giving families a few bags of cement.
And this had a huge impact on local health. So if you have a dirt floor,
you have worms and parasites on that, you have kids crawling around on it,
you have kids infested with worms, they're anemic, they're having diarrhea all the time,
they can't go to school, the moms are looking after them, the moms are depressed.
Being able to pour a cement floor, you know, I don't have the stats written in front of me,
but dramatically reduced diarrhea illnesses, like by 70% reduced. And I also read that, that those
people that spend a lot of time in the soil and the dirt when their kids
don't have allergies when they're adults and that we should take our shoes off and walk in the
bare soil and get hookworms. Yeah. No, I mean, there is something called the hygiene hypothesis.
The, the IgE immunoglobulin branch of our immune system is targeted at parasites at things like
worms. And so if it's got nothing to do because we live in such a hygienic environment, then yes,
I mean, allergies are the price to pay for, you know, kids not having anemia and like almost
all kids, right? Like, and again, this, this is where the hunter-gatherer lifestyle, you know,
there would be a different sort of health challenges, right? But humans living close
together with animals presents, you know, all kinds of zoonotic diseases, like where does,
where does the flu come from? Where does smallpox come from? All of these infectious challenges,
not all of them, but a lot of them are from concentrated humans with living with animals.
And so, no, crawling around on a dirt floor where there's animals and everything else,
like roundworms are, let me tell you about the roundworm life cycle, it's horrific, right? So
they come in usually through your foot, they bury themselves, embed themselves in your skin,
and you'll see this long little, you know, it looks like a little bit of rope or something
under the skin surface, they get into a vein, they ride the vein up into your lungs, right?
Because of bad cough, etc. Then they crawl up your trachea, and then they get swallowed down
your esophagus, right? And then they lay their eggs in your intestine, they hatch some worms,
etc., which, you know, leech off your blood supply, you poop out eggs, they get back in the soil,
and the beautiful cycle continues. I mean, it's like a, it's a disgusting sort of tour
to France through your body. And so, yeah, like, again, there's romantic ideas that it's nice to
play in the dirt and to a degree, yes. And particularly for kids in nice industrialized
countries where the dirt's not, you know, where I would keep our animals in factory
farms, I don't want to, I'm not going to go that far, but, you know, where we're not living,
piled on top of our animals, and the soil's not full of parasites. Yeah, it's great,
let your kids crawl around in the dirt. So clearly, you have a lot of wisdom on this topic,
and we can't do justice in this conversation, but do you have any advice or at least directional
thinking on medicine and the great simplification or healthcare in general?
Yeah, yeah, I think the Cuban example is insightful. Is it replicable? Not really,
right? Like, it's the product of a unique moment in time of a series of political ideologies and
sort of social values that became encoded in the system that I think did really well in
education and healthcare and screwed up a lot of other things. You know, we're not about to have a
sort of centralized government in the US that rationally distributes healthcare according to
the needs of the population on, you know, the values of sort of universal equality, etc.
But I do think, again, that question of if we want to reduce healthcare costs,
a big thing is we have something called an acceptable mis-rate, right? So in a merge,
we order an insane amount of diagnostic tests, because our tolerance to miss a heart attack
