people hate nuclear. Sure. Well, let's start with the hate. I think this is fundamentally a dual
use technology. This is swords and plowshares. And this goes back to the beginning of time.
Every technology has a sort of beneficial application, a productive application and
a destructive application. And the famous metaphor would be swords and plowshares.
And the problem is that the sword of nuclear is apocalyptic, certain, I don't know about life on
earth, but certainly in terms of any kind of life that human beings would want to live.
There are several men in the world that can put in some codes and essentially initiate the destruction
of human civilization. That's a potent reason to be scared shitless, frankly, about all uses
of nuclear energy and sort of lump them all into one basket. And so a lot of those apocalyptic fears
are, in my opinion, misplaced onto the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. And that's not just energy
production. That's the production of medical isotopes, which absolutely enable modern health
care. Our candor reactors here in Canada have a quirk of being incredible mass production
machines for medical isotopes. 40% of the world's single use medical devices are sterilized with
medical isotopes we produce here. So there's a lot of positive applications, but the sort of
edge case fears that people have about nuclear are really a transference of those fears about
nuclear annihilation. So that's, I think, what drives it. You know, my dad did duck and cover
drills during the Cuban Missile Crisis. I'm deeply empathetic to people that are, again,
scared shitless about nuclear energy. The environmental movement really kind of latched
on to it. And again, maybe just going back to the weapons thing, the fear of radiation
was a vital tool in stopping, say, atmospheric weapons testing, for instance, the insanity of
sort of where we're heading with nuclear weapons. Like if you look at the actual data in terms of
the atomic blast at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the vast majority of the deaths and injuries were
blast injuries and burns and good old fashioned, you know, explosive trauma injuries. But the
radiation induced injuries, you know, were a potent motivator of kind of shock and horror
around the use of these weapons. And so there's a kind of long history of how our fear of radiation
has been exaggerated. Certainly, high dose radiation is absolutely deadly, but our kind
of fear about low doses, I think, is greatly exaggerated. And again, these physicians, primarily
actually, who are really involved in getting atmospheric weapons testing prohibited, partially
by looking for, you know, a few atoms of decay products that you only get from weapons testing
in the milk teeth of babies, right? Finding some strontium 99, for instance. That was, you know,
a potent motivator to politicians say, okay, we're going to just do the test underground now,
basically. But there's a temptation to try and put the nuclear genie back in the bottle and stuff it
in. And I think I understand the motivations there. That's the anti side on the pro side.
Hold on just a second. What about Fukushima and the fact that they're storing all this stuff and
some of it leaches into the ocean? And is that too diffuse to worry about? Is that overblown?
Or do you have any comments on that? Well, Fukushima is really interesting because it's kind of
pretty close to the worst case scenario. Three gigawatt scale nuclear reactors melting down
essentially simultaneously. And the health impacts from that are really, I don't want to
sound blasé, but they're negligible. People will hear that, you know, 20,000 people died as a result
of the Fukushima accident. Those 20,000 people that died as a result of the Tohoku earthquake
and the tsunami that followed it. In terms of deaths from radiation from Fukushima,
there have been none. There was a single worker who got a still fairly low dose who
was compensated. A 50 year old guy who was also a smoker who got lung cancer several years after
the accident. Most serious epidemiologists don't think it was caused by it, but hey,
it's good that he got compensation and maybe had a more dignified end of his life because he had
some extra money and his family had some money. But really, we have not seen any radiologic
injury from this worst case scenario. And I think what you're probably discussing there is the
Fukushima water. So a lot of water got onto the site, got contaminated with radionuclides,
has been filtered. The only significant radioisotope left is something called tritium. It's a very
weakly radioactive element that ends up binding to water and creates essentially a water molecule
with a heavy form of hydrogen. That's the only one left. The half-life of all the others has
already dissipated. No, no, they've been filtered out with resins and things like that. So in terms
of the water they're talking about releasing into the Pacific, they're diluting it down to, and again,
this is the issue with radiation, you have to go down a huge rabbit hole to understand
dose. And even the way it's measured, the units involved are hugely confusing. But
I like to sort of put it into just money values like dollars and cents, but essentially the
safe drinking water limits, say in Canada, are 7,000, we'll say, becquerels per liter,
atomic decays per liter for tritium, they're getting it down to 1,500. So you could drink the
stuff in terms of the way that it's being diluted to and be well underneath the
safe drinking water limits that we have established around the world.
So 16-year-old Chris Keeper would not have drank that water, but 37-year-old Dr. Chris would have?
Some of the nuclear advocates have jokingly suggested we have a Fukushima drinking team.
There was a Japanese politician who did drink some of the water. He did look like he was a bit
hesitant in the moment. So there was some reports on that. And again, I don't mean to be blasé about
this. The Fukushima accident caused an evacuation. People died because of the evacuation. It's not
to be taken lightly, but I think in terms of people's apocalyptic fears, we have there the example of,
as I said, a triple meltdown with absolutely negligible health impacts, particularly from
radiation. So you're at least confident in saying that drinking that filtered water from Fukushima
is healthier than drinking roundup. Yes, sir. And alcohol and we could come up with a whole
number of sugary drinks, glucose fructose. You're an ER doctor. Do you drink alcohol?
Occasionally. Occasionally. Yeah, occasionally. I used to drink quite often. Well, I was at a
Bioneers conference last week, and I had wine for four nights in a row. But other than that,
I haven't had a single thing to drink in many, many months. And I actually feel quite better.
It's just, it's a culture, especially the United States, especially Wisconsin, where I live.
I digress. And by the way, my dad is also a doctor, and he was the chief of surgery for
a while and has had lots of ER stories. I'm sure you've seen quite a lot of things being in a
big city emergency room. I have. I won't bore you with all of the objects. I've taken out of
people's bums throughout my career, but I wasn't going to bring that up. But seriously, you've done
that? That's a part of the job in the emergency medicine world. People do weird things. Yeah,
I heard those stories from my dad too. So it's Canadians too. So, okay, on to the pro nuclear.
Right, right. So I think people get pretty religious. They find religion. People that,
again, have the unique set of cognitive biases that lead them to this advocacy camp.
There's a really compelling narrative with nuclear energy. Again, in terms of that incredible
energy density, the promise of a very minuscule land footprint environmental impact. And frankly,
this wasn't as present before the extreme situation that we find ourselves looking down the barrel
of climate change. And so we have, in the best case or in the hopes of this class of advocates,
a solution to climate change, a solution to an existential problem. It's a fascinating technology,
and there's certainly some sort of techno fetishism that goes on. But I'd say really,
it stands from people probably who are a little bit contrarian, and who look at the available
options on the table in terms of replacing fossil fuels, and are probably a little overly generous
in terms of the potential of nuclear energy to shift things or replace fossil fuels. There's
certainly some fossil fuel services, nuclear energy is great at replacing stationary power
generation, low grade process heat for some district heating, desalination. There's some
applications that are important, but yeah, it's not a panacea. But I would say that folks on the
extreme pronuclear side are probably guilty of thinking that this is essentially energy too
cheap to meter, if done right. But of course, it's never really happened. And that was just
one statement by a guy that's been quoted far too often. So we have the two extremes, the people
who love nuclear power and don't miss a chance to advocate it as the answer to society's problems,
and the people who hate nuclear power and think it's the devil in disguise because of its
long term potential to destabilize and pollute the environment. And those people account for
the majority of commentary that we see in social media. And a lot of people, including the people
who are energy blind who just look at the cost of energy at the pump or on their utility bill,
and that's the extent of energy's influence on our economy, rather than looking how everything,
the entire scaffolding is built on the complexity powered by machines that are fueled by fossil
and renewable energy. So the vast majority of people are kind of, as you said earlier, indifferent
to nuclear because they don't know that it's needed or that it's relevant and they just haven't been
educated, would you say? Well, I mean, let me give you like a case study of Ontario, right?
If you live in a jurisdiction with a lot of nuclear plants, it tends to pull very well,
particularly in the communities around the plants. They have the best equipped sports teams around,
they've got the best swimming pools. They usually kick the ass of the surrounding communities because
they've got better coaches, etc. I'm being a bit facetious, but the benefits are there. And you
don't have the smoke coming out of the stack, frankly poisoning people that you do with coal
plants or to a lesser degree natural gas plants. Over the lifetime of a nuclear plant, the power
is very, very cheap and really underpins a lot of economic well-being. In the case of Ontario,
and this is a little bit similar to France, which is another famous case study of a jurisdiction
with a lot of nuclear. The saying in France was, we do not have gas, we do not have oil,
but we have ideas. And very similar situation in Ontario. No gas, no coal. We had water,
which my great, great, great grandfather referred to as white coal, which might tell you something,
but we were dependent on importing a lot of coal from Pennsylvania and elsewhere in the US across
great lakes that sometimes froze mine by miners that often went on strike. It was an energy
insecure situation and it was costly energy. We accidentally sort of found ourselves as a real
centre, probably the second greatest centre of nuclear research outside of the Manhattan project
in Canada because a lot of European scientists and the heavy water that they kind of snuck out of
Europe as the Nazis chased them and tried to get it, came to Canada and we ended up developing our
own indigenous power reactor design. But basically, we tapped out our hydroelectric, we built a lot
of coal stations, including the largest in North America in Anticoc, and in 1973, when the OPEC
crisis hit, the price of coal doubled and we had a power reactor that was ready to go in the form
of the can-do and we just started stamping those things out. We never built another large coal
plant. After that, we just built big nuclear plants. We have the largest operating nuclear plant in
the world and ultimately, in the early 2000s, we were able to completely phase out coal, which
had been 25% of our electricity grid. It would have been probably 75% had we not gone nuclear
and thinking the implications of that in terms of energy security, economic well-being, human
well-being in terms of the enormous amount of pollution that's estimated around 1,000 people
died prematurely per year because of our coal fleet. There's a really compelling story there.
That might be a window into not my fanaticism, hopefully my nuanced appreciation for this power
source. Other than personally liking you and us having similar hobbies or vocations with our
podcasts, I do really value your balanced view and you're not a fanatic. Nuclear is not a topic
I know well, which is why I'm really glad that you're here because I'm going to ask you a bunch
of questions that will be easy for you but that I don't know the answers to. Let's go in no particular
order. Here are some questions. To my knowledge, Ontario is like 15 million people, which is the
population of Michigan and Wisconsin combined. Most of them people live in and around Toronto.
I would imagine how many nuclear plants are there in the province of Ontario?
Yeah, so there's three nuclear stations. They're all multi-unit stations. Two of these sites have
eight large candor reactors and one has four large candor reactors.
What about the transmission of nuclear power? Can those reactors you just mentioned get
electric power all the way to the west of Ontario?
Yeah, so we have an efficient grid and that's another thing about nuclear. We call it an
expensive way to make cheap electricity and renewables in contrast, a cheap way to make
expensive electricity in terms of all of the supporting infrastructure. Nuclear is very
efficient in terms of transmission. Okay, so spend a few moments unpacking that statement that you
just made. Yeah, I mean, so your listeners probably heard of the levelized cost of electricity.
It's a way to compare. Really, it should be used to compare like with like in terms of this coal
station versus that coal station or this natural gas station versus that. It gets really skewed by
renewables, which have sort of a zero marginal cost in terms of their operations. But the problem
with renewables is that they're intermittent and they require backup and often they're located
far from population centers and transmission is a major cost. I don't want to get too
sort of sidetracked off these kind of nuclear fast questions. But I have like 14 of them,
so do your best. Sure, to try and answer succinctly and then I'm quite a tangential speaker.
We are nuclear plants, I'd say in terms of the far north of the province, we do have a biomass
generating station up there. But suffice it to say yes, yes, these three nuclear stations
are near population centers and do a good job. But getting back to the levelized cost of electricity,
how would nuclear compare with solar and wind? And what was your critique of the levelized cost
of electricity, that it's a narrow boundary metric, that it doesn't include the actual full
cost of getting the energy services to the household? So there's nothing cheaper than
jiggly electrons coming out of a solar farm, for instance, when it's producing, when conditions
are perfect. But electricity is a service, not a commodity. You don't go to a solar farm and
bring your little bag and say, I need to get 300 jiggly electrons and I'm going to put some
like coins into my toaster sort of when I need them. It's a lot like healthcare, which is again,
I would argue a service, not a commodity. It's something that needs to be reliable,
something that needs to be there for you 24 seven, something that needs to be able to
adapt to surges and demand. And the kind of narrative that I'd use or the comparison I'd
use is if we were to have wind and solar doctors and nurses, kind of fair weather friends,
they're a little bit prone to packing it in when the weather changes and they can do so
sort of on very short notice, I would say, you know, a solar doctor, some clouds would go over,
he might just drop the scalpel and, you know, go off for a prolonged break or call it quits for the
day. And so which would be a real problem if you're operating on someone's bum. Right, right.
So suffice it to say that requires a really costly backup network of reliable doctors and nurses,
you might have to pay a premium to that have to come into the hospital to keep your reliable
services going nonstop, right? And so else, LCOE level as cost of electricity ignores those system
costs and therefore is not a good tool to compare unlike with unlike in terms of, you know,
an intermittent renewable source to a dispatchable source of energy. I ask you because there is
the lasard graphs that always get touted around that so many people truly believe that solar is
the cheapest energy source on the planet. And it's only a matter of time before it scales and
completely replaces fossil fuels, which is so completely misleading for many reasons. But a
main one is what you just said, it's only the marginal cost of generation that they're talking
about, not the 24 seven access to the service. I will say in order not to sound like a fanatic
here, I think there is a role for solar probably at pretty modest penetrations in terms of carving
off load, say in terms of the air conditioning peak in the middle of the day. Too much solar,
you get into this duck curve or it cannibalizes its own value and you need a crazy ramp in the
evening to keep your grid stable. But a moderate amount can shave that. And the other application
a friend of mine recently convinced me of is solar as a power source for desalination,
because you're producing something that is very storable, which is fresh water.
What would you say in reply, people like Mark Jacobson frequently tweet, he tweeted
the other day that in California earlier this month, wind, water and solar together combined
for 106% of the electricity demand over some of the days earlier this month.
I believe the quote was 0.25 to six hours per day. So what that means is with a 100%
wind, water and solar system in California, they would have had absolute black start style
blackouts every day for the last 38 days. Are people pro nuclear in Ontario? I would imagine
they know a little bit more about it than the average American. Yeah, recent polling were on
the verge of a major nuclear expansion. We're going to increase our nuclear fleet by about 50%.
