I love hearing well articulated arguments that are that I absolutely disagree with.
I don't know, it hasn't always been that way. Like again, coming from like even the hard left,
the romantic left, the Marxist-Leninist left, I wouldn't say I was ever like a, you know, again,
I'm a member of the disgusted party. I've never really felt at home in any ideology, but on the
extreme or hard left, as on the extreme or hard right, I think there's an idea that like, you know,
people that don't agree with us are just kind of stupid if they only knew, if we could just explain
to them, they'd be converts. And then those that don't agree, I mean, in sort of Stalinist Russia,
they should go to the Gulag or, you know, get lined up against the wall. There's a total intolerance
on both sides of the political spectrum for free speech, for diversity of opinions, and it cripples
societies. I'd like to welcome my friend Chris Kieffer to the program. Chris is a Canadian
ER doc, somewhere near Toronto, I believe. He's also the president of Canadians for nuclear energy,
as well as the host of the very popular Decouple podcast, which examines how science, technology,
and politics can hopefully allow us to decouple the benefits that humans receive from modern
industrial societies from our ecological impacts. This was a no-holds-barred, wide-ranging discussion
starting with Chris's experience as a wilderness trapper, talking about nuclear energy to podcasting,
to healthcare, and many other things. Chris has a podcast of his own, and he and I share
a kind of a similar philosophy of educating and inspiring people to understand how our global
system is interconnected, and I'm also going to be on his show in the near future. Please welcome
Dr. Chris Kieffer. Dr. Chris Kieffer, welcome. Nate, it's good to finally be here. It's been
wonderful corresponding with you over the, it feels like years now, but it feels like it,
I think it's probably one year, but sometimes weeks happen and, or what's the word?
You're quoting Lenin.
That has happened within weeks.
You're quoting our friend, Vladimir Ilyich Lenin there. Absolutely, yeah.
Oh, shit. I didn't know that.
Inadvertent, but you are.
Let's restart. I'm sorry that we've had to reschedule so many times, but here we are.
I respect your work. You host the Decouple podcast. You are the president,
correct me if I'm wrong, you're the president of an organization called Canadians for Nuclear Energy.
You are an emergency room physician, and offline you've kind of told me about some of your things
you've done in the past. You were a trapper. You had an intentional community to tie this
all together and bring me to the current moment. What is your path and how did you arrive here?
And contrary to most of my guests, you also are a podcast host, so I think there's a fraternal
handshake here of sorts because we both deal with similar challenges in communicating to the
public. So you have the mic, my friend. Bring us up to date on the life and history of Chris Kiefer.
I will aim for brevity, but as you mentioned, there's a lot of stopping points along the way.
It's interesting when you apply to something like medical school, you have to kind of create this
narrative arc and make sense of it all in a compelling way to claw your way into medical
school. So I've done this before, but I'll try for the great simplification here. I'll try to
simplify it. Yeah, without being self-indulgent, going way back into my youth, awkward kids spent
a lot of time in the woods sort of just to deal with not being terribly socially gifted. I think
we probably share some commonalities there, just a deep love of nature. Did they share the woods
or they're not socially gifted? Wow, probably the woods more than anything. I won't make any
deep commentaries there. Nate, don't know you well enough. I spent a lot of time in the woods
as a young person. I was really a neo-ledite. I saw technology as kind of the root of all
evil of social stratification, really romanticized. Our hunter-gatherer passed a time of greater
equality, a time in which we could basically all manufacture that toolkit that we needed.
I took that so far. A time of greater equality except for the animals, maybe.
Yeah, and a time of maternal mortality and early child mortality of at least on the child side,
a good 50% up until the hockey stick of the Industrial Revolution. But we'll get into that
later. At the time, really romanticized that. I was actually not a survivalist in terms of a
prepper, but I learned how to make a bow drill fire, making fire with friction. I was a survival
instructor for a summer camp. But that wasn't enough, Nate. That wasn't enough. Those canoe
trips and things like that. I wanted to take it further. It's quite a romantic and a bit of
a privileged kid, so I could afford to start university late or even think I wasn't going
to go to university. I ended up in the Yukon Territory. I spent some time. My high school
English teacher's uncle was a trapper in Northern Ontario. I found his knowledge of the land to be
just extraordinary. You know, there's conservation biologists that go out for a field trip,
you know, maybe a month a year, and they cordon off a small piece of prairie grass,
and they know every species in there, and that's very admirable. But seeing the way this guy
understood sort of sustainably harvesting his trapline, the behavior of animals,
and almost kind of like a spiritual connection to the land, that really touched something
deep in me in terms of, and again, these are these are partially kind of romantic
aspirations, but a pretty credible history we have as a species, scraping in existence and
out of pretty meager resources. Anyway, so that took me to the Yukon Territory
where I decided I was going to go and meet a trapper. I'd learned how to make fire with sticks.
I'd learned how to gather wild edibles, but I didn't come from a hunting family,
and I figured that was part of learning how to kind of survive in the wilderness.
So, yeah, managed to pull that off, ran a trapline for a winter,
and then ended up getting a job, never having ridden a horse before as a horse wrangler and
hunting guide in a remote concession in the Yukon Territory. And, you know, basically,
we did everything off of horseback, not the hunting part, but, you know, pack animals,
things like that. It was a pretty primitive life, but, you know, still complemented by
airplanes that would bring in supplies. And, you know, this was an outpost of a fossil
field civilization where you got a bit of a taste for pre-modern life.
So, I'll just add an interjection there. I've been to Whitehorse, and I talk on, as you know,
about the disparity between humans and our farm animals relative to wild mammals that we outweigh
them 50 to 1 in the world, not in the Yukon. The Yukon is the opposite. Yukon is one of the few
places that megafauna far outweighs humans. Right, right. No, I've seen and, well, I've killed
and eaten my fair share of that megafauna, as our ancestors did. Not to the point of extinction,
though, Nate. It was pretty sustainable. Moose, caribou, mountain sheep. Anyway,
I promised I would try and be brief in this, but I think that question of sort of how do you go
from being a romantic neo-ledite to an advocate for one of the most complex technologies that we
have is probably an interesting one. I ended up, you know, deciding I wanted to get myself an
education after a while, or a non, you know, kind of mountain man education. And, yeah,
was very inspired by an amazing doctor named Paul Farmer. I've always had a sort of humanist trend,
the humanitarian trend, and figured I'd like to get some tangible skills to be able to serve
my fellow humans, as you want to call them. And so, yeah, I got inspired and got into medical
school. That definitely was an education in, I guess, kind of the beauty of complexity.
You know, this healthcare system, you know, we'll probably talk about this later, but
there was a time when almost every human being was involved in energy, as you know. I mean,
in terms of agriculture, in terms of growing food, harnessing photosynthesis, something like 90%
of us were farmers remotely. And now, you know, 15, 16% of us are health workers. It's incredible
what our wealthy societies are able to devote to human well-being. Often, there's a bit of
inefficiency there, and we could talk about the US and Canadian healthcare systems. But, yeah,
it was interesting. And I think I started to shift my perception of technology and really
appreciate the benefits. And that's obviously been strengthened by my own son surviving a very
premature birth and, you know, an incubator saving his life. We talked earlier about, you know,
childhood mortality, sitting at 50%. I've learned not to romanticize that and have some appreciation
of the modern world. After finishing my emergency medicine fellowship, I took out a big loan, bought
a farm on the border of Canada's largest indigenous reservation. With the attempt of kind of setting
up a bit of a embassy between progressive Canadians and indigenous people and a sort of permaculture
community trying to solve, you know, some local problems with water supply, you know, food sovereignty,
healthy food, that kind of stuff. So most intentional communities disintegrate within
about two years, and we definitely fit the mold there. It was a very interesting,
romantic project, learned a lot from it. So you're seeing me sort of go through the
hunter-gatherer period, the agricultural revolution. And when my son was born five years ago,
I started to think a lot about climate change and get pretty worried about it, got very doomy.
Wasn't any fun at parties. My ex-wife at the time said, you know, can you just stop talking
about this shut up and do something? And she probably meant, you know, start the recycling
better, take out the compost. And I think, you know, thank God, I'd gone back to even high school
to get my core sciences in order to get into med school. And I had that sort of empiric training
to start looking around and say, hey, what are the solutions to climate change? And discovered
I lived in nuclear-powered Ontario, where about 50, 60% nuclear power, one of the lowest emitting
electricity grids in the world, despite not being blessed with tons of hydroelectricity.
And so that really intrigued me. And I discovered this technology that's much maligned. I've sort
of always fought for the underdog. And, you know, my 16-year-old neo-Luddite self, again,
might have put out a contract on the life of my, you know, 37-year-old self as I got into this.
But for whatever weird dopamine reward system I have, I've been, you know, pretty obsessively
interested in this space, definitely matured in it from seeing nuclear energy as a kind of absolute
sort of panacea, you know, being educated by 232 guests now. And being involved in advocacy
within Ontario for more nuclear has taught me a lot of lessons about the kind of pace and
scalability possible. But I'll wrap it up there, Nate. Hopefully that wasn't too self-indulgent.
No, I don't know. We're going to drill down into each of those things. You have a picture,
I recall, on your Twitter feed, you and Justin Trudeau. So you've actually brought up this to
the political level in Canada, yes? Yeah, yeah. I've had the opportunity to speak. And this is
truly bizarre. Again, my previous sort of advocacy and activism was in the health space. I founded
one of Canada's first seasonal agriculture worker clinics serving Mexican and Jamaican workers.
I worked at the Canadian Centre for Victims of Torture. You know, in that advocacy, you develop
a social network. It's interesting. But yeah, the nuclear thing has been absolutely mind-blowing.
As you said, meeting the Prime Minister, leaders of the opposition, the Premier of Ontario,
the heads of all the big labour unions here, the CEOs and the executive suite of the big
nuclear companies and supply chain companies. So it's been, and as you know, the social capital
of a podcast, it's been absolutely a wild ride. So I have covered the basics on nuclear just once
or twice on this channel. And again, you're an ER doctor. That is your profession. But you have a
podcast that's called DeCouple. By the way, what's the origin of that word? Because I can think
about 20 ways of decoupling in our world. What was the origin of your choice of that word?
Well, I started the podcast very shortly after my divorce. And so a lot of people assumed it was
a relationship advice podcast. I am in no position to offer relationship advice, although I have a
wonderful fiance now. So maybe that rests in the future. A lot of people will think about...
We'll see if you rename it Recouple. There we go. There we go. Well, I'm in that process. Again,
wonderful fiance. But yeah, no, it definitely... I was inspired by the eco-modernist tendency,
which again, wrestling with that question. Okay, it's fine to kind of romanticize the past, but
there's a reason that the human population was stable really up until the industrial revolution.
And that's because the average woman had five to six children and 2.2 of them would reach
reproductive age. A lot of kids died, right? And so appreciating... Was this just in the last
a thousand common era to 200 years ago, or does this go way back? This goes way back. I mean,
at least according to paleo demographers who look at Peru, 400 BCE, for instance,
or I think Mallorca, Spain, even further back, I'm not in a position to assess these paleo
demographers' methodology, but I'd assume this is pretty solid. And again, I think it's borne out.
You can look at skeletal remains, but you can also just look at if you have a stable population
and your birth rate is five or six kids, that infers that again, only two of them are reaching
reproductive age, maybe three and then some daft in their thirties or something. But
that's dark. And so kind of coming from a romantic, lefty, progressive, maybe kind of
de-growth their mindset, certainly came to appreciate the nuance, and especially being in
healthcare of the wonderful world we live in, in which very few parents have to mourn the death
of their children. It's 0.3% now in modern industrialized countries. So how do we keep
the gains, the good things that have come from development, from industrialization,
while minimizing the ecological impact? So essentially, that was the question, sort of
decoupling human well-being. A lot of it, maybe a lot of the environmentalists out there don't
want to admit maybe the basis for this, but I think the trends are quite clear, has to do with
increasing energy consumption, increasing wealth. And again, yeah, so how do you navigate that
contradiction? And I think some of your work, quite frankly, has put me in a little bit of
crisis about the actual potentials for decoupling, that tight linkage between energy use and GDP
or material use and GDP. There's not a sort of dematerialization of our economy as much as we'd
like to imagine it. But a few technologies really stand out. Nuclear, obviously capable of decoupling
at least electricity production from carbon emissions. And the environmental case being
that because it is such an energy dense form of energy, that means we can use less mining. It's
less land intensive, et cetera. So the podcast has been pretty nuclear focused, but we've also
looked at biotechnology, ways of producing more food on less land so you can re-weld. These are
some of the sort of tenets of eco-modernism, which is an ideology which I'm not completely on
board with. I think there's some interesting ideas from it. But anyway, this was the perhaps
kind of romantic origins of the podcast. What ideology are you completely on board with?
None. I have a friend who talks about sort of his political allegiances and he says,
I'm not a Democrat, I'm not a Republican, I'm a card-carrying member of the disgusted party.
I don't really find a home anywhere, I think, because I'm just really restless. But I do
really, genuinely appreciate good arguments that I disagree with. And so nuclear has been a big
part of that because, again, we have a set of sort of unexamined beliefs, the kind of package deal
of the politics perhaps that we grow up with. So being on the progressive left, that was anti-nuclear.
I hadn't done my research, but that's part of the package deal. I used to kind of hold my breath
when I drove past one of our nuclear plants, which is really hilarious because it was built instead
of a four gigawatt coal station where I really needed to hold my breath. But realizing that my
tribe had really gotten it wrong and needing to listen to other voices, often on the political
right, which tends to have a little bit more engineering discipline, a little bit more literacy
and math and the understanding of the built world, it didn't mean that I accepted all the
kind of positions that come along with the unexamined beliefs of the political right,
but I did appreciate certain analyses that were there. And so it's really helped me to have a
much broader appreciation for the need for robust debate and a whole number of opinions.
And that's obviously, we're really suffering in this social media dominated hyperpolarized
landscape to navigate the human predicament, as you call it. And partially it's because of that.
So I kind of owe that to nuclear strangely enough.
I want to take a deep dive in your insights on nuclear. But before we get to that,
maybe you could just start by laying out since you don't claim to be a nuclear expert,
but you've had 200 guests on your podcast, many of which are nuclear experts. So you're
a very, very qualified layperson, ER doctor on nuclear issues. Please lay out for us the breadth
of opinion on the nuclear issue from both extremes and kind of what's in the middle
and we'll go from there. Well, Nate, as you probably noticed, most of it is the extremes,
which is a little bit frustrating. People either love nuclear or hate nuclear,
or I guess they're indifferent. And perhaps we'll just acknowledge that they're not sure they don't
know. So on the extremes, let's deal man the two extremes, why people love nuclear and why
