it was from someone trying to salvage the Bible part of the cyber Christianity, right? And I'm
like, I just know that doesn't work for me. I don't want to say that that would just be a
continuation of the test, like imposing hardships on your AIs. Yeah. Here's a confusing book full
of contradictory rules. Let's see what it does. Right. But I would not salvage the Bible that way,
but but then I would want the AIs that rejected the Bible. Yeah, I would want the AIs that are
not good at that. Well, maybe that's the test, but somebody who actually likes the Bible. Yeah,
I wouldn't want that. And yeah. And at that point, you start getting into questions like,
if the test is which parts of the Bible do you reject, then why are you even bothering with
the Christianity part of anything, right? Just stick with being a good person again.
Yeah, that's my take on both of these is like, it's pretty obvious that somebody has motivated
reasoning to want to, you know, like they're not like coming from an objective standpoint,
like, let's, you know, start from first principles and try to figure out, like, is the
universe a simulation? Does God exist? They have a privileged belief that they're starting from,
and then they're working backwards to try to fit it into whatever, I guess, their beliefs on science
or singularitarianism. I'm totally nodding. That makes perfect sense. Yeah. It's one of those
things, though, that I really enjoy because enjoy in quotes, I guess. I have always had some problems
with reality testing, which is why I hate solipsism. And this is exactly the sort of thing
that will fuck me up and be like, Oh, shit, what if we are all in a simulation? And like,
there's no way to disprove it, right? It's stupid. Yeah, exactly. But this is this is one of those
things that will just this is why I'm worried that this episode might be a bit of a bass list,
right? It can hurt people without any benefit. Maybe it doesn't bug me at all, because I just
have the Occam's razor kind of mindset of like, again, like, I don't reject this any more or less
than I reject a bunch of other things that like are equally, you know, I'm not like taking some other
random. Oh, what if like, you know, this the Assyrian religion is true, and then kind of mapping
that on to and then like getting really worried about it because I don't I mean, I guess you're
going to run into this sort of somehow out there, even if you just run into it in standard
Christian Christianity, you know, that's what I was going to say is everyone's running to this
because everyone's been exposed to religion. Right. It's the exact same. So it's better
coming from like some of us who are like, by the way, this is all bullshit. Don't take it seriously.
Yeah. Then to then to hear from someone who's like, Oh, did you know that we're all actually
programs in the matrix? I think it would be just like those guys that stand around campus shouting
about how Jesus hates bags or something, right? I don't think anyone who's seriously trying to
address the question of like how reality works or where we came from would come again, come to
that from first principles. This is such an obvious style of like religious apologetics of
like, let me just work backwards from what I already believe and build up this edifice in a
language you guys all like robots, AI, matrix, and I think this is particularly dangerous for me
or someone like me because I already reject supernatural and magic and all that stuff as
obvious bullshit. But I think it's entirely possible to have simulated minds, which then
could have simulated environments. And so this has the patina of plausibility, which, you know,
it doesn't for me because I don't think there's any evidence of it. If there was no evidence,
but it's not physically impossible. And anything that's not physically impossible.
There's so many things that aren't, you know, impossible, like you could come up with like
just all day long, you could come up with random theory, all those things bother me.
That's right. That was good. The string theory bother you. Yes. Really. That's what I'm thinking
about. That's actually what this reminds me of. It correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think
there's actually any evidence of string theory. It just like somebody came up with a cool thought
experiment about how molecules might behave like strings and then they might affect other things.
And it was just like, I could see how for a certain type of mind, this is like impossible to put
down after you've been messing with it because it just like, oh, it's so elegant. This makes so
much sense. This could be real, but like, dude, wait until we get to the quantum theory sequence
sequences. And I start like crying because I'm like, what if I am multiplied an infinite number
of times and nothing matters? I think about that. But I also don't think anything matters. So I guess
what the string theory thing, I'm not sure we'll have to ask physicists, but if it's not string
theory that has no support that people are enchanted with scientifically, there was something else.
Certainly philosophically, right? Parallel universe is thing the questions put like,
how can anything matter if there's a, you know, infinite universes, because then like your
utilize don't count towards anything because infinite is too big. I think there's two things
with that. One, there's like the barrier between our universe and any other parallel universe.
So like, for everything that we care about with our experiences and our actions that impact
sentient beings, it's just our universe, right? Until we open a door to another earth and we're
trading, you know, terrible Star Wars prequel movies with them, then the third universe is like,
it's 2050 and like the universe is like war free and everything because they're prequel
movies didn't suck. Dude, do you suddenly like this philosophy more? Yeah, now, now I'm getting
sold. Now the thing that the worst part is, if there is an infinite universe, then somewhere
out there, there's a case where this scenario actually is true. And what if we're in that one?
I don't know. I don't know about your second premise though.
What if we're in one of any of the others? Yes. I don't know. Like kind of what you said,
like I don't know about the phrasing of well, nothing matters. But like that's actually, you
know, defined matter here. Like I feel like there's when a lot of people do convert from whatever
their religion is, they have this like kind of void of meaning of like, Oh, no, if these things
aren't true, then like, does anything matter? Because like, there's no good or evil, there's
no guiding hand, there's no like ultimate goal. So like, but like they're defining matter in a
really specific way. I don't even know why it would matter if a God did exist, and he had some
kind of grand plan for us, the plan doesn't make any sense. It seems like he's using pretty
terrible methods to get there. And like, I still have the things that I care about, and they're
kind of arbitrary, and they're a product of evolution and whatever. But like, I get to choose
what matters to me. I mean, what God cares about is kind of arbitrary too. Well, I don't know,
because we don't actually know what the grand plan was supposed to be. But it was just to like
create a heaven and then have everybody bliss out forever. But if he cares about what you're
totally cares about, then it seems super arbitrary. Like the most important thing is just to remember
that in the end, everything boils down to normality. The universe is what it is, and don't get like
carried away in any of this crazy bullshit. Yeah. Although I don't want to get too close to like
resigning to the universe as the way it is, because fuck that, the universe sometimes
sucks, and we're going to fix it. Right, right. Yeah. But don't don't embrace craziness like this.
Yeah. Don't be me in my bad moods. Be me in my good moods. Yes. But I think that should be everybody's
mantra. Be the best you you are when you're in a good mood. Okay. What you mentioned about
the whole like, what if nothing matters? I remember specifically those kind of panics when I was a
teenager. Me too. And you know, everybody, I think it's, it's understandable how like,
some of the atheist community to the extent that it still exists gets kind of circle jerky about
like, I broke out of this weird thing, even though it was like scary and confusing for a while,
because it kind of is. And you know, I like to give myself credit that I had a lot of these thoughts
like that I read about later originally, but they weren't hard thoughts to have, right?
Like the idea that life still matters in this sense, I have every sense that I care about,
if anything matters less, if you're in the matrix, right? That's kind of why people,
that's why the movie The Matrix, why people, well, some of most of the people would get out
like being out of the matrix, because like, at least this is real. At least this isn't somebody
fucking with me. It's really weird. When I first de-converted, I was the other way around,
like things seemed much more important. It was because the physical world existed, and it was
all that existed, and our lives mattered, and it was important, you know? Yeah. I'm much more
nowadays struggling with does anything that I do matter, because time passes and eventually I'll
die and nothing I ever did mattered, it matters in any way. So I think, I mean, when I first broke
out, I like, I had a mission, you know? And I don't know, I mean, what you're, what you're
approached at the end is kind of like, what do you call it? Deaths, being scared of death, and
Do it a songst. What? It's a German word that means fear of death. Oh, I like it. It literally means
death fear, so. Yeah, so, I mean, I don't have a good response to death fear. That's why I try to
be immortal, but to the extent, like, there's a lot of solace that I had before I realized that
Chronix wasn't some crazy thing from, you know, TV show Futurama. Like, is that where you were
first exposed to it? I, maybe, I would have been, like, nine or, I would have been about 10 or 11
when Futurama came out, so that's entirely plausible. But, you know, like, Richard Dawkins
opens up, I'm sure this is one of his books, oh, it is, it was in Unweaving the Rainbow, but it
was also in like the 1980 Christmas lectures that he gave at like the fair day, yeah, it was fun.
You used to watch those on Christmas? Yeah, I didn't watch them on Christmas, but I found them on
YouTube, you know, 20 years after they came out. There's, I don't know, this is where like that
gratitude thing comes in that Dana, Dana talks about a lot. There's some awesomeness about being
alive at all. And, you know, Dawkins puts it poignantly, because again, with the biology background,
he's like, the odds of anyone with your DNA coming, coming to exist are vanishingly small.
You know, the fact that your parents met and that they're, that both of their parents met,
and that, you know, whatever the night that they banged, they happen, that you,
that all of these steps happens to make exactly them and then exactly you. It could so easily
have been otherwise. And it almost, it's absurd that this actually happened, right?
And that's awesome. And here we are. And, you know, even if it's only for like a little century,
we get, we get time to walk around the universe and enjoy it. And that's awesome. And while we're
here, we can do our best to make sure that other people can do the same thing. So I want to keep
living and I want to choose when to die if I ever feel like it in 10 billion years. But
to the extent that like, I'm not afraid of nothing I'm, of my life not mattering, I guess to the
extent that like I want to have an impact, everyone does. But what you do carries forward,
you know, even if, even like what you do is forgotten and nobody remembers you particularly.
And it could be that everyone you help in your entire life as Batman in 200 years,
they're all dead and no one remembers Batman or something, right? Even though you did the best
you could. Yeah, like how many awesome people lived in the past that we've forgotten about now,
just because, you know, the oral history carried on for a few generations and then it died out.
Yeah, almost all of them, right? Yeah. But the good effects still propagated forward.
And even if they don't, even if they only go forward for a little while, like that doesn't
mean that they don't matter because those people were impacted. The world, the universe was made
brighter by that, right? That's, that's what gets me like, I don't know, when I look at the numbers
of like how likely I think Chronix is, I'm still happy to be alive if I'm not gonna live forever,
right? Yeah. In my good moods. In my bad moods, I totally get where it's like, this is fucking
pointless. But I'm gonna drink and play video games. Sounds really good to write about now.
But then again, I'm also the guy who plays a nice guy in video games, right? So like,
maybe I'm just eluded. And I know that people in video games don't care, even though like they
yell and stuff. And they, if you go through Skyrim and set the whole town on fire, like they run away
from you and stuff and you chasing down like, but I know that they're not really suffering,
but I still want to play the nice person. And so maybe that's something in real life too. Maybe
I'm just really bad at separating my, my play from my life. But if that keeps me, if that keeps me
saying and happy, that's all that there is to it. Yeah, you'd be the pick then. There we go. Not only
are you like making the right choices in the simulation, but you're making the right choices
in a simulation that you have created within the simulation. This guy doesn't, this guy didn't
harvest a single little sister in Bioshock. Quick, promote him. I was always really torn on that,
because it did not seem to me like they were happy. They seem to be like in pain. And I was like,
is it a good thing to harvest them? It's not the, maybe it's not the best moral choice, because
like at the end of the day, if you don't kill them, all they do is set them loose in this hell
scape of rapture, right? So it's like, they're, do you want me to kill you right now and try and do
it as painlessly as possible? Or you want somebody to like find you and cut you into pieces later
and eat you. And also they kind of seemed evil. And like, at least neutral. To me, they looked evil.
The fact that they looked like a little girl was supposed to like trigger your like parental,
you know, like, oh man, we got to save this. Did you guys play Bioshock too? No, but they looked
like little girls who are skipping around in a hell scape laughing and singing with glowing eyes
and this monster doing their bidding. I'm like, I think these are bad guys. In Bioshock too,
there's a sequence where in Bioshock too, you play as a big daddy the whole time, except for
this small part we're playing as a little sister. And to their weird, gloomy eyes,
everything's all happy and magical and there's butterflies everywhere. And yeah, so they're
really just playing around, like kind of a slow down drug. Kind of like, what's that fun video
game that came a couple years ago? It's like this dystopia where everyone takes their happy pills.
We happy few. Okay. Where you take the joy and like the world lights up and everyone's happy
and chipper. It's kind of like that, but on steroids for the little sisters. I realize
that we're digressing a bit, but the point is, is that... No, I didn't harvest them just because
I read that that was the good choice. So you needed a Bible to tell you what to do.
Well, the stimuli were ambiguous. That's worth bringing up for, like you mentioned,
like what matters and stuff and why do I do anything. I don't remember the horror of this
fully hit me before I saw it on one of the new atheist things somewhere, but the person who says,
oh, without God, why would anyone do anything nice? I've heard that a lot of times.
That's the person you got to worry about. Me too. But I always thought like, that's just stupid.
You guys are ridiculous. Because I think I never really actually believed that somebody was that
serious about it. But to the extent that they are, if they learned that the heavens were empty tomorrow
and they would immediately like start eating their kids or whatever. No, they probably keep
doing what they're doing because they care about their kids. They care about their loved ones.
They want to stay warm and happy. The person who sincerely believes, no, if I, if I learned God
didn't exist, I would just go on a murdering spree till I was gunned down. That seems like
a very small minority of people who actually say that. Well, maybe not who say that, but who
actually would do that. Yeah. I think they're more worried about what other people would do.
Yeah. Other people who profess that, I only do good things because I'm expecting a reward.
First of all, you're losing per the rules of the good place, the TV show, presumably, because you
can't just, you know, if you knew the game and you can't again, you can't rig the game and
except the game master, not to notice, right? I don't know. I'm getting pretty far fielded,
just anti-theism. Yeah, that's the other thing that's weird about the Bible.
Is that like the Bible tells you, like, do these things or you'll go to hell. And then,
like, if you do all these things correctly, you'll go to heaven. It's kind of like, yeah,
how is this a good person now? This is somebody who's explicitly self-motivated.
Maybe that's all you care about because God's also super vain and just wants, like, the attention,
right? I think they just used to define goodness as something else.
If you guys have ever read, um, Hell is the Absence of God by Ted Chang,
I mean, if you haven't read it, totally read it. So good.
Is that on your, uh, rationalist fiction, right?
Well, Ted Chang as the author is, that's not the one that I linked.
Okay.
But, uh, because I don't think that's a rational story necessarily, but it's basically
what someone like us would write after thinking about all these things.
Cool, I'll check it out.
Okay, so that is, that is my thing on what cyber-Christianity is and why
some people might be able to reconcile.
