I wonder if there's anybody who didn't come from religious upbringing that buys into this.
I doubt it.
I sort of doubt it too. I feel like this is something that, like, you're raised religious
and you hear about the school rationality stuff and you find the people nice and you like the
idea of polyamory or something. So you're like, I'm going to go join these people and make their
noises, but they don't like the fact that I'm religious. How do I get them to accept me into
their tribe? Oh, I'll change enough of the, the words of my religion to just sneak in there.
I don't think that there's any such explicit thought process.
No, it doesn't have to be explicit.
Well, yeah, but I made it sound explicit, but I don't think, I don't think it was.
I don't, I didn't mean, I didn't mean... It's like what your subconscious brain is doing in the
background. What your conscious brain is really motivated to ignore it. Mike, are they being
hypocritical or are they just being a craze with their beliefs? Yay. That's a good question.
How is that segue? But I'll also just point out that that's sort of the press secretary
metaphor that Robin Hansen uses in Elephant in the Brain, where it's like your, your real
motivations are obviously like, I just want to stay with these, these people and keep doing this
and your press secretary goes forward and gives you good reasons to say all these new things that
you're saying. And in the show notes, I will link a rationalist Mormon who put forward a lot of
these arguments. He has them both in written format and in three podcast episodes where he just
basically spells them out speaking into a microphone. I'd be interested in hearing it.
And, you know, then people can tell me how I misrepresented him and I'm a bad person.
And I probably didn't do it complete justice, but I think I got the both, both the, the heart
of the matter and also what I thought was most interesting about it.
Does he maintain that there was like a magical Jesus?
I don't know. That was the one where he mentioned that you want an AI that will follow
even arbitrary rules like kill your son.
So I'm curious because Mormonism is pretty strict about like all the weird shit they believe, right?
I mean, the dogma is, yeah, but the actual believers can be really all over the place.
I've met some Mormons who are basically atheists.
Yeah, same. I guess I was thinking that like...
But still strong like Mormon.
I think I found much more commonly, and I guess I know more Christians than Mormons,
but I find more Christians who are like essentially atheists. Like, you know,
God is like in my garden when I'm out, you know, potting plants or something.
Like that's, if you said that 500 years ago, we would have killed you.
But I find, I guess I, again, for the small sample size, but I find that Mormonism
in my limited experience tends to be less flexible about that.
You can't call yourself a Mormon and say God isn't real.
Whereas you can do that Christianity kind of.
Well, they certainly don't say God isn't real.
They might say God is a human who invented us as AIs and...
Something like that.
I think it might just be part of...
Mormonism is much smaller than Christianity, and I think that it's a little,
like probably just more extreme for that reason.
It's a smaller and newer religion.
I also think for him, it was more of a metaphor than a literal one-to-one,
we are in the matrix thing.
Okay.
It's like, this is, this is what God is doing, and this is why he might be doing it as a sort
of a testing routine. Not literally, there's programmers out there wanting to find out if
they can release into their world.
So he doesn't even believe this. He's laying this out as like an analogy of why he believes
his religion.
I mean, maybe. I couldn't, I couldn't quite tell.
Although that sounds like the most...
It might be a very good strong metaphor, or it might be, you know,
does it matter?
We talked about it, and we had a cool conversation, and some people probably believe it.
Oh, no, no. That sounds, I mean, as far as that goes, but it's just like that kind of like
obscuring, you know, weird, shady, ephemeral...
I didn't want to put words in his mouth.
Maybe he does literally think that there are the gods of programmer thing.
Oh, no, that's fine.
And I don't even know who this person is, but I'm just thinking like,
this is the exact kind of thing that makes arguing with religious people tires them,
because, you know, you can grant, okay, yeah, that's an interesting metaphor.
I see Ray coming from within religion, and then they'll go around and tell their friends,
and be like, I converted him.
He's on board now.
Yeah, they do a lot of the mountain bailing, too.
Yes, mountain bailing, just, again, I call it ephemeral goalposts,
where like they'll go, not only do they move, but like sometimes they're real,
and sometimes they're not.
So I don't know, it's, it's a whole thing.
But we were talking about acracia and hypocrisy.
Yeah.
A little bit.
Shall we move on to the less wrong posts?
Yes.
Sure thing.
All right.
Our first post that we're going to talk about today is the sequence post hypocrisy or acracia.
Am I pronouncing that right?
Yeah.
Okay.
I think so.
And I think, if I recall correctly, like the word acracia was already in the community,
I guess, in the air, where people had introduced it before, I think.
I think Aristotle coined it.
Or Plato.
But it was not like, it wasn't a commonly used word.
I had never heard it before of the rational, the rationalist community came around.
I took philosophy classes, so I took it the wrong way.
I got it in the wrong order, probably.
It probably came into the rationality community from philosophy.
Oh yeah.
In the post, he mentions one of those philosophers.
The ancient Greeks used the term acracia.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In any case, the idea that you know what you should do and you don't because of weakness of will.
Right.
Yeah.
So it's like, I want to lose weight and be attractive, but donuts.
We've had this conversation.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I think this is the first post, well, I know this is the first post that actually
defines the term acracia.
And I think it was already being talked about a bit, but this post is a good introduction
for someone who hasn't heard it before.
And just basically says what acracia is.
And how it's not in hypocrisy.
Right.
Or is it?
Yeah.
So you were just before we started the episode, you mentioned that you thought Robin Hansen
had a more extreme definition of hypocrisy than most people.
Yeah, but they go on to kind of define what they're talking about in a nice way.
Although the fact that they're arguing over definitions of words is kind of funny.
Yeah.
So I was thinking that hypocrisy was just saying one thing and not doing it yourself.
Like if my parents told me not to smoke, but they both smoke.
And they say it's bad for you.
You shouldn't do it between puffs on a cigarette.
I thought of it in the ad hominem, what, to coquet, the hypocrisy argument, right?
So it's like the fact that they're not doing what they're saying doesn't make them wrong.
You know, Peter Singer could be, you know, as selfish as Donald Trump,
but they wouldn't make his moral arguments wrong.
It would make him a hypocrite, but it wouldn't make him wrong.
But I think they have a more strict definition, which I think is fine, of like moral hypocrisy
saying, we were talking about religious people earlier, you know, the gay bashing super,
super church or megachurch pastor who gets caught with his pants down,
doing blow off some male prostitutes, Dick or something, right?
So this happened in Colorado Springs a few years ago, right?
I think you generally do them like off their abs or something.
Like doing blow off a dick would probably be hard.
I mean, obviously it would have to be hard.
It would have to be hard.
Anyway, so my colorful language aside, that would be hypocrisy in the sense that they're
talking about. They're saying this is a moral failure, except when I do it.
I've always, I don't know if it's my religious upbringing as well and like how Jesus loved
using hypocrite as an insult, but I always also gave it a moral aspect.
Like if your parents say don't smoke because it's health advice, then it's just a crazy.
But if they're like giving you the impression that smoking is a morally bad thing,
which I always got that impression from my parents, then it would be hypocrisy if they smoked.
Like if smoking has a moral judgment behind it, like it's dirty or it shows weakness well,
you know, all good people don't smoke and they are smoking while they tell you that,
then it's hypocrisy.
Yeah, to be fair, the post then goes on to explain hypocrisy versus acracia and does it
in a way that makes the distinction, I don't know, more palatable and actually easier to
understand what phenomena we're talking about if we use acracia or hypocrite to describe the
behavior. So yeah, I like it.
Yeah, Eliezer says, if I really believe that I ought to exercise at least three times per week,
but I don't always do so, is that properly termed a hypocrite? I mean the term acracia,
meaning weakness of will or failure of self-control seems more appropriate.
Yeah, I mean, I guess that's basically it. I've always, I feel like a douchebag saying this.
I kind of have gotten the impression for many years now that the rationalist community overuses
the term acracia or acracia to as an excuse sometimes.
To justify all the shit that we still do despite us should be knowing better.
Right, I'm like every now and then it's a right to just say, you know what, I'm a crappy human
or something and I'm doing something like giving it the term acracia almost seems too noble sometimes.
Because you're using a fancy Greek word.
So you're explaining like why you didn't do your work. It's like, well,
it's because I was playing Red Dead Redemption for four hours.
Right.
And it's like, oh, that was, that was the craze of this weakness of will. It's not a problem with me,
you know, as a person that moral character is a weakness of will.
Yeah. And I'm like, dude, you wanted to drink and play video games. I feel you. I've been there too,
a lot. All you have to do is admit that there's nothing wrong with that once in a while, right?
Yeah, as long as you're not like missing bills or, you know, not, you're getting,
you know, losing your job or something because you're playing too much video games, then go nuts.
Yeah, I don't have a problem with it. I think that it's generally correct. And I also don't think
that people are like, Oh, it's okay that I was drinking and playing video games because it was
just a craze. It's like people, when they say that it's not like they're giving themselves a free
pass. I think it's just an actually true definition of what was going on in their brain. They probably
sat there drinking, playing video games and every 20 minutes thinking, I should go do the dishes.
I should go walk the dog. And then they felt bad about themselves afterwards.
That's my life.
I think that's generally how that happens. There's, I think very few people that
does me like five days a week don't feel bad about like doing behaviors that they know they
don't really want to do or that like are actually like short term shooting themselves in the foot.
Okay. Then I was being a douchebag, right?
Well, maybe just miss under, maybe like miss modeling them because,
you know, I think if you're consistently making the acracia like thing or not excuse, but
explanation for your behavior and like you, you notice that acknowledge it, but don't do anything
about it, then what's the point? Like, so I tend to not to feel bad about my video game binges,
you know, assuming I'm not putting off important things, right? Yeah, I don't have much to add
to that other than why did they start this debate in the first place?
Hansen and Yudkowski.
Oh, well, I assume it was because Hansen was doing his typical economist revealed preference thing.
Yeah.
Where people are like, well, they obviously don't really care about their health.
They're just signaling that they care about their health and they're smoking.
Right.
And yeah, and all the answer was like, that's just weakness of will. It's not necessarily.
It's Robin Hansen human.
I love Robin Hansen.
No, me too. He's amazing. I think he's great.
