But it's funny because maybe he, I don't know how he has this ability maybe to see through
the bullshit. Maybe he doesn't live with the bullshit. Maybe it's some court.
He's always wearing the one ring from the Lord of the rationality.
Right.
Yeah. So that's the distinction. I think maybe the reason that it's in this at all is because it's a
valuable thing to notice about like, why aren't you doing the thing that you want? Well, you know,
it's not because you suck. It's just because maybe it's a weakness of will sometimes.
And you can, you can train your will that you can't maybe train your moral character as easily.
I'm not really sure what they're getting out there. But
Oh, it's also, if you're going to be using that term, it's good to have a post that defines it.
Yeah.
I mean, this is a sort of sequence of things that is supposed to be starting from bedrock.
Wait, is that why it's called the sequences?
I've made the effort to intentionally choose the Acrasia argument in the past.
I didn't define it that way.
But I went around for a while, kind of having this like,
dark view of the world going, yeah, people suck. The life sucks. And I kind of wanted to
improve after a while. So I started an experiment where I was just giving people the benefit of
the Dow. Like, for example, I was driving for many years. I was commuting to college for five
years. And it was like 45 minute drive both ways. And then for work, it was the same distance.
And just like on a highway and people cut you off and New Jersey drivers.
So when people would cut me off, I would be like, what a terrible person,
what a dick. And it would just make me miserable. And I kind of tried to change my mindset where
I would give people the benefit of the doubt. Like, okay, they probably cut me off because they
didn't see me. Or because maybe they've got an emergency, they might be speeding somewhere
because something really bad is going on with them or they're really stressed out or whatever.
I went through the same sort of transformation.
Yeah.
And I think it was around the time I don't think that this kicked it off, but there's
a great distillation of half of that attitude, which is called Hanlon's razor.
Never attribute to malice. That was just equally explainable by stupidity.
Yeah.
So it's like someone who cuts you off, it could be a malicious asshole, but more than likely,
they're probably just stupid. Or they're a bad driver.
Yeah, they're not paying attention. They've got other shit going on.
I was using stupid generically.
I feel like you're not giving them that much of the benefit of the doubt there.
Yeah, I was like, that's not quite what Jess was going for.
But it's hard to be mad at somebody for not noticing something.
If you felt like they're trying to run you off the road, which sometimes they are,
then they're their dicks.
I feel like it's almost never that anyone's actually trying to run you off the road.
No one cares that much about you to try to run you off the road.
I'm not saying that. I meant to say not never.
And there are people who they'll see you and then scoot up so you can't merge.
Like I mentioned last episode where difficulty entering the highway.
Yeah, people definitely get road rage.
Yeah, some people are being assholes. Don't get me wrong.
But most of the time, they're probably not. They're just not aware.
But there's the other thing that helps me get over that same sort of people suck attitude
of inferring the moral character from their actions.
And what's that? The fundamental attribution error where you're
snippy with somebody, you know, at getting coffee or something,
because you just had like the worst day ever.
You were in two car accidents this week and, you know, you've got rocks in your shoes.
You're getting sick in the hospital.
And yeah, all this crap, right?
And then so like, you're, you're snippy with the barista or something.
And then a week later, your life's great.
And then the person in front of you is snippy.
And you're like, that person must be a fucking dick.
I'll bet he kicks his dog. I'll bet he, you know, I'll bet he litters.
Like, you just start referring a bunch of mean things about their personality.
Probably the opposite political orientation.
Exactly. You guys are mean.
I'm saying that this is what humans do.
I didn't coin the phrase fundamental attribution error.
This is next, this is a, this is the perception that people,
or this explanation that people see, we see our history.
Really a lot of people like that.
I mean, I've met one or two people like that, but I think everyone's like that to some extent.
I always thought it was my impression that that is the exception,
that generally people are assumed the best of others.
Maybe you're a saint. Yeah.
Because don't get wrong, I don't walk around angry people now,
but I did, especially as a teenager, like, why is everyone being so mean?
And it's like they're not, they're just doing what makes sense to them in their moment.
But that's not, I think, an intuitive realization for most of humanity.
Yeah, understanding the elephant and the birdie actually does help.
I think you, I don't know.
At first it seems like, oh, the people are all like,
Homo economicus is not the right word, but just trying to maximize stuff for themselves
and they're lying to themselves all the time.
And at first it makes like, you feel really angry about everybody,
but then like, once you take the moral judgments out of the picture,
it starts being like, you can actually give people more of the benefit of the doubt,
because you understand that everybody has these flaws and they're marined.
And it's not that they're intentionally like trying to be malicious towards you.
You can explain things away through brain bugs too.
I eventually, I started doing the accepting the Acrasic explanation because
I realized I was making myself miserable.
And what I noticed the more I started doing the opposite was,
if you go around thinking that people suck and that life sucks,
you know, people don't want to be around you because you're depressing.
So then you end up, you don't get friends, you don't have like romantic relations,
you miss out on like job opportunities and then life does suck.
And then you're like, it's all those other people's fault.
So like, if it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy and you get the other benefits of
giving people the benefit of the doubt, sometimes people are jerks,
but like, most of the time they actually do have something terrible going on in their life,
or they're, you know, they've got some kind of extenuating circumstance,
or they were just not paying attention and people like you,
if you're the kind of person that extends the benefit of the doubt,
you see more of the good side of humanity.
And like everyone's got stuff.
And that's, that's kind of what you were saying too, that, you know,
this isn't like necessarily just an insight from like rationality or psychology or something,
you know, the, the observation that like everyone's got struggles that you're not aware of is been,
you know, noticed and marked down by tons of people throughout the ages.
But being mindful of that, I think keeps you from getting annoyed at people a lot of the time.
I really quickly at the end here, I noticed the post called me out,
which I thought was really impressive that he managed to write this 10 years ago to call me
out today, who says that people who claim to care about truth and then deceive themselves
really don't care about the truth.
Why not say they really care about the truth as is right and proper,
but they aren't living up to their own morals.
And I know on more than one occasion I've said that like,
all you really need to do to get people to accept the scientific method and,
and, or reject religion is just make them care about the truth.
And then they'll find out on their own because they want to know the truth and that'll motivate
them. And I'm like, now I'm like, hmm, that sounds, that sounds like maybe I am wrong.
In your defense, I think you probably formulated that during your years of arguing with religious
people and where the, where the, for the sentence, I don't care if that's true or not is used a lot,
right?
It wasn't used very often with the people I argued with.
I tended to argue with other people on forums who were also there for the intellectual sparring.
Because I mean, I've definitely seen, I guess you're a lay religious person, especially,
where it's like, fine, I don't care if it's true, you know, it makes me feel good or
I hope it's true. And so like, to many people, truth isn't that high of a value.
But just like trying to hammer into love the truth more to people is not going to be the answer,
I guess.
I think it would work on a large number of people.
Again, anyone who's saying that I care if it's true or not, it gives them hope.
You know, something else like, doesn't have to be religion, it could be like an alternative
therapy for a terminal illness.
And it's like, I don't care if it's been not been, if it's been shown not to work,
it gives me hope is something that I think your average,
probably mostly say an adult could say, right?
I think it's not that they don't care about truth.
It's that they care about it less than having that hope that this alternative therapy will
cure their child or that they'll go get to live forever in heaven or whatever.
I don't know. I think if someone's child has cancer, they really do care about curing that
cancer. And they care about the truth in that regard, but they just don't have the tools already
to know that this homeopathy is bullshit.
Or that they've already tried all the standard care and they have to resort to the homeopathy.
Yeah, that's fair. I mean, they wouldn't be giving them any sort of alternative medicine
if they didn't expect it to work.
So like, they care about what's true, they just not, that their map is wrong, right?
It's really hard to come to someone when their kid is dying of cancer and telling them
this is bullshit and this is why. It seems like this is one of those things that you
should work on before the cancer happens, because once cancer's in the picture,
it's you're a real asshole if you're being like, hey, about that homeopathy.
It's the same thing with the religion. Say someone's kid has just died and then they're,
you know, you can't go up to them at that point and be like, oh yeah, but like, you know what,
you should really care about the truth. God doesn't exist. Your kid's gone.
That's like a bad time to have that argument.
Yeah, I remember people trying to give me, again when I was back in my religious debating
days of like, well, would you like talk to somebody about their religion on their death bed?
And I'm like, no, I'm not an asshole. What could they do with this new information?
If they're going to die in 30 minutes, nothing, right? I'm not going to ruin their last minutes.
If they were making a bunch of wrong decisions and they were like, you know, 19,
they're going to decide, do I want to go to college or do I want to go off and, you know,
do whatever, some pointless religious thing. Not saying all religion stuff is pointless,
but you get my point. That would be a good time to have that conversation.
But not at the point where you're ruining their life or ruining, yeah, I mean,
you could retroactively ruin someone's life in their last 30 minutes, right?
I don't think you'd ruin their life, but you'd ruin the last 30 minutes of it.
But they would, yeah, you'd ruin the last 30 minutes and they would look back and say
my whole life was pointless. If you somehow managed to convince them that this whole thing was
bullshit in their last 30 minutes, then like, they might have said, I regret everything and
then die, right? I don't think they would ever really do that because there's still everything
else in their life. Well, we talked about how hard that transition can take more than 30 minutes,
right? Yeah. All righty, on to, do you know how to pronounce this? Tsuyoku Naritai.
Yeah. Do that again? Tsuyoku Naritai.
Tsuyoku Naritai. Neat. Okay. The next episode, Tsunoku Naritai. I want to become stronger.
This is explaining the fundamental growth mindset. Oh God, I just used that term
of rationality and that people want to be better. Cool. Sidebar. Why don't people like,
I remember growth mindset was popular for like five years and then it wasn't. Why?
Didn't it not replicate or something? I don't know how you could test that. I think there was
something where they did some battery of psychological tests and showed that it didn't
actually work. All right, what's growth mindset?
Growth mindset is the idea that I can always get better, stronger. I don't have intrinsic
limits. Yeah, exactly. So I think there's like, I can't do this because I'm too dumb. It's like,
I can't do this now, but I will get better. Okay. Wait, I think I'm thinking of something other
than growth mindset that didn't replicate. That's what it was because you were supposed to not tell
kids that they have intrinsic limits. It's more like you can still be better. Oh, you can be anything
you want to be. Yeah, exactly. Well, so like, that seems on one, that seems like a deepity,
right? In the sense that like one reading of it is just trivial and obvious. The other half is
like profound, if true. But like, so. I think that's why it started became sort of a joke
eventually ish. Well, but on the one obvious side, like I'll never win an Olympic gold medal
for deadlifting, right? Because I'm almost 30 and I can deadlift right now like maybe nine pounds.
So that's that's just never going to happen. But to say that that's it's able
never ever happen, because I'm a transhumanist, I think that one day we'll all be able to, you know,
maybe not win gold medals, but I'll be able to compete with today's gold medalists. No problem.
Maybe I need to think about this, this whole growth mindset thing more and not keep us
down that route all for too long. Yeah, I think they rejected it too strongly.
I think it's like anything that becomes too popular too fast that after a while there's a
backlash. I think it's just yeah, that hipster backlash going on. Anyways. So Eliezer says,
the orthodox Jewish belief that all Judaic law was given to Moses by God at Mount Sinai.
After all, it's not as if you could do an experiment to gain new,
