halachic knowledge. The only way you can know is if someone tells you who heard it from someone
else who heard it from God. Since there's no new source of information, it can only be degraded
in transmission from generation to generation. I still thought to myself, Torah loses knowledge
in every generation. Science gains knowledge with every generation. No matter where they
started out sooner or later, science must surpass Torah. The most important thing is that there
should be progress. So long as you keep moving forward, you'll reach your destination. But
if you stop moving, you'll never reach it. I love that I cut out for brevity, but he said that like
this was the thing that occurred to him as a kid. Even though I'm all religious and stuff,
at some point, science is going to be better than God. Yeah, he was like, I wasn't a full blown
atheist yet, but I did have this thought that kind of implanted the seed. Well, in their defense,
I mean, he was, you know, already, I guess an above average logical person as a child. But
those two things are obviously true, right? If science is learning more and the Torah is
learning and we're getting less from the Torah, and I'm drawing lines with my hands that are,
I'm not drawing good lines. One's supposed to go down, one's supposed to go up. Yeah. Yeah. So
what's the what's the message? The message. So it's called Tsuyukunara. Tsuyukunari-tai.
Because it's a Japanese term, meaning I want to become stronger. He points out that it's much
more prevalent in Japanese media than American media. And specifically, I'm thinking about anime
because I see it a lot in anime. But I think that's a good point. We don't have it as much in America.
No, it was the entire theme of the anime growing lagoon. If anyone's familiar with that one,
humanity was like living in this dystopia where everyone lived underground and they were imprisoned
by these like animal creatures. And then like the end of the show was them like two galaxies
fighting other galaxies. Like it just, it was this like theme of growth that was just so ridiculous
and over the top that it was really adorable. But I mean, it's it's a theme in a lot of anime.
Like for Rony Kenshin, he needs to be strong enough to beat Shishio and goes on his, you know,
little quest to find his true strength. Inuyasha, which is like 190 episodes, which I dropped off
to like 120 because every season was exactly the same, where they'd find the bad guy and then he
would, you know, hurt him. And then the bad guy run behind some MacGuffin wall, and then he's not
strong enough to get through the wall. So then the next season he goes off, gets strong enough to get
through the wall, and then he gets through the wall, hurts the bad guy again, guy goes behind
a different wall, lather ends repeat for like six years. I'm like, all right, that's, it's all the
same. You're never going to get the stuff. Yeah. Attack on Titan, a kid starts out like not knowing
a lot, but really wanting to avenge his family and kill all the Titans and protect his society.
So yeah, he just keeps learning and getting better and has this drive to become the person
that can defend his, his society. Yeah. And I stopped watching that too, because it started
becoming just episodes and episodes of filler. I can't do this. What's wrong with you? Just like
a pretty strong undercurrent of Japanese culture. You see it also like not just in anime, but like
you'll see it in martial arts and even in like, I don't know, I like to watch the NHK and they
always show like there's a part about craftspeople. So like somebody making clay pots and you watch
this. Yeah. It's basically the Japanese BBC. For some reason, I can't think of what the
acronym is, but they have the English version of it too. And you can stream it from their website.
They have some pretty neat programming. And this is like, yeah, one that I really like is like,
they follow craftspeople. And so there's like a guy making clay pots. But like, he's trying to become
the best person who ever made clay pots ever. And like, he's already achieved mastery. And
Eleazar talks about this too. It's like, you could say Siyoko Naritae, if you're a new go player that
wants to ascend, or if you're getting pretty good, but you still want to be like, in the top ranks,
or if you're already the best person alive, but you still think you could do better.
Yeah. And in that sense, that kind of growth mindset is true that like, I don't want to
belabor on that point, but there's always the capability to say, I want to do better, even
if you're the best. And even if you really suck, you want to suck a little less. I think, yeah,
you made the point about just like lifestyle stuff, you know, I mean, I've seen documentaries
people making like kitchen knives. And that I didn't see the whole documentary, but that
sushi one. Oh, Jiro dreams of sushi. Yeah, like the mentality in Japan, or in Japanese culture,
is different in that like here, it's like, I want to be good enough to make the most money
in my field for my area or something. I don't really care about being the best. I just, you know,
I want to be not necessarily, but that's, that's maybe more common attitude. It's like,
I don't really care about being the best at this in the world or the best at this,
even in my city, I just want to make, you know, a very competitive salary or something.
Yeah. So you're going to retire, I think has a kind of a leg up on maybe growth mindset,
or maybe like this was the problem was that people were kind of mischaracterizing growth
mindset. But you kind of think of again, like the skinny kid who wants to like become an Olympic
athlete, and it's just never going to happen because of genetics. Whereas I think so you can
already tie is kind of comparing yourself against who you were, which I think is more of, you know,
a rationalist value. I like that distillation alive. That's that sounds perfect to me. It's
not that I'm comparing myself to Arnold Schwarzenegger. I'm comparing myself to me of a month ago.
And I want to be stronger with him in a month now and be stronger than me now, right? That sounds,
I like that. Speaking of anime, there's the anime called Mob Psycho. And there's like this one
aspect of it that I really enjoy. It's this ridiculous show about a kid with psychic powers,
and he sees ghosts and stuff. He's like this, this skinny weak kid otherwise, and he's not popular.
And he decides to join the body improvement club at one point, because he has a girly
likes and he realized that no matter how good he is at psychic stuff, she's not going to like him
unless he's got a good body. And it becomes this really funny thing of like, it's this team of like
the most ridiculously drawn jocks who are like running laps and lifting stuff. And then there's
like this ridiculously weak kid kind of lagging along behind them tripping over himself, like
unable to like lift a marshmallow onto sticks. And it's like, people are like, why are you doing
this? You're like this great psychic, you could, I don't know, one character who is this other
great psychic who he beat in a fight. It's like, you could rule the world with your power. And he's
like, well, yeah, but I couldn't, you know, like make that girl notice me. So
I thought that that was really funny. It's just really adorable. I would recommend this anime a
lot. What was it called? Mob Psycho. It just, it takes a lot of weird anime tropes and kind of
like turns them on their head. That's what this writer is good at. It's the same person who did
One Punch Man. Oh, cool. I've definitely heard of that. I saw the first episode. I don't know
what I'd get into if I got sat down for two seasons of it, but it sounds interesting.
No, that sounds fun though. The, the, personally mentioned that I still forgot the name of again.
Mob Psycho. Mob Psycho. Okay, there it is. Yeah, there's a lot of that theme running through it too,
where characters or various characters are trying to become better for like bad reasons
versus good reasons. So it gets a little bit more into that. That reminds me back on the
post though, that the message isn't, I don't know, don't worry about being the best. Just if you
have this drive, which I think a lot of people do, you want to be just better. And that's always
attainable, basically, you know, within physical limits, et cetera. But it's almost like it's
emphasizing a particular virtue for people who are virtue ethicists. That this is a great virtue
to have the will to become better. Yeah, you could say it's something that gives life meaning.
Yeah. I mean, I'm just thinking of like, and you could do this anything. It doesn't have to be,
you know, I'm going to hone my rationality skills or, you know, be an amazing doctor.
There's people who've beaten Dark Souls on the Guitar Hero controller, right? And like,
they're not doing that for money. They're not doing it for probably not for the prestige.
Maybe there's some prestige with that community, but they're doing it to see if they can, right?
That might already be the best. But like, all right, now I wonder if I can do it blindfolded.
I saw a video of a girl beating Pontiff Sullivan, one of the bosses in Dark Souls 3, blindfolded.
Up audio cues? Yes. But the audio cues, to me, aren't that obvious. Certainly, you don't know
where you are. Because you haven't done it like every day, all day long. Exactly. But I watched
you do this and it was fucking amazing. I love seeing stuff like that, too. It's so, I don't know,
like, there's sometimes I watch videos and be like, humans are the best when you see, you know,
like somebody do a ridiculous skateboarding trick. Those humans are awesome videos.
That's what I'm thinking of. Yeah, the humans are awesome videos. Like, it's just, it's adorable.
There's a subreddit called humans being bros. So like, most of my news feed is like positive
things like that. I keep the negative things in there, but I have it like at least three to one
on good stuff. And it's like videos or clips or whatever of people like this guy walking past
this homeless dog. And he's like, there's this kind of like scrap of like cloth in the street that's
big enough and he goes and gets it and he lays it on the dog. It's like a security camera that,
you know, just nice little thing, a little little warm fuzzy. Sometimes you need warm fuzzies.
Yeah, the essay post says Tsuyoku Naritae is the driving force behind my essay,
The Proper Use of Humility, which we did a few episodes back in which I contrast the student
who humbly double checks his math test and the student who modestly says, but how can I ever
really know? The student who double checks his answers wants to become stronger. He also goes
on to have another cool anecdote from his religion of birth. Each year on Yom Kippur, Yom Kippur?
I've heard of both ways. Okay. An Orthodox Jew recites a litany which translates,
we have acted shamefully, we have betrayed, we have stolen, we have slandered,
as you and so on. As you pronounce each word, you strike yourself over the heart in penitence.
There's no exemption whereby if you manage to go without stealing all year long, you can skip
that word and strike yourself one last time. It does not end, but that was this year and next
year I will do better. This ritual bears a remarkable resemblance to the notion that the way
of rationality is to beat your fist against your heart and say we are all biased, we are all irrational,
we are not fully informed, etc. Take no pride in your confession that you are too biased.
Do not glory in your self-awareness of your flaws. If your ignorance is a source of pride to you,
you may become loath to relinquish your ignorance. It's perfect. Yeah, I've got nothing to add.
He ends it with the important thing is to do better, to keep moving ahead, to take one step forward.
So you could not even die! There you go. Yeah, you nailed it. All right. I like this one in the
context of the previous post, because it's an interesting thing to contrast against. The other
one was kind of giving people the benefit of the doubt, saying they're not doing these things
because of crazy, but then you can kind of ask why are they not? So you could not eat high,
not eat high eating. Maybe the orange just takes a while. You don't get to become super sane in
a single episode. It takes 100 episodes of filler. I don't know. What I like to do is to give other
people the benefit of the doubt, but like hold myself to a high standard, and I don't expect
other people to do it. It's nice if they do. There was a quote from the previous post where
Eleazar had said, what would you do if someone came to you saying that like, I have all these
flaws, I've done all these things, but I want to become stronger, please help me. And I feel like
that's the point where you would turn that person towards the Siokunari Tai philosophy.
But I do kind of wish that it was more of a value of our culture. I think that like it's kind of
Japan is like a high conscientiousness culture. And it's neat that they value that. I think like
in America, we tend to kind of idolize rock star types. And we also tend to think of it as like,
it's weird, because we're supposed to be like the country that thinks that anybody can be whatever
they want. But I think that like when you actually talk to Americans, they tend to betray more of
an idea that people are kind of born with something or not. Yeah, they had that spark. That's why.
And I've talked to people and have expressed that dichotomy in real time where it's like, okay,
sure, Martin Luther King Jr. had this this spark of, you know, care for compassion for humanity
and whatever his vice is. But I don't think that detracts from the good things he did. Someone else
was born the poor child of abuse of drug addicts or something. And they have less opportunity to
be Martin Luther King Jr. And yet the whole again, American, what do you call it, dream is that
anyone can do anything, right? Yeah. So it's like, oh, no, that person can do it too. It's like, well,
can like within the limits of like physically possible, sure. But and this isn't really,
I guess, tying to the difference between our two cultures. It was just something something with that
mentality trips me up, right. And that's the whole other thing. And it's obviously,
I'm not being very coherent about it. So it's hard to be coherent about
because like, there's a sense in which I think both of these ideas are correct. Obviously, I'm
giving people the Acrasia explanation. I think it's true. Like, I generally think that
in the last post, somebody linked to a Brian Kaplan article where he was talking about,
what if there's an alcoholic who just decides to go to the bar after work every day and get
smashed instead of going home to his wife and kids. Now, maybe it's true that he actually
likes alcohol more than his wife and kids. But you can't say that without suffering social
consequence. So he gets to, you know, maybe go to some AA and like walk around saying how he
feels really bad for his behavior, and he wants to change. And then he gets social sympathy and
he gets to keep drinking. So that was like kind of a point against the whole like Acrasia. Like,
there's social consequence to admitting your true self or your true beliefs. And there's,
you get like, socially rewarded, I guess, for saying the things that society thinks you should
say like, I should exercise, I should diet, I should do my homework. Sometimes maybe people
are just kind of hiding that they don't actually want to do those things. And just saying like,
and you know, you know, there's a sense to which I do think that that's probably correct.
But I also think that the, you know, hypothetical alcoholic probably does actually feel bad about
what he does. Maybe he has a really hard life. Maybe his job really wears him out every day. He
has to make the choice. Do I go to the bar and feel like instant gratification, I feel better
and have a few drinks? Or do I go home, fight with my wife, like change my kids diaper, take
out the trash, walk the dog and feel miserable. And the thing about like, in this case, a drug
dependency is that like it becomes less and less of a choice every day, right? Because, you know,
if you're in it, and you have a dependency, then like when you decide not to, it's not just where
you stay like where you are. All right, I'm going to go home and be like, only as miserable as I
am, you're going to get more and more miserable throughout the day and following days, because
your, your body needs, needs and quotes really, really wants whatever it is that you're addicted
to, right? And I put in mind the super stimuli that, you know, the people who died playing 003
and whatever Dota 2 or whatever games it was, they probably didn't make the decision like,
I'd rather do this for one more hour than live out the rest of my life. They, they just had a
weakness of will and I guess lack of attention. It's obviously super rare. So it's not like if
this was happening to one in 200 gamers, they'd probably, there'd be a more of a panic about
it. It does happen to people though. Yeah. Like you hear about a crazy behavior in casinos and
whatnot, like there's some people that just have such strong addictive tendencies that they will
completely like ruin their entire lives to continue pushing that button. That's a really good point
that gambling is just as it gives, it's different kinds of stuff than I'm assuming drug dependency,
but it's similar. But it, but yeah, that, that feedback of like, I've almost got it in that rush
when you win is awesome. And I can totally see how that that's super appealing or rather common.
Yeah, we all have varying levels of that too. It's not like there's a few people that just have
superhuman willpower like Elon Musk, I guess, and they're in the other like top 1% in the other
direction. But the rest of us like, you know, the majority of people are somewhere in the middle
of that floating around. Yeah. Okay. For next time, we have Tsuuko versus the Eglaterian Instinct.
Oh, that sounds like kind of what we're talking about.
And statistical bias in quotes. We will post links to both of those on our website,
TheBazingConspiracy.com. And you can find everything else that we talked about there as well.
And on our subreddit r slash TheBazingConspiracy, by all means feel free to throw us a buck on
Patreon if you feel like it slash have the ability to, if not no problem. You're also welcome to,
you know, whatever, share an episode, talk about it, you know, anywhere on a Reddit comment and
YouTube comment to your friends in real life. Write us a review on iTunes, give us a rating.
That definitely helps too. And we have a patron, I think, this week for people who are currently
