Right. Yeah. But yeah, that's that's interesting. And there's, yeah, porn is a good example. I think
there's a lot to unpack with with porn. I think it's it's absolutely a super stimuli. It it gives
you a lot of the feedback of it's a whole thing. We'll save it for later. But we'll save it for
no FAP February. Sure. Is that is that a thing? I've heard that term at least once. I don't know
if that makes it a thing. Oh, no FAP November. That's no shave November. Yeah. Yeah. All right.
Well, yeah, I guess we'll see how that goes. Oh, man, are we going to do a Bayesian conspiracy
Seinfeld like contest? Nope. All right.
All right, we're moving on. We're professionals. So yeah, first of all, brings up a very interesting
example that that it might be a negative externality there to have super stimuli around.
Yeah, which we'll leave that up for discussion, I guess. Yeah. And I think it goes into the next
in the next topic as well. He ends with an interesting science fiction story about humans
who are marketed out of existence because they were given super cute, like fake babies to have
instead of real babies and no one wanted real babies anymore, because the fake babies were like
just as good in every single way, except not with all the awful downsides. Yeah. I think that's
fun. I think Shelly might I'm Shelly comes to mind because she brought up that, you know, one
reason some people that you suspect some people get pets and kids is that it's nice to lord over
something that desperately needs your needs you to live. I think that might be true for some people.
I don't know how true that is of like most pet owners and human owners. But unless these robot
kids would die without you, then then again, maybe they would that sounds like I didn't read the story,
but that sounds like a crux of the whole thing. Like if it was like a Tamagotchi that, you know,
remember those, I do, it didn't die. If you didn't feed it, it just got sad and you know,
the room filled with poop or something, right? So I don't know what happened. I never had one.
Oh, yeah, they were like lucky Chinese toys. I remember. I don't know what happens if you
ignore one. I think if you ignore them, they get sad. And like I said, they poop that you're
supposed to clean up or something. But if it was like that, and I'm what I'm getting at is that in
the sci fi story, which I haven't read and I'm speculating on, I imagine the robots died without
you. Because that sounds like a really important ingredient for making you really want to take
care of them. Yeah, I'm trying to think of like, you know, there's a handful of like robot puppies
and stuff you can get that are just like complete jokes, because they don't do any of the fun things
that puppies do, like be soft and snuggly and have wet tongues and little feet and noses.
And be so amazingly excited to see you every time you walk in the door.
That's right. But man, if they made good robot puppies, that could happen. So
never replace real puppies. Puppies are the one thing. They're pure magic. Yeah. All right,
you can tell it's getting late for my brain. Luckily, they won't post left.
All right, last post, useless medical disclaimers. I love that title already because
God, I have some things to say about them. And some of you had a couple of medical procedures
this week. I can tell you that they're completely the I feel his pain. Yeah. Although I'm less than
sensed about it than he seems to be. Okay. All right. Eliezer relates a fun experience of signing
a medical waiver, in which I acknowledged that there was a risk of infection, repeat surgery,
chronic pain, amputation, spontaneous combustion, meteor strikes, and a plague of locusts over the
land. It was the most pointless damned form I've ever seen in a doctor's office. What are the
statistical incidences of any of these risks? Should I be more or less worried about dying
in a car crash on the way home? Taken literally, this kind of information is absolutely useless
for making decisions. You can't translate something into an expected utility, even a
qualitative and approximate one, if it doesn't come with the probability attached.
Yeah. I read this more just like this the first time he had to go to the doctor as an adult.
Okay. Just like had to sign us on paperwork. Maybe it wasn't. But like, I just see him seeing
this and he's just like, wait, what the fuck? Yeah, it's, you know, anyone who's had any sort
of medical stuff done, you sign these things and it doesn't give you probabilities. No. And it's
complete bullshit. It's the reason I anyway, don't look at warning labels on medicine anymore,
because anything that came up in their huge trials, they slap a label on like someone got this,
literally every medication says may cause dizziness. So now none of them do because, you know what,
one person got dizzy, maybe it was related to the medicine, now they put it on the label.
I am of the opinion that if something is an actual serious risk, my doctor will tell me of
it. Like everyone knows SSRIs cause sexual dysfunction because it's a well known common
side effect and doctors always tell you about it. Yeah, I think, I mean, I still read the forms.
Okay. I guess. I skim them. I stop bothering. That's just with medicines though, I would
suggest you read like the don't mix with this medicine list. It's like, you know, like your
nyquil has acetaminophen in it. And so does your Tylenol. That's what it's made of. So like,
if you're taking three Tylenol for the day to help with your cold, and then you take a big
shot of nyquil at night, you're taking too much acetaminophen. So you should, you should at least
be aware of those interactions. But yeah, I mean, as far as causing dizziness, it's like, all right,
I understand there's some risk to being dizzy. I'm going to take everything I take for the first
time at home under controlled conditions before I decide whether or not I'm good to drive. Right.
So, you know, some people, half of Vicodin will just knock them out and make them just, you know,
not zombies, but kind of like, I guess lethargic, you know, like, whereas other people like, oh,
I'm good to go. I can keep going to work, you know, whatever. So yeah. So without some knowledge
of how likely this is, it really isn't useful at all. Well, I think the downside with like,
now I'm nitpicking, but the downside of the medication is that they can't give you that
on the bottle. Well, I guess they could say 90% of people have this, which is fair.
They could just like have, you know, a little number point to something that tells you the
incidence rate. Yeah. I think that what I was going to bring up though with medicine is that,
like, it interacts with different people differently, whereas like a surgery is probably
going to be the same for everybody. It depends on your hospital and your doctor.
Well, but, but your, what they're doing, you know, if they're going to give you,
you know, a shot in your spine, your spine to the same spot as my spine, right? So like,
it's not going to be that different for you than it is for me. But they have all the real reason
to have all this shit on there is because one time somebody like, you know, got an epidural and
they're like, oh my God, I can't feel my left leg anymore. And it's like, okay, cool. You might
never feel your left leg again is what they're going to put on there to protect themselves.
So they'll have to pay out that lawsuit once. Yeah. But yeah, it, I remember, oh,
this is actually a good example. I got LASIK this summer and Rachel was driving me and to go to
the procedure and I'm rereading the paperwork they gave me. And it says there's a chance of,
you know, infection, blindness and death. And I'm like, this is the first time I'm
feeling nervous about this and we're on our way there right now. And like, I know that like my
chances of dying are slim. But like you said, my doctor who was doing the, who set this procedure
gave me his, he get, he was, I don't know if he's a rationalist or not, but he, he LASIK would love
him. He gave me base rates for everything that he talked about. Oh, thank God. I mean, he said,
hey, I've done, you know, I've personally presented over like, I don't know, 15,000 of these surgeries
or something. I've had two people lose sight in their eye over it. And, you know, one person
got shitfaced that night and tore out their, their cornea, like a contact lens and, you know,
somebody else, whatever did something, right? So like, yeah, exactly. So, but I mean, he didn't
say there's a chance, you know, just be ready. He gave me a two and 15,000, whatever number rate,
right? So I'm like, okay, cool. Don't be an idiot and I'll be fine. Yeah. I mean, I had also heard
that LASIK sometimes can end up with blindness and I was terrified for a while, but I was like,
I have never heard of this being a big deal. If it was any sort of decent incidence rate,
I would have heard about it, right? That was sort of my thing is that, you know,
uncharitably, but this way I put it in my head, it was like idiots get this on all the time and
they don't go blind, right? You know, so like, and I figured if I'm super careful, I'll be fine.
There's literally nothing, there's nothing to worry about there then because, you know, some
people go into the hot tub, you know, the few days after and you're not supposed to, you're not
supposed to get water in your eyes, all that stuff. They do it anyway and they're fine. You know,
my doctor and he even said this, that's why I loved him so much. I asked him, I was like,
did you like teach or something? Because I feel like I learned a lot in the last half an hour
and he's like, I've taught in a few lectures, wrote a few books, I'm like, that makes perfect
sense because you're awesome. Cool. I would plug his name, but that sounds super shilly. If you need,
if you're getting LASIK surgery in Denver, shoot me a message on, a personal message on Reddit,
and I will tell you this doctor because he's outstanding. Anyway, his whole presentation
involved everything that Ydkazki complains about. I think it also kind of leads a little bit to
fatalism. Like a lot of the times nowadays, I'm like, well, I got to go in for this thing,
might kill me. Yep. And it just, you know, it, it leads to more of a the world feels scary and
random rather than the world feels stable and safe when like you're told every single thing can kill
you and everything causes cancer. And I, I don't actually think this is likely the case, but I'm
like, maybe it's pushing away from the slow life strategies into the fast life strategies with
you start telling people that every single thing can kill them. Yeah. And certainly, you know, a
lot of people, at least people I know, certainly guys have like this huge reluctance to go get,
go to the doctor and get stuff fixed. And I think part of that is just like, I'm a man,
I'll walk it off. And it's like, all right, you've been trying to walk us off for two years, like
it's not going away. But the other, the other part might just be like, well, sure, I can't lift my
arm above my shoulder, but I don't want to lose my arm. So I'm not going to get this done. And,
you know, I talked to doctor, they said you could lose your arm. So I'm not going to. But yeah,
what does it mean that you could? I think that his, his ask his question pointedly of like,
am I more or less likely to die on the way to the, to the procedure than I'm, than I am during a
procedure? Yeah. That sounds like something they should have on the form. Yeah. You know, like
I'm my, my, uh, my grandpa died a few days after he got, uh, it was like double bypass or something.
He had, he had polio as a kid and then he had a bad heart for like ever. But not bad enough. Oh,
doesn't matter. Anyway, so he, um, I think his surgery had like a 20% fatality rate. And that's
something that they tell you if it's like, if it's high enough that you might actually die,
they're going to give you percentages. Um, I assume, but in many cases, they're Googleable.
Hey, I'm getting double bypass. You know, here's my couple of relevant facts. Okay, cool. In your
situation, 30% of patients died during their procedure or in the following week or something.
And he said, Hey, you know what, that's a risk I'm willing to take. But if they just said you
might, that's not good enough. I realize we're blabbering at this point, but it is just really
funny. And in a way that's kind of perversely funny too. So, um, all right, quote, I'm not the
litigious type, but I seriously wonder if it would be possible to sue based on the theory that,
quote, possibilities with no probabilities attached to them are not useful information. And should
therefore constitute a, should not constitute a disclaimer under the law. Someone will win a case
on that. And frankly, he should have taken himself up on it. I mean, seriously, like when you tell
someone literally anything has a chance of happening after this, you're giving them no
information. Yeah, totally. All right. He theorized that they probably don't have numbers because
most people would not be able to correctly update based on those numbers. And says clearly,
enumeracy produces negative externalities and it ought to be regulated. In particular, we should
impose attacks on people who can't properly diminish the emotional impact of their anticipations
by tiny probability factors. Two classic objections to regulation are that a, it interferes on
personal freedom and B, the individual always knows more about their own situation than the
regulator. I think it's a joke that he says that enumeracy causes negative externalities and so
it ought to be regulated, especially considering his previous view posts on regulation. Right.
Does he, does he have a point? I think, I think he is joking because like he was talking about how
hard it'd be to regulate super stimuli. Yeah. So I think he's saying, Hey, to the people saying
like, let's regulate this, how do you fucking regulate this? And so to that extent, it does create
a negative externality. That's right. And so at the beginning of this, he's just, it seems like
he's just ranting because he just went to the doctor and it was super annoying. But he ties it
in wonderfully with, with the context of the previous post that like, you know, again, how,
how do you possibly legislate numeracy? Right. So he has like a number of times, first with the
case of numeracy now, and earlier with Birch's law and with the super stimuli, told us things like,
here are bad things about the market. They will provide as much SUVs, as much stupidity as the
market will buy, they will provide as much super stimuli as the market will buy. And he seems to
be pretty down on regulation. I think by the fact that he's brought these things up numerous times
now, he's kind of asking us as readers to be like, what do you do about this? It totally seems like
a challenge. Yeah, that's how I read it too. And the answer is, I don't really know. So the answer
is, I'm reading these so that you can tell me the answers. Damn it. I would point out the good
thing about inside porn is that it's inside porn, not insight, do the work yourself.
I wanted to point out that the some of the stuff that Robert Hanson cited in The Elephant in the
Brain and in previous stuff, just talking about medicine, is that people don't want to pay for
statistics. There and I ought to dig this up, but it's in the chapter on healthcare in The Elephant
in the Brain. And I seem to remember Julie Gale of talking about this somewhere too, maybe it was
on her episode with him, but you can offer somebody, hey, do you want the numbers on this? And they
often say no. And like, especially if you ask, like, do you want the numbers, we can go get them for
$50. Which if you're spending $2,000 on, you know, you're deductible to get your surgery taken care
of or something, or if you don't have it and you're spending $100,000, you think $50 is nothing.
But people seem to just not want to know, which is somewhat understandable. Like if I told you
there's a chance this could kill you and you needed it, you might not want me to tell you
what the odds that it could kill you are, right? You don't count, but the average person.
If I have to get it anyway, then that information will not change my decision. And so there's no
reason for me to pay. Whether it has a 5% chance or a 95% chance to kill me, if I have to do it
anyway, I might as well save the $50 in case I live. Maybe it's to fix your bum shoulder or
something, you know? And I think I would definitely want to know the rates. But if somebody's like,
I just want this. No, that's weird. I can't put myself in. I feel like I'm straw manning
people. There's no way. I'd have to go back and find that. But I did see that there was,
I didn't look this up beforehand, so I don't have the actual numbers. But there was a, to me,
very surprising result that people seemed remarkably uninterested in getting quotes on
probabilities of outcomes with medical interventions. They were also bizarrely interested
in shopping around, which part of that is the time and effort it takes to go to another doctor
and how much you already liked your first one? I only went to one Lasik person. I should have
looked at others. There were other cheaper options. Maybe I liked someone that cost half as much,
90% as much as I liked this doctor. And I could have saved $1,500 or something. But I was already
sold. Is his office based in Boulder? No. Okay. I went to one who, when I did it eight years ago,
was based in Boulder. And he was number one or number two in the Denver metro area. And yeah,
also really expensive. But I was like, it's my eyes. I'm going to pay as much as it takes,
even if it's only like 10% better. That was something I joked about for years before getting
Lasik is that I'm not going to, you know, not going to bargain shop on eye surgery. You know,
I'll bargain shop on shoes or on cell phone chargers. But I can't just go get new eyes if
they fuck up my only ones, right? So all right, those are the posts. Cool. They were fun to talk
about. And for next time, we have Archimedes chronophone and chronophone motivators. And we
will have links to both of them up at the basin conspiracy.com. That's right. I know we had
some more feedback, but it's like almost nine. Do you want to save that for next time? There was
the one on the Patreon one, right? Yeah, I want to skim it. All right, go ahead and hit that one.
We do have other interesting feedback. We're sorry to the guys and girls who posted that we
didn't get to this episode. We'll get to it soon. Here's a random quick one from, I don't think your
name is meant to be pronounced on Reddit. Y-W-E-C-U-R. Why recur? Yeah. Why recur? Oh, okay. There we
