go. You were talking about like selling out cell authors and stuff. And they said that the Martian
is a rational fic, I think. And I think I totally agree. Oh, yeah. And a good example of a genre
that can succeed in reaching a wider audience. Totally agree. It was outstanding. And it was also,
I guess, outstanding kind of means like, you know, special. But it was, it somehow managed
to be super nerdy and super captivating to wider, wider people who wouldn't ordinarily find that
stuff captivating. So I don't know how many people have read the book, who weren't already into that,
but I read the book because I saw the movie and the book was amazing. So yeah, and even better than
the movie. I thought so too. I found like his nerdy digressions of like, so much better, his
preparation to drive to go pick up that, that, that satellite so we could talk with Earth. Yeah.
That was just so interesting. It wasn't just like, and it took lots of planning and it was really
hard. And I did it. And it was like, no, no, I'm going to give you like a full chapter on like,
how I prefer this shit. Because you get the feeling that he really did. Right. What he was
planting the potatoes and he was calculating out how many potatoes he could grow per cubic centimeter
dirt, how much poop he needed for that, how many calories he could get for potatoes. It was like,
it was interesting. It was good. And none of that was in the movie. Not so much. There was a little
bit with like, yeah, like, you know, some numbers appeared on the screen, but it wasn't like, you
know, here's the actual calculations. I really liked, he was on Andy Weir, the author was on
Neil deGrasse Tyson's StarTalk radio. And which I don't listen to that much, but I heard this one
in those few years ago. But Tyson had said to him, Hey, you know, there was very little that I found
to take issue with in your stuff. And he was like, I wrote it with you ripping it apart in mind.
I wanted to make sure that that, you know, Neil deGrasse Tyson wouldn't say, Oh, you got this wrong.
Which I think, you know, hey, if you're writing a book with lots of science in it, isn't the best
way isn't the isn't the worst way to go. Yeah. The one thing I think the movie did better was that
the book started to drag near the end, like at the very end, when he was almost home to the,
you know, take off capsule. And then there's like this slow storm that moves in, box out of
sun and all that. I'm like, Oh, God, just just just get to the end. One more thing to go. Yeah,
exactly. Please. I did like the the end and more that like, they in the in the, oh, wait, how does
it end in the book? In the movie, there's this whole dramatic thing where she jumps out and she's
got the cable and it was like very much like a heroic rescue. Yeah. In the, in the book,
it's kind of much more procedural. They have it all planned, they jump in, grab them, hold them,
jump out. And it felt much more like mechanical, like you would think it would go if they'd
been planning it for 18 months on their way back. And I liked that kind of more rather than like,
no caution to the winds, we're going to do this. Right. But it was cool. I don't know that one.
God damn it Alexa. Robot scared us. Yeah. There was also a part that I really liked that I think
was only in the book where I forget all the roles, but the one of the smallest, I think was the
smallest person on the ship. When they were flying back by earth, when they're going to go back and
get Wattley, she was talking with her parents. Yes. And they said, if you guys make it, if you guys
don't make it, whatever, you guys are all going to die. And she's like, well, don't tell anyone,
but not all of us. Yeah. There's enough calories on the ship for me to make it back because I'm
the smallest. Yeah. And she lays out from like, that we've talked about this, I'm going to,
they're going to take whatever, some sort of cyanide capsule or something that won't paint
the meat, and I'm going to eat them to survive, which is so hardcore. Right. Great book. If you
haven't read it, I strongly recommend it. And I can't oversell the audiobook. Oh, really? Oh, yeah.
We did the audiobook. I'm not sure who did it, but whoever he is, he deserves a medal. He didn't
just read this, he like, he acted the entire thing. I think, yeah, they usually, well, not usually,
they often get like, celebrity voice actors to do the really big names. Oh, he might have been,
I'm not sure. But he, I mean, he did accents, he did like, you know, log entry, soul 56,
I'm fucked and I'm going to die. He doesn't, he doesn't just like, say it. I tried listening to
an audiobook, A Lord of the Rings, there's probably better ones now, because this was like,
right before the movies came out. And it was terrible. Oh, audiobooks back in the day were just
the worst. Yeah. Now they, now they've gotten good, I guess. But anyway, I really liked audiobook
too. So last quick comment here, we've got one from not without incident on the Patreon episode
I just agree with almost everything in this episode, but that's probably not a productive
conversation. It's not that bad. Here, don't tell yourself short. Instead, I'm really curious,
not right, not in a rhetorical way, but actually surprised how a group of four libertarian-leaning
people could all cede moral authority to the law in the way that you did. Yeah, Inyash. Platforms
obviously have to watch their own back legally in cases like DMCA and FOSTA, but in other cases,
where specific laws haven't been crafted to go after internet services, I don't see why it should
even be part of the argument. So I think we touched on this, and I think you had an answer.
Yeah, I don't think we touched on it. I replied in the subreddit. Oh, you replied to me,
because I asked you, I was like, what about this law thing? And you said, basically, it's just a
shelling fence that like, we can lay that up as a quick place to put this, to plant this, to put
this line in the sand. And in specific, I'm in favor of the law, because I think for the most
part, it's come to the right conclusion. It's the same conclusion that I would make where you can't.
In some ways, doesn't go quite far enough. Like, you cannot actually threaten people with credible
threats. You can't incite people to violence. And I would go so far as to say that you shouldn't
be able to harass people by doing things like doxing them and setting, you know, mobs on them,
sending them things like, I'm going to murder your children, here's pictures of where your
children go to school, which I don't think is actually illegal right now, but should be in my
opinion. But for the most part, I agree with where the law is. So I use that as a shorthand often,
I'll be like, if it's not illegal, it's okay. Because I kind of think that now I'm not specifically
ceding moral authority to the law, because if the law was different, if the law was closer to how
it was like in the 50s, where there were a number of things you couldn't say, you beat me to it.
Okay, yeah, I would, I would have been like, you know, with Larry Flint and the people versus Larry
Flint, we're like, yeah, we should be able to watch all the porn we want to watch.
Or I'm sure there's probably some obscure counties where it was illegal for black people to try to
advocate to vote or something, right? I'm sure. Yeah. So like, it would have been against the law
to try and rally them to get together to vote. Yeah. So certainly that's fucked up. There's,
I think, still a few countries around the world where it's illegal to say bad things about the
royalty. And there's places that are introducing blasphemy laws and stuff. So yeah, I'm not, I'm
not ceding ground to the legal authority because it's legal. I'm just latching onto it because
I agree with the conclusion. If it was different, I wouldn't. In where we're at in most places in
modern society. Yeah. Yeah. All right, that's fair. Yeah, I think, I think, I think so too. And
there's also the difference between like legal and moral, but and in some cases, I like you.
I like the fact that now with that incident specifically brought up the cases of DMCA and
Fosta as being permissible because the platforms have to watch their back. But I actually hate
both of those because of what they've done to free speech. Fosta is a fucking blight upon society and
is ruining things and ruining the lives of mainly sex workers, but a lot of other people too. And
DMCA is just the worst archaic copyright law that makes it so that you cannot modify your own
electronics for your own personal use. I mean, those those are things I actually do have issues
with which are the law and we've even done one episode before on with chase on digital rights.
Yeah, exactly. So yeah, I'm not I'm not all for the law. But in general, in terms of speech,
like where it's gone, in terms of actual talking speech, not these other kinds.
The protagonist in Ward, the sequel to worm, kind of like in worm, you know, some percentage people
have superpowers. And a lot of them are villains, because you get superpowers under duress like
an X men. So there's listen to always undress next man. Sometimes it was just because you were
well, someone's just because you get a puberty, an X man. Yeah, I guess you're right. I'm thinking
more of the movies too, where a lot of them kind of woke up during stressful moments, like rogue
and others, right? Yeah, but you're right. So X men, whatever. In worm, I think everybody gets
their powers through trigger events, which are always like, you're going to die, or like someone's
going to get hurt, or something really stressful for you. And so that leads, you know, since that
happens often in places where things suck, you get a lot of super villains. But there's this kind
of like cops and robbers thing, where like, you know, we play by the rules, because otherwise,
we could all destroy the planet. So we all know that we're all going to do that, except when they
don't. And then then it's like, you know, the legislate, the people who legislate per human
action, say you can kill these people. Whereas ordinarily, you're not supposed to, you know.
Anyway, so in the the sequel, the protagonist has this kind of like mantra that she follows,
where it's like, okay, first, when she's trying to like follow a decision, like, you know, make a
hard decision, like, what do I do here? And this is after the cops and robbers game kind of fell
apart. So she's like, All right, first, what's the law? All right, if the law doesn't have a clear
answer, what does like my code say? And if my code doesn't have it, what do people I trust say?
I think that's the order. Matt will know if I'm wrong. But it's the similar kind of thing, right?
And it's like, when in doubt, let's lean towards these. And if the law is ambiguous or wrong here,
then I can look further. But it's a great first place to look. That said, they have no compunction,
well, they have very few compunctions about breaking the law when they need to. So it's just,
it's not a bad place to start the conversation. I just saw the echo there when you were when
you were talking about that. So yeah, I knew at least one listener would appreciate that,
even though I delivered it poorly. And with that, I think I'm all set for the night.
Okay. Oh, wait, you gotta think of Patreon. Oh my god, I can't believe we almost didn't do that.
I got this one. Okay. Yeah. Our Patreon this week is John Peterson. Thanks a lot for your support.
I know we say this thing every time, but it means the same every time. It's awesome.
Thank you so much. You keep the lights on around here. And we really appreciate it.
You are the people who help us not be worried about the Twitter mob coming after us.
That's right. So that said, if you do want to support the podcast, we have a Patreon account at
Patreon slash the Bayesian conspiracy. We have a website, the Bayesian conspiracy podcast.com.
No, just the Bayesian conspiracy.com. That's right. The email account is the Bayesian conspiracy
podcast at gmail.com. Yeah. And feel free to write us a review on iTunes. It's part of their
metrics for what they show as trending. It's not just subscriber counts. So if you haven't done so,
feel free to write a review. And that's it for us. And there's always the subreddit,
if you want to comment there. Yeah, big fan of the subreddit. I haven't been on this week,
but I have read on my phone and I have an app that I like that I rave about a lot,
Apollo for iPhone. Check it out. So one of these days they're going to cut you a check, man.
I'll ask him. I tell you what, if he gets people that sign on and say, I heard about it through
this, then maybe you'll send me a thumbs up. In any case, yeah, don't forget about the subreddit
either, r slash the Bayesian conspiracy. So that's how to get ahold of us. All right. Thank you all
for listening. See you in a couple of weeks.
