They probably aren't going to live through their sixties.
It's, it's, it's, I'm sure they're in constant discomfort and pain, but on the other hand,
what am I doing?
I'm just kind of prolonging my life to have much more of the years where I'm old and wrinkled
and no one wants to sleep with me.
And, and is it really worth all that slaving away during my young years?
Does it matter if you're, if you look better when you're older, you're still too old to
get laid a lot, right?
So I think there's, there's suboptimal strategies and like different goals here, right?
So like, if your goal is to be, you know, uh, Ted Danson when you're 70 and still able
to get it, then like maybe focus your efforts on other stuff.
It's hard to say whatever, but like, um, the, I would argue that the point of like having
a place for your stuff and staying warm and stuff isn't just so you look better and feel
better, although that's, it's, it's honestly about the feeling better part, but I would
say that somebody who, you know, makes money, makes enough money like we do and continues
to live in really shitty studio apartments, you know, and just like lives like a bum,
but stores away like, you know, incessantly so that they can have a great retirement.
That seems like kind of a lost strategy, right?
Cause you've wasted all of your like optimal years that you can do stuff by just, you know,
never going out, never eating good food, whatever.
So certainly if you take it too far and extreme, you're not enjoying it.
But I think, I think the goal is like, you have this place that, you know,
you can stay warm and comfortable and have a life worth living.
Not that living on the street isn't worth living, but many people hate, you know,
many people hate living on the street, right?
So because you hate that, you do what it takes to not do that.
It just, it strikes me.
I mean, people used to live on less than a dollar a day for most of human history, right?
Humans weren't nearly as productive as we are now.
And it just, it didn't seem to matter.
Sure they had huts basically that they kept the rain from falling on your head, but
you were still exposed to basically all the metal elements and you had to burn wood inside
to not freeze to death.
And, and yet they were still happy.
They still had lives.
I don't know.
They still had lives and stuff, but I think the downside is that like the minute they couldn't
do stuff, they were completely dependent on the people to take care of them or they just died.
Right.
Whereas like, and a lot of them died anyway, just randomly in the middle of life.
The goal for us is to like, you know, live healthily enough for the next 30 years and
then retire and then have, you know, enough saved up to like not die like they did,
like our poor ancestors.
I'm not sure where to go with that other than, other than I feel like the slow strategy,
it sounds like it's just like a new thing, you know, but it's it because we're, we're
applying it to people and because that's natural and that's what we're talking about.
But the article brings up like animals and stuff too.
You know, so like, why do ducks, why do like, whatever, mates,
litters, hatches of, what do you call them?
Whatever batches of ducks are called when they, they have 20 something kids and a couple survive.
Right.
And they have 20 because they know a lot of them are going to die.
Whereas elephants and chimps and stuff, they have one or two and they're going to take care
of them for 10, 15 years.
I'm not sure what chimps are, but elephants do it like that.
And they're like, yep, I'm going to invest everything and you're going to live.
So from like, I think looking at it, it's, it's analogous to human experience and human
lives, but the real lens to view this through, I think in the, the context of nature is like
the gene centric view, right?
What, what's in, what's in the interest of your genes to survive?
Yeah.
And so.
Well, the thing is I don't care about my genes.
Right.
That's why it doesn't apply to us as well, right?
I guess what I'm really getting at is that aging is bullshit.
Agreed.
You work all your life just so that you can be somewhat comfortable when you're old.
Thank you.
That was the other point I wanted to make you reminded me that the reason that we're living
and saving is that we live long enough for life extension slash singularity stuff, right?
Right.
Yeah.
You guys forget this irrationalist podcast.
We're still, we're still singularity cultists.
Yeah.
So, which we'll have to talk about at some point.
But yeah, my, my goal isn't, I mean, I still, I still think about this because I, for the
first time in the last couple of years, I've like, have enough money to like save a retirement
and do stuff, which I'll be 30 in a few months, which is weird.
Like now, like at this point I'm saving stuff, but everybody does it differently and whatever.
Well, it's usually about 30.
Well, I mean, 20s are just getting started.
One of my groomsmen, when I went and I was, I saw him on LinkedIn, he's been at his job
for eight years.
And I'm like, dude, you've been doing something for eight years.
I haven't done anything for like anything like that amount of time.
But yeah, my goal, like, so the reason I brought up my savings and stuff is like,
I still will have this weird, which we'll talk about the, we'll have a future episode at some
point too.
Well, we have no shortage of topics to get around to this.
This isn't going away.
My planning for the future is like, I think what Naveen, when we had him on, when he had said,
when in doubt, bet on things staying the same, that's really resonated with me.
Because like, I have no, I would be flabbergasted if in 40 years society looks anything like it
or looks much like it does today.
Like, because there'll be too many starving old people on the streets, or, you know, if
things stay like they are now, and there's not much change.
So I'm thinking some universal basic income will keep us all alive, which make our
retirements just like cool party money.
I mean, they kind of already have that for old people.
Kind of, but we keep, they keep telling us that that's going to be all dried up in 10
years or whatever, right?
So in America, the, you pay Social Security to the government every paycheck for your
entire life.
And you're told that when you retire, you'll get that back a little bit by little bit.
And so you don't get it back, but the people who are young, when you retire, give you their money.
Yeah, but I think certainly in some countries too, like Japan, there's moral people than
there are young people by like a long shot.
So there's not enough to pay into it.
So what I'm getting at is like, we're either going to be in some weird dystopia where like,
you know, at least the way I think about it, where our savings won't matter because you
can't eat the money.
Or you certainly can't eat the bits that it's stored on the computer.
Or, you know, we'll be in some UBI utopia or best yet some transhumanist utopia where,
you know, we don't need money and, you know, shelter because we don't have meat suits that
are super vulnerable and uncomfortable all the time.
Just means that we're going to need electricity.
Yeah.
And that's super cheap.
The sun's out, you know, half the time.
So winds available.
All the, all those, all those clean energy people keep talking about how there's,
there's energy all over the place.
So whatever it is, I, uh, my long strategy, how did that come up?
Eh, came up, oh, saving stuff.
Oh, getting old sucks.
Yeah.
So the goal of, of saving and having a comfortable life is that you live long enough that aging
no longer becomes a problem.
Yeah.
That's the way I'm thinking about it.
All right.
Alrighty.
Podcast.
Onwards.
So let's see the next bullet point here.
A lot of intelligent, responsible, basically decent young men complain of romantic failure.
Most MIT students are probably pursuing slow life strategies.
Most violent adolescents in psych hospitals forget this is, or no one forget this was a
Scott Alexander article who works in a, well, he'd worked, he moved to the Bay Area.
Does he still work in a like psych ER?
No, I don't believe so anyway.
That was where he took over his residency.
Oh, okay.
Well, in any case, this is where he got a lot of his formative, uh, understanding of human
psychology and nature, which is definitely like a, what trial by fire trenches view of,
of human, human life, but it's valuable and it's accurate for a lot of people.
So anyway, he worked in a, um, an emergency psych ward or no, wait, he was a psychologist
at an ER.
I forget whatever it was.
Right.
He saw a lot of people who were being committed and voluntarily and were in horrible
psychiatric shape.
Exactly.
So the reason I brought that up is because this line here about violent adolescents in
psych hospitals are probably pursuing fast ones.
This is from personal observation of people coming in.
So the first strategies activate a suite of traits designed for having sex earlier.
So life strategies activate a suite of traits designed for preventing early sex.
The good news for these people is that they're adapted for a life strategy, which in the
past has consistently resulted in reproduction at some point.
So if you're the, the town blacksmith, but again, even that's the wrong way to think about
it, right?
Cause you know, even blacksmithing is fairly new, but if you were, well, I guess not,
it's fairly new, but it's been around for thousands of years.
So like, I think even, um, I don't think, I think probably too much of my, my understanding of,
of Greek and Roman culture comes from movies like, uh, 300, but they didn't make the
blacksmiths go fight.
Did they?
Well, the Spartans had their own warrior cast, but a lot of the Greeks, um,
a lot of the Greek cities just had people.
They, they would raise the people.
You'd like anyone who could fight, come fight.
These people are trying to invade us and, and slave us.
Weren't there some cultures that like said, all right, cool.
You've got to trade that the society needs.
You don't have to go fight in war.
I bet that's been around.
That's, I'm sure that has been.
And if it hasn't, let's pretend it was.
So I'm not wrong.
I think it was, I think it was more likely just the case that someone couldn't fight
because you know, they were a scholar or something.
They really were no good at any of the things that demand physical.
Well, a scholar can still draw the enemy fire, right?
So, um, I suppose, but, but if, if you were the only person in your town who knew how to,
you know, build shelters.
Well, okay.
Here's the thing.
Let's say that we all live together in one housing complex, right?
As opposed to, uh, as opposed to spread across the city as we currently are.
If, uh, the people from Aurora ganged up and we're going to come burn our place down,
kill us, take our women and our stuff, would you be like, I'm sorry.
I have a valuable skill.
I'm going to stay over here and program my computer.
Or would you be like, Hey, Enios, Hey, next door neighbor,
let's get our pitchforks and defend our land.
That's fair.
Yeah.
