Yeah.
Sailor Vulcan is a cool person.
I'm just like seeing the name.
I'm remembering names from different places now.
So.
Sweet.
You're starting to get a feeling for some of these people.
Yeah.
Hi, I noticed that in this episode you seem to wrongfully conflate the intellectual
dark web movement with the alt right slash white supremacists slash misogynists.
However, the intellectual dark web movement has both right wing and left wing people in it,
and it is not a hate movement like the alt right is.
The whole purpose of the intellectual dark web movement is to one provide spaces where people
can have open, civil intellectual discussion even when the subject matter or the views being
expressed are culturally taboo, and two, to resist and protest exactly the kind of censorship
and extra legal mob justice which you talked about in this episode.
In this episode, you also contradicted yourself.
On the one hand, you talked about how people in the IDW movement, i.e. Sam Harris and Jordan
Peterson keep talking about how they're so oppressed as if their voices and ideas are
not being systematically silenced.
But you also said that there was a lot of extra legal mob justice which censors and punishes
people for not towing the democratic slash SJW party line.
Which is it?
I think part of the problem here is that there's more than one of us on the podcast,
because I am the one who said that there's a lot of extra legal mob justice.
I would say that too.
So that's fine.
You would say that too.
In that sense, I contradicted myself and thank you for pointing that out.
That was a really good way to put it.
Yeah, so my position on it, I think I've hashed out a bit, is that I feel I mostly completely
joke about it.
I feel like I should do some actual, let me think about this.
I mean, at this point, Brett Weinstein isn't the IDW and he's like way left.
Yeah, no, don't get me wrong.
He's just not as left as some of the people that were screaming at him in his university,
but he's like super left.
Right, so there are a lot of people on the right, like Dave Rubin and whatever claims
to be a libertarian, but has some weird stuff.
Sam Harris is pretty left too.
He definitely is.
And yet he keeps talking about the left, like there's some toxic weird.
He equates the left with the ravaging Twitter mob, which is hardly fair.
I think it's what you see, because what he sees is the ravaging Twitter mob
from the extreme left coming after him.
And so if that's most of his experience, then that's...
Yeah, but it's weird because he's got to know that the inflammatory culture war
that's kicked around on social media isn't just people getting people to vote Trump.
It's also getting people on the left to hate each other because it's so easy,
especially when you get figureheads whose job it is, literally, to get communities
together online and radicalize them and get them to hate other sub-communities.
In fact, Harris had a great guest on a couple of weeks ago where they talked about this exact
thing. So the fact that he seems to be, I guess, never acknowledged the fact that maybe
some of the stuff I see online comes from people whose job it is, is to make me feel
outrageous and afraid. I don't know.
I think it can be hard to see that when you are feeling afraid, though, and all the attacks
are coming from what you thought were your allies on the left.
That's fair. And to belabor this a bit for Sam Harris, he lives with actual security
concerns for having written the end of faith, where he's so hard against Islam.
And he's received, he lives, I'm assuming, at a secret address. He has a very sensible
concern for his safety. And yet there are people that he's run into in real life on the left who
would say, no, you don't, you're being racist. Well, maybe not straw manning, but if he would say,
look, I'm afraid that Muslim extremists are going to kill me, they would say,
that's ridiculous. That's all rightist propaganda or something, right?
So don't get me wrong. The intellectual dark web, like I said, I'm reluctant to say that it
serves an important purpose. But it does. I think it's a weird umbrella term. I certainly think
that there should be communities, the world should be a community where anyone could get
together and discuss anything. We just talked about if you want to question the tenets of your
religion in some parts of Pakistan, you could get killed. So that's insane, and that's wrong.
I think they're holding a line that we're trying to hold a line anyway, that I'm glad there's
a group out there at least fighting to keep it from not eroding as quickly.
Yeah. And I think I joke about to the extent that they're doing that, because I feel like a lot of
it is how on the left they play the oppression Olympics, where, oh my god, I'm in seven
epicycles, or I'm at the conjunction of seven Venn diagrams of victimhood, and don't I have it so
hard? That seems to be socially rewarded. So like there's an urge to catch up on that on the other
side. And I think it's a really stupid game. But I'm also not a public figure. Maybe you get
points for the more people who throw bottles at you when you go to conventions or something,
the more points you get. I'm being facetious. But anyway, to answer Taylor Volgan's direct
question, which you unfortunately deleted. Sorry, wait, no, it's right back.
Thank you. I want to point out again, that this is a really well put question from a
rationalist author who's who's who's and I'm not struggling. It's a gotcha. No, no, well,
it's a gotcha in a good intellectual sense, in that I don't really know how to answer this,
not because like I, I have, you know, some conception I'm trying to stick to or something.
The fact is, I haven't thought this out that much. I feel like a lot of this is like overhyped
worriedness, but a lot of it isn't. I think it's also some horns effect from some of the major
players that, you know, like I, I don't think that like we talked about on the Patreon episode
with David, who is a good, I think, not defender in that he will stand by Peterson and everything,
but he's a good person to have in the room if I'm going to shut on Jordan Peterson,
because he would say, Hey, look, here's a lot of good things that he did. But even even David
was willing to acknowledge that like, look, you're right, he didn't really know what to
do with his sudden fame, sudden fame. And, you know, he says, he said some weird things. He's
anti climate change. Oh, really? Yeah. So it's like, I don't really know how you can be that
way. I'm anti climate change too. He's kind of the belief in climate change. He's a climate change
denier. So I guess maybe I should look up what the like their actual core structure is. My
understanding is that this was kind of a term thrown out as a joke. But I think Brett Weinstein,
didn't he make up the term? I have no idea who first made it up. I think it's, it's sort of out
as a joke. Yeah. Yeah. So I never left like the Joe code. And it's like when people, so when I
constantly joke about it, I'm only doing it in that context, to the, to the extent that there's
a group of people having important conversations that they feel like need to be had, but they can't
have them at, I don't know, whatever campus Douglas Murray got assaulted at, you know, that's,
that's a real thing. And so which, which is it? It's both. Like, well, no, it's not. It's,
I don't know, I'm trying to think like Jordan Peterson and Sam Harris are never going to lose
their audiences and never going to lose, they're never going to be silenced because they're too
big. And yet there might be smaller people who are silenced. You know, like, I might be told to
shut up at work if I keep trying to bring up the bell curve or something. But that's not really
intellectual dark web territory, right? Like maybe the workplace isn't the best place to have a
conversation about how some people are better at my job because of genetics than others, right?
Right. Like the Google memo guy, who I think also probably wasn't silenced. Like you got on the
Joe Rogan podcast, didn't he? I have no idea what happened to him. I lost his job at Google,
though. Yeah, which sucks. Hopefully he can make money somewhere else. Because, you know, if you
work at Google, you're great at whatever I'm assuming as a programmer. Oh, wait, he definitely was,
because that was the whole point. I wish I had a more succinct answer for you. But it's not
so much of an answer as it is like an explanation of where I'm coming from. I was treating it more
like a joke. To the extent that it's serious, I think it's important. And I think that it's valuable.
Even if I think some people over there are saying things that are probably stupid and wrong,
that's important that they should be able to say stupid and wrong things. I totally agree. I think
any sort of like censorship law is a bad idea. I think any group with Jordan Peterson in it is
going to have lots of stupid and wrong things said within it. That's fair. And some valuable
things too, probably, right? I'm not sure what he contributes valuable that what that's valuable
outside of psychology, but there's probably something. So the, I made a joke, or I didn't
actually make this in public, there was a, you know, Sam Harris sent out like, if you're a subscriber
to the show or a Patreon supporter, when he was leaving, he sent out an email saying,
there was like six sentences long saying, I'm leaving tomorrow, you can follow my website if you
want. And then Dave Rubin and Jordan Peterson released a video to much the same as the fact that
that was 31 minutes long. And like, that's why I don't listen to Jordan Peterson because I don't
have all day. But that's my beef with him. That's my beef with his way to deliver content rather
than not just my beef with him. So what you're saying is you wouldn't listen to our podcast.
I started this podcast because I wanted something like this to listen to. I certainly hope that
this isn't so bad that I wouldn't listen to it myself. Well, I mean, sometimes we get off on
tangents and such. That's fair. So I imagine that the people who don't like our podcast already
don't listen to it. That's fair. And we're not so big that people are going to be talking about us
and they're going to hear about it at work or something. This is our format now. Either you
like it or you don't. Yeah. And sorry. Please listen to a different podcast if you don't like
this one. Yeah. Or provide thoughtful feedback. But I know I've said this a couple of times,
but I'm kind of scattered right now. Sorry, Sailor Vulcan. But yes, to answer your question,
when I make jokes about it, that's not me seriously engaging with it. To the extent that I am,
I think I've answered that. By all means, I really appreciated your comment and
hit us up again. I'm eager to hear where I'm wrong. If you want to talk more about this,
let us know. That sounds valuable. So sorry that took I'm assuming 10 minutes. No worries.
All right. Yeah, we got a couple less wrong posts here to chat about. Cool. Less wrong post
numero uno was. Before we start, let me just say one more thing to Sailor Vulcan and anyone who's
been disengaged about my intellectual dark web discussion, that I will stop talking about it
until I get a more serious understanding and approach to it. I mean, you don't have to stop
talking about it. But I think I do. If I'm going to not take it seriously to some people, you know,
about, I don't know, it'd be like if every time I that like atheism came up, I would joke about
the new atheists, but like I refuse to like never engage with the actual content. It'd be kind of
old. It seemed disingenuous. And I feel like that's how it's coming off here. And I totally see
that. And it would seem not just disingenuous, but like intellectually dishonest. Like I'm poking
fun at straw man. And that's where I'm leaving it. And I'm treating like that's all it is. There's
more stuff here to actually talk about. So I'll be, I'll be a more, I'll more seriously investigate
this before it comes up again. Cool. All right, back to less wrong. Okay, less wrong post. The first
was super stimuli and the collapse of Western civilization. So the post basically introduced
the concept of super stimuli, which pretty sure we've talked about many times and we know,
but quick recap, it's a stimulus that is, it's like the cocaine of as opposed to a coca plant.
We, we all evolved like coca is also probably a super stimulus, not to beat the point, but
well, I mean, the coca plant, not really nearly that much, you'd like chew on it and it kind of
like stimulates you a little bit, but it's not like taking cocaine. No, no, that's super concentrated.
I would say it's more just like a soda compared to, or like a candy bar compared to an apple.
Okay. Yeah, sorry to, sorry to choose to nitpick on the example. You're right. Yeah, no, okay.
Yeah, one point. Well, because one, like, coca doesn't do anything when it doesn't matter.
Coca doesn't, coca isn't like a food or like something that we needed as our,
in the essential environment that we're hardwired to like for good reasons. You're right.
Where sugar is. Yeah, okay. That was a terrible example. We should cut my example. It's fine.
So yeah, this is more like we, we were evolutionarily adapted to
seek out high calorie foods because calories are pretty scarce in the environment and this
is something that would lead us to live longer. And they, they, it was an adaptive behavior back
in the day. We sometimes found sweet things like apples or nice fatty things and they made us happy
and we ate them. And nowadays we can take all those things and combine them into a candy bar,
which is just more sweet and fat in one concentrated package than you could ever
find in the ancestral environment. And it has absolutely nothing in there that's good for you.
So the kind of exact opposite of what, what we had evolved for this ability for.
Yeah, or this, this, this adaptation. Yeah. And so like the thing is, is that we're hardwired
for great reasons to enjoy certain stimuli, certain input. And yet that, that is hijacked
with technology or certain discoveries in nature that, oh, look, this hits that note really well
for your brain. And our brains don't know the difference. Do our brains, you know,
it's the reason the candy bar tastes so good because it has all the stuff in it and
that our, our hungry ancestors really wanted and needed in volumes that they couldn't imagine.
You might kill a caveman by giving him a Snickers. Probably wouldn't kill him.
No, but he would never be the same.
So yeah, super stimuli and the collapse of Western civilization. The point of the
article is that the market will continue to respond to incentives to competitively produce
super stimuli and that regulation is complicated and probably won't work.
Yeah. He uses the example of video games, excuse me, I'm saying this too fast.
He uses the example of video games, which I feel is a really good, like, non-charged example
and pointed out that at the time of writing, some half dozen people had died playing World of Warcraft
or one of those. Yeah, various online role-playing games. Yeah. You've actually mentioned on more
than one occasion on this podcast Diablo 3 and how it's like perfectly time to give you little,
hits little rewards. It's closer to perfect. I guess I didn't play World of Warcraft, but
which probably because I have some disciplinarian in my head that's saying,
look, you can't play World of Warcraft if you want to have a life. Steven, you are incapable of
handling this. You're the idiot who put 500 hours into your first playthrough of Elder Scrolls Oblivion.
If you were online actually dick measuring with other people, you would just die at your desk.
So I don't have what it takes. But yeah, so Diablo 3, I think is, this came out before Diablo 3.
And I don't think it was perfect. I don't know if anyone died playing it, but I was just showing
this to Rachel. No, someone had because I was showing her, I was telling her, my fiance that
people have died playing games like this and she's watching me playing. She's like,
I don't get how that's possible. And I was like, here, just watch for like five minutes. I'm going
to tell you when things pop up. And granted, it's different from the backseat. But from the front
seat, you're playing, you're going through a mob of enemies. And you know, it would just seem that
the moment I'm like, okay, as soon as this one's done, I'm going to call it. I'm going to pause
