Yeah, yeah, that's right.
Or Stepp Hom.
They had like a half hour drunken argument about...
Also, I only said no because I knew, like, Steven's the one who doesn't know their name,
so he's going to get it wrong.
So my reflex was no.
And then I was like, oh, wait, yeah.
Okay.
So sorry about that.
You're totally fine.
They that like the mom was talking about how some guy...
I forget what...
Oh, it was...
You know, he got on an elevator.
It was like at some conference or maybe at a school.
I can't remember.
It was a professor and someone, some woman asked him, what floor?
And he was like, oh, lingerie, please.
Which is like an old joke.
Apparently.
Because they're not in a shopping center building.
You know, they're at a hotel or something.
And so it was an old joke, whatever.
I'm sure it was some old guy, which is, you know, makes this old joke more like...
okay, I guess, if it was a joke that he was used to telling.
You know what?
20 years from now, we're going to be making jokes about the Avengers
and kids are going to get really offended or something.
I'm already offended.
Anyway.
Or at the very least, they just won't get him.
That's right.
They'll be like, who's this old guy?
Why is he talking about avenging things?
Out of touch, nerds.
Yeah.
So she was talking about how it was like, you know, this big deal that like he, you know,
his university is making him write an apology.
And, you know, Dave was like, so fucking what?
Like, don't give me...
And but what she was saying, like, she made it sound like it was this whole big,
like kind of like de-platforming this person's, you know, scared for their job.
And it's like, but they're not this person that you're,
the example that you're raising here.
This guy's fine.
Nothing's going to happen.
And if it does happen, we can talk about it, but nothing did.
I guess, why, I don't know why I find so much fun beating that horse.
I think it's, I never talk about it off the show.
I think it just comes up because we touch on things
that taken, if you're quote mind them and take them out of, and which means to take
them out of context.
You're trying to distance yourself from that so that you will not be attacked.
I don't really care.
Okay.
I don't have anything to lose.
Okay.
But I stand by everything I say, but the joke is that if I were,
if you're to take something like what you said about, you know, these people not being
brutes or whatever, kind of, it sounds like a, my best friend, some of my friends are
black kind of thing, whatever, but it's obviously not.
But my point is, if you quote mind it, then, you know, somebody who I can imagine,
like Christina Hoffsummer or J, Jordan Peterson's voice could be like, see, that's the thing.
He needs to be worried now or whatever.
Right.
And I, it's not that funny.
And I don't know why he's saying it.
So I think you, I think you're right.
I'll, I'll, I'll ease off of the, the break line there.
No way.
Like, I mean, I don't know.
We're not big enough for anyone to care, right?
But if someone, someone could absolutely take that thing that we just said about people,
you know, giving money to the Taliban and me saying that some cultures are predisposed
opposed to being brutish and crude and take that and see, look, they hate Muslims.
Why are these white dudes so racist?
And that's sort of what, what I meant is like the joke, right?
Cause that, that's the, I hate saying the intellectual dark web, like it's a thing,
but to the extent that it is become a thing, if you've mentioned it on a podcast,
three podcasts in a row, it's now a thing.
All right.
So what they do is they'll say things that give ammunition to people who want to say bad things.
Who?
Oh, the IDW people?
Yeah. So like, you know, say for example, you point out that, you know,
some people come from brutish cultures and someone else could say, yeah,
like those dirty Muslims.
And that's not something I would endorse.
That's the, that's the joke or that's the line that someone might, might take it with.
Yeah.
So that's the joke I'm making.
And I, you're right.
I'm kind of preemptively staving off those jokes.
Well, but the fact is that someone could take everything we've said in this episode and that
one a few episodes back and use that as ammunition to say like those dirty Muslims, right?
Or, you know, whatever those, those Southern war hungry people or something.
Right. Right. Right.
Or those redneck hicks or something.
Yeah.
Whatever they want to say or all those black people.
And what, what are we going to do about that?
I like, are we going to not talk about this thing?
So that's the joke is that like someone like Christina Hoff Summers would say,
you have to not talk about it because someone could do that.
And it's, you know, Christina Hoff Summers is the one who's saying literally,
you should talk about it anyway and fuck those people.
That's what makes her intellectual dark web.
No, no, what she's saying is that your, your livelihood is at risk.
If you want to say those things.
Well, I mean, but that's why, that's why they want like, you know,
a private journal to publish these results in because everything's so scary,
because the mob will get you.
I mean, you're not scared because like you don't think anyone.
Because I don't matter.
Your leadership.
Yeah. You don't think anyone in your leadership,
but your company is going to get wind of this and think that it's going to affect you.
But like if the podcast were popular enough and of 20,000 people on Twitter or something
started adding your boss and being like, why do you employ this racist?
That's a really good point.
If this blew up and we got, you know, 100,000 downloads, an episode,
I'd go back and delete some episodes, probably.
Really?
I can't think of which one right off, but I definitely go back and probably edit some.
Okay.
You know, I got a lot of kickback.
It would have been like the first, oh, it was on the polyamory episodes.
When I had said something along the lines of like, I'm no fan of like Islam.
And you guys gave me these looks like I'd said, I hate black people.
And I'm like, what?
And I kind of staggered and said something about suicide bombers or something.
But my whole thing on that was like, just to, you know, I guess bring up that two-year-old
dead horse was like, my position is I'm against religion in general.
To the extent that it provides polite comfort or whatever personal comfort to somebody,
go nuts.
I'm past that in my anti-theism stage.
But I guess the practice in your life, to the extent that it affects other people,
especially your kids, I'm pretty uppity about.
And so like the, and this isn't all of Islam for sure.
But, you know, there are parts of the world where like, it's still punishable by death
to be gay or, you know, where leaving the faith is a crime that you have to worry about.
Worry about the safety of your life about where people flee your country and, you know,
cut ties with their families because they, whatever, they're gay.
They left the faith.
There's cultures where if your sister is raped, you have to kill her because it's
dishonored your whole family.
And so I think that's pretty fucked up.
And so whatever, whatever teaches that you should do that, I'm against.
And to the extent that it's, if it's a, if it's a small niche group,
like the Scientologists who I don't think do any of those things,
would do other crazy shit, I'm against Scientology too.
But since they're, I'm assuming like a few thousand people, maybe tens.
Yeah, they're in the tens of thousands.
But I mean, that's nothing.
You know, that's, that how many people live in Denver, a million?
Yeah.
So that's, that's a drop in the ocean, right?
But if, if Scientologists numbered over a billion, or if they were the largest
religion on the planet, that'd be fucking scary.
That's my point, right?
So, but to the extent that they're small.
So like, you know, I'm against religion.
I'm against more, more specifically harmful religions and harmful branches of religions.
And that scales with how big they are.
So that's, that's my whole thing on it.
You know, don't get wrong.
I know Muslim people.
I know, I know more apostates than I know practicing Muslims.
But I think I talked about before, I just happened to know very few religious people.
But I think that's not by like deliberate effort.
I guess I just don't go to places to meet them.
Most of my religious people that I run into, I run into like out in the world.
Oh, so that's my, that's how I get by is I never go outside.
Okay. Cool.
Yeah.
So that's, that's my thing on that.
But the, the anti-religion thing, I had a point here to make, to drive this back to
the British thing.
Which is why you hate the intellectual dark web people.
Yeah.
But now that line is fuzzy.
Like I said, the line was that like, if you take something,
I feel like I beat in the horse.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Moving on.
Alrighty.
So this very next comment by Sailor Vulcan is,
Hi, this one is, by the way,
obviously aimed at you since this was not my position.
Hi, I noticed that.
Bring it on.
Sailor Vulcan.
Hi.
Oh wait.
Sailor Vulcan is one who wrote that awesome essay that we talked about on Less Wrong.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
