It was basically anyone who could fight fought.
Well, but there might be just to bring that point home or I guess to take it another way.
There might be people that are worth removing from the conflict and saying,
all right, look, you, you, you and you, we're going to take over here.
And we're going to hold the front lines while you guys like survive and move society five
miles west or whatever, just because you guys are the essential ones to keep,
keep society worth living or something.
But the way I was thinking about it is that you wouldn't be conscripted to go to war against
like a, you know, someone who's not on your borders or something, right?
Maybe.
Um, no, I mean, we're really the only thing, the only thing that I am only historical background
I have to draw on right now is, um, pre-Republic Rome, when, uh, they would just
raise people from the countryside, from the city, be like, Hey, we got to come fight with us.
And, uh, people like had to provide their own weapons and armor.
And, uh, the equestrian class provided their own horses, which is why they were known as
the equestrians.
They were rich enough to have horses when they rode off into war.
And then they came back home and they went back to their jobs afterwards.
Hmm.
It wasn't, yeah, it wasn't really a conscription thing as much as it was a
war's here, let's go kind of thing.
That's fair.
Things work different.
And then, you know, eventually they got good at conquering and had a professional standing
army and became an empire.
But at first a lot of those city-states were just like, okay, it's fighting time.
Everybody strap on the sword that you got.
Or make, you know, find one on the way to war.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How many people died?
How many soldiers died in World War Two?
Um, I don't know.
Do you have a ballpark figure?
I feel like it's sub-million, right?
A lot of civilian casualties.
Whatever it was, I know that, like, there were battles in like pre-Roman and, you know,
during my American education of history is showing right now.
But so I can't name the years.
But there were, you know, there were significant battles where hundreds of thousands of people
died in like, in conflicts.
I don't think before the pre-modern era, there were ever battles where that many people died.
Really?
Hundreds of thousands?
Maybe.
Maybe I'm thinking of like wars, but where it would be like a third of your population
died in war, like in some conflicts.
The closest I can think of is when like Genghis Khan was rampaging through Asia and would
literally massacre an entire city.
Oh, I was thinking of soldiers.
No, I don't, there just weren't that many people.
See, I thought, I had, in my head somewhere, maybe I was listening to a Steve Pinker talk
at some point where, like he had said that people would be constricted to go fight the
battles on the plains and you would lose tens of thousands in a day or something.
I could see tens of thousands.
Yeah, but hundreds is a lot of people.
You need really wide lines for that to happen, huh?
Yeah.
So maybe a battle could last a week or something in that case.
I don't know.
But I'll have to read the dust jacket of the better angels of our nature again.
So I never read the book.
It was 700 something pages, wasn't it?
So I don't remember.
I like, not that I don't remember.
I've never seen the book, so I couldn't tell you.
I know it was big.
Yeah.
And I'm like, I'm a slow reader.
That's the downside.
No, they're just weren't that many people back then.
The Persian Empire spanned most of the world and they had like, what, 120,000 men altogether
in their empire fighting men?
That sounds low, but I'm not a doctor.
So doctor of history.
Hold on a second.
We are literally sitting on something I can tell us this.
Well, I guess I'll bring that up only just because like, what I remember is that the
percentage of people would die, that died was huge.
Whereas like, I'm not sure what percentage of the United States we lost in World War
II, but it was not negligible, but it was small.
We lost a lot of people in sort of other countries, but it wasn't like we lost like
a third of our of our population or something, right?
Holy fuck.
What do you got?
Am I right?
There are wildly differing accounts.
Some people saying over 5 million people in the Persian army, but that looks like it was
probably inflated.
Greek sources estimate seven to 800,000 soldiers, which is a whole of a lot more than
I thought there were.
And 1.7 million must have included noncombatants.
How many?
1.7 million including noncombatants.
Well, I just saw that military deaths from World War II from all causes totaled
somewhere between 21 and 25 million.
I think that's on all sides.
Unfortunately, civilian deaths totaled somewhere between 50 and 55 million.
So that's kind of a drag how that shook out.
Yeah.
But you know, I don't know what the population, we really should have done some homework
before I went off on my history.
I am very interested in history, but I know very little about it.
So I'm getting around to learning about it.
Yeah, it does seem like here's here's sources that say that Persian army appears to have
included 300,000 infantry and 60,000 cavalry, which is closer to what I was thinking.
In 1887, Hans Delberg stated that the army of Xerxes must have included 55,000 fighting
men at the most.
Oh, so apparently World War II was the most costly war in terms of human life.
Yeah, yeah, because I just I can't imagine an ancient army having five million men in
it.
There just weren't that many humans around.
Stalingrad has had most deaths, but I'm looking at specifically what I'm trying to
find here is per population.
And so like apparently the battle of Stalingrad was the most was the was the battle with the
highest number of casualties somewhere around 2 million, which is crazy, right?
But I don't know what the populations of Russia and the United States or in the Axis
forces were back then.
So this is a really long way.
I can remember how we even got on old war stuff.
Anyway, there's my there's your guys's thing where this is going to be a joy to edit Steven
needs to learn to learn history.
But yeah, no, going back to all before we got sidetracked, as we do often, I guess.
Don't say I don't say I didn't warn you.
Right.
I know just 15 minutes ago I was being like, man, we slave away at an office for these
modern conveniences just so we can get old and comfort.
But based on based on that last paragraph of Scott's, I really, really think that I'd
much rather have the life of the MIT student than the young psychotic and a psych ward.
Haging and comfort starting sound pretty good now, isn't it?
Yeah, you know, I guess I could sit behind a computer monitor and do spreadsheets for
eight hours a day, as opposed to having to, I don't know, do whatever people without an education
do.
Well, even just without like a that an ability to regulate their actions.
Yeah.
Well, like, I mean, I know somebody didn't finish high school who, you know, is a,
I'm not sure what maybe master plumber, whatever the classification is.
And I mean, technically, I only finished high school myself.
I dropped out of college.
So it's not like I really have an education.
Yeah.
I think we're misappropriating the use of the word education.
We mean training.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anyway, I pulled out a quote here that I like because this is it's a little soundbite like
this that keep me like energized reading a Scott Alexander essay because he's great.
And he it's it's really good ratio of like word count to like educational content.
There's not a lot of rambling.
Maybe a good example of a bad, bad example of that or a good example of a bad way to do
that would be like anything that you could, if you Google a recipe, you scroll through
like three, four paragraphs of like this person's bullshit life story.
Right.
And it's like, well, when I used to make this, it's like, just give me the fucking bullet
points, man.
Oh my God, I have such a hard time reading articles in prestigious journals and not
prestigious journals, but like the New York Times or Washington Post or whatever.
Because like, I know there's some a lot of times good reporting interesting things,
but I want to get to that and not be like, so I interviewed this old lady about her life
circumstances and these are all the things.
And then her daughter did this and this and man was in a tragedy like to get around to
finally saying what needs to be said.
I'm like, I don't give a fuck.
I'm never going to meet these people.
I hope they all die tomorrow.
Or it's not true.
I just, you know, but if their deaths would make it, so I didn't have to read
those four paragraphs.
I'd be okay with that.
Or maybe I hope they're all doing great, but I don't really care enough to read about it.
Yes.
Like I was listening to This American Life.
There's one on school shootings, which was a great way to start my Monday.
But I couldn't imagine reading that.
It was, it would have been super boring.
And granted, it was, it was presented for audio, but it was just like, you know, the
actual content they were delivering was just mired and, you know, stops and, you know,
talking to different people and that would be a bad way to read an essay.
Like there's this great essay that a co-worker sent me on basically how Newt
Gingrich is personally responsible for destroying the Republican party and making
them a bunch of assholes.
Wow.
I can say the article was really interesting.
Yeah, that sounds interesting.
I remember when Newt was a big deal.
I was in high school and yeah.
His whole thing since like the 70s was like, we got to stop playing nice.
He would go to like, you know, conservative think tanks and conservative campuses
and be like, we got to be assholes.
We've got to, we've got to, you know, play dirty.
We've got to cheat.
We've got to do whatever.
That's the point.
None of this like, you know, let's hold the esteem of the ambitions of a greater
America in mind.
It's like, no, let's fuck that and just try and try and be shitty.
Anyway, this thing took me like two days to read because it didn't distill it down
to like things Newt did in bullet.
And, you know, even if it was bullet point paragraph, whatever, it was just like
this long exegesis.
