I guess, hold on, let me answer my own question.
That has no long term planning.
Right.
This is just like, I'm going to put everything I can, I'm going to go to the city and I'm going to get discovered.
I'm going to do whatever it takes.
Yeah.
And not like, I'm going to get a job and like, so I can feed myself in five years.
And also fast.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And fast in terms that there's going to be a lot of sex early on.
Fingers crossed.
Right.
Yeah.
Which nowadays we have ways of preventing that from resulting in children, but used to not be the case.
And so that sort of strategy would result in having kids early in life.
Yeah.
All right.
Cool.
Thanks for the digression.
What is number three?
Number three is the pro social slash caregiving strategy.
A slow strategy that focuses on being a responsible pillar of the community who everyone likes.
Because it expects a slow and stable life.
It focuses on lasting relationships and cultivating a good relationship that will serve it well in iterated games.
A good reputation that will serve it well in iterated games.
Sorry.
Yeah, you're good.
So basically Hufflepuff.
Oh yeah.
Do you want to plug that cracked video because we can tie them into these or after that.
Let's do it after we do the next one.
Yeah.
So the pro social caregiving strategy is I guess what like the loving parent.
Yeah.
This is like everyone in middle America, right?
Okay.
Or it's what everyone thinks that everyone in middle America is.
The nuclear family.
Yeah.
Okay.
Exactly.
Gotcha.
All right.
The skilled provisioning strategy.
Skilled provisioning strategy is a slow strategy that focuses on being good at a specific useful task or at specific useful tasks.
Because it expects a slow and stable life, it focuses on gaining abilities that may take years to bear any fruit.
This is the nerd strategy.
And the professional strategy.
And the professional strategy.
You don't have to be a nerd to be like a great carpenter or handyman or something, right?
No, that's true.
So yeah, nerds certainly, you know, I'm trying to get good at my career slow strategy so I can do, let me pull out a word here.
Yeah.
For specific useful tasks.
It doesn't say to make, oh yeah, it expects a slow and stable life, but also to take, you know, to get the skills to make that happen.
It sounds like anybody who masters a trade, like a trade, not a skill would fit into this category, right?
Probably.
I mean, yes.
Okay.
Yes, I would think so.
Like someone who's really good at HVAC systems or master plumber, that kind of thing.
So these aren't all necessarily exclusive.
No.
But it's easy to draw them into boxes.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And the first thing that you notice very quickly with this, and I think it was positive.
I think it was even brought up in the article was that it seems very easy when you get these sorts of four groupings to sort everything in the world into one of these four.
Yeah.
And I don't know if this is like an aspect of having four things, but there's a lot of cases in the world where there's four things that everything wants to get sorted into.
And I mean, we started with Hufflepuff, but I mean, seriously, like that pro-social caregiver is Hufflepuffs.
The skill of provisioning is Ravenclaw.
The creative seductive is Gryffindor.
And then the antagonistic exploitative is Slytherin, right?
Yeah.
Maybe swap those two.
I'm not sure the Slytherin Gryffindor.
Yeah, those seem a little tough to pin down.
Plus, the downside of Slytherin is that there's an obvious bad one.
Yes.
So let's do this with the Ninja Turtles, because they're all good guys.
Okay.
So we can say, I'm trying to...
Antagonistic is Raphael.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that would make the skilled provisioning strategy Donatello.
Absolutely.
Pro-social caregiving Leonardo, which leaves somehow Michelangelo for creative and seductive.
Party dude.
That's fair.
Yeah.
There were, and I believe Scott Alexander mentioned this, that there were also four humors,
which more or less fit these four than Ancient Greece, the four elements.
Oh yeah.
Fit this as well.
You found that great cracked article, or cracked after hours video that was like seven minutes
long, that we're definitely going to link to, because it summarizes all of these really well.
Yeah.
And I've seen a handful of other things.
They're really fun.
I need to watch more of them.
They...
I guess maybe they do a regular show, and then they do like an after hours joke show or
something.
No.
The after hours was just one of their regular shows.
It's just the name of one of the shows.
The concede is that they meet after, you know, a thing, but now that's the show.
Gotcha.
The show has stopped a long time ago though.
They had, I think, three seasons before.
I don't think I ever saw the show then.
I remember back in the heyday of cracked.com, that was a lot of fun.
It would just be kind of like the good version of like BuzzFeed's like eight things you won't
believe, but they really were, and they were like real stuff, and they were well written.
At its peak, cracked was awesome.
Yeah.
I learned a lot of actual cool, interesting things there.
Yeah.
And, you know, some of the after hours episodes are just some of their best articles put into
video format, but they're good.
I'll check it out.
That sounds like a lot of fun.
Yeah.
All right.
So the one I wanted to throw out here was The Avengers for these four categories.
Okay.
Avengers have more than four people in it.
They do.
So we'll pick, you know...
That's cheating then.
Well, no, no.
We'll pick...
There's like five core members, right?
Okay.
So I...
So like I'm going through this, and I'm trying to think...
Yep.
America's pro-social caregiving.
I think you're right.
And then Iron Man would be skilled provisioning.
I was thinking Iron Man might be the antagonistic exploitive one.
That'd be Hulk, because Hulk smash.
Does Hulk have a strategy?
Smash.
So I was thinking, because Rachel and I just rewatched The Avengers, because the first
one, because we need to get her caught up again before we start Endgame and Captain Marvel
in a couple of months.
So the hard part with this is their characters really evolve, especially like, especially
all of them.
But most noticeably, Cap a bit.
Cap actually evolves less, I'd say.
It's really Tony's...
Thor and Tony evolve a lot.
Thor especially, like, you know, because he...
At the beginning, he's straight up the kind of the creative, seductive strategy.
Right.
He's just like, you know, this meathead beefcake who's just going to come in, kick ass, take
names, and bed all the women.
Get the girl, yeah.
Exactly.
So...
And same as Tony, you know, in the first Iron Man, he's just like, you know, he's the
reformed kind of war prophet here, but he's still very much of like the asshole who doesn't
care, right?
But he did spend decades, like, building up to that position.
Yeah.
But...
He is certainly not reproducing early in life.
That's fair, but he sort of fell ass backwards into that, right?
It's hard to say, but none of them will fit perfectly, but...
So let's see, pro-social caregiving.
I guess you're right, Captain America, especially in the early cap.
Like, later on when he's more of like, you know, I'm just here to fight for whatever,
yeah.
And then that leaves skilled provisioning.
Who's left?
Yeah, maybe that does have to be Tony, because...
But none of his strategy was slow.
His whole thing was kind of like kick-ass and, you know...
Well, it's a life strategy, though.
It's...
The Iron Man thing wasn't a life strategy.
That was more of like a, I'm going to solve this problem and go kick some ass.
I don't know.
Maybe I'm being too analytical about it.
I thought this would be easier.
And having more difficulty thinking of, like, you know, whatever, Black Widow and Hawkeye
are also Avengers, but...
I guess...
He shoots arrows, man.
That's not a power.
At least they joke about that in Age of...
Oh, you didn't see Age of Ultron.
I know, but I saw that clip.
Oh, where he's like, I'm here with a bow and arrow, none of this makes any sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
