And the guy kept talking about, well, then Newt and I were at the zoo.
It turns out he really likes visiting zoos.
And here's a picture of him with a turtle and it's like, come on, man.
Anyway.
I thought, I didn't read a lot of nonfiction.
Like just recently I've started reading some nonfiction because I thought it was like
fiction where every paragraph is important and you got to read everything.
And like, I just started reading nonfiction.
He's like, okay, I can skip this page.
Okay, I can skip this page.
Like, I was like, holy shit, this goes by so fast because most of it is unnecessary crap.
Most of my like nonfiction reading comes from sites like Wikipedia.
Yeah.
Especially if I want to get to it.
If I want to learn about something, you know, if I want to learn about, you know,
if I need to go off and get a crash course on world history, I'm going to read the
work of pedia sections on it because it leaves out all the fluffy bullshit.
Granted, the fluffy bullshit is really interesting if that's your thing.
But if you just want to know what's going on or what happened, you know, skip all that.
Also, speaking of bad word count to like, you know, content deliverance,
I'm doing great so far this podcast.
Anyway, a good example of what makes Alexander not just educational but entertaining.
I pulled out this quote, quote, and it's seductive to be able to think
of it as all part of a plan, literally seductive in the sense of a medic evolution,
like that Hogwarts chart.
So it's just, you know, he doesn't sound like, you know, an esoteric, you know,
I'm delivering all this stuff.
He's just like, I don't know.
He doesn't seem like a guy like too much times in his hands that he's just writing
all this stuff out to show that he knows all this stuff.
It's like, okay, he is tying this like, you know, to a nerdy, funny way that literally
made me laugh out loud reading this.
So and also like Hogwarts chart is literally seductive in the evolutionary
mimetic sense, but you know, also literally true because it is seductive to think,
oh yeah, you know, we were raised in more stable environments.
So we have this new slower life strategy and people were raised in a chaotic shitty
environments have the fast life strategy.
And so that's kind of like the plan, you know, the genes plan was like, well,
this is the only way I can get reproduced.
So this is why I'm going to go.
So it is seductive to think of it that way.
Yeah, totally.
Which is probably why we did, you know, an episode and a half about it.
Yeah. Well, I mean, it's also just like I said, my, I guess I didn't say, but I've
been thinking about, you know, my first real dive into like the joy of science was reading
Richard Dawkins and his book, which I didn't actually read the whole thing, The Selfish Gene,
you know, lays out the gene centric point of view where it's wrong to think about the evolution
and or about evolution guiding the fitness of organisms, especially individuals,
but it's about maximizing the fitness of genes.
And, you know, granted, we as humans don't care about our genes.
And so it's, this is just more fun for like understanding how the world got to be,
how it is and less about like how we should live our lives.
It's, you'll see like, I don't know, like guinea pigs and ducks and other things,
you know, they, they hatch or they're born and then five minutes later,
they're running out of their eyes open eating solid food.
Like, whereas, you know, humans, I guess some cats, dogs, you know, whatever,
bigger animals tend to, you know, tend to be anyway.
They start off for the first couple of weeks, whatever they don't, they can't see,
they can't do anything, they're completely helpless.
And that, that really indicates the survival strategies of those, of those species.
And I don't know, that sounds, it is sort of esoteric and pointless as far as how we
should live our lives, but it's super interesting.
So you can walk around and just see these things.
It's, I don't know, it sounds hippie that doesn't, I don't know.
It makes it an interesting way to relate to the world around you.
Yeah. And to understand what's going on.
And there are moods that I have less and less now, but I used to have all the time of like,
I want to know what's going on.
So one of these days I'll get that, that spark back and be more scholarly.
But do we want to, I want to jump to feedback before we do less wrong stuff,
because there is some feedback directly pertinent to this
that I want to bring up while we're on the topic.
Yeah, totally.
Because there were a bunch of things said about our last episode on this.
Okay. In that case, I'm going to go to not without incident,
who says the idea that poor middle Americans are overrepresented in the military is mostly a myth.
People from the poorest and wealthiest consensus tracts are underrepresented.
And so are West Virginians who are probably the prototypical Appalachians.
I, I was very, I followed the link that they provided and was really surprised that,
yeah, the very poorest in the US were underrepresented in the military,
which was like, I thought personally surprising.
I don't know.
I wouldn't have guessed it either.
I would think that you struggle to not be hungry as a kid.
And even if you're, especially if you're raised in the environment where it's like,
look, I know if I left the house, my parents would have like more food for themselves.
You'd think, hey, cool, these people will feed me, give me shelter and train me,
and then pay for me to get a higher education.
I'm going to go do that.
You know, frankly, I'm really curious.
I haven't clicked the article just or click the link.
Does it, is it just data or does this the kind of thing where I dig an NPR,
like ad nauseam interview sort of thing?
Cause I know it was just a few graphs.
The, the West Virginia thing was interesting because West Virginia was an outlier in all
the Southern States.
Like all the Southern States are strongly overrepresented in the military.
And the, the ones that you would expect to be underrepresented,
like the, the Northeast ones were the West Virginia struck out as slightly underrepresented
in the military.
And I don't know why West Virginia was unique in that way,
but all the other Southern ones were over.
So I'm not going to concede that one.
Everything I know about West Virginia comes from the announcement trailer for Fallout 76.
So I better not weigh in.
Okay.
Oh, he has another comment, but I'll come back to that later because it's not related to this
topic.
Supreme switch says Quakers are still active in many parts of the world.
And then not with that incident says, I used to go to Quaker meetings sometimes with a friend
when I was a kid and I'm not that old.
There are eight monthly meetings in my city.
I wonder if there's some confusion between Quaker and Shaker going on.
Also, I think it's fair to say that modern Quakers are very different than Quakers of
the 18th century, but so are modern Catholics and nobody's claiming Catholicism is extinct.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I thought when I think of Quakers, I think of the old guy on this oatmeal box.
I just automatically thought that's good marketing right there.
Yeah, right.
I just automatically pictured those.
So maybe there's a lot more Quakers and we just don't hear about them because they're,
you know, very tolerant, accepting, quiet folk.
Yeah.
And if you're not making waves, nobody's going to hear you, right?
If you're not like out there screaming, praise Jesus and having mega church rallies and shit.
Yeah, I think certainly I don't think Scott or the author of Albion Seed was making a point that
like these cultures have remained unchanged for 200 years, but that there are surprising
extrapolations you can make from people's location and especially their ancestral location
to like their current attitudes.
Yeah, certainly they're different.
This one I thought was the biggest one for me.
Rockham says, Rockham, Rockham.
At one point, the discussion went in the direction of some segments of the population are genetically
predisposed to being brutish, crude and violent.
They are unpleasant to be around, but at least useful for military or manual labor.
That right, that line of reasoning is dangerous and can think of a few good societies and many
bad ones that adhere to it.
Maybe I misunderstood you.
If so, please be clearer.
And yeah, I would like to say that I definitely was not trying to say that at all.
I think that obviously genetics have some effect on everything because that's just
kind of a truism, but I was trying to say that some segments of the population are
culturally predisposed to being brutish, crude and violent.
Like that was my major contention that some cultures really are worse than others for living
in a modern society with other people.
And I think that it should be okay to say that and to try to push the cultures that
are more adapted to the society we like.
Yeah, careful.
I mean, someone's writing a golden ticket to the intellectual dark web when you say things
like that, but you're not saying, and it's those people over there.
No, and I also don't think genetics has nearly that much to do with it.
Culture is a much bigger deal than genetics, in my opinion.
I know plenty of people from the South who have moved to Denver because we have a lot
of influx of those sorts of people, and they aren't that way.
There's a reason they left the South.
Yeah, exactly.
But they will sometimes tell me about their friends who are still back there,
how their early childhood was like, and how they managed to be a bit more stable,
but it's really remarkable that the way that people are, the culture they're exposed to,
how big a difference that makes on the rest of their life.
And I feel really grateful for my parents being as awesome as they were.
And I know it's not people, anyone's fault for being raised in a shitty culture,
but I do think that we have to say that sometimes this culture isn't the greatest,
and we should try to steer people away from them.
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
It's just a sad lottery that some kids lose.
You don't get to pick your parents.
If you're born under a culture that thinks the Taliban is super awesome,
and we're going to send them, we're going to tie it to the Taliban directly or something,
and it's like, what chance do you have to, I mean, everyone has a chance.
But the thing is, your future outcomes are highly constrained.
And if you get out, it's like a big deal that you made it out because you had so much to overcome.
And I want to say, like, I know a couple of people who have come
ancestrally from that border region, and I do not think that they're genetically inferior
because they came from there.
Oh, no.
And yes, that's the difference that keeps you off the train to the intellectual dark web.
All right, there's another comment about this coming up,
but why do you keep saying that about the intellectual dark web?
I poke fun at it.
Yeah, but they're not the ones who are going around saying that, you know, races are...
They're not racist.
They're the ones that pretend you can't have those conversations or else you get to...
Because we were talking about deplatforming last week and I was thinking about this.
The whole thing is that, like, you can't say things like that because, you know,
your college will make you write an apology essay and, you know, whatever.
And it's like, I don't know, I think it's funny.
I should probably, I think the joke is super dead at this point.
The guy who wrote the bell curve, like, was assaulted.
And the woman that was escorting him, who wasn't even, you know, working for him,
she was working for the university, had to go to a hospital.
No, no, no, totally.
And that's over the line.
And none of this is okay.
Don't get me wrong.
But like, I was listening to one of the most recent, very bad wizards where it was like
the Christmas episode where, I think I mentioned this last time, Tamla, the philosopher?
No.
Yes, yes.
Whatever, whatever one whose mom is Christina Hoff Summers.
