and quit. Yeah. And then I come across a double experience shrine. I'm like, oh, this last two
minutes, I've got to ride this out double experience, man, let's let's let's beat that grind.
And then oh, man, double attack. Oh, you know, I finally got the enough to go fight this boss
that was killing me a second ago. And it's, it wasn't enough to kill me. But it was enough
that I absolutely noticed the little rat in my head hitting that button for more cocaine, right?
So it was just that immediate feedback of nope, keep going, keep going, keep going. And I totally
felt it. That was a game where, you know, I lost sleep, not a ton. This wasn't the most addictive
game I played. But I lost lots of sleep to World of Warcraft. Yeah, it's not just you, man. Yeah.
And I mean, and if there's a company that can make a game that's 5% more addictive than that one,
they're going to get the market share. That's right. Yeah, it's so the point is that the the
market is there for people wanting to consume this stuff because just like there's somebody
making the next sweetener or something, right? I think the the point that he was, this was more
just like, I think more feedback on or more responsive feedback. I don't know if this is
part of his initial layout of essays for the sequences. But you know, what about regulation?
Couldn't we just, you know, pass a law to stop that? But how do you pass a law that says if
Diablo 4 is too fun to play, you can't release it? Right? Like, that sounds a bizarre,
b totalitarian and c totally unworkable. Right? Do you give it to a control group of
a thousand people? And if more than two of them die, it doesn't make it to market? Like,
right? Sorry, this game is too, oh my god, then there'd be a black market for games that are too
good for the government to let you to play them. Oh yeah, hands down. That'd be awesome. I mean,
so good. It was banned in 12 countries. That actually sounds like a really good marketing
for it. I would buy the hell out of that game. What's all the hype about?
So I'm going to skip the next bullet point or two. If people have the right to be tempted,
this is a quote, if people have the right to be tempted, and that's what free will is all about,
the market is going to supply, I'd like, can I stop real quick? If people have the right to
be tempted, and that's what free will is all about. I'd never quite heard someone put it that
way before, that free will is the right to be tempted, which, you know, that only sticks out
to me because I have, you know, a real hard on with religion and the devil, and specifically
like the Lucifer speech near the end of devil's advocate, but which is just all about temptation
and free will. And I run into those themes a lot in the stuff that I enjoy reading. And so that
was like, that was interesting. I think on the free will tangent, that it that you can certainly
say that, I mean, I don't know if you would say that's what free will is all about, if you're a
philosopher, but what you could say is that like, to the extent that your ability to indulge
whatever you want isn't constrained, that's free will. What Dan would call elbow room,
or maybe. Although if you were never tempted by something else, didn't ever really have
that much of a choice in things, right? Exactly. That was my thing. I mentioned like,
I never tempted to put my hand on a hot stove. So is there any like free will to not put your
hands on hot stoves? Right. Or, you know, I mentioned last episode, the episode 45 of The
Very Bad Wizards, where they argued about like, how much your societal pressure as a child
impacts where you can go in life. And they used bad examples, like they used, you know,
kids in the, you know, in Detroit, you know, playing basketball and listening to hip hop,
like isn't their future constrained, because like they're not, they don't get the, they don't
really have the option to like, you know, go to college and get some pointless degree in the arts
or something, because, you know, or, you know, in the sciences, less pointless. Don't get me wrong,
I have a degree that's basically an arts degree and it's pointless. So I'm not shitting on other
people, I'm shitting on myself. I would have used the Amish as my quintessential example, like,
you know, I don't know if they get to choose whether or not they get to work with cows or
work with wheat, but they don't get to choose whether they get to work with computers or work
with cars, you know, so like, their choice space is very finely constrained by their environment.
And I think that sucks. And I think that's, and to go back to my anti-religion thing,
if the Amish were a billion strong, I'd be super against the Amish. There's this,
I'm railing on the Amish right now, there's this like kind of thing that makes it kind of quaint,
like they get to, they get to preserve kind of antiquity humans or more antiquity human
survival, which I think is great. If you want to opt into it when you're 20, you want to go
join a cult and go, you know, throw away your phone and do whatever, go nuts. That sounds
actually kind of cool. That's, if that's, that's something you want to do, that's great. I think
it's terrible is to raise a kid that can die of a splinter because they can't get, they can't go
get medicine. Are you saying then that the people who opt to join that cult should be sterilized so
they don't have children? Uh, I wouldn't go so far, but maybe I am. Yeah, because then otherwise,
some of them are going to have children and then they're going to want to raise them. Or they're,
or they're forced to give their kids up or, you know, forced to break, leave the cult when they
have kids or something. Well, I mean, they have the Rumspringer. That's, that's kind of like a field
trip in school, right? So like, yeah, it's a field trip where they show you all the worst parts of
the great modern society while shunning you and, you know, being like, don't talk to us during this
period. And it's, it's like it, it's disingenuous way to represent, way to represent the rest of
the world. No, you're wrong. The rest of the world has a lot of shit in it too. But I think
Rumspringer is honestly genius in how well it, it makes people hate the outside of the Amish world,
you know? Yeah. No, it's, it's, because you're lonely, you're homesick. All you have to turn to
is like drugs and rock and roll out here. And it's kind of an empty life. And yeah, of course,
you want to go back. It's a great tool. If that's what you're going for. And you're thinking, yeah,
I got a taste of that outside hedonistic world. And boy, was it horrible. For sure. That's the quote.
Yes, sorry. No, no, that was great. If people have the right to be tempted, and that's what
free will is all about, the market is going to respond by supplying as much temptation as can
be sold, which is just, I'd like that it was a callback to Birch's law, which we talked about
just episode or two ago. Yeah, saying that, yeah, literally just saying that. And then the next quote
being a key assumption of free market economics is that in the absence of force and fraud,
people can always refuse to engage in harmful transaction. To the extent this is true, a free
market would be not merely the best policy on the whole, but a policy with few or no downsides.
Now, this was really interesting. Because like, just to reiterate it, a key assumption of economics
is that without force or fraud, people can refuse to engage in harmful transactions. And if you put
it that way, that's not just the best policy of all options. There's like no downsides, right?
I think if something is not your advantage, you can just choose not to take that advantage.
I think the, if there was no force or fraud, sure, but that's not a world that we live in,
especially with given how broad force can be, right? I think that that is the trap that
he's trying to warn away here, because this came just like three or four episodes after policy
debates should not appear one sided. And he linked to policy debates should not appear one sided in
the a policy with fewer no downsides. So I think what he's trying to point out is, if you think
this is how free market economics works, then there's probably something very wrong,
because it looks to be one sided, right? Right. Without force or fraud, this is great. So what's
the deal? And that should set off a bell that this policy, it looks so one sided, there must
be something else going on. And to me, not being an economist, I would just say that
there's more like there's too much force and fraud in the system for that to be perfect.
So, you know, somebody could lie to you about whatever, and then boom, you're addicted, you
know, or something, right? Well, or they could give you exactly what you want, and you like it so
much, you stop doing other things. Yeah, which is like another another force, right? So they don't
have to lie to you, they just they that's that's not a force at all. No one forced anyone to play
World of Warcraft until they died. No, no one forces people lead candy bars. That's true. But
our biology doesn't force us, but it pressures us. Maybe that's the difference. I think, I think
you absolutely cannot use words like force if you're talking about people choosing what they
want to do because of their biology, because that just kind of perverts the use the word force.
That's why I use pressure.
Touche, sir, I lose this argument. But you're right, because like if we're pressured by our
biology, like then what else are we, you know, we don't we don't have anything else. It's not
like there's some ghost in the machine that really wants the right thing. But our our stupid
monkey brains are stopping us. It's like all we are is our monkey brains, all that stuff
laid on top of it. So it's it's interesting to say the least. Yeah. All right. So he points on as
well that on some occasions in the ancestral environment, a typically beneficial act may in
fact be harmful. Homo sapiens are still tempted by food, but our oversized prefrontal courtesies
give us a limited ability to resist temptation, not unlimited ability. Our ancestors with too
much willpower probably starve themselves to sacrifice to the gods or fail to commit adultery
one too many times. The video player who died must have exercised willpower in some sense to
keep playing for so long without food or sleep. There is that quote that I pulled out because
this just makes me like that's the other thing that's what makes people like Yuzkowski and Alexander
great writers is a they're delivering lots of really cool content in a fun way, but they also
make me laugh. And I don't have to be laughing out loud to enjoy something, but it helps. Yeah.
And so he's like, I suppose one could argue that the consumer makes a rational decision that that
I suppose someone could argue that the consumer makes a rational decision that they'd rather
play Starcraft for the next hour than live the rest of their lives. Well, let's not go there,
please. And so I think that's that's a fair like just let's just leave that over here. We're going
to assume that they didn't decide that because come on. Yeah, you're doing we're doing the
discussion on how many people are actually trying to die playing this game. Now this this next part
kind of reminded me that all this was written before the replication crisis, the replication
crisis, because he says that resisting any temptation takes conscious expenditure of
an exhaustible supply of mental energy, which I mean, I believe is true, because it's not
easy necessarily to resist temptation. But but those are like those studies that like,
you can only be shown a marshmallow so many times right take it. Exactly, which which have now
failed to replicate. And so I was like, oh, that doesn't hold up quite as well, which is,
you know, cool, though, because but the benefit of this post is that that's not the crux of the
post, or, you know, certainly not the crux crux of the sequences. So like, you know, that that one
part of this one post can fall apart. And don't get wrong, he says a lot of the psychology that has
been called out or not called out has been failed to replicate failed to replicate and has been
shown to be less than solid. Yeah, he says even when where we even where we successfully resist
a super stimulus, it seems plausible that the effort required with the deplete willpower much
faster than resisting ancestral temptations. I don't know, possibly true. I mean, anecdotally,
it sounds true to me. Yeah. You know, like my my office brings us bagels and donuts on Wednesdays,
because for some reason, developers are like children and we need a lot, we need lots of things
to keep us there and keep us happy. So frankly, if they had donuts every day, it would be hard
for me not to have an everyday I have one every single week when they when they bring them in.
So that sounds like just me after a while. I probably would. Yeah, like I just we have snacks
out in our office at all times. And I just I have some of them when I'm hungry. But for the most
part, I don't know. I think you're a person of above average willpower. Maybe I just have below
average attraction to donuts. That's fair. Yeah, it's a hard time finding like a sweet thing for
you to indulge yourself with. What is your like go to thing? This is a complete tangent, but I
meant to ask actually, because I have no idea, like, for the last two months, I've been really
wanting cinnamon rolls. Okay, what is your thing? Do you not do you literally not have one? I'm sure
I do. I just, I don't know. I can't think of one off hand. You're like, yes, even I have one,
it's called looking and feeling good. I don't know. It is hard to resist the temptations of
the fair sex sometimes. That's fair. Um, yeah, you're also more anti food than most people.
You eat to like just to survive where I, we've talked about this and this is another tangent,
but buckle up. It's not that long. I, one of the things that like when you're talking about
transhumanism earlier, you know, when we all have cool robot bodies or we don't have to eat or sleep,
I think simulated eating would be something worth like putting in us. Or, you know, even like real
eating where you eat real food and break it down and enjoy it, but like you don't die without it,
or you don't get hungry. Because like, a, there's the fun culture aspect of getting together and
having a meal, which we've been doing for, you know, millions or hundreds of thousands of years
as a species. But if you eat, you would have to poop or something, you know, whatever. You'd have
to get rid of that mass eventually. I know, but whatever. So however this would work, again,
simulated, if we're all in the matrix, we'd simulated, we simulated things and it just turns
to nothing. Oh yeah. I guess we're in the matrix. Yeah. Whatever it is to make the thing work.
I think it'd be fun to have that around because eating can be a lot of fun. I really enjoy the
textures, the tastes and all that stuff. And there are, there are parts of like super primitive
things like eating and stuff that I find fun. I think the only times I really like,
I'm not an overweight person by the way. Oh, no, no, no. Yeah. Stephen is a very slim person,
not very slim. He's good, good shape. He's not like, you know, that's the thing he said about
Stephen. He's a good shape, not in good shape. He's a good shape. He's the correct shape for
an adult human. Barely. No, I, the only time I've really liked food is when I've been really hungry,
like my first year at Burning Man when I didn't bring enough food. And after like a half day,
people were just like handing out food this one place I walked by and I was like, oh, thank god,
so good. You told me about the time that you tried soiling for like four days or something.
And you literally cried after having like real food again. I totally didn't literally cry, but I
like tears in my eyes a little bit. That's fine. Yeah. But in any case, I totally get it. And
granted, that's a really high price to pay for that kind of reward. Because of course,
your brain's going to be just like, thank god, right? But when it comes to regular day-to-day
eating. Yeah, fair enough. All right. So what I brought that around though was because it ties
to your willpower of resisting donuts is because you'd never really wanted them in the first place.
Exactly. Yeah. But no, he brought up that whole plausible that the effort required to deplete
willpower, effort required to resist the pleats will power much faster than ancestral environment
and goes on to say is public display of super stimuli a negative externality,
even to the people who say no. So like, is it bad to have those donuts just laying in the office,
even if you say no to them, because it took up some of your brain power and your, you know,
your ability to resist temptation just to have them there. So I say no to a donut,
but then I go home and cheat on my wife or something. Exactly. I think his case would be
a little more nuanced than that. Oh, next time I cheat on someone, I'm going to blame the donuts.
That's fair. Honey, you don't understand. They've had donuts at work all week.
I didn't have a single donut. Right? Thank god, I'm not fat. You should be thanking my secretary.
Maybe I'm trying to think of a, what's a good example of that sort of thing? Like,
I guess because the whole willpower is a pleading thing turns out to be
the best example I can think of is, this is going to sound weird because like,
I do like porn and I think it is great. But I think porn can really skew
your expectations and experiences of sex when you first start having sex as a young man.
That's definitely true. Yeah. And like, even in general, just like being constantly bombarded
with super hot people who are like, literally don't exist, right? Everywhere. It changes how you
look at everyone else in the world. Yeah, that's that's fair. I think that may be a bit of a negative
externality. Like I saw a European movie, I think like a year or two ago. And this wasn't my observation.
Someone else said it, but they were like, Oh, you can tell that this was filmed in Europe because
some people look like normal people. And it was true. Some people look like average humans.
Whereas every movie you see in America, with some very rare exceptions, everyone is just super
amazingly good looking outside the Avengers again. They're all 11 out of 10. Right. Yeah,
with the exception of Hawkeye is maybe a nine. And poor Hawkeye gets shit on all the time for
everything. It's true, though. He is the least hot Avenger. Get a real superpower, Hawkeye.
