I was like, oh, man.
It was fun.
Okay.
At least, you know, for anyone out there who hasn't seen Age of Ultron but has seen
Infinity War, that, you know, red dude with a stone in his face doesn't make any sense
unless you saw Age of Ultron.
Well, I mean, they explained it to me.
They explained it to me before I went in.
Okay, good.
But still.
Was Hawkeye even in Infinity War?
No.
He wasn't.
They say that he was...
He and Scott came up with his last name, Ant-Man.
Okay.
So they both sided with Captain America during the Civil War.
And while most of Cap's team just went on the run, Hawkeye and Ant-Man took plea deals
with the government so they could, you know, be with their families, which made Ant-Man
too really fun.
It was just very much a comedy movie.
Good fun.
Okay.
But my joke on Infinity War is like Hawkeye doesn't bring anything to the team except
like he's their heart and that's why they lost Infinity War.
Cool.
All right.
So the Avengers thing didn't pan out.
I'll think of another example before the end of this.
But that does make us, that should make us at least think if we just fall into a convenient
mental trap.
Oh, we definitely, especially when you find things that don't very easily fit.
Yeah.
So my other one I wanted to throw, and it doesn't really fit with like the reproductive
species.
But if we pick the houses or the turtles, I was going to name out like four prominent
rationalists so we could, we could, we could shoehorn them into a turtle costume.
No, no, that doesn't, you can't just pick four random people.
You have to have a team of four already or a group for grouping thing.
Okay.
So it can't be four prominent people.
No, no, no.
Okay.
That's be like a group of four that already exists.
Then I don't have one for rationalists.
Okay.
Okay.
Well, but there's the four horsemen of the new atheists.
Okay.
I'm going to go through that one.
So I would say antagonistic exploitive sounds very much like Hitch.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If we had to pick one, right?
Yeah.
Dawkins is a close second for that.
Right.
Well, not really.
He's not, he's antagonist.
I think people are comparing.
If we find him antagonistic, but he's not by nature.
If we're as Hitch would like to brawl.
He loved the brawl.
Yeah.
So that's a no-brainer.
Creative seductive strategy, that one might be Dawkins or Harris.
Because the obvious pro-social caring is Dennett.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So let's see.
Who's the, who's the creative seductive one?
What turtle did we decide that was?
Michelangelo?
That was, yes.
Hmm.
Let's just see who the skilled provisioning one is then.
That'd probably be Dawkins because he's the one who's done the most in academia.
Well, I mean, Dennett has to, but like Sam Harris wasn't, wasn't that.
I don't think, I don't think he really became quote, quote, became a scientist until after
that.
Yeah.
But the skilled provisioning one, let's see.
You know what?
Absolutely.
Creative seductive is Sam Harris because he's the one who's gone ahead and created his
own podcast and works on his personality as what gets him forward.
And he's cultivating this whole thing.
Yeah.
He's, he's half his, more than half of his income is basically entertainment, right?
Well, he might not put it as entertainment, but it comes from his podcast.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, that's, that's people listening to him because they enjoy listening to that
as opposed to because they need his knowledge or because they need what he can produce with
his hands.
That's right.
Yeah.
Whereas Dennett or Dawkins, you know, produces these great books with his hands and that
pays his bills.
Yeah.
Or, you know, scientific advances.
Yeah.
I'm not sure.
I remember I watched him interview with him where, you know, people asked him what like
science has he done in the like the last few decades and it's like not much.
You know, he did.
I mean, I know he introduced the concept of the selfish gene.
That's true.
Or the meme rather.
Both.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
What have you done lately?
Exactly.
But yeah, but still what he's doing now is, you know, he's, I think he saw writing books.
I haven't.
Yeah.
The last one I read was the greatest show on earth, which was a lot of fun.
Yeah.
Like popularity doesn't matter to him nearly as much.
No, no, I wouldn't, I wouldn't say so because certainly because his life doesn't depend
on it.
Right.
You know, or his livelihood rather.
Yeah.
So absolutely.
If popularity matters to him, he would listen to his friends and told him to shut the fuck
up on Twitter.
Right.
Twitter.
The only way to win is not to play.
Alrighty, so anyways, should we continue with this?
Yeah, please.
Okay.
Um, but let's, uh, let's move on from the whole, you know, are we fix fucking things
up?
I think of everything in fours, which I think we have caveated very significantly and had
some fun with.
Um, if we do look at it that way, though, we start to ask some interesting questions
about what life interventions work because there've been a lot of preschool studies which
have shown repeatedly, uh, over many years and many studies that there is no real, um,
effect on kids intelligence or, or learning their IQ changes are not permanent.
They're, um, improved in skill, great skill level, tapers off after a year or two.
Like no matter how much preschool intervention there is, it never seems to make any academic
difference by the time they get to high school.
However, that sounds really unintuitive to parents who put their kids in expensive preschools.
Right.
But you would think they get a big head start.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, they don't get a head start with the things that they're expecting, but
they get her to start with other stuff.
Right.
Well, yeah, that's the thing.
Even though it doesn't improve their academic performance or, um, IQ scores or test on test
or whatever, uh, it does correlate always to improved life outcomes.
Early preschool tends to have, make people much, uh, stable, better at life later on
in life.
They have more, um, high degrees, I guess, of education, uh, better jobs, less time in
prison, less crime convictions, and the, the doesn't, doesn't really necessarily make
sense because what we're trying to give them more of education, they're not getting and
yet somehow their life improves anyway.
And, um, that doesn't make sense unless we think that what we're actually giving them
is a safe environment in free in preschool, that it wasn't fixing a brain problem, but
it was pushing them into a slower life strategy by having them feel less like a kid.
This is a chaotic, costal world and more like this is a stable, predictable, exploitable
world where I can have the slow life strategy that is generally considered good for society.
And, uh, that is really good in the modern era.
My inner Robin Hansen is just yelling at me saying that's, that's because you're
domesticating them early, your house training them before people think they could be house
trained.
Well, I mean, you know, if you want to call it domestication, call it domestication.
That's what slow life strategy is, right?
Working better with others.
Oh yeah.
I wasn't saying it was necessarily, uh, in challenge, is generally thought of as a bad
thing because you're being made into a patch, right?
I would hope that our discussion with, with Robin on his, uh, on the elephant in the brain
made clear that if, if our discussion didn't, the book does, that it's not a bad thing.
It's, if anything, it's a good thing, you know, you can hold a job and the world makes
that important.
Anyone who's had a desk job knows that it's not our natural state to sit at the desk for
eight hours and stare at a screen, but, um, being able to do so gives you all kinds of
life perks, like being able to, you know, eat and stuff.
So it's sleeping doors.
So, um,
And have heating and air conditioning.
Yeah.
Like I was saying, I wasn't saying that that was necessarily, um, in opposition to those
other points, but that it was just another way to frame it.
You know, this, this, the slower life thing is really weird too, because so I have this
nice place I'm living in, right?
It's well insulated.
It's heated in the winter.
It's cooled in the summer.
It keeps me safe from the elements.
And I see people who literally live in tents outside, you know, and that is a very uncomfortable
life.
You can tell by the time that they're in their fifties, they look like hell.
