Welcome to the Bays in Conspiracy, I'm Ian Ashbrotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber, and it's a lonely night in the recording studio.
Yeah, no jest today.
No jest, no guest.
So it's just us, which I think everyone knows what that means.
So buckle up, this will be one of those tangential episodes where Stephen came up with a topic.
And nothing happens, and we eventually just say, okay, please listen to us again in two weeks.
But we'll try and make some stuff valuable in the middle there.
I wanted to start off this one by, when I was editing the last episode, I got a chance to re-listen to everybody's positions again.
And so I haven't read any of the feedback if anything's come in yet, but I put down a little note here that after some thought,
Stephen's official opinion at the time of recording is that it was wrong to kick Sargon off of Patreon the way that they did it.
If they told him to stop using the N-word and making signed comments about raping people and whatnot, and then he refused, then I think it would be fine.
Jess made the excellent point that this doesn't allow him any room to contest his position in a formal way.
I think David said something like that too, but Jess put it that succinctly, that the way that they did it, they didn't leave him follow these 10 steps and he can be allowed back on the platform.
This was more of just a pull the rug out kind of thing.
Yeah, it was sort of like Tumblr randomly banning all sorts of accounts without warning.
Yeah, and I'm trying to think if I want to stand by this or not.
I think even if it was somebody as despicable as Alex Jones or whatever, you tell them what they're doing wrong and if they don't fix it, then they're kicked off.
And I get where that's still slippery, you know, hey, you've got to buy our books and drink our Kool-Aid and come to our church and we'll let you stay on the platform.
It's a slippery slope, but I do think that, look man, we asked you to stop threatening this woman with rape.
If you don't stop it, we're going to kick you off, right?
I think at that point, it's much more defensible.
So my new position is that this case was handled poorly and I think that there's ground there to be discussed for setting up tenants for like, here's the Terms of Service for our platform, right?
You know, Sam Harris pointed out at some point that, in fact, there was a tweet from the CEO of Twitter saying thanks Sam, it was good recording with you or something.
So there's going to be an episode coming out with him and I hope they bring this up. If they don't, I'm going to be pissed.
But you know, whenever Trump was threatening North Korea with like, well, we'll rain down Armageddon or something on you,
Harris was like, doesn't that violate Twitter's Terms of Service?
Because it does.
Yes, it technically does.
It technically does in a way that like isn't just me saying that.
If it was me, that would also violate Terms of Service, but I can't actually rain Armageddon down upon North Korea.
But Trump, in theory, could. So, yeah.
I get why there's all kinds of great reasons not to ban him from Twitter.
Actually, I don't think there's any great reasons to let him keep Twitter. He should have been kicked off Twitter a long time ago, but-
censorship?
Just for being stupid.
Do you see a tweet from today?
No, what do you say now?
All right, I'll dig it up.
But I was going to say, at this point, Twitter is basically a public platform.
And like, especially if the president is just using it to randomly air his opinions.
I mean, that really kind of demonstrates how much this is just a platform for people to say what they want.
And it's, if Twitter does go in and start really gatekeeping and gardening their area, then that's great.
But that would be a radical change of what was, and that would make Twitter not the platform that it has pretended to be for a long time.
Totally.
And yeah, it's interesting.
I mean, it can be run like a private forum, or it can be run like an open platform, but having like this halfway thing, we're like,
oh yeah, we're an open platform for everyone, except for the people that we disagree with is, in my opinion, total bullshit.
I think that's fair.
You know, by all means, you know, that's my thing with like Facebook.
If Facebook had a downvote button, I'd probably still be on Facebook, you know, because like, at least on Reddit,
and there's definitely a hive mind and stuff depends on the on the subreddit and stuff.
But like, somebody goes on there and says some crazy shit, you know, they get downvoted, and if you set your settings right, you don't even see it.
Or you open up the comment with negative 600 downvotes and give them another one because they said something terrible, right?
Anyway, speaking of people using Twitter to say something stupid, quote,
be careful and try staying in your house.
Large parts of the country, capital C for some reason,
are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold.
Amazing how big the system is.
Wouldn't be bad to have a little of that old fashioned global warming right now.
Speaketh the president this morning.
So yeah, being kicked off or being stupid, I think they'd lose a lot of people, but...
Like destroy their entire business model.
But you can curtail your own experience on there.
Well, the best way to curate your experience on Twitter?
Not go on Twitter.
Yeah, that's probably a safe way to do it.
I was talking with a lunch with Matt Freeman this week, and he had said that he's in just an effort to make his online experience happier.
If you see something, he's made a...
He's resolved to...
If he sees something on there, on any social media thing that makes him unhappy or outraged, he just stops following it.
Even if they often provide good stuff, he's like, no, I'm just done. Whatever.
And that's not the worst way to do it.
If all you're doing is following Neil DeGrasse Tyson from Ripping Apart Movies with How Bad Their Science is,
or whatever your motivational We Rate Dogs Twitter, which if you're not familiar with, everyone should be aware of...
They're all good boys.
Yes, they are.
They're good dogs, brunt.
But...
Yeah, I mean...
Anyway, that's my thought on the Patreon episode, the censorship one.
Yeah.
Anyway, we have a topic for today.
We do have a topic for today, sort of.
Yes.
Yeah, we didn't ever quite get to the end of the whole evolutionary psychopathology slash albion seed thing that we did like two or three episodes ago now.
And we did want to finish that up.
So I figured we would go ahead and do that today in addition to our bless wrong and feedbacks and other things.
Cool.
Okay.
So as a quick refresher, if...
And boy, did we get some comments on that last episode, but we'll get to that later.
Oh, the Patreon one?
No, no, no, the albion seed one.
Oh, okay, cool.
Yeah.
But as a quick refresher, it seemed...
And the argument was that the four original settlers, settling groups in America, had four very different cultures that they came from, which seemed to influence not only their life outcomes, but also their strategies for living lives.
God, that sounds really obvious when you put it that way.
Well, but it's worth spelling out.
Okay.
The other thing that really struck me with reading these was just the graphs of how that continues to influence the attitudes of the region now, like county by county breakdowns.
You would think that's enough time for stuff to happen and things are less isolated than they used to be, but there's still like remarkable tendencies to keep with that trend.
So that's really interesting.
Yeah, but the position was that they tended to sort into two types of general life strategies, ones of living fast, mating young, and ones of living slower and mating older.
Live fast and die hard.
Exactly.
And, well, I'm just going to go ahead and read this next part.
Okay.
So this is a stated, a proposed mechanism for how that sort of thing might evolve come about.
Yeah.
Okay, so here's a proposed mechanism for how that thing would work.
It says an epigenetic mechanism looks around quote unquote, which of course doesn't actually mean looks around, but in the same way that like when you're in the womb, you get a feel for the environment based on how stressed the mother is and how much food you get, that sort of thing.
Your genes and whatever hormones that are impacting your development notice the environment in a non sentient way.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So epigenetic mechanism looks around quote unquote at the world during the first few years of life to try to figure out if you're living in the sort of unpredictable dangerous environment that needs a fast strategy or the sort of safe masterful environment that needs a slow strategy.
Depending on your genetic predisposition and the observable features of the environment, this mechanism makes a decision quote to lock you into a faster or slower strategy, setting your personality traits more towards one side or the other.
And then they gave a breakdown of the foremost common ways to the foremost common ways to interact with your environment.
So just just to pause there that that thesis isn't that controversial.
Not at all.
I don't think so either.
Genetics has a bunch of woo around it.
But, you know, look, if you eat the right foods, you can change genetics or whatever is the about as dumb as it gets.
But the idea that, you know, people who with, you know, mothers that were in starving situations during pregnancy, those children have different life outcomes and different biology than children who were not malnourished as feti fetuses.
Fetis is more fun to say.
Okay.
But I'm pretty sure it's fetuses.
Yeah.
So yeah, I'm with you so far.
You can lose me here.
All right.
So the four basic strategies that are laid out are the antagonistic slash exploitative strategy, a fast strategy that focuses on getting ahead by defecting against other people, because it expects a short and noisy life without the kinds of predictable iterated games that build reciprocity.
It throws all this away and focuses on getting ahead quick.
And these are the kinds of, you know, lie, cheat and steal sort of people that will burn the commons and burn their friendships in in efforts to just go.
Yeah, or only phone form friendships for, you know, the purposes of getting more whatever they need before they move on to the next town to scam, right?
Yeah, exactly.
I think it might be worth stopping here really quick just to point out that none of this is like morally expulatory or morally none of this is none of this is about the ethics involved.
Right.
You know, this isn't saying, oh, look, their mom was hungry to now their assholes and that makes it okay.
This is just, you know, biology.
Yeah.
You know, so like, yeah, you might have problems that came from things outside your control, but that doesn't make them like not problems.
And also it's not, I mean, yes, we generally don't want people to act like this, but it's totally understandable too in ways like if you are growing up in a hostile environment where everybody hates you and they're not going to give you a break.
Sometimes the best thing you can do is be like, fuck all of you, fuck the system.
I'm going to get what I can because you hate me and want me to die anyway.
Right.
And especially if you take it from the gene centric point of view, right?
Where, you know, your genes that make your brain aren't really caring that like, you know, they don't have this inner Gandhi that they're trying to suppress.
They just don't build one.
You know, if you're, if you're born in a war, ravaged country and, you know, under the under the heel of some whatever dictatorship, then like, yeah, you're going to do what you need to do.
And it could be the most, you know, arguably the morally best thing for you to do to, you know, supplant the system and get the fuck out of there.
Right.
Yeah.
Like the gay Jewish kid living in a Nazi society, be like, you know, take everything you can burn the place down and run because fuck all of them.
Yeah.
Anyways, that is, that is one.
Next one is the creative slash seductive strategy, a fast strategy that focuses on getting ahead through sexual selection, i.e. optimizing for being really sexy.
Sign me up.
Because it expects a short and noisy life, it focuses on raw sex appeal, which peaks in the late teens and early 20s, as opposed to things like social status or ability to care for children, which peaks later.
Not much to dissect there other than like, you know, I guess we can think of examples, maybe of people, you know, with this, this wouldn't be necessarily every couple who has kids, you know, at 19 or something, but certainly maybe is this referring to like the jocks?
I don't think it is actually, like, I felt mildly called out by the fact that creative is in that title.
I'm like, oh, I see, like the rock stars, because the rock stars generally get laid a lot and then like look like hell by the time they get in their 40s.
Okay, I could follow that.
And yeah, but and I was like, poets and artists, I guess, yeah, yeah, they're all just trying to get laid, aren't they?
I mean, like, that's the thing about poets.
I guess everyone's trying to get laid.
But that's like the thing about people who are in theater, right?
You look at their life and you're like, man, that's awesome life.
I would want that.
But then you find out they're basically living in complete poverty and have nothing going for them in their lives, except they're all super hot and fucking a lot.
We were, I was watching old SNL episodes last night, and we started with season one, episode one, which opens the George Carlin or rather opens with a bit with John Belushi.
I forget.
He was around for SNL forever.
But then Carlin was the first host, which I like plugging because I've been a Carlin fan for like 15 years.
But just I want to, this is, he told you this would be full of tangents.
The culture, I think it would have been, I didn't watch Saturday Night Live growing up.
And I think it would have been really fun to have because you really get the pulse of that sector of society once a week.
You've seen a few head full of episodes maybe at some point.
Of Saturday Night Live?
Yeah, I used to watch it a lot.
Yeah, so it's just like, if you're into the, especially the comedy industry, everybody who's anybody's been through this, through this workshop, right?
And I remember like, you know, Chris Pratt famously lived in a van and he moved to LA and stuff.
And he was apparently also always a wholesome dude.
But like you said, full on poverty, probably still getting laid because he's Chris Pratt.
But at least I certainly hope so.
But I guess I had, I was at a couple drinks last night, so a lot of my thoughts were somewhat disjointed and not that easy to recall.
But I remember when Rachel and I went, or when she was getting her master's in New York and I went and visited, we went to a place in Times Square called like the Starlight Cafe, which was a complete nightmare.
Okay.
It was really funny.
It was like, it was this diner and everyone was like in themed costume, you know, someone like, I think our waitress was dressed like Marilyn Monroe or something and everybody was like singing and, you know, even like we were in line for like the Empire State Building to go to the top.
And this guy was singing One Direction song really well.
But, you know, Rachel and I were after we left the Starlight Cafe, I kind of looked at it and I was like, you know, I think everybody here who's like doing stuff to get noticed is trying to quote get discovered.
Right.
You know, so they're here doing this grungy shit, you know, working for, you know, seven bucks an hour in a diner in New York City.
And they're just waiting for somebody, some talent agent to come along and notice them.
Right.
So yeah, the, I guess the reason I brought that up.
Well, I can draw it back to the article.
What about that strategy is fast.
