He basically does exactly what you just said he gives it an extra dimension and then these things sort of get get resolved right, but I wonder if we could do something with that because what he what he doesn't address is the frequency or frame rate of that
oscillation you just sort of does a tick, you know the logical tick you know one per whatever. But I wonder if there's also if we could if we could make it a little more complicated by giving it a frequency to that to that oscillation.
Yeah, so that's what it that's connects with the inner alignment paper that you were reading this weekend Mike right that the extra dimension that there's the incompatible states can't resolve their tension that incompatibility incompatibility is
allowed to resolve by changing their phase. And then by when they can change their phase then they can then they can get their states coordinated.
But at the moment, all of the units have the same frequency so they're there just wrote there's only one extra dimension as it were. But the thing about moving it into the frequency domain is that you could you could say well, like in the
guitar string I'll add an extra dimension. Oh, that's not enough either it's more complicated than that it's still tied it and not it's still making singularity I'll add another dimension I'll add another dimension. And that feels a little bit
I'm conscious that we're being recorded. So, instead, when you do it in the in time, you have this. Well, I'll move it up an octave, I'll move it up another octave I'll move it up another octave and the the frequencies in between.
Can't see each other right they just sort of they just sort of invisible to each other one wave and another wave of unrelated, not in a harmonic relationship just cancel out as often as they add up and they don't have any effect on each other.
So you can have multiple things going on. I was going to say at the same time, multiple things going on at the same time but all the different frequencies that are that enable you to have sort of multiple dimensions going on, which seem like they're orthogonal to each
when you get to the frequency that's a harmonic again and then they connect up again.
So what so I wonder what would happen I mean this would be easy enough to try.
You know Patrick's got these, these two sentences that refer to each other right like sentence a is false and sentence B is 0.5, you know 0.57% true, something like that and they just sort of make these crazy fractals, but I wonder if the two if we can set the two sides to
have different frequencies.
And what you would then get right because I think it's as I recall in his in his work, the assumption is that everybody goes together, you know all the, all the truth values are updated simultaneously but I wonder what happens if that's not true.
And I wonder what I wonder if we can make a more careful link between this kind of like like dynamical systems kind of approach that we're talking about now, and the logic.
And then go a little bit further to say it's not just that they have a freak it's not just that they're not static they have a frequency it's not just that they have different frequencies, but that they're the resolution of the statements is the phase locking
frequency so that frequency adjust and change to one another right that's the, that's the collapsing back down for the lower dimensional one so you end up if it, if it resolves you end up with one oscillation which is the fundamental frequency and if it doesn't resolve, then you end up with something
that's not one dimensional.
So that makes I mean that that is kind of amazing it makes a really direct very minimal system sort of link between these things and really high level cognition right logic and these kinds of things and, and maybe these paradoxes do have a resolution.
You know, they, they, right, if, if, if you play with the frequencies, then maybe, maybe there is actually a stable, you know, fact, fact of the matter about what the what the truth value should be it's sort of, you know, you can come to a stable, a stable decision on that.
Yeah.
We should we should play with that I think.
I'm looking forward to meeting you in a couple of weeks Chris. Yeah, that'll be very cool.
Very cool.
Okay.
Good. Yeah, I've, yeah, plenty of plenty of stuff for next time so I think we're.
I'll send around this, I'll send around this link to to Grimm's work.
Yeah, that would be interesting. I think there's really something there.
It sounds like the sort of question that's been explored in theories of concurrent processes that run at different rates but that need to talk to each other now and then.
And you know, you know, you want to minimize things like waiting time between processes and so forth.
Interesting. I mean it kind of also relates to I don't know Chris I don't remember if I've told you this but about all this stuff but but the thing that we've been playing with with these sorting algorithms.
Right entered your last time you made the really important point that if they're running at different efficiency rates than that could explain some of the stuff we're seeing, we've been exploring that.
So, so what we do is we mix, we have these, we're investigating these sort of immersion properties of sorting algorithms and we sort of we sort of make these chimeric systems where two different algorithms are at play simultaneously and, and they do have some somewhat
different rates at which they go, but they're not that different like we check that now and we really paid some attention so I'll send you some, some updates on this.
You know, they have a little bit of difference but it's not that much difference.
Even the insertion operator that needs to go all the way along the list until it finds its place runs in the same time as the bubble sorted only within.
So, so what we've done is we now I mean as you correctly pointed out we were only looking at one side of the we were only counting the one side of the.
We were only counting the moves we weren't counting the reads right so so now we do that.
Yeah, there are differences but they're all within two acts of each other like like they're not, yeah, yeah, I'll, I'll send you data that they're not they're not farther than two fold, and it doesn't.
It looks like the difference between them doesn't correlate with respect to speed doesn't correlate with any differences and how they actually segregate.
So that's, you know, we're still, we're still looking at that but it doesn't it doesn't look like that explains it.
But anyway, yeah this but this I think I think I'll think more about this I think we should get back to this this issue this different rating is critical.
