If you have two waves meeting each other, same frequency, so they both happily live on that string, but they meet each other out of phase.
It produces a kink in the string, which shall we say the string doesn't like.
It's a high energy local configuration in the string that is going to produce some pushback on those waves.
And the effect of that is that the string is going to move out of the plane and into another, into the rotate those waves in another direction so that they can move past each other on the string.
In fact, this isn't really just a kink that occurs in one place because both waves are all over the string and they're creating that kink all over the string and it's actually making a spiral wave that's going up and down the string instead.
And in the process, the one wave that was out of phase rotates around until it's in phase with the other wave so that instead of canceling each other out, the energy from both waves is resolved on the string.
Do you buy that story for a start?
Do you see the relevance of it?
Well, it's certainly relevant in that the story about exact cancellation, etc., is for an idealized one-dimensional string.
Whereas, you know, you're talking about something with a real cross-section and elasticity in this torquing direction that's finite, not infinite, and not zero.
I mean, in the idealized case, even if you make the string a little bit two-dimensional, it remains ideal or close to ideal if it has zero twist.
So what you've constructed is a very much more complicated reference frame that is able to detect a very different range of frequencies because, in a sense,
whereas the idealized string would detect kind of a delta function here, a delta function here, a delta function here, this string is detecting a big broad distribution that's created by these physical, finite physical degrees of freedom of the string.
So your string is not only moving in two dimensions, it's moving fully in three dimensions, and it has this extra twisting degree of freedom that an idealized string wouldn't have.
Right.
So I don't know anything about guitar strings, but to the extent that they're sort of finite physical objects with all these extra degrees of freedom and, yeah, finite physical objects don't like even the appearance of singularities and they're going to do something to prevent anything going to infinity.
Yeah.
So I think that that's, when we think about the set of the energies on a string when it's percussed, it's probably a slightly better example than when it's plucked.
And how it seems to me that the string, I don't know, I don't want to make this too much about what actually happens on strings, but it seems to me that the energies in those frequencies are not just filtered to find only the frequencies that are natural harmonics of the string,
but they're actually converted through rotations of one wave in interaction with another into the fundamental frequency in its harmonics.
Well, I think, in a sense, a better way to say it is that in a physical string, the idea of fundamental frequencies and harmonics are approximations, which have these distributions around them within which a lot can happen.
But it looks more like a quantum device than a classical device, in a sense, because you can model that possibly as a, not as a distribution of discrete excitations within this Gaussian envelope, but rather some sort of superposition within the Gaussian envelope.
So it would look like a superposition if you were, if you believed it was, or you were measuring it only in that one dimensional up and down space, right?
Right.
But when you know that in fact that there are other dimensions in which it can move, then it become non weird again.
Right.
And it's not just that the filtering is sloppy, right?
It's not just that the fundamental frequency and some frequencies near to it will live on the string.
Yeah, I mean, if it was perfectly one dimensional, it would look like a sloppy filter.
But as you're pointing out, the thing can also vibrate in this plane.
And it can also actually vibrate in all of these planes too, because you have this twisting degree of freedom.
So the reason that I mentioned that is because I think about something that looks like it's an ordinary oscillator, an ordinary one dimensional oscillator.
And it looks like I know what the frequency of it is because I've tuned my laser beam to the right frequency of its oscillations and I've made it look stationary.
And then when I start poking it, it starts, it appears to move discreetly from one frequency to another without visiting the frequencies in between.
But really, that's because it's squirming around in a high dimensional space that I wasn't that I wasn't visible in my stroke.
I think I think this story really does generalize very well.
And would certainly expect it to generalize to the sorts of measuring devices that evolved systems naturally have or evolved measuring devices.
Which are not approximate, you know, they're not the approximations that we described them as.
They are things with more degrees of freedom than we've probably measured.
The best thing to know a guitar string with to to observe a guitar string with is another guitar string at the same length.
That's that would be able to pick up all of the goings on that are in the first guitar string and anything that isn't that anything that just measures frequency F1 and frequency F2 or a frequency spectrum is not doesn't have the same ability to.
I'm tempted to say model what's going on in the string, but it's really just a matter of synchronizing of getting in phase with of resonating to what's going on in the string.
And that's it. If you if you were to try and measure a guitar string with another guitar string that was just the same.
You would find that you weren't just observing it anymore, because the observing guitar string would also be producing vibrations that the first guitar string would pick up on and then they become coupled system and not just an observer and a system.
Yeah. Yeah. And well, this this circles all the way around to the very first thing we talked about, which is that if one models the observer is a physical system, then one's always dealing with a coupled system.
Yeah.
Right.
The one can no longer idealize the observer.
Yeah.
And I mean, this is this is kind of a hobby horse for me, but you know, we also inherited from classical physics, this idea of.
Well, two ideas. I mean, one of them was that I can interact specifically with with one physical system without touching anything else, which clearly requires infinite energy.
I have to hold the entire rest of the universe at bay so that I can interact with my one thing without touching anything else.
And the observer is also considered passive so the the back reaction of the observer on the thing is is assumed to be zero. Yes.
And, you know, quantum theory basically throws both of those out the window as it should because they're both unrealistic assumptions.
Right.
So they're so you can get good approximations to that.
I'm thinking if the resonant frequencies of the observer and the object are very different from each other and not harmonically related to one another.
And so like the air molecules and the dust molecule, the and the dust particle, they're very, very different in scale.
And so you can treat them as though, you know, one of them is sort of inert and the other one is sort of bouncing off it, right.
But that means that you that you don't really know it that well when you're observing it with a frequency that's very different from what's really going on.
And in order to know it better, you have to get closer to the same frequencies and the same harmonics in order to be more sensitive.
And as you do that, you become more and more part of the system.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's that's a very good way to say it.
Cool.
How are we doing?
You end up, you end up observing an incredible course of graining along one or two dimensions of interest that you pick.
Yeah.
That's not far from saying you can only really see reflections of yourself.
Yeah, which is not far from saying you can only see the things that you're specifically equipped to be able to see.
Which is the things which are exactly like you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that makes sense then of when we think about
when we think about objects, you know, at everyday physical scales.
It seems like they are not doing anything weird and it seems like we can observe them in a way which doesn't alter anything else or interact with them in a way that doesn't alter anything else and that we're passive observers that are not part of the system.
But it's not like that when one person meets another person.
Why not?
Because the natural frequencies within that person are like the natural frequencies which are in the observer.
You can't find out anything about a person without it altering you.
And you can't, you can't make a person do something in a way that doesn't alter all of their social relationships or holds everything else constant.
Yeah, that's good.
How are we doing Mike?
Yeah, good.
I've been taking a couple of things if I can get into it or we can keep going with what you've been doing.
Well, there's this one more thing I'd like to try on you if that's okay, Chris.
Hmm.
When two oscillators phase lock in a harmonic relationship like a two to one ratio.
Hang on. Let's start with them being the same frequency first. It's clear that although they are locked to each other, neither one of them is in control.
It's not metronome controlling the period of metronome B or vice versa that they are a coupled system that has one phase together.
And that's true even when you have a two to one relationship between the oscillators.
It's not the case that the fast one determines the two beats of the fast one content determines the wavelength of the long one or the wavelength along one forces the two beats of the little one to fit inside it right.
In the same way we can think of those as it's just a coupled system they co define the phase of each other.
Yeah, you know, I mean all this is up to assumptions about how they're coupled together but
in some in some straightforward way that's true.
All right.
So, if we extend that from instead of just a two to one relationship to a very small scale to the very large scale but still phase locked.
Then the slow scale things would look almost stationary as though they were just structural.
And the fast scale things would look like behaviors.
And then if we look really tiny down down at the fine scale behaviors, they would look like they were in control, should we say, and that 1000 oscillations of this one defines the wavelength of that one.
That wouldn't be 1000 2024.
And we would be able to look at this system from a in a bottom up way about why is the wavelength of this thing 1000 you know the wavelength that it is well because it's a period doubling thing going on from the bottom.
And we would also be able to look at it the other way around and say well why are the frequencies on this guitar spring the way that they are there because of the length of the string, right that the macro scale properties determining the micro scale properties.
It would also be true that in addition to that top to bottom and bottom to top causal communication that there's stronger communication between an oscillator at a given frequency and another oscillator at a given frequency nearby right there's.
I'm imagining now to sort of stacks of oscillators.
So each one has this bottom to top and top to bottom communication in determining why is this particular molecule in this particular position can be described at the micro scale but also the macro scale.
There's a under determination depending on which direction you're going but it's not a zero determination.
And then there's also a communication between this particular frequency in this stack and that same frequency in another stack.
So that there's a, I guess I'm trying to circle back around to error correcting codes.
So the particular frequencies that can live with one another at one particular scale.
In this quantum Darwinism way or perhaps in a transformational way that's less selectionist prescribe a language of what frequencies are able to live harmoniously with one another at that scale.
But they are also have to be contained within a structure that's given by the scale above that's that's a lower frequency thing that's changing more slowly.
And they have to be consistent with the higher frequency components of which they are made they have to fit into them as well.
So you have a discreetness a quantization which is given by the harmonics which will fit at any scale, plus you have these changes in scale from the very small to the very large.
And in many physical systems, like a rock.
It's as though the, it's as though lots of the middle scales are missing that there's, you know, there's the molecule there's the atoms inside the rock and there's the rock, or there's the atoms inside the billiard ball and there's the billiard ball.
But there isn't any meso scale, dynamical structure that's making good connections between the fast vibrations in the small and the slow vibrations structure.
So, to us, they're just inanimate objects.
You know, a billiard ball is a billiard ball to other billiard balls and what are they made of a ceramic molecule is a ceramic molecule to another ceramic molecule but those two scales can't see each other.
They don't communicate with one another dynamically in an interesting way.
But organisms are different precisely because all of the scales in between are also
What about them?
They're active, they're labile, they are harmonically connected, so that they see each other from one scale to the next.
You know, the scales that are very many octaves away don't see each other very clearly, they only interact with one another every thousand revolutions, or every thousandth of a revolution, but they're still connected.
And that's what makes them organic rather than inanimate.
And my question is, how do you like that?
Well, the constraining behavior in living systems is certainly more interesting than the constraining behavior in, for example, billiard balls.
I'm not sure that you can say that there's nothing going on at the intermediate scale.
Right, you have these intermediate scale properties like elasticity that are important in thinking about something like a billiard ball.
They don't have any correction at those intermediate levels though, right?
Well, there's error correction in one sense in that there's at least approximate isotropy of the elasticity across the spherical structure.
I mean, the ball would behave very differently if it's elasticity and along the x direction was in order of magnitude different from the elasticity along the y direction.
Right, and one could think about trying to make such a thing, but it wouldn't work like a billiard ball.
You know, actually, that's funny.
You know, the stuff we did on the Pfizer arm that tries to detect where the bigger masses are, and it sort of tugs on the medium all the time and reads back the strain angle.
We made as part of that paper, we made a medium that goes in lines of differing stiffness this way versus perpendicular to the thing, you know, to try and so I mean that's just your anisotropy reminded me of that.
I want to do Faraday worms on that medium mic.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's really not hard because all you do is we what we basically did was this is a neurosis of this work where she basically just made agarose gels of different percentages.
So some are very floppy and some are quite stiff, and then she laid them out in strips, but you know perpendicular versus parallel to the line between the Pfizer arm and the masses.
Yeah, yeah, but but you know, it's just two things just listening to this about the kind of the mesoscale error correction, like Robert Batterman stuff and I don't know it super well but but I've talked to him a number of times and it's really interesting about these kind of
mesoscale properties of he studies metals and concrete and then and things like that right outside as far as how they dissipate.
And how do they react to different kinds of forces and strains and all that. I mean, isn't fundamentally part of the issue about error correction is that error itself has to be defined by an observer.
It might be the material itself but like we think about you know what's in our case we think about what's a developmental error. Right so chemistry doesn't make mistakes chemistry just does what chemistry does but development.
We can say makes an error but even that subtle because certain morphogenetic changes are a birth defect for one species but they're a perfectly good shape for a different species.
You know, tadpole tails that look like a different species of frog and so for zenith the slave is that's a that's a birth defect but actually for another species perfectly good tail.
So, so what do we think about that at the at the mesoscale right these the idea that in order in order to have error, there has to be an expectation with respect to which things didn't go right or something like that.
I think that's exactly right. I mean I think you, you, you can only define error or noise or any of these other kinds of properties with respect to some specific observer or even some specific detector or reference frame that that observer is equipped with.
But it's sort of one step more than the detector right because being able to measure it as one thing but actually having an expectation of what you were going to get is yet on top of that right.
Yeah, that's that's why I use the term reference frame since there's always kind of an expectation built into that idea.
Well, this is semantic notion.
I do that there is only harmony.
So there is only whether or not this frequency sits well with this other frequency or not.
So the way that you can so the error correction at multiple scales shouldn't be interpreted as that's how you get this macro scale structure with all of this fine resolution exactly so right as though it was a blueprint from the beginning.
Instead the error correction at every scale has this
under determination right that there's two ways in which frequency one can lock with frequency to
and that in between is wrong in so much that it's a high energy stress state and it's not phase locked but the two ways of doing it are both equally good.
Except in the broader context that one way of doing it fits well with this other thing that was doing it the same way in this other way of doing it doesn't fit well with this other way of doing it the same thing.
Same way and that's those the the nothing is right or wrong except in so much as it fits well with another thing of a similar kind right.
So, so one, one question about that that I would have is Chris said something very interesting earlier on we said that physical things don't like singularities, and they try to avoid it.
So, I wonder if that determines a kind of the singularities and then right right is it is it possible that that sort of thing determines an objective, an objective sort of level of wrongness like definitely you want to avoid that whatever
and all these other things maybe you know equal but but you definitely want to avoid that and I wonder, and so there's that and then the related question I wanted to ask which is, is this deeply or superficially or not at all similar to the idea of trying to avoid inconsistencies in cognitive systems or logical
right, like, is that similar the fact that I mean you know kind of a singularity, so to speak and you know if you if you yeah yeah if you bump into a into a real contradiction then you've got problems somewhere it has to you know so something has to give somewhere.
So, those are those two things related at all to me they seem related.
Yeah, they do seem related. I guess I would say that physical physical systems avoid singularities, because they.
They don't have the energetic resources to actually go to the singular point.
So they, they do something else, right, they as the as the strain as the strain starts to go to infinity the thing breaks or bends or something like that that the strain never makes it to infinity because that would take way too much energy.
So that's interesting and I wonder, I mean maybe Carl person would say this is obvious but it just that sounds like, if you've got two things that seem incompatible some sort of cognitive paradox, you just don't have the effort to really dig in and figure out what's going on you sort of give up because it would take too much.
Right you avoid it let's let's put it this way you know you avoid it because you don't have the energy to really get to get down to what what what this implies for the rest of your cognitive structure and all that.
Something like that. Yeah, that that that seems very likely.
Because it may turn out that it's not a paradox after all and something else that you thought was was perfectly okay is what's paradoxical.
That's, that's only like saying, you know, the, the class X or is paradoxical because I can't draw a linear boundary that separates them.
And when I if I'm willing to push out into an extra dimension, well then I can place a planar boundary between them.
And, and you need a higher dimensional conceptual space in order to be able to accommodate all the facts that you have without them contradicting each other.
But if you go to two higher dimensional space than anything is possible.
Now and now and now all factors are compatible because, you know, one is zero on a Tuesday and zero was one on a Wednesday and you know that anything is anything is possible if I add enough dimensions.
So when that when you when the guitar string finds a contradiction that produces a singularity, it causes the guitar string to push out into the third into the extra dimension to enable those things to live with each other simultaneously to coexist.
They can be orthogonal to each other.
And if they rotate around, they turns out, oh shit, it turns out that was actually the same frequency it was just in the wrong phase I just turn it around. And now the string can snap back into a one dimensional oscillation and the conflict is resolved.
But some combinations of frequencies won't do that the minimum space in which they can live is still a high dimensional space.
And, you know, what can you do with that. That's just, that's just what it is. There isn't there isn't a simplified model to make sense of that.
You get something that doesn't sound very nice.
Yeah, because I was just cordoned.
This is interesting right it's it's like I mean part part of it is I think just the the active inference like a free energy minimization stuff right where you're trying to make a coherent picture of the world, because it's more costly to to not to have one that's full of
a disparate, you know, but but but putting that together with with what you just said, which is so so this this this ability to push into a new, you know, kind of dimension in order to accommodate these things right as a new way to, you know, on the
one hand that's costly to do. On the other hand, you gain because it simplifies a bunch of other stuff.
But when you as you push into the higher dimensions.
It's that I don't think that that in itself is simplifying.
Because in the limit you can push into a higher number of dimensions where you just memorize everything and you haven't simplified anything, but you do allow things to at least coexist, whilst they're in that high dimensional space.
But if they are compatible, then they can rotate they can be rotated around so that they then collapse back down into a lower dimensional space, which is what I think you're doing when you do logic resolution.
And
and then you know they're not liking the the the idea of a logical contradiction is only possible in the non physical system of logic because
because they don't bend right when when you try to put true equals false, neither of them give way when they're logical symbols.
But whenever they are a physical system representing true and false and you smush them together, they give way they bend.
So this and I know I probably bring this up every single time but but this this ties to something that some some work by Patrick Grimm from from the 90s which I absolutely love, where he what he did was he looked at these logical contradictions so so so
and the way he allowed them to bend is in time so what he would do is he would say, well none of these have a have a fixed truth value what happens to the sentences is that it can it can oscillate so basically the this sentence is false thing just becomes a, you know, an up
so he stretches the whole thing in time, and then he draws them as fractals. So what happens because because one because it's, you know, you can you can block them as a as a deterministic chaos kind of thing.
And so, so what he has is he has these back I can send this around.
Visualizations of either single or double various paradoxical and self referential sentences, where they actually do have a structure and in this higher space where you don't just try to say, Well it's only got the one thing and therefore we can't handle it because we can't decide
which it is. It's he says no there's a there's actually a, you know, if you let it oscillate through time then it's perfectly compatible you just have a dynamic structure.
