On my mind is, in relation to barocryptin codes, I guess one might say how seriously could one take
the idea of quanta and quantum states into macroscopic scales?
I think you can take it at least to the scale of gigantic black holes bigger than the solar system.
Does that figure that out?
No, you've overshot a bit there.
Does that cover it, Richard?
No, it doesn't.
Okay, good. I'd like to talk about some scales in between.
Well, no, more seriously, there's this mythology of decoherence that magically happens at whatever the boundary is
between the system and its environment.
But, of course, decoherence is supposed to be an objective physical process and the boundary between the system and the environment is drawn by us.
So the question of how an objective physical process knows to execute decoherence at the exactly the boundary that we have drawn is studiously ignored in the physics literature.
The physics literature around environmental decoherence, or that part of the physics literature around environmental decoherence that treats it as objective.
And if it's not objective, then you have to talk about observer relative quantum states.
Okay, I would like to spend the next hour for me to try and understand a little bit of what you just said.
That would suit me very well, but I don't know what else you had on your agenda.
Perfect, let's start with that.
Or yours, Chris, of course.
Well, actually, we're going to get to meet in LA in about a week and a half.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm looking at actually in person.
Yeah.
So can I try saying back to you what you just said and see how much of it I failed to get.
So environmental decoherence, you might need to expand a little bit on what that means, you said that if the boundary between a system and its environment is something that we ascribed as an observer.
Then the object or system doesn't really know where that boundary is or when that boundary has been violated.
The idea that decoherence is a physical phenomenon rather than something that we project onto it doesn't make sense.
Yeah, that's really right.
So an object could have coherence or be subject to decoherence only to another object that sees it at that creates
a system of object and boundary and object environment and boundary, right?
Right.
So if if I was a quantum object, then I could see you as a quantum object.
And then you would really be an object and have an environment and you would do all weird quantum things.
But if I'm not a quantum object, if I'm just some sort of word platonic comes to mind, but I don't know if that's the right word really observer, then the whole conceptual framework doesn't make sense.
Right.
The conceptual framework only makes sense.
If you treat all observers as physical systems.
Which everyone who talks about decoherence at least claims to be doing.
But they're not.
But well, in classical physics, the observer is basically treated as a God.
Yeah.
Who adopts some view from nowhere that's completely outside of everything being described.
And that tradition, unfortunately, was carried over into quantum theory at the very beginning.
And so the theory was not applied on principle to the observer, which was, which was treated. Yeah, as basically a God or a platonic entity or whatever you want to call it.
A bundle of consciousness somewhere.
And so, if one takes that view, then one has to do one of two things.
One either has to and and one one wants to explain the fact that these observers receive classical data.
Then one has to do one of two things either modify quantum theory in some way that makes collapse of the wave function or reduction of the quantum state or whatever you want to call it.
An objective observer independent process with its own physics, whatever that may be.
Or one has to claim that the environment of the system, which is in some ontological sense distinct from the system interacts with the system.
And this interaction removes quantum coherence in the system effectively by transferring it to the environment.
So, this theory was worked out in the 70s by Zay and Zurich.
And the most careful formulation is due to Zurich. He models the interaction at the border between the system and the environment.
And on the assumption that the environment is large, and that assumption is essentially always made with respect to the system.
So, let's just write down the interaction between system and environment in the natural coordinate system for describing the environment.
And again, that's a bit of a fudge because what counts as natural is from the point of view of this platonic observer.
But if you write it down in that coordinate system, which is typically a position coordinate system, for example.
Then the interaction between the system and the environment automatically puts the system into an eigenstated position.
Because the Hamiltonian that's described at the boundary is in position coordinates.
And it's the boundary that ends up encoding the classical state of the system and effectively serving as a communication channel between the system and the observer.
And this is a theoretical structure that ended up being called quantum Darwinism.
Because it is based on the idea that the environment will encode multiple copies of the information that's in its natural coordinate system.
And values of the interaction that are not in that coordinate system will interfere and dissipate.
So the key assumption here is that the system and the environment are in some sense, ontically distinct.
And that assumption is an assumption from classical physics. It says there's a classical boundary that separates them.
Okay, okay, okay, hold on a second.
So, did you just say
the environment has a constitutes a frame of reference of some kind a coordinate system.
And there are multiple kinds, multiple states or kinds of information that can exist in that coordinate system and the ones that don't exist naturally in that coordinate system dissipate and don't exist.
Right.
It's not observable by an observer who's looking at the environment as a bulk.
Right.
So, I need to do things
in a simple way, because I don't know the quantum physics or the maths.
I wonder if you would indulge me in helping me understand how that might play out for some simple systems which I think I do understand a little bit better.
I have in mind
three three kinds of system come to mind.
One is, I'm imagining a rotating body with a light on it.
Looking at another rotating body with a light on it and what they see of each other when they're rotating at different frequencies and things.
I have in mind what one organism sees of another organism when their life cycles are similar or when their life cycles are dissimilar.
And the third thing.
I've forgotten what the third thing was.
I've forgotten what the third thing was. Can I start at the beginning?
Yeah, but I think we should back up and look at a much simpler example first.
Okay.
Because it will give you an idea of the sense of the structure of the theory.
Okay.
So imagine a dust particle that's floating around in the air.
So the dust particle is a thousand or so times bigger than any of the air molecules.
And there are lots and lots of air molecules.
So the kind of canonical picture is you've got this dust ball, my fist, and there are lots of little air molecules hitting it from every direction all the time.
Yeah.
And so each air molecule that hits it strikes it and bounces off.
And there's some energy exchange between the dust particle and the recoiling air molecule.
Yeah.
So the standard picture is that that constant process.
So if the if the dust particle is in a superposition of states, so it's in both of these states simultaneously, then all these dust particles bouncing off of it are going to remove that superposition.
They're going to transfer the quantum coherence that makes that state superposed into the bulk of the of the atmosphere.
And in so doing, they'll create a probability distribution of velocities that encodes the position of the dust molecule in the same way that when we shine a light on the dust molecule, this gets a little closer to your first example.
So the scattered photons after banging into it create a probability distribution of velocities that encodes the position of the of the molecule.
And that encoding is from a from a decent distance away so a distance that's much larger than the diameter of the dust molecule that encoding is effectively classical.
So in Zurich's picture, the observers are not interacting with the dust molecule.
The atmosphere is or the light the ambient photon array is and the observers are interacting with that environment.
They're either measuring sound or scattered light or something like that at some large distance from whatever is going on with respect to the dust molecule.
So that's that's a beautiful theoretical picture.
But it does make this assumption that there's there's a fixed boundary that's known to the platonic observer between the dust molecule and the atmosphere that those are are distinct in some observer independent way.
And the the goal of this theoretical approach.
I'm happy to send you a paper about this it's written for philosophers it's very old, but it doesn't involve very much technical quantum theory stuff.
The goal of this approach is to explain why multiple observers can see the same thing can measure the same effectively classical state of things like dust molecules without any prior communication without any prior conceptual agreement of any kind.
And that assumption can obviously be criticized. I mean, the observers wouldn't agree about anything unless they spoke a common language, for example.
So there's all sorts of stuff that's being assumed under the table in this sort of theorizing.
So let's now think about your your first example.
And imagine that you just have that the first of the of the objects is fixed somewhere. And it's and it's observing all the time.
It's observing the other object that's rotating and has a light on it or something. So if it only sees light, then it's just going to see flashes and it's not going to know anything except, you know, a light is flashing.
If it is also able to observe scattered light at some reasonable intensity, then it may be able to see that there's an object that's spinning that's flashing, which requires capturing a different chunk of the photon field to do that analysis.
So it requires an observer who's capable of one sampling a broader environment, and to doing a lot of computation to distinguish photons that are scattered by this object from photons that are emitted by the object.
Oh, so the the second part of your example, as I understood it was the the the observer is actually rotating and its eye is only on one side.
So, so then the observer has to be capable of even more computation.
Right, because it sees the thing, and then it doesn't see it and then it sees the thing and then it doesn't see it and it sees the thing and then it doesn't see it.
So it, if it's going to regard the thing as the same object, it's going to have to be computationally capable of saying, Okay, I'm watching my memory.
And now I'm seeing something that showed up previously in my memory. And I'm going to infer that that's the same thing.
So I have, there's no evidence that it's the same thing. So that's a pure inference.
Could I just ask that that's, that's really interesting. Is it trivial to know that what you're looking at is your own memory versus you know primary environment data can we assume that you know which which inputs are your actual memory.
So it's, it's almost always assumed that that it is trivial.
But I think from a clinical perspective it's clearly not trivial.
And from a neuroscience perspective it's not trivial either memories have to be somehow labeled as such.
For the, the global workspace or whatever you want to call it to tell the difference.
I mean, doesn't it also though imply the boundary between between the agent and the outside world because whatever is inside that boundary is memory and whatever is outside is, you know, environment right in order to even treat it as memories, and then you have some kind of
sigmergic, you know, in between cases right. Yeah, you know, you know, in the, in the formalism that I've developed with Jim and Antonino.
We actually treat the memory as a sector of the boundary.
And the reason we do that is to allow the memory to encode classical information.
And in that theoretical approach at least the only classical information around is written on boundaries.
So the memory has to be a sector of the boundary.
And it may be an internal sector of the boundary so it may be the boundary between one internal component and another internal component that's fine.
But in order to be classical it has to be written on some boundary or other.
So, so who's driving here does the memory define the boundary right or does the boundary tell you where the memory is going to be the boundary.
The boundary serves as an encoding for the memory.
So the system that's comparing memory with current perception has to have two distinct readers.
One, one read operation that reads from the part of the boundary that's the memory.
And another read operation that reads from the part of the boundary that's the outside world.
And those two readers effectively have to have different names.
So that their, their outputs can be labeled by where they came from.
What if the way that I know that this mug in front of me is a mug that I'm perceiving right now rather than a memory of the mug in front of me because of the way in which I can interact with it now.
So when I remember the mug, I can't manipulate it with my hands in the same way that I can manipulate the actual mug.
And when I remember an image, it doesn't move in my head when I turn, it doesn't move in my visual field when I turn my head same way that an image that's coming in my eyes right now does.
Does my ability to interact with it make it the ways in which I can interact with it reveal the difference between it's in its nature.
Yeah, I think that would work.
If as, and that's one way of labeling things.
Right, as long as you have the, again, the computational power to associate your, your motions and your manipulation with the image that you see.
Yeah, that will work.
But you do have to have the computational power to do all the fusion necessary to to bundle those things into one event and say that the thing I'm seeing is the same as the thing that my hand is grabbing, which is not a trivial.
No, no.
Yes, if we took that, if we took that fusion problem that's in the fusion problem as a, as a different problem, then it helps us with the memory versus reality problem, perhaps.
Right.
Perhaps just shuts the difficulty somewhere else.
Yeah, I think, you know, I think you have to pay the piper somewhere in terms of acknowledging the computational challenge of.
So, where I'm going to go, where I was going to go with the rotating objects was that if I, if I'm a rotating object with a light on, and I'm looking at another rotating object, let's forget about its light for the moment.
Then, if I'm rotating at a different angular velocity from the, from the object I'm observing at a very different angular velocity from the object I'm observing, then it might just look like a mess to me.
But if I tune in my rotational speed to its rotational speed, then it looks stationary.
Sorry.
That makes it.
That makes it easy to understand.
And, um,
what's interesting about that is that it's, it's is also appears stationary if I rotate at half the speed of the other object, or any simple integer ratio.
But I don't really know.
I can't really use my rotational speed therefore to determine what rotational speed of the other object is. It could be any of those that makes it look like it stays still.
But also at the in between frequencies, it's almost like it. It's not there at all. Like I can't see it at all. It just becomes a blur.
Yeah, if you're missing it most of the time.
Yeah.
So, in, in that respect, the, the identity, the object that I don't want to use the word coherence, because you're using it in a more technical sense than I am is determined by the match between me and the other object, not the object in isolation.
Yeah.
So, if I was an environment that had a particular, um, where a particular combination or assembly of frequencies could live naturally, such as I remembered what the other metaphor was, such as a catastrophe of a particular length.
So some frequencies can live on that guitar string naturally and other frequencies can't.
A, an impact on that string, which contains initially a whole different scattering of all sorts of different frequencies zipping up and down the wire.
The ones which persist in the long term will be the ones that fit into the length of the wire and integer number of times.
No.
It's like the, what did you call it the quantum Darwinism of identifying which states will fit in the environment in which states want to write track.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, the string is a, is a reference frame that can detect particular frequencies, some spectrum.
And, um, in a, in a classical setting, you typically think of a noisy input.
So this, the frequencies that can detect are part of the input, but they may be a very minor component of the input.
In a quantum setting, you think of the input being some superposition of frequencies.
So again, the, the frequencies that your reference frame can detect are in there somewhere.
And the reference frame responds to those and ignores the rest.
Interesting.
So, I've been thinking about vibrations on guitar strings and how they interact with one another.
And, uh, I wonder if I could run that by you, because there's an important conceptual shift.
There's a conceptual shift, which might be important or might be trivial and I'd like to get your opinion on it, which, which is to do with whether this is simply a filtering process, a selection process, as implied by the name quantum Darwinism.
Or whether there's any transformation involved that energy can be transferred from one frequency to another, so that you're not just ignoring the frequencies which don't fit, but they're being converted or rotated until they do fit.
Um, so the story goes something like imagine.
Imagine two impulses applied to the guitar string at different locations on the string.
That create waves which run up and down the string and bounce off the ends and come back again.
Now, if they, if their natural wavelength of the wave fits into the length of the string and integer number of times, then they'll be coherent with themselves.
So let's grant that for now.
But the two waves starting in different places might not be in the same phase with each other.
If they were in the same phase with one another, then they would just add up.
But if they were completely out of phase, they would cancel out.
But that's not really what happens on a guitar string.
Now, I'm going to tell you what happens on a guitar string like I know what happens on a guitar string, but I don't really.
But here's what I think happens on a guitar string.
