philosophic system, right? The philosophic system usually of logical positivism or the idea that
reality exists objectively, objective stuff is real, we can measure it, get the same results.
So science is a subset of philosophy. It's a particularly useful, meaningful one. It doesn't
happen to be an exhaustive one of all things that are meaningful. And so, I fortunately got to study
many different Eastern traditions and Western traditions and my early and then, you know,
deeply in my kind of method of understanding any new discipline is I like to start by going to the
edge of what the hard problems that are not understood and, you know, are believed maybe
unsolvable and then understand the range of opinions on that and why and then go back and
understand the core axioms of the field in light of recognizing where they might actually have limits.
Oh, entry. All right. So let's, so with that perspective, with this lens into you,
what are the hard problems you bump up against and enjoy bumping up against in the biohacker
neurohacker world? What are the growth edges? I mean, I see people acquiring tools and technologies
and ways of modifying their physiology in their minds constantly and I, you know, provide some of
those tools. A lot of the time we're operating in space, we really don't fully understand,
you know, what we're doing. It's there's somewhere between art and science.
And I'm sure half the things that biohackers do are completely irrelevant and a certain percentage
is probably working counter to what they actually want to do. What do you find the hard problems
are in neurohacking or biohacking? So neurohacking, biohacking and what the hard problems are in
medicine and we kind of looking at that as medicine moving from dysfunction to function.
Neurohacking, biohacking generally thinking of it as trying to enhance function beyond
previous baseline. We think of that as one gradient. Some of the hard problems that are
not like philosophically hard problems in terms of maybe unsolvability or epistemic limits,
but like the holy grails of the space. Yeah, one of them has to do with complexity.
And so when we're trying to look at what's going on for an individual person, say we're trying to
look at addressing anxiety for someone, is their anxiety primarily physiogenic or psychogenic?
And what causes in each of those, if we just look at physiogenic, physiologic causes, we see
a whole good body of work on the ability for microbial imbalances in the gut to cause anxiety,
anxiety predispositions because of decreasing the total amount of GABA produced in the gut or
serotonin produced in the gut or inflammation on the enteric nervous system or whatever.
So if someone went traveling the third world, got a parasite, microbiome got off, has never
re-stabilized afterwards, that could be a tier one cause of anxiety that no amount of no tropics or
CBT or DBT or anything like that. Or if they had minor head trauma where the CAT scan or the MRI
didn't show anything, but maybe a QEG would or maybe a SPECT scan, because there's functional
firing patterns went off, how we're going to address that, that might require neurofeedback,
that might require neurogenic chemistry, that's going to be totally different again.
If they were exposed to mold or other forms of excitotoxins, that can cause anxiety. So
there can be genetic predispositions, and then we can continue to populate,
there can be methylation disorders, right? There should be thousands of different things,
and then the confluence of those things, right? And then if we're looking at the
psychogenic side of it, we're saying someone who had anxiety since childhood because of kind of
attachment, early childhood attachment stuff with parents versus only after a very acute trauma,
PTSD-like trauma, they're different psychologically, they're different
neurologically, and there are different best practices and therapies to address all these
things. And for one particular person's anxiety, we might be looking at some confluence of some
number of these factors, right, where there was a causal cascade. And then that person with anxiety
maybe also has a sleep issue or not, or maybe also has some autoimmunity, so as we're trying to help
them, how do we factor all that to complexity and personalization?
Now, is this possible? I mean, I work with brains every day, and I am humbled every day by how little
I actually understand, and my strategy for dealing with that is, you know, Maslow to a man with a
hammer, every problem's a nail. My hammer is neurofeedback and meditation, and to some extent
neutropics, but I view the brain as a regulatory machine, and then when I do a QEG and see something
off and it matches symptoms, it's, you know, it's a little bit more skill than being a mechanic,
perhaps, but it's that approach that's the, let me go reach it and tweak this and see what happens.
I would, I mean, I'm working on integrating lots of different information systems so that I can,
you know, do visualization, do big data, do a better sense of what's happening,
but even that will have a fraction of the degree of things you're talking about.
Is it a solvable problem? Can we actually bring in
personalized medicine, if you will, personalized psychology, track data this way? I mean,
is this being done? Can we do it? I think we're getting enough information about the
individual data points. You can do a methylation analysis. You can do a theta-beta ratio. You can
do, you know, a blood flow imaging or something, but these measurement tools are limited by the
tool space that they are using. You know, QEG gives me one thing. It gives me less than half the
EEG, only the dipoles that are at right angles to the skull, and it's a 10,000-foot view population
average of average EEG across several minutes, so you're missing states completely, only emphasizing
traits. And there's, you know, 30 or 40 big features in the QEG that I look at and that I
operate on in terms of intervening, but it's, I default back to that because I can't do everything,
because I can't hold everything in my mind and I can't ask everyone all the right questions to tease
out what might be going on because I just don't understand the brain fully. I mean, as you say,
probably none of us do. Are we getting to the place where we're going to be able to aggregate
and analyze and extract meaning from this complexity, or is the complexity going to obscure
our ability to know what's real and know what's important?
Yeah, I do believe we are starting in the next few years and having an exponential curve.
So this is a Kurzweilian predict in here?
Of sorts, in a different direction than I think much of what we hear about what is going to
happen with brains from singularity, but as you said, we can't hold it, you can't hold it all in
your brain. That's true. The total amount of information exceeds our conscious processing
by a lot. Because of working memory limits mostly, right? There's no storage limit in the brain,
as far as we can tell. But there is a working memory limit for your ability to consciously
try to make sense of not just how many different metrics, but the relationships between those
metrics, the combinatorial relationships. So say we start looking at the genome, most things aren't
affected by snips, right, by one snip. There's a very few things that are mostly we're looking at
combinatorial dynamics across tins or hundreds of thousands. Downstream effects essentially.
Right, but that's a lot when you look at, you know, three billion base pairs.
And then we have to deal with the fact that that doesn't tell us which ones are actually coding,
right? We have to look at the epigenome for that, which is not something we do well right now,
so we actually have to look at the transcriptome or exome, proteome, which is all stuff that is
emerging, but hard. And that's just the human genes, which is not actually the majority of the
genes we carry around are actually aren't ours, aren't human, right? So if you think about it this
way, right, when you're saying the brain is regulatory system, it's a top-down regulatory
system, right? The bottom-up regulatory system is the code layer, the genomics, the microbiomics,
the viromics, right? They are creating a distributed bottom-up regulation of individual cell
function, right, and protein coding. Sure, sure. That bottom-up regulatory capacity is what led to
the evolution of top-down regulatory capacities that get to control larger groups of cells and
tissues working together in coordination. The feedback relationships between the bottom-up
and the top-down regulatory systems and all the dynamics in between is where we're, what I think
we're starting to do is map the human as a cybernetic organism, right, as a regulatory
organism, apply complex adaptive system science and kind of systems modeling to understanding
that better. And it is what in computer science is called an NP-complete issue. It's an
uncomputable issue. Okay. There's an uncomputable amount of information. So we're not just going
to brute force big data and machine learning and figure it all out. Well, the chaotic system,
we have, we do not have infinite precision. Therefore, any model that steps into time
far at all diverges from the chaotic system. And so, yes, it's chaotic meaning
there's some fundamental unpredictability. There are measurement limits. And then there's,
there is uncomputable complexity. And so what that means is, rather than just depend on brute
force computation, we have to understand the dynamics of causation in a complex system better
so we can compute the things that actually seem like they would make sense to happen, right.
That's the modeling part. I think the modeling part is key and that's at Neurohacker. What we're
really focused on is taking models like cybernetics, right, like complex adaptive system science,
like information theory and putting what we understand from human biology and medicine
into those more complex models to understand dynamics better, right, complex dynamics.
And getting to the place where we can start to aggregate tremendous amounts of data there
and data that is has progressively better sensitivity and specificity and then be able
to process that data where, you know, right now for the most part, when we look at a biometric,
we look at someone's hemoglobin or their vitamin D or whatever, we're looking at it in relationship
to a reference range. Sure. But when we look at someone's, someone has a kind of
dynamic homeostasis, right. I actually really like your word homeodynamics. It's a better word
because the stasis is nonsense as you mentioned. Sorry. I need your response when I hear the word
homeostasis. Sure. Well, life is not stasis. We have these homeodynamics and then
thriving health has to do with the homeodynamic capacity and resilience across all of those
homeodynamic axes, right. Aging has decreased homeodynamic capacity across some of the axes.
And does that mean decreased range of variability essentially? And decreased capacity to have a
stressor, right, some things that's trying to create deviation from homeostasis and the ability
to stay within the homeodynamic range. So then if, which, which means less resilience. So to be
concrete, things like insulin or cortisol, let's say insulin rises when you consume sugar.
Right. When, you know, it's a signaling molecule, cells suck up the glucose,
insulin goes back down. If you chronically perturb the insulin system to the top of its range,
eventually it stops varying. And we call that type two diabetes. And on the way there, the kind of
syndrome X dynamics where fasting insulin levels raise, you get insulin resistance at the level
of cells. Now you take sugar and your blood sugar is going to go further out of balance for
longer, right. Causing more effect on other systems that are affected by blood sugar, so more than
pathophysiology. So we're defining here aging is not disease because disease we'd actually say is
the deviation from homeostatic range or homeodynamic range,
where some metric actually goes out of effective range and then you get a pathophysiologic cascade.
So the aging is not that, it's the increased susceptibility for that. So it's increased
susceptibility for disease because someone could have all of their markers within homeostatic
state range, but more sensitive to them being able to go out of range from whatever stressors.
So they're less labeled to sit in the, in the, in the healthy basin of the phase space, so to speak.
Right. Okay. All right. And so what we're interested in here is how do we wear someone already has
disease dynamics going on? How do we identify specifically what
caused deviation from homeostasis on which dynamics? What was the
causal cascade that happened and how do we specifically reverse it? Like we mentioned with
the anxiety, are we, are we chelating neurotoxins or are we fixing the gut brain access or
those are very different things that requires specific addressing of what the causal cascade was.
So this is not, let's say going to insulin, the insulin insensitivity that cells experience
after high levels of insulin, that's not the disease itself. That is the failure of the dynamic
range. Correct. And then we call these diseases things like diabetes and Alzheimer's and other
things because of the failure. Now, there are some people who get type two diabetes who did not
consume too much carbohydrates relative to what they burn, but they are deficient in chromium
or vanadium that are necessary to actually have insulin process at receptors. So there are other
dynamics that can go on, which is why we actually have to understand what are, what is the entire
causal phase space of what can cause an imbalance, all the things that could be involved. And this
is what we've sucked out at medicine so far is dealing with complex causation, acute causation
straightforward, right? So injury pretty straightforward. And so we're going to be able to
address that in a clear way, but where the causation is either delayed in time, right? So
something happened and it led to a slow deviation from homeodynamics over the course of years or
decades. It's hard to assess what it was or where it's multifactorial. There's many different things
going on and where it's a combination of some multifactorial set that's different for different
people. So I don't think MS is a disease. I think it is, and I don't think Alzheimer's is a disease
or anxiety. I think they are conditions where some cluster of symptoms and biomarkers come
together where we call it that, but the actual causal etiology going into it can be radically
different from one person to the next. So more of a syndrome, less of a disease,
a cluster of symptoms that may have multiple causal features. Interesting. I saw a study
out of UCLA a couple weeks ago that suggests Alzheimer's insulin insensitivity, if you will,
can be reduced simply through behavioral mechanism that took a bunch of people off of
all the meds, off of anything. And instead of doing a specific intervention, they said,
let's do lifestyle things and did paleo diets and exercise and lo and behold,
symptomatic Alzheimer's individuals showed recovery of some function. This is fairly
magical things. There was a study out a couple weeks ago showing that even in people with type
2 and type 1 diabetes who have no beta islet cells essentially anymore in their pancreas,
producing insulin, short period of fasting, if it was 12 or 24 hours, a very short period
seems to cause a re-differentiation of non-beta islet cells into beta islet cells to produce
insulin. That flies in the face of what we thought of in the disease model of diabetes where it's
either autoimmune or it's toxic from the sugar essentially that kills insulin-producing cells
once they're gone, they're gone. That does not appear to be accurate. Is this the kind of thing
that you're digging into? It's the same thing with the idea that we don't produce new neurons,
right? That was an old idea and then we realized neurogenesis happens and it can be upregulated.
Yeah, and that was only in three places and now it's pretty much everywhere we look in the brain,
we're finding new pluripotent stem cells. And so can we increase pluripotent stem cell production
and their differentiation throughout the connectome and can we increase neural protection and
synaptogenesis and yeah, we're learning a lot about how that works. When you have a system that
generated itself, it was a self-generating system, the idea that it just could not
generate those tissues that it originally generated again doesn't make that much sense. There's
obviously a capacity to do it and then the capacity decreases or turns off for some reasons.
Those then likely are modulatable to turn on again. So when we think about life extension,
how do we increase progenitor stem cells? How do we increase the rate of purging senescent
structures? How do we protect cells from senescence? These are all things that happen already.
Sure. They can start happening at suboptimal levels for a lot of reasons. We can support them
happening at optimal levels and maybe even beyond previous genetic optimality.
Just to give a discrete example, I'm a gerontologist, teach courses in aging. There's a
term in aging called antagonistic pleotropy, the idea that a mechanism that is healthy at one
point in life is harmful another point in life and the telomeres, the shortening end caps that
prevent replication forever when you're young prevents cancer from running away with your cells.
When you're old, keeps fibroblasts in your collagen from cleaning themselves up and they
become homes for a pro-cancer environment basically. It's this kind of thing where
identifying where the natural arc of development may not be optimal for long-term performance
and turning these things back on and controlling it. From the point of view of telomeres,
for a long time that was the Holy Grail in anti-senescence. Now we realize if we could
give everyone a pill to lengthen telomeres, ridiculously, it would probably just cause
huge amounts of cancer. We can't simply reach in and turn one thing on. This is something I
struggle with in neurofeedback. It's not reaching in and dialing up and down different
