neurotransmitters or different brainwave ratios. When I perturb a system, the system reorganizes
and I'm never quite sure how it's going to reorganize. This is a little frustrating sometimes.
If we think of it as increasing system resilience, homeodynamic capacity,
because it is a self-organizing system and the complexity is well beyond what we're going to
understand in a momentary view. We're never going to factor all of the dynamics happening,
probably even in one cell, but we can understand the dynamics that are involved in some of the
key ones in its own regulatory dynamics and how we can increase its regulatory capacity.
And so in general, do we see things like redox signaling decreasing in efficiency in cells?
Yes. So this is why all the nicotinamide riboside stuff has been so exciting. If you can
up-regulate the NAD plus NADH ratio, there's a lot of cool things that happen. Do we see
ATP decreasing inside of cells? Yes. Do all the things that cells do need those chemicals?
Sure. So if we can support mitochondrial biogenesis, if we can support ATP production
efficiency in Krebs cycle up regulation, if we can support protection of the mitochondria so
they don't become senescent, right? These are key things that what exactly is that going to do
well? It's going to help the complex dynamics of everything that the cells are doing happen better.
And so I think those are one of the key things. So we were saying earlier there are specific
sources of pathology, right? Causes of deviation from homeostasis that we want to identify specifically
in reverse, pathogens, toxins, deficiencies, etc. Then there are general system dynamics
that support system resilience and we want to support those even though the effects of that
are going to be general in baseball being across systems. So EEG regulation is going to produce,
you know, how much is it going to affect a particular gastrointestinal dynamic? Well,
it depends on what all the causal dynamics are, but it should move it in the right direction
to the degree that it's creating better sympathetic parasympathetic, you know,
ratio dynamics, etc. So we want to in general support the homeostatic processes that are fundamental
and get better at diagnosing individual sources of pathology and reversing them.
This is great. I mean, this actually ties into how I often frame or a feedback for people and
they say, oh, I want to do this and I'll say, well, we're probably going to give you more resources
in all of the regulatory domains of sleep, stress and attention and what that means is resilience
and we can probably reach in and do more specific things for you. But let's see what happens first
when we bring the resilience way up and get you sleeping like a rocket will and being creative
and flexible. Let's do that for the first few weeks and then we can go in and try to target
the thing you think you care about. Right. And usually the thing that they really want to work
on sorts itself out along the way towards just building everything. The complexity of the
interconnectedness of everything is again, why specialties have failed at complex illnesses.
But it's also so fascinating because, you know, we can look at a structural issue,
right, like a postural issue or osteoarthritis that's causing continuous inflammation,
where then the inflammatory molecules, right, cytokines can cross the blood-brain barrier,
cause neural inflammation and damage to neural circuits. Also, where the continuous pain dynamic
is causing sympathetic feedback into the brain, which then is going to cause effects on all the
things the brain is regulating from a top-down perspective. And what needed fixed was a structural
issue in a knee, right, and or mold in the environment or a runaway process of dysfunctional
information processing in the brain from a particular psychological meaning-making pattern,
right? So, can structural issues in joints or psychological patterns of focus and meaning-making
or things going on in the gut or affect any other system in the body? Yes. This is what's
fascinating, and that's why trying to separate neurology and gastroenterology and oncology
have just- And so now it's how do we synthesize what we understand about the parts to understand
what happens for whole systems and what happens across systems. So, now you're doing this at
the neuropathic collective with this idea of bringing in different aggregate data types and
modeling and trying to figure out what is the meaningful inflection points for these models
where, you know, where's change happening. That's very, you know, high-level, and those are the
kind of projects that frustrate PhD students for, you know, 20, 30 years. I think it's great. I'm,
you know, an incredibly noble pursuit to answer those big questions. I also know you guys are
doing something that's a little bit more, okay, here's some things we can actually do. There's
a product you've produced called Qualia, which is a Neutropic. Is it in the Neutropic space?
Okay. Do you consider it a Neutropic, or is it more than that? Is that a good frame for it,
or is that too limiting? I think that's a fine frame. As you know, the term Neutropic is a little
bit loosely defined in terms of how it's generally used. Yeah. How do you define it? Well, I would,
I would in general start by making the distinctions between brain nutrient,
notropic, and smart drug, which are commonly used kind of in relationship to each other. Yeah.
It's worth distinguishing. So brain nutrient means something that you'd normally get from a dietary
source that's critical to some part of neurologic function that can often be at suboptimal levels.
Precursors like tyrosine. All your amino acids, fatty acids, vitamins, minerals that are part of
neurodynamics. And when we talk about medical deficiency, we're talking about a level at which
acute pathology is happening below that level. There's a pretty huge range between
medical deficiency and optimality. And so we can call that subclinical deficiency or suboptimality.
And so there's heaps of brain nutrients that, depending upon what kind of tests we do, we
see in suboptimal levels all the time. Vitamin D is a popular one. Sure. Yeah. Even in Southern
California. Even in Southern California. And because it's not at a level for rickets,
someone has a 30 vitamin D, traditional medical process hasn't addressed that. But when we have
deeper insight about where optimality occurs, it's a far way away, which is why vitamin D
supplementation is meaningful. Same would be true with omega three or tyrosine or et cetera.
So brain nutrients that are either hard to source adequately in diet or where modern lifestyle
has us use them faster. So if we're talking about higher stress lives where B vitamins are in a
process faster or whatever, then those are meaningful. Or if you're a vegan and you aren't
eating anything that has B vitamins in it. So diet, you know, any kind of dietary limitations
one of the things to address. Notropics starting with, you know, defining paracetam as that field
is some chemical that can increase some aspect of cognitive function beyond baseline without
meaningfully negative side effects. Thank you for including that last piece, the original
definition, essentially. I, this is one of the acts I love to grind. You know, I'm all over the
neutropic forms and things. And I can't tell you the number of times I have to resist reaching
through the computer and throttling some kid who thinks that my daffodil is metropic.
Nothing with a significant side effect should be considered. And I'm guessing you have the
same perspective I do. If your performance is already relatively good, why would you risk side
effects for small incremental improvements in supra baseline improvements? If you're trying to
remedy a deficit, then okay, maybe you need to risk some things to get a problem sorted out.
But I don't understand the incredible marketing and consumer push to seek for, you know, all of these
drugs and compounds that have some of them have very, very significant side effects
on the off chance that they're going to be, you know, designed for your sort of neurochemistry
and give you that little boost. I don't understand the philosophy, if you're behind that, this idea
that you can reach for something that might not be unilaterally good, just in case it might.
You know, that seems very non-neutropic, you know, to me, so to speak.
So the topic of risk-benefit ratio is core to western medicine, right? And it's partly
why we only have a disease model and we don't have an optimization model is because in the disease
model, there is risk to not treating the thing, right? There's pain problem. So some risk of a
treatment seems warranted. And you have to make sure that the risk makes sense to the possible
benefit. If people are already generally healthy, and this is also why longevity research hasn't,
you know, had a lot of support until recently, or any kind of optimization, which is why it's
been left to biohackers, is how much risk can we justify for how much benefit beyond baseline?
Right. It's actually a really deep question, and it's a question that should be answered
individually within a range that is reasonable for the field as a whole to pursue.
Now, I think bodybuilding in steroids is a classic example of this.
So can people perform in fundamentally increased ways with anabolic steroids
that they couldn't otherwise? Obviously. Right. Otherwise, you wouldn't ban them in sports.
And, you know, we're the people who are really pioneering this, risking their health, and if
many of them experienced the downsides of that already, totally. And for them, at least knowing
that quite clearly, for many of them, it was worth it because that's what they wanted to do,
right? Like the same reason anyone would do anything. It was not a smart longevity decision for
what they wanted to do in the moment. And then the field of steroids itself evolved from a lot of
that experimentation to where the, you know, some of the SARMs today have, compared to the
early anabolics, have radically more benefit for much less risk, partly evolved by kind of the
citizen science happening in that space that just for ethical reasons couldn't happen in
formal research. So it's a very interesting topic, right? And it is a place where citizen
science is always going to be advancing the front edge. And I would say all of the
psychonauts working with deep psychedelics are in the same place. And so one of the things we
really like is for people who are for whatever reason inclined to do their own research, give
them better quantified self-tools and learn from that if it's outside of what we can do formal
research on and then, you know, be able to take the formal research from there.
So crowd sourcing at a very big level, essentially.
That's great.
Now, with regard to what the appropriate risk benefit dynamics are,
yeah. So you mentioned medaffinol and take it further. Methamphetamine definitely increases
certain cognitive capacities.
And it kills the flu virus.
It has a number of positive medical potential.
Yeah.
And it has very real side effects.
And so if someone is in a combat situation and they need to stay awake a little bit longer,
meth might make sense, right, part of how those drugs were developed.
Yeah.
For general use for your midterms, you know, it's not a good idea.
Now, if we look at how much off-label Adderall and medaffinol and Red Bull and whatever, right,
happens for those purposes, this was one of the main reasons we decided to make qualia was
not only are the down-regulation and side effects pretty significant of most of those,
but even the positives are fairly narrow, right?
So if you use a presynaptic dopamine agonist, right, like Adderall,
you will get increased focus.
But you might actually get simultaneously decreased working memory, as we've seen on
other studies, which is not the kind of total intelligence that we're interested in,
as well as, you know, anxiety, irritability, depersonalization, all of those other dynamics.
And then of course, because it's an external override of an internal regulatory system,
down-regulation independence.
And so what we were really interested in, and I'm sure you've been interested in the space, was
can we, understanding this system more completely, and nowhere near total completely,
but more completely, right?
We're not just trying to do a single molecule intervention.
Can we have a much more comprehensive set of positive effects rather than a narrow set
without the negative effects in real time and without down-regulation?
So that once someone gets off of them, they're not experiencing addiction come down.
But if anything, experiencing long-term up-regulation of the capacity of their system.
So that's obviously, that's the design principle with which we approach the whole space,
qualia and all the products and development.
So qualia is your first product then?
Yeah.
What's in it?
I haven't dug into the ingredients at this point.
So brain nutrients and notropics.
Okay.
And so as you know, when people start in the notropic space,
usually they dive into acetylcholine first.
Sure.
Sure.
And so racitams and some choline donors, that's like the foundation for memory augmentation,
sensory nerve, motor nerve, you know, acuity, et cetera.
So, but which racitams you use are going to have a bunch of other differential effects in
a racitam, phenyl paracetam, or very different creatures.
Oh, yeah.
And also, are we going to address the ability for the acetylcholine once it's produced to get
across the synapse?
Are we looking at acetylcholine S-rays inhibitors?
Are we making sure that the acetyl groups aren't rate limiting for the choline that's there,
that people aren't getting overcholine urgic?
If we look at different choline donors,
centrophonoxine is going to act on the central nervous system more than alpha GPC on the
peripheral nervous system.
If we look at the conversion of urodine to citicoline to phosphatidylcholine to alpha GPC
to acetylcholine, you're also going to get different peak plasma times of when
acetylcholine kicks in.
So, if you want to be able to have less of a spike and more of a continuous process,
you might put a number of those.
So, we focused on like with acetylcholine, we're looking at what is the whole acetylcholine
regulatory process?
Yep.
And how can we address any of the rate limiting factors and make sure that where we're acting
on peripheral nerves, where we're acting on central nervous system,
differentially more is what we want to be doing.
The kind of pharmacodynamics and kinetics of,
so not just where it's acting, but how long it's operating for in those curves
are things that we really look at.
How much acetylcholine we're producing, so that you've also got not just acetyl donors,
which is why people love alcar, right?
Acetylcarotene, and one of the reasons, in addition to what carotene does in the Krebs cycle, is
B5 is often a rate limiting factor for the synthesis, right?
The acetylation of choline.
So, what are the right ratios of those things together?
And then how much acetylcholine support for how much NMDA upregulation?
And then, where do you get rate limiting effects in terms of the total cellular energy
to process more acetylcholine?
And then all of that's just acetylcholine.
Then we look at glutamate.
And typically, it's pretty common that racetams have ampicine-like properties.
