Welcome to another episode of Head First with Dr. Hill.
Today's guest is Daniel Schmackdenberger, who is a co-founder and R&D director of the
Neurohacker Collective, which sounds kind of exciting.
So Daniel's going to tell us all kinds of cool things today and dig into his history
a little bit and some of the projects he's working on.
So welcome to the show today, Daniel.
Thanks for having me.
It's fun to be here with you.
So, first of all, what is this collective of neurohackers you are assembling?
It sounds like a, you know, sort of a pie in the sky, big project where you're aiming
for a lot of world-changing goals, but can you unpack a little bit for us what you're
approaching?
Yeah, so by neurohacking, we mean anything that can optimize the mind-brain interface
and the function thereof.
So this is cognitive and psychomotional and health and well-being, and so we could roughly
define it as well-being optimization, but even larger than that, we think of it as sovereignty
optimization, people's capacity to make good choices, right, to be adaptive, which is a
function of intelligence, of agency, of sentience, all together.
And there's obviously a kind of human software, right, psychology involved, and there's human
hardware, physiology involved, and we know that the software hardware divide in humans
is a plastic one, right, it's continuously inner affecting each other.
And so, you know, your work with neurofeedback is neurohacking, the other people you've had
on the show discussing meditation, et cetera, is all in that space.
So we're interested in all categories of technologies that can meaningfully increase the homeostatic
capacity, homeodynamics as you like to call them, of the human neuro-regulatory system,
and thereby increase people's capacity for complex thinking, emotional resilience, et
cetera.
And the reason why Collective is anyone that is doing meaningful work here, we want to
figure out how we can participate at a research level and at a, you know, information product
level, et cetera.
So like us talking here together is awesome co-sharing information in this space.
That's great.
So you say sovereignty, it's an interesting way to frame that.
Agency, what do you mean by, I mean, what kinds of things are bottlenecks to human agency
that appear to be affected by things we can do to the brain?
Like how can we affect agency in intractable ways?
What are you seeing?
What are you exploring?
So by agency here we mean the actuator capacity of a complex system, the ability to act on
and in the world, send chances kind of roughly related to our sensory input capacity, intelligence
to our information processing of that sensory input so that those exist in a closed loop,
take in information about the world, which is internal and external sensing, process
it to inform choice, make choice, get data about that choice, recursively upregulate.
And so on the agency side, on the capacity to act, obviously that requires the capacity
to have good information and information processing so there's good choice in forming it, right?
It also requires impulse control so that one can actually have executive function and all
that they know come to bear.
It also requires the, you know, kind of choice making side of it requires the capacity to
think through things using different frameworks, right?
Systemic thinking frameworks, lateral thinking, et cetera.
But also on the agency side, emotional resilience is a key factor so that as one is working
with things and difficulties come, they can process that physiologically and psychologically
in ways that empower them to continue to learn rather than get shut down.
And so when we look at the physiology of that, we know a lot about how dopamine, about how
adrenal hormones, about how, you know, many different aspects of neurochemistry and physiology
are involved in one sense of drive, one sense of reward dynamics that can predispose dysfunctional
or more functional patterns of human behavior, increased sense of capacity, psychologically,
physiologically, et cetera.
So again, we're back to this somewhat soft division between the software and the hardware.
So on the hardware side, things, as you said, like impulsivity or executive function, I
think you obliquely refer to working memory, essentially, which is, from my perspective,
the biggest bottleneck in human performance and one that appears to be the least responsive
to change, but also ways of thinking about emotional regulation and decision-making criteria.
I'm much more familiar with the physiology side.
You know, the biohacking I do is on the brain, not the mind, largely.
What are you seeing as some interesting ways that we can get into cognitive change?
Or psychological.
Brain-mind question, right, is at the core of the philosophy of neuroscience, the philosophy
of mind, the philosophy of science itself, right, because the brain-mind gets into the brain physics
and the question of what is consciousness, what is physics, and how do they interact?
Is there bidirectional causation beyond the scope of what we're probably going to dive into here,
but it's definitely at the core of what's informing the work we do, because
in any model of philosophy of mind, however we address this, it's clear that what's happening
physiologically is affecting one subjective experience, and what's happening in one subjective
experience is being mirrored on, you know, affecting the physiology side.
And so we can obviously modify brain chemistry.
The whole field of psychiatry is focused on this, right, psychoneuropharmacology,
and not just pharmacology, but neurotech in general, to affect cognitive and psychological
predispositions and capacities. We can also do practices that are involving one's direction
of their own attention and subjective experience, whether we're talking about cognitive behavioral
therapy, right, CBT, DBT, other psychotherapeutic processes, or even what we call more kind of
mindfulness processes of proprioception, paying attention to various sensations in the body,
parts of the body, and watch the changes, as I'm sure you've done a lot of, on physiology, EEG
processes, and then watch the capacity for neuroplastic changes and the connectome with
enough time and input in there. So it's not only that the division between hardware and
software is soft, it's they are both co-evolving all the time.
And interdependent and changing each other, as you alluded to.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I have to say, I'm a reductionist in this space a little bit. So for me,
the mind is simply the part of the brain that we are aware of and experiencing.
And I kind of don't go below that. I have a somewhat of a Buddhist perspective where I don't
really believe in consciousness. I believe in moments of consciousness, but not the overarching
eye. Like if the brain falls over, from my perspective, that's it. There is no mind outside
of the corporeal boundary of the skull, so to speak, even though I know that there are
non-local phenomena that we're observing now in the brain, and I'm sure you are deeper into this
idea of, again, the physics affecting consciousness. I saw paper last week that showed that water has
some strange kind of non-local, I hate to use this word, but quantum tunneling in microtubules,
apparently. Under some conditions, it appears like water molecules have a superposition and can be in
more than one place at once inside of cells. Correct.
This is getting very quickly out of the realm of anything we fully understand. But
do you think that we are getting to a place where we're starting to run up against the
edge of wanted science and we're often the quantum weeds, or is there something here that we're
making actual progress in actionable understanding of the brain?
Both. So quantum mechanics brings us to the limit of understandability, not just what we
currently understand, but the upper limits on epistemology itself.
Measurability even, yeah, yeah.
And even beyond measurability, the upper limits on ontology, right?
Heisenberg's theorem doesn't just say we can't know what it is because of measurement issues.
It says, and it depends on which interpretation of quantum mechanics, but standard model
interpretation, its fundamental nature is not yet defined independent of an observation dynamic,
that observation, that subject-object interaction are co-defining at the level of quantum particles.
It's a very philosophically weird thing for us to think about using the intuition that we have
from traditional larger particle physics. Now, we have historically kind of written that off as
just super weird phenomena that happens only below atoms and then cancels itself out at the
level of atoms and so we don't have to worry about it. The topic of quantum amplification,
are there quantum phenomena that then affect the behavior of things at a mesoscopic level?
At a Newtonian physics level?
So this is the work of Stuart Kaufman, the work of other people at Santa Fe Institute of
Complexity Science, the work of people like Stuart Hammerhoff have really shown quite clearly
that quantum amplification does happen, which means that the non-deterministic, right,
acausal phenomena at a quantum level are affecting macroscopic behavior at the level of brains
that still follows probability distributions but not determinism. So this is a very interesting,
right, very important weird topic and the whole topic of microtubules. Microtubules in neurons
and specific and superposition dynamics and quantum information processing is one of the
like kind of interesting cutting edges in the field. The work of Stuart Hammerhoff and Roger
Penrose kind of opened that space up and the work of Dr. Anurban, there's a few people kind of
working in that space and it is only scratching at the surface of what we can claim to know well
but there's already application happening in things like transcranial ultrasound that we're
based on, the philosophy from there that seemed to be having positive results, so it's a super
interesting field. Interesting, that's wonderful. Thanks for unpacking that, just a touch for us.
I would say one more thing about the Buddhist perspective, the kind of
John Searle idea of that the mind is what the brain does.
This is one interpretation of Buddhism, right, there are different schools of Buddhism that have
very different interpretations here. Obviously the foundational idea of what's real in Buddhism,
coming from Vedanta was that consciousness is what we actually have a stronger sense of
no ability on than physics, right, and so their model was well I know that I'm experiencing
something, there's an experiencer here, I don't know that what I'm experiencing is what I think it is,
but in an almost kind of Descartes-like way there is some witness that is witnessing changing phenomena
that is prima facie real, right, so their model was reductionist in the opposite direction, right,
rather that consciousness is an emergent property of physics, which is where physicalism and science
is gone, they saw the rest of universe as either not real or an emergent property of consciousness,
and that kind of idealism, physicalism divide is right at the heart of what we're figuring out
when we're studying consciousness via objective methods in brain science.
But correct me if I'm wrong, but you know, old school, you know, early Pali Buddhists wouldn't
consider consciousness a phenomena outside of momentary experience, I mean, Anicha impermanence,
the nature of reality is transient, so even consciousness the, I always fall back to the
metaphor, the classic metaphor, ship of Theseus, you know, the thought experiment, here's a model
ship, if I replace one plank, is it the same ship? How about two? How about three? At what point is
this capital I self the same if every seven or eight years all the molecules in my body are
completely different and have been replaced, you know, this is where it fundamentally breaks down for
me personally in terms of consciousness, but would the, you know, the Vedantic approach say that there
is a cohesive sense of consciousness or is an emergent property of just, you know, having a
meat suit? So Sanskrit has a lot more words that have a lot more specificity in their definition
than just consciousness and self-awareness, and they're actually very key distinctions in their
philosophic system. Okay. And again, there are different interpretations in these systems, but
the Buddhists traditionally say that the foundation of reality is neither self nor non-self because
that distinction doesn't exist at that level, that the rational distinction of the concept of
self other than self is more superficial than the foundation of reality, right? It's ontologically
less primary. Okay. So the idea that it's non-self or the idea that itself are inadequate, so what
we think of as self is self other than self division, right? And they talk about a foundational
oneness beyond division, it would be neither of those concepts, right? Not self nor non-self.
That's different than the traditional way that is spoken about in Vedanta, which is that at the
foundation of all of it, there is consciousness with a capital C that is different than self,
right? That can, which is basically, if you think about it almost in terms of a unified
field of physics as a field of potentiality for dynamics to occur, quantum foam to emerge from
et cetera, that there is reference happening, but it's reference within the only thing there is,
so there's self-reference and that the foundation of what we think of as self-referentiality happens
at the level of a unified field. Interesting. Now, I'm not saying this is what I think, but this is
some of the kind of interpretations there. I will say there are real problems with most of the
models of physicalism. There are real problems with these models, and this is why these are
unsolved famous problems in philosophy. And you even see like, you'll see a couple of physicalists,
like the classic debate that Sam Harris and Dan Dennett had after Sam wrote his book on free will,
was that Dan fundamentally said, consciousness isn't real, right? He's a radical limitivist,
it's an illusion, but free will is real. And Sam said, consciousness is fundamentally real,
an emergent property of brain, but free will isn't real. This is a core disagreement on the most
foundational concepts of existentialism, of what actually is both being physicalists and having
the same kind of critical thinking background agreeing on a lot of other things. So it's
part of why these have been so hard is they're beyond our current tools of knowing,
our epistemologic tools. When we do science, we are studying third-person things. That's what we
can do. So when we try and study consciousness, which is first person, by looking at the third
person correlates, we're actually doing a category mistake by assuming that they're the same thing.
Also, when we assume causation, when we get to the level of things that are for sure via
Bell's theorem, acausal, our intuitions get off, right? And so these are fascinating and tricky
areas. What we can say at the level of what's probably useful for people right now is that we
can do things with our own subjective experience of self. So what we focus on, what we put our
attention on, and the meaning we give to things that has a real effect on brain and physiology.
And we can do things to our physiology that are not obviously utilizing our subjectivity,
that will affect our subjectivity. And there can be recursive effects between subjective and
objective that can either, depending upon how you do them, have the potential of being virtuous
cycles in more adaptive evolutionary directions or vicious cycles. And so learning how to use
both the conscious direction of our thought, awareness, attention, and what we do with our
physiology in mutually reinforcing adaptive ways is, I think, what we're interested in here.
Oh, wow. It's quite heady stuff, no pun intended. So, Daniel, it's not like a philosophy guy here.
Do you have a philosophy background? Yeah. Yeah. Tell us about that. What is your journey
around there? So I was homeschooled growing up. Okay. And all the sciences and all the
philosophic traditions were what I was fascinated by. And so, our particular homeschool didn't
have curriculum. So I just got a study what I wanted. So that was interdisciplinary science,
system science, and the various philosophic traditions because the impulse to study science
was the impulse to understand the nature of the reality we live in. Sure. Yeah. Which is a
philosophic impulse, right? Science is a method of knowing that correlates to a particular
