Certainly, any racetam does.
And nupept, which we use.
Now, I always get confused.
Nupept seems to have racetam-like properties, but not be a racetam.
I mean, I look at the structure and it doesn't have a priloting ring.
It's called racetam-like and ampicine-like.
As of upregulating acetylcholine uptake in the NMDA complex.
Upregulating glutamate uptake at the AMPA complex,
but it is actually not structurally either of them.
But it's very interesting.
It's a precursor to cycloprologlycine.
It is neuroprotective.
It's anti-excitotoxic because of the way that it brings excessive glutamate outside of the synapse.
So, it's a very interesting molecule.
And nupeps in quality as well?
Oh, great.
Now, there are plenty of things that we would have in qualia if there was different regulatory dynamics.
Okay.
But, you know, so we're working within both the general well-tolerated space,
the effective space, and the legal space.
Sure, sure, yeah.
People microdosing LSD or psilocybin has a lot of neat effects.
We can't touch that, obviously.
Right, right, right, right.
Not yet.
Not yet.
So, actually, that space of the appropriate legal categorization of medicines is a space
that we have worked in and intend to more because it's important.
So, more political legal and regulatory, not the physiology, but at the body politic?
Exactly.
Interesting.
So, when you look at acetaminophen being over the counter as a legacy thing and the toxicity of it
compared to POT having been illegal for and still illegal in so many places for so long,
it's just nonsense, right?
Right, right.
And we can look at the whole history of why those nonsense decisions were made,
but they're not just nonsense, they're really bad for people.
Yeah.
Because POT doesn't cause liver damage, and acetaminophen does,
but it addresses the same pain dynamics that people use.
Yeah, but you can put acetaminophen with opiates and that prevents people from taking all the
opiates and overdosing in theory.
That's, of course, the Tylenol-3 Vicodin kind of approach is to bind acetaminophen to say,
hey, it's going to kill you if you take too much, don't take too much.
And so, then people take too much and get liver damage.
Right.
Right.
So, it's not a good idea, but maybe it wasn't well thought out.
Right.
So, it's been heady stuff, Daniel.
Thank you so much for sharing a bit of your wisdom.
Where can people find out more about you?
What other projects do you have going on?
How can they dig into the Daniel-ness that we have here in front of us a little more
if they have had their interest sparked?
Well, as far as the topics we're talking about here, Neurohacker topics,
Neurohacker.com is a good place to go check it out and publishing more information there.
And I want to say that the work that you are doing in neurofeedback and the fact that you're
scaling it with quality control and with the systems that allow that to happen,
that's one of the areas that if you hadn't done it, we would have eventually got into,
because it's critical and we think it is one of the really most meaningful
Neurohacks that has the least damage possibility.
Yeah, really small downsides.
And if done well.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's true.
Super high reward possibility.
So, I'm excited to look at if there's a way we can partner and support what you're doing.
I'm sure there is.
We're both in Southern California, so we should at the very least try to work that.
Great.
So, can they follow, can folks follow you on Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn?
If they want to follow you and here you drop wisdom and see all the things you do,
what's the best way to do that?
Facebook is probably best.
Facebook.
All right, great.
So, today's guest has been Daniel Speckdenberger of the Neurohacker Collective.
We've packed more into this hour than I think most shows we've had.
I'm going to have to go back and listen to myself and look up a few terms, which is great.
So, I rarely have to stretch myself that way.
I really appreciate it.
So, folks, it has been another show of Head First with Dr. Hill.
Take care of your brains and we'll see you next week.
