Instead, we have reasonably rigorous thermodynamic
or information theoretic quantities that we can,
as Sparman and his thesis advisor, is to say,
shut up and calculate with.
So I would say cosmology is also providing some hints to us
that there may be some profound connections between causal entropy creation
over the course of an extended period of time and intelligence.
And finally, I sort of couldn't do justice to the slide
without at least alluding to developments in planning in AI.
So just as a sort of an example here, I have a PR one from Willow.
Yes, Yashiro?
Are you going to elaborate on the causal entropy principle?
That's the rest of the talk.
Okay, good.
So this is the last been approved.
So as one example, the almost ubiquitous use now
of rapid reversal of random tree type approaches, RRT approaches,
and that's, again, a path plan where, in a certain sense,
if you squint at RRT, it really is an algorithm
for trying to maximize the weight of a branch
in a standing tree rooted at your current universe state.
So to make Yoshiro happy, I'm going to move on.
So the next slide and point everyone to a paper
that we published last year at Physical Review Letters
where we think for the first time we've unified many of these
disparate threads across domains, as well as many others
that I don't have time to allude to,
with a new principle that we term causal-entropic forcing.
Now, as with many advances in AI over the years,
this one does not live in isolation.
In particular, I would like to credit Kulani
and Kluven's really courageous work on empowerment
and I can speak more about that if you and I, if people are interested,
but in many ways this draws upon empowerment
and takes many of its concepts to the next level.
So how do we formalize the connection?
So we've seen, I would say we've seen examples that there are threads
that somehow connect this idea of maximizing causal entropy.
You could express that as keeping options open.
You could express that as capturing possible futures.
There are many ways to express it qualitatively,
but quantitatively it turns out that there's already a lot of machinery
that physics has to describe this notion of maximizing
potentially accessible futures or keeping options open.
So my favorite example is that of a rubber band.
So since I promised that this would be a little bit interactive,
let me ask a question of the audience,
I'll see if anyone has the answer.
So if I take a rubber band and I stretch it, it's elastic, right?
If I take a rubber band and then I dunk it in liquid nitrogen,
it loses its elasticity.
So questions for the audience is why?
Anyone?
You're sure?
No?
Sir?
Sir?
Could we maybe do something less certain?
So the question with the answer is, it's frozen.
Any other attempts?
Well, why does a frozen rubber band lose its elasticity?
Yes.
So we're moving in absolutely the right direction now.
So I guess another way of framing the question is
why does a rubber band at room temperature,
why is it elastic in the first place?
So a physics 101 answer to that question would be
to consider a simplified model of a rubber band as an ideal chain.
Just imagine a chain link, a ideal chain,
where you have a set of links, like a polymer.
This is also a polymer physics 101.
So you can imagine you have a polymer of discrete links
that are all free to randomly rotate with respect to each other.
And you can ask the question, what sorts of configurations
of an ideal chain would one expect to observe
at a finite temperature?
And the answer, of course, is just from analyzing
all of the microstates.
A microstate is an instantaneous configuration
of a system in general, a thermodynamic system.
In the case of a chain of microstates,
there's a particular set of, say, bond angles
for this ideal chain or a polymer.
So we would expect to observe more mapward states.
In this case, convenient mapward state would be
the end-to-end displacement of the ideal chain,
where the mapward state, excuse me,
where the displacement is very small.
So there are more ways to arrange an ideal chain
where the end-to-end displacement is very tiny
and where the chain itself looks effectively like a ball.
In polymer physics 101, you would be taught
this is why proteins, other polymers,
we still obviously globular proteins
because it's a convenient architecture
when you have this sort of chain for the chain
to occupy more states.
There are more microstates where the end-to-end displacement
is smaller rather than larger.
So going back to the question of elasticity in a rubber band.
So rubber bands consist of many polymers,
and the polymers have more states
where the end-to-end displacement is closer together
rather than farther apart.
If you take a polymer and you stretch it out,
then you can do a simple combinatoric analysis
and immediately understand intuitively
why there are fewer microstates accessible
to a polymer that's stretched out
versus a polymer whose end-to-end displacement
is closer together.
And so if you simply combine that observation
with the fact that these microstates
can constantly, randomly transform into each other,
we're naturally going to find more microstates of a polymer
where the end-to-end displacement is closer together
rather than farther apart.
So going back to then to the question of
why do we lose elasticity if we lower the temperature.
The temperature is the coefficient that determines
how quickly these microstates can turn into each other.
How energetic each of these lengths is.
And so if we reduce the speed with which
these microstates can transform into each other,
then since the transformation of microstates into each other
completely determines the entropic force
that we call elasticity, the elastic force,
we're going to reduce the elastic force
and hence make it rigid. Yes, you're right.
Why is it that the stretch for those in states
would be a local minimum?
I mean, you could expect that, yes,
in this configuration there are not many
minimum configurations, but why would it not
to the smaller summits?
So if you lower the temperature,
so if you stretch your rubber band and then freeze it,
over time it'll be glacial, but very slowly
it will still be elastic and return back,
but it'll be much slower.
And the speed with which it's able to return back
is going to be a function of the temperature.
Is there another question here? Yes.
Another question that I've got.
If you stretch your rubber band,
you can notice the temperature change on the surface.
I believe it gets colder when you put it back
because it's warmer.
So you can see that the entropy is doing something.
It is transforming between each end of the stretch.
Good. I was hoping someone would bring up energy
versus entropy.
So you can make this, you can derive
this observation purely and chronically.
That's why I'm going to be careful of an ideal chain
where you don't have any messy energy considerations
because you traditionally would assume
that the adjacent links in the chain
are free to rotate on a flat energy landscape.
So when you stretch it out,
it's possible to do that idiomatically
without changing the energy of the system at all.
But you raise an excellent point,
which is that in a real system,
you certainly do often, if you stretch your rubber band,
you're translating kinetic energy
from the pulling into kinetic energy
of the rubber band itself.
And so you can't purely efficiently
reduce the entropy of the system.
That's an excellent point.
So it's a standard idealization to say
we're only going to look at a purely entropical
and get a purely entropic version of this effect.
But in real systems,
there is a combined energy effect
and an entropic effect.
Any other questions?
Great.
So now that we have this rubber band example in mind,
I was saying earlier,
we already have the machinery
from physics to describe systems
that are trying to maximize
the set of states that they occupy.
Traditionally,
rubber band is just
a very convenient example.
Almost every quantity
that we're talking in chemistry or physics,
we're running out of tomorrow one,
including the ubiquitous concept of pressure
are in fact entropic forces.
They're conventional entropic forces.
So we have this machinery
available to describe systems
that want to occupy as many states as possible
that are still consistent
with some macroscopic observable.
So let's reuse the existing machinery.
