I'm a synthetic organic chemist.
Origin of life is purely synthetic organic chemistry.
There's no way around it.
I'm perfectly situated to be commenting on this, to be critiquing the origin of life
research.
It is abiological.
It is before biology takes over.
This is purely synthetic organic chemistry.
And making these compounds is very simple.
Four classes of compounds.
You have to make them from what's available on a presumed prebiotic earth.
And so the chemistry is not hard for a synthetic organic chemist to follow.
And any trained synthetic organic chemist can follow me on this.
And I've never seen a synthetic organic chemist disagree with me on this.
In fact, the people that might disagree with me are biologists because they've never made
anything.
The only thing they may have made is they buy a kit and they make it, which is made
by chemists.
But they've never made anything ab initio.
And so it's the synthetic chemist that can critique origin of life research better than
anyone else.
So go ahead, ask your synthetic chemist friends to listen to what I have to say.
If they have anywhere a master's degree or beyond in synthetic organic chemistry, have
them critique what I say.
We do not know how to build even a simple bacterium.
The simplest bacterium with its 256 protein coding genes, we have no idea how to build
it.
First of all, we don't know how to build the molecules, the four classes of molecules
that are needed for it.
We don't know how to, even if we had those four classes of molecules, assemble them even
into the simplest of bacteriums.
We don't know how to do that.
One can do that with the technologies we have today.
We can make technologies, but we can't even make the simplest bacterium.
Anybody who would say something contrary does not know what they are talking about.
Show me the demonstration.
Nobody has ever done it.
And it's not because of lack of effort.
It's not because of lack of will.
First of all, they haven't been able to get the molecules to do this.
And if they could make the molecules, even if we were to give them the molecules, they
wouldn't have the information.
There would be no inherent information in the DNA.
But even if we gave them the DNA in the structure that they wanted, they wouldn't know how to
put all the components together because of the sophistication within a cell, the interactomes,
meaning that the interacting connectivity between the molecules, the Van der Waals interactions,
all of these have to be in the right place and in the right order for a cell to function.
We don't even know how to define life, let alone knowing how to spark it to begin.
When one looks at a typical textbook, one will see some prehistoric pond and molecules
coming together and forming a cell.
And those cells coming together and some slithering creature coming out of this pond.
That is fallacious.
There is no truth in that.
We don't even know how to make the molecules.
We are lost on how to do this.
We can't even make the basic building blocks.
But even if we could, even if we could, from biological, from prebiotic type environment
to make these, with all the intellect that we put into this, even if we could make them,
we have no idea how to assemble them.
You say, well, we can make the liposome, the cell membrane.
We cannot.
There's over 40,000, over 40,000 lipids have been identified in cell membranes.
You want to take some simple ones?
It's not just individual lipid membranes.
You have to have the inside and the outside of the membrane have to be different.
You have to have this huge array of proteins that transmembrane proteins.
And you have to have carbohydrates on the surface as identifiers, even in the simplest
bacterium.
We have no idea how to put the structure together.
It's not there.
So not only do we not know how to make the basin components, we do not know how to build
the structure, even if we were given the basic components.
So the Gadankan experiment is this.
And if I gave you all the components, even if I gave you all the amino acids, all the
protein structures from those amino acids that you wanted, all the lipids in the purity
that you wanted, the DNA, the RNA, even in the sequence that you wanted.
So I'm even giving you the code.
And so now I say, and all the nucleic acids, can you now assemble a cell here in your individual
bodies?
Not in your individual laboratories, not in a prebiotic cesspool, but in your nice laboratory.
And the answer is a resounding no.
And if anybody claims otherwise, they do not know this area.
This is how far the misunderstanding has gone.
Even science professors, even biology professors, think that there is a near building of life,
that we understand all the ways to build life.
We do not.
Not only have none of the molecules been made ab initio under prebiotic-like conditions
to make the homochiral molecules that are made.
Remember, we need four classes of molecules.
We need the nucleic acids, and then the homochiral systems for the amino acids, which then need
to be built up into protein structures.
We need the carbohydrates, which have to be built up into the polycarbohydrate structures.
And then we need the lipids, which also are chiral.
All of these we need in homochiral form.
We don't know how to do this in any prebiotic-type scenario at all.
These have not been made.
And then to assemble these into a cell, it's never been done.
So there's a gross misunderstanding.
And this misunderstanding has come because of the projections of those who work in the
area of origin of life.
They do one little thing, and then they extrapolate it, and then they work with the press to ramp
it up even more, and they project as if they really know it.
And so the layperson reads this and says, ah, you see, scientists understand.
And then it's not just the layperson, scientists think that other scientists understand all
of this.
But they do not.
There's a great negative outcome of this beyond just leading the audience, leading the general
public astray.
What happens ultimately is you end up with 100 million people in the United States that
no longer believe this.
And then you have the scientific elite saying, why is there 100 million people that don't
buy into this?
And that distrust will go beyond just that particular topic.
It will extend into other topics.
And so it yields a distrust of science.
Some people argue that since there's been hundreds of millions of years available, the
probability that there's the chance that these things could happen in hundreds of millions
of years.
But that's not true.
Time actually can be an enemy when it comes to organic synthesis.
Prebiotic synthesis is before biology.
So one has to make chemicals.
Many of the chemicals that need to be made for life are kinetic products, meaning that
they're not the most thermodynamically stable form.
For example, carbohydrates, which is the main class of compounds.
These are the units that hook together DNA.
These are the units that have identifying aspects on cell structure.
These are the units that the cell is going to need for the energy of life.
Carbohydrates are kinetic products, meaning that if they should form, they would decompose.
They decompose over time.
And relatively short amounts of time, they decompose.
The very reactions that make them, unless somebody is there to pull them out, to fish
them out, to stop the process and to put them in a bottle under inert conditions in a freezer.
And not just one.
There's many, many different types you have to do this.
They end up going through a process of what's referred to as caramelization, meaning that
they polymerize.
They polymerize.
The very aldol reactions that were used to make them just continue.
And you get polyaldols.
You get polycondensation reactions.
And they caramelize.
Or they undergo with formaldehyde, which is a presumed prebiotic chemical.
They undergo rapid canizaro reactions.
So the aldehyde is oxidized to formic acid.
And this nice carbohydrate that you made has just been reduced.
So the aldehyde from the carbohydrate has gone back to an alcohol.
So there's competing reactions.
So time does not solve the issue.
The other problem is if you had 400 million years to get to a certain point in a synthesis
of a particular class of compounds, now you run out of material.
Any time you do synthesis, you run out of material even when you've optimized deals.
And you got to go back to the beginning.
Well, say it took you 400 million years to get to a certain point on a synthesis.
Now you have to go back and make more.
But how do you go back and make more?
Because nature never kept a laboratory notebook.
Never doesn't know how to go back.
Never kept a record.
So even if it could make more, it doesn't know how to.
So it's got to start all over again.
But it doesn't know how to start over again.
It doesn't know why to start over again because it doesn't know what it's going toward.
So if you look at it, people have been trying for a long time.
If we just take Miller-Urie as the first example where Miller and Urie took some basic chemicals
that are presumed on a prebiotic earth, hydrogen cyanide and formaldehyde and CO2, and they
put those across a high voltage simulating lightning, you can get some racemic amino
acids out of those.
But those racemic amino acids were racemic.
Okay.
That was in 1952.
That was two-thirds of a century ago.
What has happened in two-thirds of a century since Miller-Urie?
In other fields?
Well, we've had human spaceflight.
We have satellite connectivity.
We have the internet.
We have the entire silicon era of microchips.
And we have computer technology.
We have all of this.
In the same 66 years, two-thirds of a century, we are still exactly where Miller and Urie
are.
We make a barrage of stereoscrambled chemicals nowhere close to even knowing how to make
them and hook them together.
They got to get hooked together in the proper order.
We are clueless on this, clueless, because time doesn't solve this.
Even with all our ingenuity, time is not going to solve the problem.
You let these chemicals that have been made, you let them sit around, even for months,
and you can look even in the origin of life researchers themselves when they've let these
go for weeks, they show the degradation of these in a period of weeks.
Weeks is the twinkle of an eye when it comes to prebiotic time scales.
The chemicals decompose.
The environment for the chemicals, environment rich in ammonia, is going to turn carbonyls
into imines.
These are going to cause further destruction.
The ammonia environment itself is quite basic.
We're going to have extended aldol reactions coming on.
So to think that the molecules could be made and sit there waiting for other molecules
to come in, it doesn't happen.
Organic chemistry doesn't work that way.
