Any student that is lazy enough to set up reactions and like to go home for the weekend
without working, they might pay the price for that with a depressed yield generally.
As soon as the reactions are done, or as soon as what you want is the optimized yield,
you have to stop that reaction, get it away from the starting materials, or else what
happens is it goes on to polymerize product, especially when you're making kinetic products,
which is not the thermodynamically most stable product, which is exactly what you get in
many of the chemicals that are needed for life.
So time is actually the enemy.
There have been many people that have tried in origin of life research to make the chemical
building blocks for life.
The vast majority of the chemical building blocks are chiral, which means that they have
a non-superimposable mirror image, just like our hands.
The left hand and the right hand are non-superimposable mirror images.
They're mirror images, but they can't be superimposed, and that's why a left-handed
glove doesn't fit on the right hand.
The vast majority of biological molecules are handed like that.
To make them handed is difficult.
We know how to do that in synthetic chemistry.
It's never easy.
Using prebiotic environment, it's never been successful.
Some have said, well, this could happen on a chiral crystal.
One can get small enhancements, but not nearly what you need, and it's never been demonstrated
even with all the intellect that people have put behind trying to do this with chiral crystals
and chiral layered environments and chiral clay environments.
The chemicals that are needed for life are more than just carbon and water.
The structures that are needed, one needs the amino acids.
The amino acids then have to hook together to form proteins.
It's not easy to get amino acids to hook together.
One can get very small amounts if you just add a catalyst to it, but the yields are extremely
low.
Many activation steps that are needed to get this efficiently.
In nature, in biology, once you have life, this is all done with nature's little nanomachines
called enzymes, but what we're talking about is prebiotic, long before enzymes themselves
are made and the enzymes themselves are made out of the amino acids and proteins.
Then after we have the amino acids, we've got to have the carbohydrates.
The carbohydrates are another class of molecules, and then you have to hook the carbohydrates
together.
The carbohydrate-hooking-together pattern is extremely complex.
Just the carbohydrate, the simple carbohydrate, d-manos, if you just make six units of that
d-manos, that d-manos can be hooked together in over one trillion different combinations
depending on how they're branched and what the constitution is of the primary linkage
point.
Over 12 trillion combinations, and only one works.
Only one will work.
How do you get that?
Now you also have to have the lipids.
The lipids have to have two tails, not one.
If you have the monoacial lipid, that destabilizes any lipid bilayer, and these also have chiral
centers.
Again, how is that done in a prebiotic system?
Nobody knows.
You have to have the nucleic acids, and so you have to have the nucleobases, and those
nucleobases have to somehow hook very cleanly to a carbohydrate that had to independently
be made, and then you have your nucleotide with a phosphate group on there that then
has to hook together.
Again, that's only done by enzymes.
We don't know how to do that cleanly before there's enzymes.
All of those pieces we don't know how to make, let alone hook together.
Some might suggest that there are certain laws that we don't yet know, undefined laws,
that would dictate the origin of first life.
It's very hard to comment on something that we don't know anything about.
However, one would have to have law upon law upon law upon law, one after another after
another to make the requisite molecules needed for life, and then to have those requisite
molecules assembled, because even if one had the molecules, which is very hard to do, how
do you do the assembly?
We don't know how to do that.
Now if there's some law to do this, remember just the interactome, just the protein-protein
interactions within a single yeast cell, the 3,000 proteins, it's 10 to the 79 billion
power on the possible combinations of just the interactome.
How do you get those to order?
Of course, there is a large cascade of arrays that can get these to order, but that always
has life spawning life.
We don't dehydrate cells and get them to work together again.
Cells will split and pass that information along to other cells.
We don't know how to spark these things.
And it can't happen from a single unknown law.
You'd have to have unknown law upon unknown law upon unknown law.
It takes a lot of faith to do that.
I'm not sure I have that level of faith, but if they do, good for them.
Every year we understand more about the complexity, so we are more befuddled now than we were
in 1952.
Because we found that this is not just a massive protoplasm, highly complex environment.
So when a cell wants to move material from point A to point B, it's a factory.
You go to a factory, what do you see?
You see these overhead carriers carrying machined parts from point A to point B. That's exactly
what happens in a cell.
You want to carry material from point A to point B, a microtubule will form between point
A and point B, and then materials will transfer across that.
But then what happens is that microtubule then dissolves and then is reconstructed somewhere
else where you need other material transferred between any other two points.
Why does a cell go through this?
Because if it kept all of those microtubules in place, it would become too rigid and it
couldn't function, and it would run out of the building blocks to build more microtubules.
So it has the ability to morph its structure of its factory on the fly, something we don't
even know how to do.
The complexity of this is so grand, and the complexity becomes more and greater every
day when we start understanding the complexity of the interactome, which is not merely protein-protein.
You have protein-DNA interactions, the interactomes between these, the van der Waals interactions
between these, the non-covalent, the non-covalent bonds, just the way these two interact.
And information is passed through these non-covalent interactions.
Information is passed through something that physicists call virtual photons.
The complexity is so great, and it gets harder every year.
So in many ways, we're getting further from understanding origin of life every year once
we understand the greater complexity of the cell.
So if one wants to use a probability argument to say that there must be billions of inhabitable
planets in our universe, or even going with string theory and suggesting that there are
multiverses, so there's lots of universes like ours that go beyond even our universe,
the numbers are still difficult.
So remember, just the protein interactions in a single yeast cell are 10 to the 79 billion
combinations.
The number of elemental particles in the universe is 10 to the 90.
We got 10 to the 90 elemental particles in our universe, let alone planets.
Particles in our universe is the estimate is 10 to the 90.
I'm talking, so that's a one with 90 zeros after it.
Just the interactome combinations of just protein protein in a single yeast cell is
10 to the 79 billion.
That's a one not with 90 zeros, but a one with 79 billion zeros after it.
These are the types of numbers we're talking about.
It's hard to fathom.
And in addition to just those 3,000 proteins that are there in that single yeast cell, you
still need all the DNA, all the RNA, you need to have all the carbohydrates.
Remember the carbohydrates have all their own definition order by the way they're hooked
up.
Remember just D-manos, you can put more information in the carbohydrates that are on a cell surface
than you store in DNA and RNA combined.
And that information has to come from an original DNA template plus a series of other
enzyme cascades.
All of this is in that cell.
In addition to those interactomes, it's very complex.
Origin of life is a complex problem.
And it's hard to throw this at the feet of just large numbers.
