And some time after that, it may turn out that the dot disappears in the green field, and some sort of dot appears down at the dark blue field.
And again, we can write this in this kind of creation and destruction operator notation that one has in quantum field theory.
And so this says that the green field is no longer excited, but now the dark blue field is excited.
So this doesn't imply anything about these excitations being the same. In fact, they're completely different.
One is an excitation of the green field and one is an excitation of the blue field.
But at least now something is happening in the environment.
So we can think about what does it take for an observer to notice that something is happening in its environment?
It has to be able to detect a change occurring in some segment of its environment.
And that change can involve something happening or something stopping happening in that segment of its environment.
But it doesn't yet have to have any idea of what an object is.
But we can add that if the system has a memory, we can have the system connect these events happening in different parts of its environment.
So if the system has a memory that has some number of steps, say in steps, but here it could even just be two steps,
it can see transitions between these two different states where there's a dot in the green field and then a dot in the dark blue field
and then a dot in the green field and then a dot in the dark blue field and then a dot in the green field, etc.
So I've expressed this in this sort of field theory notation over on the right side.
And what this is is a flip-flop. It's an observed periodic behavior.
So this is the basic idea behind a clock.
So any observer that can see this, a number of time steps internally, can interpret what's going on in its external environment as a clock ticking.
It can see some periodicity.
So as long as you can have memory and the ability to detect change, you can see periodic behavior in the environment.
So you can see the environment acting like a clock.
So let's think a bit about what this does and does not require.
So seeing a clock in the environment requires having distinguishable, non-exchangeable sectors of the environment.
So you have to have this connection to apology that breaks the exchange symmetry.
It requires having these sectors implement some sort of flip-flop, so something periodic happening.
And you have to have enough memory to see that periodicity.
But it doesn't require any sense of object identity.
So the excitation in the green part and the excitation in the blue part can still just be field excitations of the green part and the blue part.
There's nothing that says that those have to be the same thing.
They just have to appear and disappear in some periodic way.
And having a clock doesn't require a metric space.
You don't need to have any sense of distance defined on the environment.
You just have to have this segmentation that is not rearrangeable.
So this tells us something extremely important, which is that time is more fundamental than space.
Time in the exterior environment is much simpler and easier to observe than space in the exterior environment.
So for thinking biologically about phylogeny, we might expect to see organisms that can detect periodic behavior in the external environment.
Long before they can detect spatial organization in the exterior environment.
And we know that organisms, even down to microbial mats, can respond to the diurnal cycle.
So we know that organisms, in a sense, can detect environmental clocks.
Even organisms that we have no reason to believe divide the environment up into spaces,
or the sort of space that we're used to, like a Euclidean space.
So now we're about adding space to this idea of time in the environment.
So the next step is to be able to see motion.
And being able to see one thing move from one segment of the environment to another segment,
as opposed to something happening in one segment, and then something happens in another segment.
One has to have this idea of object persistence, that there's a thing that has an identity,
and its identity doesn't change over time.
And it doesn't change when you move it someplace else, when it appears someplace else in the environment.
It's the same object.
So this is an idea that psychologists call object persistence,
and it's an idea that physicists call translational invariance.
Translational invariance means two things.
It means that if I have an object and I move it to a different location, I don't change the object.
It's the same object that I move from here to there.
So the location doesn't change the object.
But it also means the reverse of that.
It means that the object doesn't change the location.
My container remains invariant, even though I move the object around in it.
So these are kind of the two faces of translational invariance,
and they're the two faces of object persistence.
As the object moves through time, its identity remains fixed,
and it doesn't change the time that it's moving through.
So if I'm measuring its motion with a clock,
moving the object doesn't change the clock.
These are clearly very classical ideas.
And we talked about earlier classical communication.
And when we talked about classical communication,
and for example the context of a Bell EPR experiment,
we talked about the observers being able to write down some data
on a piece of paper or on a disk drive or something,
and hand those data to someone else.
So this is translational invariance.
The data can't change when Alice gives it to Bob.
Otherwise there isn't classical communication taking place.
And of course there's an up to noise built into here.
The piece of paper might get wet and the ink might run a little bit,
but it's still the same message.
There's still some identity being assumed.
So object persistence is not an idea we get from quantum theory.
It's an idea that we impose on top of quantum theory.
And it's this idea that's intrinsically classical.
So we're looking right here at the quantum to classical transition.
This is it.
This is what gets added to quantum theory to get classical physics.
It's this idea of object persistence.
Now once we have object persistence,
we can kind of go to town constructing space.
And here's how we do it.
We all learned about object persistence this way
when we were six months old doing motor babbling
and observing our hands and feeling how our bodies worked.
And seeing objects that we could manipulate
and that didn't change when we manipulated them.
So this is the birth of object persistence.
This is the birth of classicality in human psychology.
So now let's start thinking about building a coordinate system.
What's a coordinate system?
A coordinate system is just a set of labels that are attached
to these segments of the environment.
And to build a coordinate system, you have to have an origin.
And an origin means an object, something that's fixed,
something that doesn't move around.
And so a coordinate system requires the ability
to identify a stigmurgic memory.
Requires the ability to find something in the environment
that has a meaning that stays constant over time.
And that's what a stigmurgic memory is.
It's something in the environment that provides us
with a memory resource that we can count on being the same.
And it's having this fixed point
that allows us to label these connected segments
of the environment that contain objects that move
and be able to say, okay, the object moved
from this part of the environment to another part.
And I can give those parts labels with respect
to this other part that doesn't move, this origin point.
And once I have this, I can construct other invariances.
So for example, I can consider an object that rotates
around this origin without changing its identity.
And that defines what's called rotational invariance.
And I can also talk about an object that gets bigger
and smaller compared to this fixed point.
And that defines radial distance.
And if you think about the baby in the previous slide
that's doing motor babbling, it sees things getting smaller
as it moves them farther away.
So the visual system does this computation for us
and constructs this radial coordinate for us
with our bodies or specifically our heads, our eyes.
So in doing this very early motor activity,
we're actually building the spatial coordinate system
for our brains that's implemented by the hippocampus,
the place cells in the hippocampus.
And if I have an origin point in the environment,
I can also infer that I am moving,
that I have changed my location with respect to that object.
And that's a considerably more complicated inference
because you have to have a representation of the self of you
to say I moved.
So this is something that comes after you've developed
this spatial coordinate system.
You have to be able to locate, in a sense, metacognitively,
a particular object that's you in that coordinate system.
So we're going to set that aside and now talk about adding
some numbers, so adding a metric.
And adding a metric requires another particular kind of object,
which is a ruler, a particular fixed object that can be moved
around and that has translational invariance
and rotational invariance up to some transformation,
up to some tensor.
And in Euclidean space, that tensor is the identity.
So in Euclidean space, you have perfect translational
and rotational invariance.
As you get into general relativity,
then the ruler can actually change its length as you rotate
or the ruler can change its length as it moves through space.
So effectively, your space time can deform.
The coordinates of your space time can deform
and that gives you the representation of mass,
of course, in general relativity.
So we talked several sessions ago about quantum reference frames
and I use the example of rulers and clocks as quantum reference frames.
So now we see how to construct those from observations
and symmetry breaking and object identity,
all of which we need to define a quantum reference frame
out in the environment like a ruler.
And notice that we don't need any of that environmental stuff
to define those QRFs within our own processing.
And in fact, the ones that exist within us,
we have no direct access to.
We can look at someone else's brain and talk about
their spatial representation system,
but we can't look inside our own brains
and talk about our spatial representation system.
So this is how we get a metric space from the ground up.
And we've talked about this from a very psychological
or biological point of view.
Starting from sort of motor capabilities,
motor babbling, for example,
a measure of effort, which gives you some sense of mass.
So if it's easy to move something, it's light
and if it's hard to move something, it's heavy.
And we understand that when we're six months old
because we can measure how much force we're having to apply
with our muscles.
We have a reference internally for this force that we're applying.
And we use that internal measurement to attribute
this idea of mass to things in the environment.
We have to have memory from manipulations.
We have to be able to identify variances that define
objects, object persistence.
And we have to be able to build a ruler
that we can move around and use to define a metric space.
Now, this is very different from the way physicists approach this.
And if you look at the physics literature,
then people start with information transfer.
They talk about entanglement as a basic resource.
There's a lot of discussion of bulk boundary duality.
And the most well-known one is the duality between antideciderspace,
which is the sort of space you see inside a black hole
