Well, it's not only a thing, Nate, but let's, let's think for just a moment about, I mean,
I just described to use your time, your term, the energy blindness of three or four American
presidents. And by the way, Biden is absolutely, you know, following in Obama's flawed foreign
policy footsteps. So this, you know, my criticisms are not political at all here. I mean, we could
talk about that in a different time, but I'm just talking about how, you know, how four
American presidents have completely failed to grasp the, the central importance of energy,
not just because it's important, but as the, as the core of American foreign policy,
as it was set out by Franklin Roosevelt and fully understood by every president, even,
you know, the evil Nixon, I mean, they all got it. And then somehow we forgot it. Now, you know,
to your point though, about, about Russia and where I'm going here, if you for a moment, if anyone
for a moment thinks that the, you know, the, the leaders of Saudi Arabia are energy blind, I got
news for you. You know, I mean, energy is their gig. I mean, that's what they do. They, they may
not always make the right decisions, but it's not for lack of knowledge and information. And
Vladimir Putin, as we have discussed, I think on this, on this channel once before, I mean, this
guy has, you know, I don't know if it's a PhD, it's different in Russia, but he has a degree
in resource economics. He wrote his dissertation or, or his thesis or whatever you want to call it
on basically how the Soviet Union fell for failure to understand its energy infrastructure
requirements. And, you know, people will say, Oh, well, he didn't really write it. And, you know,
it was a crappy thing. I don't care. The guy knows a lot more about energy than four American
presidents put together in his counterpart in Saudi Arabia does too. I mean, the real squeeze
in the near term isn't even the United States because we, what are we consuming 20 million
barrels and producing 18 all in or something like that? Right now? Well, 20 million barrels of
products, we're, we're producing something, you know, pretty close to 13 million barrels of crude
oil and condensate, you know, and we don't want to get into the, you know, the slight of hand that
you and I discussed before. Yeah, green paint. Right, right, right, right. But yeah. So, so we're
still a significant importer if you net everything out.
And we're a significant exporter of products. So let's not, you know, let's not forget that
either. And we do export, you know, we're exporting something like four million barrels a day of
crude oil on top of all that. But yeah, net net, we are a consumer. We're not a net exporter.
You're right. Yeah, right. On oil, but on gas and coal, gas, coal and oil combined,
we're at the near the highest point of energy independence in quite a while, like around 90%,
which is much better than Europe, which doesn't have the shale revolution that we had.
Real quickly on that, you and I talked a few weeks ago, there are shale deposits in Europe,
which people who are worried about oil, peak oil and oil depletion in the future are pointing out,
yeah, we'll develop those. But didn't you tell me that a lot of those are like right underneath
Paris or in the heavy population areas and therefore won't be able to be drilled? Can you,
give a quick FYI on that? Yeah, so, I mean, there's a lot of shale in the world.
But the only shale that counts is marine shale, okay? And shale that was deposited in the ocean.
So right away, you can take, I don't know what the number is, but let's just say for argument's
sake, half. You take half and throw it away, because it doesn't have the necessary organic
components to make oil or really very much natural gas. You say, well, how much of what's left
is actually at the right burial depth to cook it into mature oil and you can throw away something
like another half. And then of all of that, how much is in a place where you can actually get to
it commercially or like you say, what if it's under the city of Paris or under the Grand Canyon or,
so there's a whole lot of areas that get excluded. And in Europe, you've got a pretty high population
density. People usually don't like to see oil rigs or coal mines in their backyards.
And then you factor in on top of that, that the United States and maybe Argentina and Canada are
some of the only countries in the world that have private ownership of mineral rights.
And so there's absolutely no benefit to a citizen living in, let's just say France,
since he brought up Paris. He doesn't get a thing if somebody drills an oil well on his property.
He just gets the damage of having to deal with the roads and the mud and all of that. So there's
no incentive for people to say, well, this kind of sucks, but at least I'm going to make some money.
So you start adding it up. Unless it's force majeure and the government just comes in and says,
sorry, buddy, we need the energy. Right, right. Well, that's certainly possible. But the point
is that geologically, there are lots of reasons why there's still only a fraction of the shale
in the world that's really worth going for. The United States got real lucky. I mean,
the Middle East got lucky on conventional oil. The United States and Canada got lucky on
unconventional oil. There's no good reason for it. It just is. But no, the idea that everybody
can do what we've done in the United States, it's just not true. Here's a question just
because I'm curious. I don't expect you to have the answer. But when the oil was formed,
was that, or at least some of the oil, was Gondwana land together or were the continents
different and the oceans different when oil was formed? And you said the US and Canada got lucky.
I mean, it's a newer province. But where the oil is found was ancient oceans. So when the oil was
was initially laid down as dead phytoplankton and algae and such in the oceans, were the continents
much different? I mean, it wasn't Asia and North America then, was it?
Well, okay. So geological history is long, right? So I think I've told you this before. Ask a
geologist almost any question. The answer is it depends. So if we're talking about 400 million
years ago, well, yeah, the continents were kind of all together. If we're talking about most of the
oil or the source rocks that have generated the oil today in North America, most of those were
laid down during the Jurassic, which was the period of dinosaurs, if you will. And by then,
the Atlantic Ocean had opened up. And a lot of the source rocks were laid down. And this gets back
to some of your discussions with ocean scientists in waters that became stratified and effectively
dead to life, lack of circulation, the kind of thing that's starting to happen in the world
oceans today. That's an awesome place to lay down source rocks. It's a terrible place for anything
other than algae to live. So in the Jurassic, in North America, we had, and parts of the Cretaceous,
tremendous areas where there was just this nasty, stinking black muck that was accumulating on the
bottom of the ocean. That made the source rocks. That was good for oil. It didn't happen everywhere.
So the stratified oceans and the death of hundreds of millions of years ago enabled
the energy surplus that fuels Las Vegas junkets and smorgasbord today.
That's what makes good source rock, lots of death, lots of things dying. And algae have this awesome
ability just to consume oxygen like crazy, right? I mean, that's what they do. So yeah,
it's not a pretty story. You wouldn't want to go to a beach resort during the Jurassic,
probably not a good suggestion. So I don't think you can see this per se,
but this is from an ancient ocean. This is actually two billion years old. These are cyanobacteria
fossilized in Jasper. It's called Mary Ellen Jasper and it's a stromatolite. These little
stacks are where the cyanobacteria moved up towards the light and did photosynthesis.
These things were alive two billion years ago. I get them wet because then I can see them better.
Anyways. And you would not have wanted to be on the beach that those stromatolites were living
on. It would stink to high heaven and be toxic as hell. Well, I wouldn't have been able to live,
I don't think. We didn't have an oxygen environment. No, that's true. Yeah, right.
So I want to get to the SPR, but maybe since you brought up Shale, where is the peak discussion?
Not that I care about the peak, but the peak so far in global oil was, to my knowledge,
fourth quarter of 2018. And we've almost hit it again. And a lot of the shale plays in the
United States are in permanent decline now, except for the Permian, which is a monster
and keeps increasing. And some people say there may be decades more growth in the Permian.
Can you give us a little sense of how all that fits together?
Yeah, sure. So you're absolutely right. The Permian is a monster. Saudi Arabia is a monster.
This is just the luck of the draw, I suppose. But the Permian, so there's two cases here. There's
the geological case, which is sort of the upside, which is to say that they're very likely could be,
let's just be conservative and say, let's say there's at least a decade of plenty of more oil
in the Permian. That's the good news. The bad news is, well, yeah, but where's the money,
where are the credit markets, the capital supply that's needed to fund that investment? And the
answer is, they're nowhere to be found. And you add into that the fact that investors have told
these companies, and today a lot of the big operators in the Permian basin are familiar names
like ExxonMobil and Chevron and Occidental. I mean, big oil companies, and there are others too.
I'm not excluding anyone. And their investors have said, hey, we want returns. We don't want this
growth thing anymore. And so even if there were more money available to invest, investors are
saying, given to us, we don't want you to spend it on exploration and development. And so if you
take that lens, which is really a much more get back to your force majeure kind of thing, I mean,
I suppose the government eventually could come in and say, we're not going to have any more of
this. We're going to be drilling like crazy here, but that's not where we are today.
And so my sense of it is that geologically, we're reaching kind of a plateau. I mean, I did a study
that I think you saw a bit of back in the early part of this year, which says that the average
well new well in the Permian is, you know, maybe 15 or 20% not as good as one back in 2017, 2018.
So that sounds pretty bad. But then you start looking at the economics of and say, holy cow,
I mean, you can make a ton of money on a well that's only 15% less good than something in 2018.
So there's still some a point there, Nate, is that there's plenty of with with oil at 80 or 90
dollars? Well, actually, the the break even that I calculated, and this was, you know, all
costs in and like an eight or 10% return discount rate, those those break even prices were, you know,
in the in the mid to upper $40 range. So no, I mean, so that that's why these shale companies
are making money hand over fist right now at $80 oil, because at least based on the way I calculated
their costs, let's just say it's 50, I mean, they're making 30 bucks a barrel, that's pretty darn good.
So let me take a side tangent there and involve the climate discussion. There is
large pushback and, you know, admittedly from a systems blind perspective, but there's huge
pushback that the vacillations of oil price when oil price is high, some of these companies are
making egregious profits. And personally, I think that's similar to Intel or Home Depot or other
places making profits, it just so happens to be the the hemoglobin of our modern life that
these companies are extracting and refining and selling. But do you have thoughts on that? I mean,
how do we go from a year in 2020 when oil was negative $30 a barrel briefly? And if it costs
you $50 a barrel to get it out of the ground, obviously you are in a world of pain. To then
the flip side when there's some scarcity and Saudi Arabia and Russia turn off the spigot and that
raises oil prices and therefore profits for companies, what is your sense on that because
the environmental pushback seems to be growing? I think you're right in what you said and that is
that we have learned to hate oil companies and I'm not going to get into whether they deserve it
or not, but that's just a fact. And because it's so present in our lives, I mean, every time we
go to fill up our car with gas or diesel, we're painfully aware of what it costs. But oil companies
are no better or worse, really, than any other kind of corporation that's in it for the money,
right? I mean, that's the system we've got. It's not a question of whether I agree with it or not.
Nobody asked my opinion. That's the way capitalism works. And we have to remember
in fairness that, I mean, the oil companies had, I mean, they've had a decade before all those
higher prices of terrible prices when they were losing money. And I mean, so I'm not an apologist
for the oil industry, but since I've worked in it, I'm here to tell you it's a tough business
to survive in, both as a company and as an employee. It's not an easy place to be.
And I'm not asking anybody to feel sorry for the oil companies. I'm just asking, like you say,
think of Home Depot or Intel. I mean, they have bad years, they have good years, and they need
the good years to make up for the bad years. It's just that simple. So getting back to,
I agree with you, getting back to the best case. So the geology, the decline rate.
And by the way, have you updated your US decline rate of the majority of production? I've been
using one of your charts showing like a 35% or to 40% decline rate if we stood still. Is that
still valid? It is. I just recently did that. And this is again for all wells, not just shale,
every stinking well that's drilled in the state of, I took the five or six biggest producing
areas in the country that include Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, North Dakota, Gulf of Mexico, New Mexico.
And those account for like 85% of all US production. When I did the decline on that,
I came up with 36%. And that's a production weighted decline. So that's not a simple average
of all those states. So that's the number and that's not hugely different than before. So
yeah, so all production is falling off a cliff if you don't drill a ton of wells
to replace the oil that's being used. So we have four components not to get
overly complicated. We have the decline of our legacy wells, all the wells that were drilled
before today. If that's all we had, and that was at 100, it would decline by 36% in the next year.
Then the second component is we have new wells that were drilling and adding that to this declining
amount. And then we have global exports, which we can pay money for and buy other people's oil.
And then the fourth thing is on top of all those three, we have the strategic petroleum
emergency oil bank account, which we can draw from and supplement those other three. Is that
a correct summation? You nailed it, sure. Yeah.
Okay. So what is the best case in your view, the best case on geology and technology,
assuming there are no credit disasters and that growth continues and that we don't have a nuclear
war with NATO and Russia, and that we have international cooperation with all the relevant
countries? What is the peak oil update, as it were? I think that we are at a point where
decline is the only thing that I see out there. And we can argue about it. I actually made a
forecast that I shared with you, and it's kind of similar to one of BP's cases. I didn't copy
them, but one of the BP cases has oil production declining 20%, 25% over the next 15 or 20 years.
It's not as extreme as the net zero roadmap, which isn't meant to be a projection by the IEA.
It's less optimistic than the US EIA's kind of business as usual forecast.
And that's not to say that we won't reach a new peak temporarily, but the big picture long term
is that we're just not going to have the supply, which doesn't mean that it isn't there to be
developed. We're just not going to have it available to us because of some combination of geology,
lack of investment, et cetera. And then you bring in this angle of higher oil prices.
And I mean, that's ultimately what kills not only oil demand, but economic activity and
economic growth. And so at some point, you get to a price where you and I just say, geez,
you know, I'm going to leave the truck in the garage today. I don't need to go out all that
much. And so we start cutting back and that has a ripple effect first through the oil market,
but eventually since oil pretty much is the economy, or at least GDP and oil correlate
as perfectly as you'd ever want to have two things correlate. At some point, you start using less
energy and when oil is the master energy resource, at least for now, the economic
activity of the world is going to go down and then price goes down and et cetera, et cetera.
And those are the kinds of things that, and again, this is ignoring the catastrophe scenarios you
just mentioned, but these things happen, they're real. And we only have to go back to the 1980s
I mean, oil prices were as high as they'd ever been in 1980, you know, oil was something like $120
a barrel in today's dollars, and demand just cratered. And we had 13 years of super low oil
prices. And that was one of the main components of Ronald Reagan and Paul Volcker's success story,
Reaganomics and all that. They didn't have high oil prices to deal with. Now the flip side of that
is all the developing countries in the world, like South America and Africa that were saddled
with US commercial bank debt that were in a damn depression. I mean, that's why demand went down
so much. And so, you know, again, talking about interest rates and the things that are going on
in the financial world right now, we're not going to repeat the 1970s and 80s. Don't get me wrong,
I don't believe in that kind of stuff. But we are absolutely set up for triggering a real depression
in a lot of debt saddled countries outside of the United States and Europe. And that's gonna,
that's gonna really hurt demand for oil and therefore the global economy.
Peak demand.
Well, for a lot of reasons, yeah, it's not, it's not peak demand because people are sick of oil and
