whatever you like. Okay, so the SPR is important. It's an insurance policy. The media is blowing
out of proportion a little bit. And if they were not energy blind, they would be focusing on
the reality of the United States draining America first and selling that oil to other
countries is a much bigger deal than draining the SPR. Exactly. So here's just a naive question.
Have you ever been to one of those salt caverns? Have you ever allowed?
Yeah, I mean, you have to make arrangements. But yeah, you can go visit. It's not very exciting.
I mean, it looks like on the surface, it just looks like a bunch of oil tanks. And you know,
there's you can drive around and the tanks go down thousands of feet. They had to drill a well
and put pipe in it. And it connects to a cavern that's been dissolved out of a giant hunk of salt.
They just, you know, force fresh water in there and dissolve it out. And it makes a great place to
store oil because it's impermeable, it's large. And, you know, it can't get out of the salt and pollute
the beds around it or anything else. And they just pump, you know, millions of barrels in and
every once in a while, they pump millions of barrels out and hopefully we'll someday get around
to putting back in what we pumped out. But yeah, there's a couple of them that are pretty close
to where I live in Houston. So a savvy practice would be to keep those tapped off all the time,
topped off in case there is an international emergency or whatever. Do other countries,
does Europe have strategic petroleum reserves like similar?
It does. I mean, the United States is by far the largest in the world, at least as far as we know.
We don't really know what China has. They're not very transparent and, you know, their storage or
anything like that. But my guess is that China probably has a pretty respectable one. I mean,
they are the second economy in the world. They're the largest oil importer. And, you know, so
just parenthetically, I mean, we didn't really get to talking too much about the bricks and all
that stuff. But, you know, the assumption that, you know, that China would do really well from
high oil prices I think is misinformed. I mean, China is a big consumer and China is going to,
I mean, their strategy for years has been to dump product out on the market when prices
get high to lower the prices. So, you know, we're just, there's a lot of kind of ideological
misconceptions about, you know, who's on what side and what their interests are. But as far as
strategic petroleum reserves, when Biden decided to do this, it was done in concert
with a number of our European allies. And it was a way of, you know, kind of putting a stick in
OPEC's eye and saying, okay, you guys want to cut? Guess what? We can pump.
Yeah, but it's the deferring the second marshmallow sort of thing. It's just one of
those many choices that we can consume now and pay later. Because at some point in the future,
not only the oil and the SPR, but the oil in the ground will be incredibly important to our
children and beyond. And it is important to us. We just don't value it the way we should.
Exactly. Okay, my friend, thank you for that education on the SPR. If you have a few more
minutes, I know you're in grandfather babysit mode, so I want to be respectful of your time.
But I never did ask you the closing questions that I've come to ask all of my guests. And I know
you listened to this podcast because you often tweet out the day after you listened to the latest
episode. So you have been a macro observer thinking about these issues for a very long time,
long before you and I met. What is your personal advice to listeners at this time of converging
human predicaments ahead of the great simplification or whatever you might call it? What advice would
you have to people listening to this program? My advice would be to take a breath and don't
let yourself get caught up in the kind of anxiety that our media and a lot of our political leaders
and certainly even our friends and colleagues want to draw us into. I'm not here to tell you
that everything's going to be great or that everything's going to work out or that life is
going to carry on just as it has. In fact, I'm confident that none of those statements will be
exactly true. But what I think I've learned and learned from others, not just from my own experience
and study, is that things are rarely as bad as they seem. Or at the very least, when they seem
really bad, that means that everything bad that could happen sort of has to happen simultaneously
and in an aggregate way. Now, that doesn't mean that bad things and terrible things don't happen
because occasionally they do. But it's very rare that all of the horrible things that we can imagine
might happen will all happen at the same time and will all happen like tomorrow morning. It's
like some of these movies. All of a sudden, climate has catastrophically changed tomorrow and
New York City is flooding or freezing or whatever. Those are just not probable outcomes. So
take a breath and go talk to a friend or meditate or read a novel or something. And
think about all of the trials that people in the past have faced and somehow
they either lived through them or they adjusted to them. This too will pass in some way, not without
pain, but it's probably not as immediate as we all think. Now, lots of bad scenarios could happen,
but more likely than not, it's whatever happens, it's going to be how well you take it and adjust
to it. I think Darwin, whether he actually said it or not, doesn't matter. It's not about who's
the fittest of the species that survives. It's which one is the most adaptable. So be one of those
more adaptable and you may need to learn some things. I certainly need to learn some things.
I mean, I don't have this all figured out, but whenever I get a little freaked out,
I try to remind myself, settle down for a minute. Remember who I am and where I am
and talk to a friend, read a book. That's what I recommend.
How would you change that advice for young humans listening to this program, 17 to 25 years old?
Well, first of all, I wouldn't, I would try not to despair. Try not to see myself and my generation
as a target. The world is a tough place, but it's kind of impersonal in the end and it is true.
It's absolutely true that your generation is going to have to bear an awful lot more of the pain
of what we're doing right now than my generation or yours, Nate, who are only a little bit younger
than I am. That's a fact. I can't make that go away, but I don't think anybody planned this
to cause you or your generation pain. I'd say, I mean, read your paper on the super organism.
This is just or listen to some of the many podcasts. This is just the way that human
society has evolved. It wants more. It takes more and there are consequences to all that.
It's not a good thing and I'm not making excuses for it, but don't take it personally.
Figure out, okay, this is happening. I can waste a lot of energy wishing it weren't happening or
trying to blame whoever I think it is. That's the most important thing. Blaming
accomplishes absolutely nothing. It may make you feel a little bit better for a moment, but
let's just say that the CEOs of five oil companies are, in fact, solely responsible for
everything that's happening to our planet. Put them in jail, boil them in oil. Do whatever you
want. Did that make you feel better? Maybe, maybe not. Did it help the planet? Not a bit.
So it's natural. I'm flawed. I'm human. I want a first reaction. Who's to blame? Who can I put
my, but it's not helpful. It's just not helpful. What can I do in my little circle of friends and
family to somehow make things better with what we have? Thank you. Do you have any career advice
for young humans given what you know about our biophysical landscape? I would look beyond
the emphasis, the mainstream emphasis of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. I mean,
that's the direction I went. So I'm maybe not a great person to seek advice from, but
there's a whole other side of life which is more attuned to, as you said a little bit earlier,
about the metaphysical, the things like philosophy, things like religion. And I'm not
pushing religion, but things like religion. Just going after all the things of this world,
the tangible pieces of this world that we can measure and count and put in a bank account
or whatever, that's certainly, we need that to survive. But if that's all that there is in life,
then I think life is, at least for me, it's not really worth living very much. I mean,
there is the side of creativity and satisfaction and empathy and compassion that most of us,
and I'm speaking from personal experience, I mean, I was frozen in some sort of state
of emotional underdevelopment. I mean, here I was 50 or 60 years old and I had the emotional
equipment of a kid in the junior high locker room. And in many ways, I still do. And you
criticize me occasionally for some of those behaviors, Nate. But okay, I see that. I'm aware
of that. And so be aware, be aware of what's happening and pick a career that gives you
bliss and ignore all the people that tell you, well, how are you going to make any money doing
that? Don't worry about it. I mean, it should be somewhere in your awareness. But if that's really
what you want to do, then you should follow that. I mean, I didn't. It took me, I mean,
my first degree was in history for crying out loud, you know, it took me until I was, you know,
10 years out and the father and had done a bunch of odd jobs and I'm better for it, by the way,
to say, you know, I really like the earth. And I don't know why it took me so long to figure it
out. But and I was told by some very important people, including my parents, you're no good at
that. You'll never be any good at that. Well, I'm not saying they were wrong. And I'm right,
I'm saying I'm sure glad I did it because I still love what I do every day.
Well, history was at least in the right direction. You just really wanted to study the history of
rocks, not people. The history of everything. That's what I wanted to say. I didn't know you're
right. Yeah, yeah. So what do you care most about in the world, art?
I care about life, not just my own, although I am selfish. I care about, you know, I'm here
being with my grandchildren, my wife's here with me, I care about my family, my dogs here with me,
I love her, my, you know, my daughter's dog is here. I mean, you know, they're hamster,
all the birds that are outside. I mean, we're all, we're all together. And that's not just a,
you know, the COVID cliche, we're all in this together. I mean, we all are in life together.
That doesn't mean that we all need to, you know, to be working towards a goal. I mean, that's such a,
well, that's another conversation altogether. But, you know, we all are here together in this life.
And it's a mess in a lot of ways, but it is a beautiful thing. It is a beautiful, beautiful thing.
And some days I have to remind myself just, you know, how, how much I really enjoy, I mean,
we were talking on the phone the other day, and I said, Nate, are those ducks in the background?
Yes, they were. And you put me on FaceTime and there were those ducks and they were funny.
They made me laugh. They were great, you know, I mean, they make me laugh every day. They make me laugh.
Again, I don't have this figured out, not even close, but pick something that, that just
really makes you want to learn more about it and do more with it, whatever that is. I wish I'd
had done it sooner, but I'm not sorry that I did it the way I did it.
If you were, had a magic wand and there was no personal recourse to your decision,
what is one thing you would do to improve planetary or human society futures?
I warned you, ask a geologist and you're going to get an, it's depends answer, but
I'll give you an optionality answer. How about that? I'll give you a choice. If I'm the, if I'm
the king of the world, if I'm the emperor of the universe, I'm going to give you two choices. You
have to do one or the other. The first is you need to listen to every single one of the great
simplification podcasts. And if you don't like that option, then you have to put in an equal
number of hours with a psychological therapist. And you're probably not going to want to do either
one of those, but those are the two things that, that I would require if I could with no recourse
of every citizen and you're going to fight and you're going to scream like most people do,
but because you don't have a choice, you're going to come out of it somehow
changed in some way, I hope.
Well, what you're really saying is we need to have broader systems education and we need to
have people healed from trauma and do inner work so that we can live more in the post-tragic instead
of the tragic and both enjoy life and contribute to the collective predicament we face. So
I, I agree with that. I agree with those two categories. My friend, this is your fourth time,
I think, with the round table. I would like to continue to have you come back. We've covered a
lot of different topics. I wanted to have you on today because of the, the bricks and the oil and
the SPR. Is there a topic that, that you are curious about that's relevant to our future
that you would like to take a deeper dive on the next time you're on?
Well, since you asked, yeah, there is. I'd like to pursue the, the topic that I told you
got me in a little bit of contentious water just recently, which is the title of, of, of the talk
I gave was getting honest about the human predicament, which almost sounds like it could be a frankly
or something. So, you know, you've influenced me a lot, but yeah, let's talk about, about the,
what, what actually is realistic and feasible versus what is just basically, you know,
fooling ourselves about where we're going with the ideas, the, the potential solutions that people
talk about for this predicament we're in, which goes beyond climate change. I mean, obviously,
that's, that's front and center for a number of people, but I know you and, and your listeners,
you know, we're interested in ecology, we're interested in the earth, where some of us are,
some of us are, are really concerned about financial situations, geopolitics. I mean,
that, you know, there's a whole lot of stuff that kind of all comes together and we can't cover all
that, but let, I would like to just sit together the next time and talk about, let's explore. Okay.
If you think this is a good idea, whatever it is, renewables or net zero or, you know, or nuclear
or, you know, fusion or whatever, you know, let's just play that forward and see what kinds of things
we, we, we learn when we investigate that path further than just, you know, the, the headline.
Let's do it. Sounds like a plan, three months, masermanis to be continued. I'm sure we will
talk soon. Enjoy your time with your grandchildren and thank you again for your, your time and expertise
sharing today. Always a pleasure, Nate. You too. If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of
The Great Simplification, please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit
TheGreatSimplification.com for more information on future releases.
