We're talking about going back to a standard of living that you and I grew up in, you know,
back in the 60s, 70s, and 80s, which was a lot lower than it is today, but as I remember,
you know, I didn't want for too much. I mean, life was pretty good. And I'm not saying everything
is going to be great. There's obviously going to be going to be lots of problems. But but
so much of it has to do with what can I learn to be satisfied with?
I would like to welcome back to the show Art Berman. Art is a friend, a colleague,
a petroleum geologist with over 40 years working in the petroleum industry. Today we talk about
the expansion of the BRICS nations and how Saudi Arabia and Russia account for a large amount of
global export capacity of oil. We talk about the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Is that a big deal?
Is that a good decision to be drawing it down? We talk about the state of the world oil supply
and the United States shale plays, including the Permian and decline rates and how shale
exists all over the world. But the United States situation is special and that we probably won't
access much of the rest of the world shale. As usual, art is honest and insightful. And this
was a great conversation. I expect to have him back every few months because oil, as Art says,
is the economy, at least for now. Please welcome Art Berman.
Senior Petroleum, Art Berman. Good to see you again.
Good to see you too, always, Nate.
I think we should probably have you every three months or so to give an overview on
oil, energy, and interesting things. Guests or viewers probably don't know, but you and I
have lots of discussions in the background and texts and complaining and opining and
questioning each other on various things. So you haven't been on the show in a while. We have
lots of energy-related topics in the world. Since I've been traveling, I have very few
episodes in the cookie jar and I called you up yesterday. Let's do a podcast. So here we are.
I would like to do an overview of three things. One, have you give us an update on what's going
on with the world oil situation with this new additional countries to BRICS, Russia, etc.?
Also, the second thing I'd like to talk about is the SPR, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve,
has been getting a lot of news in the United States. How critical is that? What's going on?
What's the history? And then third, can you give us a depletion update? What's going on in the
shale basin and what does peak oil and peak cheap oil and the next decade or so look like from the
perspective of geology? And then Lizzie pointed out to me that although you've been on the show
three or four times, since your first appearance was over a year ago, before I had this format,
I've never asked you the closing questions that I ask all my guests, so we'll try to make time for
that today. Let's get into it. What's going on in the world? Oil was down $4 a barrel today,
but it's been close to $90 the last month or so. Give us an overview.
Well, so today, I think oil is just following general markets lower. I mean, we've had some
sell-offs in equity markets and God knows what, but I don't want to get bogged down in the
details of oil because it's only interesting to people that are bogged down and to begin with.
The big picture on oil is that we are in a situation of enforced scarcity that OPEC
and its friends and neighbors called OPEC Plus that mostly includes Russia and a few others
have systematically removed pretty nearly four million barrels a day of crude oil and a few
other products from the market over the last 12 or 13 months, and that's a pretty big chunk.
So it's enforced. So this is not geological depletion. This is their choice for economic
or geopolitical reasons to constrain their exports and production.
Well, yes, and it's a little bit of both. So in other words, what they're doing is they are,
they're choosing to accentuate a supply problem that would not be very great at the moment,
were it not for them making it a very great problem. So they're accelerating a problem which
is pretty much inevitable, and the problem is as simple as demand is recovering or has
recovered back to pre-COVID levels and supply has not. And so they're making sure that supply
absolutely cannot and will not by removing 4% of world export product from the market,
and that does a lot in any commodity market for sure.
Is it 4% of the exports or 4% of the total production?
Well, that's a great question, and the answer is we don't know, but they say they're scaling
back production, but what that translates to is some factor times their production that equals
exports, and since those are big time exporting countries, it works out to be,
maybe it's not 4 million barrels, maybe it's 2.8 or 3.2. I don't know, nobody really knows.
We can measure the seaborne cargoes, we can't really monitor the pipeline stuff very well,
and these days, the complexities, particularly of getting Russian oil to points other than Russia
is beyond anyone's ability to extricate. They're transferring from tanker to tanker.
It's a mess, but it's working for them, it's not working for us.
With the help of our friend Pedro Prieto, I made a chart showing the difference between
world oil production, of which the United States is one of the top three countries,
and world oil exports, which is how much is available to purchase after a nation's internal
consumption is used, and the United States isn't even on that chart. With the addition of Iran
and Brazil, and UAE, along with Russia and Saudi Arabia, the BRICS, or what's being called BRICS Plus
nations, now account for over 50% of what's available to purchase in the global oil market.
Is this just for economic reasons, or is this also having to do with
geopolitics, the petrodollar, the relationships between these political nations? What are your
thoughts on all that? Yeah, it's all of the above, and just a bit of credit to our former
colleague Jeffrey Brown and his land export philosophy or theory way back, gosh, 2006,
2007. He was pounding the table about precisely what you just described, and Pedro helped you with
way back then, and only a few people were paying attention. His point was, gee, as exporting
countries like Saudi Arabia, for instance, become developed countries, they're not going to have
nearly as much oil to export, because they're going to use a lot more of it internally, and that's
going to be a big problem for those of us who import a lot of oil. Who's got enough cash
to pay the price of what's left? And the answer for Jeffrey way back when was, well,
probably not the United States, probably China, or somebody else, and we don't have to
hold him to account for those decade old predictions, but he was notionally dead on.
But this is a challenge for a lot of places in the world that are unable to print their own
currency, and they're also having to exchange whatever currency they have to buy US dollars,
to buy oil, hence the petrodollar. Do you see any possibility of an alternative
oil backed currency emanating from bricks, or is it too small and not powerful enough to make that
happen? Well, I'm certainly not a monetary expert, although I do understand and talk about
its relationship to oil. My sense is that it is happening. It will happen. I think it's going to
happen a lot slower than some of the people that are making a lot of noise about it. And
for the listeners who have not yet listened to your brilliant discussion with Luke Grumman that
I think just was released today, there's a lot of good discussion in there about
some of the reasons, and many of those reasons have to do with just how much
US debt is out there in the world versus how much debt can China, for instance, muster.
And that's just one factor. You guys talk about gold, and that's another one. But
bottom line is that's where we're going. And so we can split hairs about, well,
is that going to be important in five years or 10 years? I don't know. But that's where we're
going, and it is important, and it will become increasingly so. So what you're saying is we
have four million barrels removed from global supply because Russia, Saudi Arabia, and some
other countries decided to close the taps. So without that, if they would have had the taps
open, we would have significantly lower oil prices. Yeah, it's almost hard to see a different
outcome. And so the question that you're really asking or that you asked before was, well, why
are they doing this? And the currency piece is certainly important. But I think there's kind
of a broader perspective that we have to take. And that is, what is the future of oil, at least
in the popular mind? I mean, I think people like you and I believe for better or worse, maybe more
for worse than better, that oil is going to be with us a lot longer than many people think it
will be, hope it will be. And I think that includes us too, if I can speak for you on that. But
yeah, we're not getting off oil anytime very soon, if really ever. But that's kind of,
that's sort of a philosophical or futuristic, I guess, kind of thing to talk about. What's real
out there is the perception in the investment community, and in the public as well, that oil
has kind of a limited future. Or if it doesn't have a limited future, it has come close to
reaching the end of its investable future. And so what happens is when oil prices cycle, like they
have, you know, pick a time, but you know, anytime over the last five years, but you know, let's talk
about the last six months. I mean, you read the press, the oil press, and people are cheering,
oh, this is great, oil is almost at $100, oh, it's terrible, it's at $70. But that's the kind of thing
that makes investors say, I'm staying out of this thing. I mean, that gives me anxiety. I don't know
where this thing is going. And when it's good, it's good. But hey, you know, we're investing in
long term, and we can't deal with that kind of volatility. Well, staying away when prices are
up or down means that future prices are going to go up a lot because we're not investing in the
upstream capacity. That was exactly where I was going to go. So if, so you have a problem, which
is some scarcity, whether it's natural enforced or even perceived, and then because of the way that
financialized, which is to say, you know, futures markets, for the most part, not exclusively, the
way they kind of accelerate or accentuate how quickly prices can move, then you get an anxiety
level that's that starts to be built in. And investors say, well, we're kind of scared to
make the longer term investments that are needed to get rid of the scarcity that we've got. And that
tends to accentuate the scarcity, which as you then point out, ultimately leads to higher prices
in a perfect world. So let me level set here. Please correct my rough interpretation. Most
or all of the growth in oil production in the last 13 years since the end of the great financial
crisis was the US shale and tar sands. Is that correct? Yeah, pretty much. That's it.
So since the last 13 years, the rest of the world, all the other countries have been flat. Well,
and a lot of them have been declining because some of them have been increasing.
Net flat. Okay. I mean, some countries go up a little bit. Net flat. Yeah, net flat. The only,
the only discernible growth trend is in North America and in Mexico is not part of that. So
it's Canada and the United States. And that's been the case pretty much since, you know, 2010.
So you're right. It's been, you know, 13 years or so. Well, well, Mexico is part of North America,
but they're not part of growing oil production because they're in permanent decline after
Cantorrell, etc. Well, and they call the rest of us North Americanos. So they don't consider themselves
part of North America. Is that right? That's true. Yeah. I didn't know that. Oh, yeah. Oh,
but NAFTA still exists. We consider them part of North America. Yes. We consider them part of North
America. They consider us somebody who, who they'll sign a contract with with great mistrust because
of the way that they feel like they've been treated by Los Northeamericanos. But that's,
that's a cultural thing. Well, you, you, you live close to a border with that country,
and I'm on the other end, I have a border with Canada. So, all right. So given that with the
United States, this is what really worries me. And in this domain, I have plenty of worries in
other domains. The US used to have a very good relationship with Saudi Arabia. And obviously,
if you look at the oil triangle, the 600 mile triangle, like two thirds of the world's remaining
oil reserves is, is there Saudi Arabia, Iran, etc. And now, you know, the shaking the hands and the
fist bump with Biden and MBS and now Russian Saudi Arabia are getting closer, Saudi Arabia and
China are getting closer. If anything that trips this up could massively change the amount of oil
on the global export market available to the global North and West. This didn't used to be
the case. It was always like there was an oil bank account in the Middle East. And that seems
incredibly tenuous to me now. Depletion aside, just looking at geopolitics, what are your thoughts
there? Yeah, and, and you know, I hate to, I hate to rag on, you know, on people and things. But
since you asked the question, I mean, the United States has so thoroughly bungled foreign policy
since, well, I'll, you know, I'll give Clinton a break, although he kind of goes both ways,
but really since the first President Bush. And, and so let's just step back briefly into the,
you know, the mists of history and recall that President Roosevelt on his way back to the U.S.
from Yalta made a stop on an aircraft carrier in the Suez Canal to meet with the king of Saudi
Arabia to create a security agreement whereby the United States would guarantee the security of Saudi
Arabia. Now this was 1945. The state of Saudi Arabia was only 12 or 13 years old at this time. So,
you know, really tenuous kind of situation. The United States will guarantee the sovereignty of
Saudi Arabia. If Saudi Arabia will guarantee a future supply of oil to the United States and
its allies and therefore the New World Order, which was being written in places like Yalta by
Churchill and Roosevelt and Stalin and others. And that was absolutely the centerpiece of American
foreign policy from 1945 until the younger Bush decided to screw it up by invading Iraq and
Afghanistan. Now recall his father, the first Bush, did kick Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait
and then stopped. And he stopped for a very good reason. And that was he wanted to honor America's
principle guiding philosophy in foreign policy, which is don't screw things up in the Middle East.
And by not only invading but occupying Iraq and Afghanistan, the younger Bush
thoroughly screwed things up, completely changed the balance of power, gave huge power to Iran.
Saudi Arabia and Iran have hated each other, you know, since the son-in-law of Mohammed wasn't
chosen to succeed him. And, you know, that's a whole nother thing. And then we, you know,
then comes along Obama, who decided that we don't need Saudi Arabia because we got shale.
You know, he listened to all the wrong voices in the room. As Bush did on foreign policy,
we don't really need shale. And what we need is to, or I'm sorry, Saudi Arabia,
what we need is to get into a better relationship with Iran, which of course is Saudi Arabia's
arch enemy. So immediately Saudi Arabia was completely pissed with Obama and the United
States. Obama also decided, you know, it really wasn't worth supporting Israel because what's
Israel got to offer us. So, you know, he just cut the cord on our traditional allies in the Middle
East in favor of, and, you know, I'm not saying he was right or wrong. I'm just telling you,
well, I did say he bungled it, but, but I mean, this, this is what happened. And, and so, you
know, Trump comes into office and, you know, let's give him credit for making Saudi Arabia the first
foreign stop he made as a president. But let's think about what he was doing there. What he was
doing there was he wanted to woo the crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, who at his vision 2030 was,
was planning all kinds of sports events. Okay. And which, you know, now he's buying golf tee,
you know, golf leagues and soccer leagues. And Trump wanted in on, on that game. He wanted,
you know, he's a hotel kind of guy, right? And so he was there, in my opinion, for as usual,
a lot of the wrong reasons. He doesn't, you know, he didn't have any comprehension of oil,
particularly. And so, you know, and so we've got this really rocky relationship. Trump is,
is trying to do something in a weird way. Then Saudi, you know, they get their main refinery
center blown up, presumably by, you know, Yemeni rebels backed by Iran or whatever. And, and, and
nobody from the State Department even calls and says, geez, you know, we feel your pain, man,
just ignore it. I mean, like, you know, it's like a bit of death in the family. So Saudi Arabia has
at least 20 years of reasons to think, man, you guys in America, you suck. You know, you have not
been our friend. You have not had our backs. And yeah, you know, we're glad to buy weapons from you
and stuff like that. But we're kind of, we're kind of looking elsewhere. So that's, that's the
state of affairs to answer your question and not a very simple or short way. But that's,
that's the simple answer as I see it. Well, there's nothing simple. But there's lots of
things perilous about our global energy and geopolitical situation. You just described
Saudi Arabia and their mistrust and fraying of relationship with the United States.
I, I let you in on a little secret. Russia is not all that enamored of the United States at the
moment. And between the two of them, it's 42% of world oil exports between those two countries.
Well, you're precisely right. Yeah. I think they're, and this is a huge risk that we just assume
that there is a global market for things and global cooperation and fungibility and letters of
credit and overnight supply chains will always exist if there's a profit, but there's a geopolitical
trust is probably depleting faster than oil is. And it's, it's a real thing, Art.
