they all, you know, they want to buy a Tesla, it's because they just can't afford what they need.
So, what I love about our conversations is even though we know each other quite well and we
compare notes and ideas, you always lead me to asking questions that I didn't anticipate to ask.
So, here are two. I wonder, because of, like you said, the relationship between the oil and the
economy, economic growth is incredibly tightly linked. You have a chart, it's like 0.97R squared
or something globally. And the fact that a barrel of oil does, depending on the handicap for
efficiency four or five years of our labor, so we have between 300 and 500 billion fossil workers
added. As we raise the cost of those, there is a leveraged multiplier effect on our productivity
and that ends up leading to recession or depression, as you point out. But also what's
happening now is we have become dependent on artificially low interest rates, which also
have a leveraged multiplier in the economy. And interest rates have just had their largest,
like six-month increase, like in history. The 10-year note is approaching a 5%. And that also
has a ripple effect on demand today. The average national mortgage rate is approaching 8%. So,
you've got higher oil prices and higher interest rates. These are the two things that really impact
Jill and Joe's six-packs ability to drive and consume. And I don't, you know, with 33 trillion
debt and interest rates going up, where we're going to have to spend over a trillion dollars
on debt. I don't see a way out of this other than some sort of stagflation. Do you have any
thoughts on all that? Yeah. I mean, I made a slide that I sent to you that I think its title
is something like high oil prices are the silent killer of economic activity. And I don't say that.
It's not a tagline that just sort of sounds good. It's an empirical observation from
40-some-odd years of doing this kind of work and looking back and saying, well,
has this ever happened before? I mean, can we go back in history and find real examples
where this occurred? And I just cited one. I mean, 13 years of most of the world or a lot of the
world being an economic recession in the 1980s and 1990s. I mean, that's pretty terrible. And
it's complicated. It's not just high energy prices, but high energy prices are the dominant factor
and were the trigger. And it's just that simple. And if that happens again, that we go into a
global recession or depression and oil, despite it being incredibly valuable, is down to $10 or
$20 a barrel again, then that will be also a feedback that keeps companies from investing
in more production, meaning it will accentuate the decline rate, et cetera, as per bus, yes?
Totally. So when oil prices got super high back in the 1970s and the very earliest part of the
1980s, companies went and did a lot of expensive exploration in places like the North Sea and
Alaska, in Mexico, in Siberia, places that they would not, they knew about forever,
but would not have gone there at lower oil prices. They discovered a whole bunch of oil.
We had a glut of oil, sort of like we did with the shales when they came in and,
you know, in the first part of this century. And so not only did we have a global recession,
at least in developing countries, but we had an oversupply. Okay, that made oil prices low
for 13 years or so. And so what kind of things did companies go and look for after that? Well,
they had to be monsters. You had to go find elephants, giant fields. Where were those?
5,000 feet of water, 6,000 feet of water. That's where all the exploration was. There were no more,
you know, Alaska's, there were no more Siberia's or, you know, or Mexico's, those had been found.
So, and then the shales came along because oil prices got high again. So the question is,
where do we go next? What's the next geology or technology that works us out of the scarcity
cycle that I described in the beginning of this conversation? And we don't know, but the hope,
among many people, including those who want to get off oil, is that it's renewables.
Or the Arctic. Oh, well, yeah, good luck with that. But, yeah, there are lots of possibilities,
but not with low oil prices. I mean, so, you know, that's, you know, the question you just raised is,
okay, so if we crater oil prices, then what's out there for us? And the answer is, it better be
renewables than even going to be geology. You know, at least not that I don't. Well, the answer that
you and I think and have come to the conclusion is less energy consumption is the answer.
That is the answer. And the other thing is interest rates. Go ahead, Art.
It's not an answer anybody likes and people criticize. So, well, no one's going to do that
voluntarily. And geez, I never thought about that. Of course, we're not going to do that
right. No, I know. So, the other thing with interest rates, though, is interest is the
largest expense for many renewable projects. So, when we moved from 1% to almost 5% on 10-year
notes, this has a major dent in the affordability of scaling renewable energy unless things change
with financing, et cetera. But there's a parable that we need to remember and that is
shale and renewables. I mean, they couldn't be more different in some ways. But if we go back
10 or 13 years and look at shale, it was all about growth. Investors were piling into shale
because there were huge multiples and, you know, they could make a lot of money on the stock
and they didn't care so much about whether these companies were profitable until they did and then
they all went away from the shales. Well, renewables is right there right now. It's all about the
growth and not about the returns. And that's just fine with investors until it won't be. There'll
come a time when the renewables are going to reach the same day of reckoning that the shales did
and investors are going to say, well, you know, where are the returns, guys? And then the multiples
go down. And so, I mean, this is sort of the logic that I go through when I say that lower
energy consumption is inevitable. I mean, if the next greatest thing is going to possibly repeat
the same cycle as the last greatest thing, then we're talking about a decade or so and we're going
to be out of answers again. Let me put you on the spot, Sr. Petrolio. And if you don't want to
answer this, we'll just skip it and get to the SPR. But the conclusion, which to many of the
followers of this podcast is obvious, that lower material throughput is an inevitable
reality that could happen much sooner than we think, but it's coming in the coming decades
for the United States and for the world related to energy. But most of the global authorities
and experts and international organizations who are considered the foremost go-to places on this
data, you know, the World Economic Outlook, the International Energy Agency, the Energy Information
Agency, couldn't, even if they believed it, could they really say there's going to be less and less
energy and oil available? Or do they have to, for political status, glass ceiling,
reasons somehow obfuscate the story with peak demand or net zero narratives that
embed this decline in a different sort of story? What do you think about all that?
Yeah, well, I mean, we've both had anecdotal experiences over the last couple of months
that I think are parallel insofar as, you know, there are a few people out there, political leaders
and, you know, climate and ecological activists and, you know, and opinion influencers that
understand that, yeah, you know, I mean, all this net zero stuff is probably not going to work so well
and renewables are probably not going to work the way some people hope, but we got to keep telling
people that. But I have to say that the, you know, the most people, they really believe this stuff.
I mean, whether they're, you know, whether they're policymakers or whether they're
climate scientists or, you know, whether they're transportation engineers, I mean,
they truly, truly believe it. And I mean, I just gave a couple of talks a few weeks ago
where I pissed more people off than I think I have in 10 or 15 years back when I was given
the shale talks. I mean, that's saying a lot. Yeah, I've been really trying to be a good boy
and not piss people off. But, you know, basically, why am I doing that? Well, because I'm, you know,
I don't know, why did you piss them off? What did you say? I told them that, that all these,
you know, these energy, these climate solutions were simply not going to work that, that they
needed to understand the human predicament and that their, their, their carbon focus, their,
their climate change focus was a narrow view, that they weren't thinking about the bigger
picture. They weren't thinking about the, the planetary abuse. They weren't thinking about
the kinds of things you and I are talking about, like the economy and, and interest rates and
treasury bonds. And I mean, all this matters. And, and, and, you know, climate scientists,
bless their hearts, you know, I mean, I love them to death, but, but they're, you know, they, they,
they live in a very, you know, in a very limited kind of world. And, and when somebody who's not
one of them and I'm not, gets up there and says, you know, guys, I mean, this is a noble effort,
but everything I say is, see is, you know, this, this ain't going to work the way you think it is.
There are no solutions. They hate that. They hate hearing that. Surely there have to be solutions.
There are responses, not solutions. But the reason I think people like that, and, and I've
get similar response in my presentations, believe that is because we've just gone through 50 years
of lower and lower interest rates, ubiquitous available of credit and growing oil supplies.
I mean, we, we had a phase shift all the way to the 1970s. We grew at 6% per year. And since then,
it's been 2% per year or something like that, but it's been growing. So all of our visions of the
future are supported by our emotional memory of what the last 50 years were. And those interest
rates and those oil prices are not, and the oil amount are not, are going to imply a much different
future when they go the other direction. So yeah, I mean, this is, this is why we have to have these
conversations because I don't know what to do. But I think we need a lot more of those climate
activists, university professors, politicians, civic leaders, community organizers working on
real viable responses and not pine the sky ones that aren't going to materialize.
I mean, the, the, the environment of abundance that we've been in, in my business, the one I
know the most about, which is oil, when, when there's a, when there's optimism about abundance,
prices tend to move in the direction of the most efficient operators with the lowest variable cost,
which is why we were hearing in the early days of the shale revolution, oh, the break-even costs
are now only $60 a barrel. No, now they're 50. Now they're 40. Yay. This is great. Well, you know,
that's not the world that we're in anymore. Now we're in, in, in the, in a world of relative
scarcity. And where does price go in that environment? It goes to the very highest level
that, that consumers can bear. And we're no longer interested in the marginal price.
We'll go wherever it, however much higher it goes until consumers say no. And right now, I mean,
I think oil prices are about $20 over the marginal price. I'm not saying the market's wrong. I'm
saying, well, I'm agreeing with myself. We're way above the marginal cost because we're not playing
the abundance game anymore. A lot of people, like the Singularity Institute say that we're
headed for an era of abundance and the scarcity mindset is dangerous. I've thought about that.
And I actually think the answer is a subtle one. We are headed for a global era of scarcity.
But as an individual human, you can adopt, train yourself, meditate, change your behaviors
so that you personally perceive the world in a way of abundance, even if there is physical
scarcity generally. And I think that's an interesting asymptote to aim for. I'm not there
yet, but I'm trying to go there. It's like a Buddhist economics within a declining capitalist
system. I don't know. Do you have any thoughts on that? Well, that was, I had that conversation with
all sorts of people, a lot of them very young people. In the last two rounds of talks I gave,
one was at a climate conference at a university in Texas and the other was an energy group at a
different university in Texas. And for those that stuck around long enough to get past all the
cherished belief arguments, that's where we got to is, look, we're not talking about life as we
know at ending, we're talking about going back to a standard of living that you and I grew up in,
you know, back in the 60s, 70s and 80s, which was a lot lower than it is today. But as I remember,
you know, I didn't want for too much. I mean, life was pretty good. And I'm not saying everything
is going to be great. There's obviously going to be going to be lots of problems. But so much of
it has to do with what can I learn to be satisfied with? Can I learn to be satisfied with what I
have? Or am I always wanting something more, which more than likely is something I actually don't need?
It's, you know, it's, as you say, it's something you train yourself in.
So hold that thought, because I called you yesterday, Art, let's do a podcast on the SPR. And here
we've talked an hour and we haven't mentioned the SPR. But I do want your reflections on advice
and advice to young people, et cetera. So take a pause, tell us, what is the strategic petroleum
reserve? How did it come about? How much oil is in there? How much oil have we drawn down? How
relevant is that? How accurate are the scare stories out there? I mentioned earlier, we have
our declining oil, which is declining at 36% per year. Then we have our new drilling, and then we
buy extra oil in the world market. But then there's this SPR. And in order to reduce the price at the
pump, we've also been pulling oil out of that to reduce the prices. So give us a story about the
strategic petroleum reserve. The strategic petroleum reserve came into existence in direct
response to the first oil shock in late 1973, 1974. This is what's commonly known as the Arab
oil embargo in response to the so-called Yom Kippur War. So Israel was attacked by Syria and
Egypt, and the Arab countries that had become most of them OPEC about 10 or 12 years earlier
said, well, guys, anybody who's supporting our enemy Israel were cutting off from exports,
which they did, and the US was one of them. And it was a horrendous psychological experience.
Not unlike what we're talking about, Nate. Life didn't end. It's just that people had to wait in
line to get gasoline, horror. I don't want to do it either, but it's not like life ends when that
happens. But the experience, you can imagine, this post-war ambulance that we were going through,
anything is possible, American can do, et cetera. And suddenly we're screwed by some people that
we don't even know. I mean, who are these guys? Why are they doing this to us?
And so in 1975, the Congress passed a law that said, okay, we're going to do two things. We're
going to create a national petroleum reserve, and we're going to pour a whole bunch of oil
into mostly underground salt caverns so that if this ever happens again, we've got a pretty good
supply of our own oil that we can draw on so that we don't get in gasoline lines and et cetera,
like we did this time. And the other thing is we are going to ban export of just about
every kind of crude oil imaginable. Now, we didn't actually export huge amounts of crude oil back
in those days, but we said, look, we just can't afford to do this. We need to keep all our oil
in our country. So that was 1975. And so the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
mostly just kind of sat there, and most of it, by the way, I mean, it's all over the country,
but most of it's in a couple of salt domes here in Texas and Louisiana. And I think I gave you
a slide that actually shows a map of that. And so we're looking at something like 700 million
barrels. So it's a fair amount of oil. There's no question about it. It's not enough. I mean,
the United States uses five billion barrels in a year just to give you some context. So
it's a chunk, but it's a helper. Let's put it that way. It mostly sat there. And then we got to
a point not very long ago towards the end of 2021, when things started heating up with OPEC,
and it looked like probably Russia was going to do something nasty, or maybe not, but in Ukraine,
and we're kind of preparing for all of that. And our President Biden at the time said, okay,
we're going to start releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve so that
we don't feel the pain so much. Now, just between you and me and everybody who's listening,
I think that was an absolutely terrible idea. But we'd already given up on banning crude oil
export in 2016. And that was an even worse idea, in my opinion, but which is the worst of too bad
ideas? I mean, if you're trying to save yourself for a rainy day, you don't do either of them,
right? You can argue about, well, is this the right thing or not? But at least we're doing
something. So two terrible ideas, exporting crude oil again. Now, you know, and everybody who works
for an oil company say, wait a minute, that was a great idea. I mean, look at all the money we're
making. Okay, yeah, it was a great idea for capitalism, a terrible idea for conserving
our own. For our future. Yeah, for our future, exactly. So the SPR, the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve got drawn down from something like 700 million barrels to where it is today,
which is about 360 million. And that's, you know, that's 40%. That's a lot. And so, you know, a lot
of the critics and the analysts and pundits and anti Biden kind of people say, Oh, this is a horrible
thing. I mean, look what he's done, you know, and, and I just said, yeah, bad, bad idea. But those
are the same people that say, Well, but it's a great idea to export crude oil. Well, you know,
you compare the two numbers, and we've drawn down like, you know, round numbers, 250 million barrels
of Strategic Petroleum Reserve, we've exported six and a half billion barrels of crude oil,
since that ban came off in 2017. And I gave you a graph showing the two. And I mean, you know,
it's like this SPR thing is insignificant. Again, we shouldn't have done either, but we did. So if
you want to complain about something that's really affecting our future, stop the crude oil export
or stop complaining would probably be a better idea. Just accept that this is a done deal or
