So I'm going to stand off to the side here because I've got to look back at them like
in the old days where you have to look back at the slides and use a laser pointer rather
than.
So go ahead to the next slide.
This is just an overview of some of the work that we do in our group because many times
there will be criticisms of those who speak at conferences like this that they're not
practicing scientists, that they read papers and they write books, but I write very few
books.
In fact, I've only written one book and I'll never do that again.
I've written chapters for books, but only at great urging.
Usually I just publish papers and we publish papers in journals.
That's what we do in my world.
And so we work in a number of different areas and the reason I'm telling you all this is
because I want you to see that I really am a practicing scientist and this is, I rarely
attend conferences like this.
I'm usually in conferences with scientists and engineers, but we work in an area called
laser induced graphene.
That's where we can take this polyamide sheet and hit it with a laser and write patterns
of graphene.
Graphene is single sheets of graphite, one atom thick and it's the strongest material
known at that level.
And generally it's made at high temperatures and this is all done in the air with a laser.
This is on bread.
That's not dropping down ink.
That is converting the carbohydrate atoms in the molecules in the bread.
These carbon atoms in that bread to graphene.
So we convert that.
That's a coconut.
We turn it into a super capacitor.
So we can do it on food.
You say, why would you want to write patterns on food?
Well, why wouldn't you?
So if you have, for example, a potato and you can just mark it very quickly just on every
one of your plastic bottles, it's a water bottle that has a little laser scribe date.
If we can laser scribe electronics very quickly, you would know exactly what field that potato
was picked from, what date it was picked on.
And if you build in electronics, you can put an E. coli sensor, a salmonella sensor.
You could build in electronics into food very rapidly.
We split carbon nanotubes and we use these in medicine and we use these also in electronics
and batteries.
This is two-terminal memory.
This is all gone commercial now.
This is commercial memory now, two-terminal memory.
We work in the area of traumatic brain injury and stroke.
There'll be a company launch this year for that and also dementia.
We work on super capacitors.
This is where we've taken asphalt and we can trap over 200 weight percent CO2 in it and
we use it for removing CO2 from natural gas.
That's all licensed by Apache.
This is the leg of a cockroach that we can turn into graphene.
I wanted to take something of negative carbon value.
What has negative value?
What do you pay people to take away from you?
That's carbon.
I figured roaches.
We've done it with dog feces.
We can actually turn this into graphene.
Now, just giving you an idea of why you would want to do this, we did this with Girl Scout
cookies.
If you calculate all the carbon in a box of Girl Scout cookies, which is $4 and you convert
that into graphene, that graphene that you could convert just from one box of Girl Scout
cookies would be worth $15 billion.
It shows you that the value of material is not in the atoms itself.
How those atoms are arranged.
Just like if you take a person, what's the value of a human being?
Just take away the spirit.
Just the physical entity, just like a robot.
What would be the value of a human robot?
If you take that entity and you cremate it, you get less than a penny of CO2 and water
out.
Same atoms arranged differently bring the change in value.
A piece of coal, $60 a ton.
Same atoms in diamond, which has very high value.
They're just rearranged differently.
This is where we take graphene and grow carbon nanotubes.
This is a company that started, it's being built up right now just outside of Houston.
It's for lithium batteries.
We work a lot in these areas of cleaning up water.
We work in these area of nanomachines.
If you click it once, this car will start to go, so you click the slide advance once.
Oh yeah, that's not going to run, I forgot, because it's been transferred.
That's okay.
Just trust me, that moves across the surface.
What happens is this top part spins and pushes the car along.
It spins at 3 million rotations per second and propels the car.
These cars are so small, we can part 50,000 of these across the diameter of a human hair,
50,000 of them.
They have little motors that are all light operated.
Now what we're doing is we're taking these same motors that spin at 3 million rotations
per second.
We put on a peptide and that will direct it to the surface of a cell.
A cell of choice, depending on the peptide add-in we put there, and then we activate
the motor and it spins at 3 million rotations per second.
It drills right through and the cell is dead in one minute.
These drilling into cells, so we're looking at this.
If you'd advance to the next slide.
These are just transitions to companies in the past five years, graphing quantum dots.
That's commercial now.
It's working in anti-counterfeiting platforms and also for frack water tracking, two-terminal
ultra-dense computer memory, lithium metal batteries, corrosion inhibitors are already
on the market.
We're working on spinal cord repair, peripheral nerve repair, optic nerve repair.
We want to do the works of Jesus Christ.
We want to make the lame walk in the blind sea.
We've already made the deaf here.
So we're trying to build technologies that can do this and this is real.
We do this type of thing.
We can cut a spinal cord completely in half in a rat and fuse this back up so the rat
within three weeks has a 19 out of 21.
21 is the highest mobility that can be achieved, so it can get to near perfect mobility within
three weeks.
So that's a company now that's going in Tel Aviv, Israel.
Treatment of pancreatic cancer, that'll be in clinical trials within one year at MD Anderson
Cancer Center.
DNA sequencing, this is doing the entire human genome map, entire human genome, not
just 23 and me, the entire genome for $100 in one hour.
This opens it up now to everyone in the world.
We work in this area of water purification based on laser-induced graphene.
We have inserts for texting with long fingernails, so if you have long fingernails and it's hard
to text, you just put it on your fingernails and you can text just fine.
There's actually a big demand for that.
I mean, this is real stuff.
This is the traumatic brain injury stroke and dementia drug that a company will launch
this year.
A synthesis at $100 per ton in energy costs, going to concrete plastic and metals that
will launch this year.
And then the molecular nanomachines to kill cells that's going into cancer and the killing
of superbugs, these things that are not resistant to antibiotic resistance.
We can drill right through them and a friend of mine here, Richard, is here and he works
on this as well.
So these are areas, so we're real scientists.
We do real things.
Okay, next slide.
And the next slide.
This movie is not going to run, so just go to the next slide there.
There's Richard there, and let's go to the next slide.
That was the research group.
So we're going to get into the talk at hand.
I'm not going to make any reference to God, any reference to intelligent designer or anything.
I'm just going to allow science to critique the science.
What do we have to say about origin of life?
What does science tell us?
What can we infer here?
And so by choice, I am not going to mention God, because if I mention God and Jesus Christ,
people will say, oh, to introduce the baby Jesus to talk about this, it's not a real
talk.
All right, this is pure scientific talk.
This would work in any medical school, in any chemistry department.
Next slide.
So this is a cell.
What is the origin of life?
How do you get a cell like this?
What is the origin of something like this?
This is an amazing machine.
A cell is an amazing machine.
It's not just a blob of protoplasm.
Every day, it gets harder to have the origin of life, to come up with a scenario, because
the origin of life becomes more complex every day.
A cell is a factory.
It has the lipid bilayer, which is extremely selective to let certain things in and not
other things.
It has all of this substructure in here, these little areas where energy is made in
here.
It has these microtubules which can form, so you can move matter from point A to point
B.
If you go to a factory, what you see is you see these overhead hanging machines that
are moving materials from point A to point B in these systems.
And the way they do this is they build these racks, but the same thing happens in a cell.
You get these microtubules to move material from point A to point B.
And then as soon as the material is done moving, the microtubule breaks down and then assembles
some other place.
You say, well, why doesn't it leave it there?
Because then the cell would become too rigid.
So it just rebuilds it.
It's just an amazing factory.
What's happening in a cell?
This is what we have to make.
If we want to have origin of life, you've got to start here.
You don't start here.
You start with a single cell.
Just build a single cell.
That's what we have to do in origin of life.
Nobody has ever done this.
If you've been taught that simple forms of life have been made, that is a lie that you
are believing.
Somebody told you a lie that has never been done.
Next slide.
Organisms care about life.
Molecules don't care.
Chemistry on the contrary is utterly indifferent to life.
Without a biologically derived entity acting upon them, molecules have never been shown
to evolve toward life.
Never.
Molecules don't care about life.
They don't know anything about moving toward life.
They have no brain.
Organisms want to move toward life and keep life going.
Molecules don't care about life.
Nobody has ever seen molecules assemble toward life.
Never.
