It doesn't happen without a biological entity working on them.
I asked all my colleagues, can you show me an example of this?
Of molecules moving toward order.
Moving toward an ordered system where you have a non-regular assembly.
An ordered assembly is like A, A, A, A, or A, B, A, B.
That you can get pure thermodynamic assembly.
But non-order assembly is a non-regular pattern.
That's what you have in DNA.
We know from computer science you have to have non-regular patterns in order to have complexity
for living systems.
I asked my colleagues, do you have any example of molecules without a biological entity acting
upon them moving in to give an ordered assembly that is a non-regular pattern?
And they sent me papers where chemists have taken molecules and assembled them in that
way.
It's a non-biological entity.
You can't have a human doing this.
Molecules don't move toward life.
Well even if you want to have molecules move toward life and you have human beings working
upon them, can the human beings do it?
And the answer is no.
Next slide.
So almost every chemical synthesis experiment in origin of life research can be summed up
by a protocol analogous to this.
They purchase chemicals generally in high purity from a chemical company.
So that's what they do.
They first purchase the chemicals.
They mix those chemicals together in water in high concentrations in a specific order
under some set of carefully devised conditions in a modern lab.
Then they can obtain a mixture of compounds that have a resemblance to one or more of the
basic four classes of chemicals needed for life.
So what you need for life is you need carbohydrates, nucleic acids, amino acids, and lipids.
That's what we know.
All life we know composes those four building blocks.
So they try to make those four building blocks.
Then they publish a paper making bold assertions about origin of life from these functionless
crude mixtures of stereochemically scrambled intermediates, much like Miller did in 1952.
Nothing has changed in 66 years.
Nothing.
Nothing's changed.
Only where we were in 1952 is exactly where we have remained.
Think about what's been done in science in the past 60 years.
Think about how we have now satellite connectivity.
Remember in 1952 there had never been a satellite.
Now we have satellite connectivity.
We have cell phones.
We have structure of DNA.
We can manipulate DNA structure.
Nothing has changed in origin of life studies in 66 years.
That's important to realize.
Then you engage with the ever-ever-gullible press to dial up the knob of unjustified extrapolations.
Watch the mesmerized layperson exclaim, you see, scientists understand how life formed.
Then you encourage a generation of science textbook writers to make colorful, deceptive
cartoons of raw chemicals assembling from cells which then emerge as slithering creatures
from a pre-start pond.
That is exactly what has done every one of their experiments.
It's all done like this.
Every one of their experiments can be fit into this.
So what's going to happen is I'm going to go back and a bunch of you are going to send
me articles.
Look at this.
These people have made life, haven't they?
It fits into this.
Trust me.
It fits into this.
Every one of them.
Next slide.
So here's the synthesis problem.
If you just want to make the molecules, remember we have to make those four classes of molecules.
If you just want to make the molecules, here's what you've got to do.
The composed living systems almost always show homochirality, meaning that they have
one handedness and not the other.
The vast majority of biological molecules, except for very small ones like water and
acetic acid, anything larger than that, they're mirror images, just like your left hand and
your right hand are mirror images.
They're non-superimposable.
You can't put a left-handed glove on your right hand.
It doesn't fit.
All molecules are like that in biology.
That is hard to make.
It is very hard to make just one mirror image of a compound.
It can be done, but it's very hard.
So that's part of the problem.
When you're building molecular systems, constant redesigns are needed to take the synthesis
back to step one, that take the synthesis back to step one.
So in other words, when you're going and you're making something, you're like, oh boy, those
conditions didn't work, my stuff decomposed.
So you go back to step one and you bring through more starting material.
And so you take small amounts, you try this, you try this.
Anything that would be happening in a prebiotic earth, it's marching along trying to make
something.
If it makes a mistake, you can't pull that entity off.
Very hard to pull the entity off.
Once it's on there, it's on there.
So you've been going along, say, for 400 million years if you want to take these sorts of numbers
and all of a sudden it's put a wrong moiety on there.
Uh-oh, what am I going to do?
You got to go back to step one.
I got to go back 400 million years.
Yeah, you got to go back there.
Well, I don't know how to go back.
Why not?
Because I never kept a laboratory notebook.
When you don't keep a record of it, you don't even know how to go back.
You don't even know what you're going toward because it doesn't know that it's moving toward
life.
Remember, molecules have no brain.
They don't know where they're going.
That's the synthesis problem.
And they don't know how to stop the course of progression or why to stop.
There's no target.
They don't know.
I think we'll form life today.
I think we'll make a certain, you don't know that.
Molecules don't know that.
So they're going along and things, chemical reactions are happening.
It doesn't have a target.
When you're in the lab, you're going toward a particular target.
You know where you're headed.
Here it doesn't know when to stop or how to stop.
Maybe it's made of carbohydrate.
It doesn't say, why?
Made of carbohydrate.
I think I'll stop.
Synthesize.
No.
It'll go on and make something else from that.
It doesn't know how to stop.
Time, although claimed to be the great savior of abiogenesis, that's before there's biology.
Chemists can actually be the enemy.
For example, carbohydrates are kinetic products.
They undergo caramelization or the Canizaro reaction.
They decompose.
So in other words, when you make a carbohydrate, that is not the final product that would
form in that reaction mixture.
You have to stop the reaction.
So a chemist watches the reaction and they stop it at a certain time to stop that progression
of the molecule going on.
If this is just undirected, unguided, it keeps going to other garbage.
Which are kinetic products, meaning that they caramelize.
They polymerize into a bunch of trash.
Just like when you take sugar and you heat the thing up on the oven and things turns
into caramel.
That's what happens to carbohydrates.
They don't stay nice, simple carbohydrates.
They end up actually dehydrating.
A prebiotic system doesn't have the ability to easily purify the structures.
You have to be able to purify because if you cannot purify, then the byproducts build up
in the system and they start using up your starting material and they start inhibiting
the reactions that you want.
You have to be able to do purification without purification.
You can't work.
Every chemist has to run a reaction and you stop.
You purify.
You get it pure and you go on the next step.
Once in a while, if it's a really pure reaction, you can go on one or two steps, but you have
to purify.
Reagent order is essential.
Reagent addition order.
You can't just say all the reagents mixed together and you get what you got.
You're making a cake.
You got your flour.
You got your milk.
You got your eggs.
You say, well, I think I'll just add the frosting now.
No, there's an order to this.
This is real.
This is what you do in chemistry.
Things have to be added at certain times.
You can't just add it whenever you want to.
Reagent addition order at proper timing is critical.
The parameters for temperature, pressure, solvent, light, no light, pH, atmospheric gases have
to be carefully controlled in order to build complex molecular structure.
There's no way around it.
This is what's needed.
You have to have characterization at each step.
This is hard to do.
Chemists have to characterize things at each step because you have to make sure what you've
got before you can go on to the next step.
How does nature characterize?
Well, right now, biological systems characterize things.
By every time it makes something, there's an enzyme that checks that structure.
If it's not the right structure, there are other enzymes that come and chop that up into
smaller pieces and try rebuilding it again.
You get a mistake in the DNA.
You have enzymes that run up and down the DNA.
Find this mistake, excise it, and stick in the right base there.
But in a pre-biological world, there are no enzymes.
How does it check it?
And every time, whatever it's using to check it, whatever system is needed to check it,
is more complex than the system that it's checking.
So where'd you get that from?
Nobody knows.
Everybody's clueless on this, but nobody wants to admit it.
There's the mass transfer problem.
This seems like not a problem to you, but let me tell you something.
This is the killer of it all.
Are there any synthetic organic chemists in here?
Any synthetic chemists here?
Any synthetic chemists?
Get your hand up high.
