If it could have happened, show me.
He'll never show you.
Next slide.
So then here's an article from 12 December 2018.
So this is like a month ago.
This comes out now in nature communications, prebiotic chemistry and human intervention.
So now they're saying, yeah, you know, if you're really going to copy prebiotic chemistry,
you can't have too much intervention.
So they're beginning to catch on.
I'm surprised the journal took this.
He says such a pure chemical scenario is unrealistic prebiotically but necessary.
He's saying if you want to do something prebiotic, you got to have clean chemicals.
He says nobody's really explained this.
Furthermore, the ideal experiment does not involve any human intervention.
So this is this guy, Clemens Richard, they're beginning to catch on.
Next slide.
How close have researchers come to making an artificial cell?
Well, we know now.
We know how far they have closely come.
How do we know?
Because in November 2018, it's just a couple of months ago, Science Magazine top journal
says biologists create the most artificial, like the most lifelike artificial cells.
Whoa, I want to see what they've made.
That's how see how far along it really is.
Next slide.
So they're commenting on this article, which appeared in nature communications in November
2018, communication and quorum sensing in non-living mimics, a few karyotic cells.
Wow.
And they're communicating with one another, quorum sensing, meaning that they can tell
distance between each other.
Let me read about this.
Next slide.
So semi-porous microcapsules were made of plastic, plastic, from acrylate polymerization containing
clay were prepared using modern microfluidic techniques done within the fabrication devices.
So you go into a clean room, you build microfluidic devices, and you take, you polymerize, you
make polymers around clay.
That's all well-known how to do that.
That's what they did.
These are plastic shells.
Clays have a high affinity for binding DNA because clays are positively charged, DNA
is negatively charged.
So you add DNA to the solution, it goes through the porous plastic and binds to the clay.
Then they add in, they buy ribosomes and RNA enzymes and reagents were purchased or extracted,
and they add that to the medium.
Those diffuse into, and the normal protein synthesis starts taking place, which is normal
synthesis and then some of that diffuses out of those, and then the nearby ones they add,
some of it diffuses into the nearby ones, the ones that are nearer get more diffused
into them than the ones further away.
Well, duh, that's normal diffusion gradient, the ones that are closer get hit more often.
The chemistry is going to work.
Next slide.
The chemistry of the exogenously added reagents will work regardless of the container, whether
it's a plastic semi-porous microcapsule, as was used, in a test tube or in a large industrial
production vat.
The chemistry is the same, it's done all the time.
You take these biological derived systems, you add them together, proteins will start
being made.
This is how proteins are made.
You buy these drugs, how do they made?
They're made in vats.
Well, this guy did it in a little microcapsule.
That's the most lifelike system that's ever been made, according to Science Magazine.
That's it.
So it is far from the press hype claims of gene expression and communication rivaling
that of living cells.
That's what the press is saying.
There is no rivalry here.
No one.
Further, one might arguably agree that these are indeed the most lifelike artificial cells
yet, but that only serves to underscore the point.
Nobody has ever come close to generating the workings of life.
Nobody's even close.
You do this chemistry in the lab all the time.
So they did it in a microporous capsule and they said, whoa, this is life.
My test tube is life then.
Next slide.
Fool's gold.
So if you take sulfur and you add it to different metals, those metals can turn yellowish and
then they'll turn golden looking.
Iron sulfide.
Well, when alchemists made iron sulfide, don't you think they would think that, wow, if you
add enough sulfur to different elements, it's going to start being gold?
They knew it wasn't gold.
It didn't have the same ductility, didn't have the same melting point, but wouldn't
they have thought, hey, at least we're going in the right direction?
They would have thought that, but no, you're totally wrong.
You can add sulfur to any element you want all day.
It's never going to turn into gold.
We know now the only way to make gold from another element is you change the number
of protons.
Then you need a nuclear process, which is a lot more expensive than gold.
So you can get thrown off just because it looks like gold.
It's not really gold and you're way off base.
Next slide.
So what I'm saying is I'd like to have a moratorium on the origin of life research so it changes
warranted and we've got to change the way we do things and we need to address fundamental
problems here in origin of life research.
Next slide.
Again, one more slide.
Here's the ramifications of Colin Conjecture's facts.
Claims that mislead the patient taxpayer are unhelpful and the public will even distrust
scientific claims into other fields.
Unfounded or unfounded assertions jeopardize science beyond a singular field, especially
since there's mounting distrust of higher education in general.
Condescending comments toward the public or a student if they will not embrace our conjectures
as facts will lead to continued division between our scientists and non-scientists, which
can yield public reluctance to fund our research.
We must tell the truth with specificity.
If it is a fact, say it.
If it's not a fact, say it.
Blackballing scientists, if they bear legitimate, non-conformist views by excluding them from
professional societies and academies, withholding their funding or denying them tenure is anti-scientific
and it will retard the advancement of science.
Next slide.
I'm just going to finish up quickly.
Now I'm done with the technical talk, I'm going to come back to the Bible.
A scientific fact, water has two hydrogens, one oxygen, that's a fact.
That's not going to change anywhere in the universe.
There's never been discordance between the scientific facts and statements in the Bible,
so there's no need to reconcile them.
So-called scientific facts, which are really theories, are constantly changing even on the
order of decades and certainly on the order of a century.
So trying to twist the Bible to fit the scientific theory is a frustrating endeavor.
Don't let professors with their bold claims of facts upset you.
Theories or conjectures are not facts, but unfortunately and shamefully, many professors
themselves do not make the necessary distinctions.
This leads to the confusion of generations of students and even professors themselves.
I am telling you, professors are confused on these issues.
Professors think that simple forms of life have been made.
They're confused on these issues and I'll close with this Bible verse.
Next slide.
You must not listen to the words of that prophet or dreamer.
The Lord your God is testing you to find out whether you love him with all your heart
and with all your soul.
It is the Lord your God you must follow and him you must revere.
Keep his commandments, obey him, serve him and hold him fast.
When your students go off into the universities and they hear these things, these are false
prophets speaking to them.
Some of them are sincere, but they're sincerely false prophets.
Some of them are sincerely misleading people.
As believers, you must not listen to the words of that prophet or dreamer.
The Lord your God is testing you to find out whether you really love him or not.
He's testing you.
Keep his commandments, obey him, serve him and hold him fast.
Thank you.
