One there.
Okay.
And one there.
Okay.
If I say something that's not true, I want you to stand up and just say, liar, all right?
If I say something that's not true, just stand up, all right?
Because I want these people to know, for all they know, I'm lying.
You have to verify on this, all right?
The mass transfer problem.
Anybody who's done complex organic synthesis, what you do is you start with like a half
a kilo of material and you go along and your yields are never 100%.
You're purifying.
And you end up with two milligrams and you're not at your target yet.
So what do you do?
Then you go back to the beginning and you make more, and you follow the defined route
that you had defined before.
And so now you can keep your yields higher, but you keep having to go back and pull up
starting material from the rear.
You're bringing up more material.
How do you do that?
So say in nature they started, say somehow it started and then got a kilo of formaldehyde
and acetone and it's going to start combining these.
So these are going to go along and start reacting.
At some point it's going to run out of material.
How do you go back to the beginning and get more?
Again, you never kept the laboratory notebook so you never know how you got there.
So even if you could repeat it, go down the same junky path and you'd run out again.
You'd never get to where you want to go.
Nature keeps no laboratory notebook.
Next slide.
So this is just the motor part on the nanomachines.
We were building nanocars.
We actually won in 2017 the international nanocar race.
It was the first race.
We went 150 nanometers in an hour and a half.
And that sounds like a long time to go 150 nanometers, but we actually, the second place
people behind us were the Swiss team took them five hours beyond us.
So it took them six and a half hours total.
And none of the other international teams were able to complete the race in 30 hours.
So it's not easy to go 150 nanometers when you're driving these little cars.
But anyway, so this is the motor on just the car.
And so you see these different steps.
You reacted at all these different temperatures.
Here's, you have to have it at five degrees and cool it to minus 10 and minus 15 and then
minus 50 degrees here.
And then you run these reactions.
This one's done at 130 degrees.
This one's done at 60.
And she's like, what's with the temperature?
What's your problem?
Cold, hot, cold, hot.
Why do you do this?
Oh, because we just like to.
We just like to cool things, cool things down.
And he thinks, no, you have to each step needs its own parameters.
How does nature know that?
Well, it was, you know, it's some deep sea vent.
Okay.
So it warmed up there.
And then what?
And then it left the vent and then it, you know, ended up at some other really cold place
and then went back and then went back and back and forth.
Nobody, nobody knows any, any, how any of this ever happened in nature.
Nobody knows.
Next slide.
So this is the experimental procedure.
So what do you do?
You take an oven dried three bottom, three neck, round bottom flask and you charge it
with 33.
You add magnesium sulfate and dichloromethane and you cool it down, cool it down here, cool
it down.
This is one step, just one step on that thing.
And then, then you get the yield.
This is just one step.
There's all these things you got to do.
You have to know what you're doing.
Even if I just gave this to you, you wouldn't know what to do.
So you have to be an experienced chemist to take this and to be able to repeat this.
So what is a mindless, a biological system?
How does it know how to do?
Nobody knows.
Next slide.
Then you have to characterize it.
Once you make what you want, you have to characterize this.
We have this tool called NMR and you get these peaks.
And from these peaks, you assign the structure so you can get the exact structure.
This is how all the pharmaceuticals that you take, this is how the structures are assigned.
You run these spectra.
And you say, well, nature doesn't have to do this.
It doesn't.
Nature uses a more complex system.
It has a different glove for every hand in nature, a different enzyme that detects
structure problems.
It's more complex than this.
This is a general tool.
The next slide shows us, next slide, this is what we have to write to convince our colleagues
that we got what we thought we got.
A combination of standard what, deuterium, proton, C13, depth 135, C13 experiments with
standard 2D, H1, H1, cozy, H1, H1, NOE.
So you go all through this.
Not done.
Next slide.
So that's part two.
All of that needed to just characterize the one molecule.
Characterization is harder than synthesis.
It really is.
Any chemist will tell you.
You can make something, but it takes you a lot longer to characterize.
And you have to know the structure because you have to know what to do for the next step.
Nature is confronted with the same thing all the time.
Making molecules is hard.
Next slide.
This paper had 281 pages of supplemental characterization data.
I showed you a paragraph of characterization, 281 pages of that, to convince the world
that we made what we were making when we made those light-driven motorized nanocars.
How does a dumb, abiological world ever do this?
Nobody knows.
They're all clueless, but scientists aren't saying how hard it is.
Next slide.
This was the first generation motor that we put in the car.
It worked, but it only rotated 1.8 revolutions per hour.
When we rebuild it without that sulfur atom there, then that five-member ring, then it
goes three million rotations per second.
All right?
So small changes can make a big difference.
Well, what do you do?
So what do you do is you just come here and you erase that sulfur and you do that.
Now that you can do on a blackboard, but this took us back to step one.
This is what I'm talking about.
When something, you're going along and you want to build and you say, oh, I'm just near
life.
If you have one thing wrong, it doesn't work.
It's like, well, you just modify this and it'll work.
All right?
Go back to the beginning.
Go back a billion years to the beginning.
It's too hard.
Nobody knows how this thing is solved.
You can't build the molecules.
Next slide.
And then, so remember, these, just to make the molecules, the simple molecules, you got
to have the carbohydrates, you have to have the lipids, you have to have the nucleic acids,
you have to have the proteins.
Even if you make an amino acid, how do you hook the amino acids together?
Amino acids don't hook together by themselves.
We're not even talking about order.
How do you just get them to hook?
I mean, somebody sent me a paper just last night.
I mean, here's a paper just came out on self-folding molecules.
Well, duh, that doesn't prove anything.
You build a molecule, it folds up.
Big deal.
How do you get these things to hook together in the first place?
Nobody knows.
That's with amino acids.
How about with nucleotides?
You want to get these things to hook up?
People will make a new, oh, you see, we got a nucleotide.
We got DNA.
No, you don't have DNA.
You got to get these nucleotides to hook up.
Look at a DNA synthesizer.
How many steps of blocking, protection, deep protection you need to do the complex chemistry
just to get one linkage made?
Nobody knows.
You can throw all these together in a flash.
People say, well, the concentration of nucleotides was very high.
I've read this in high school books, it was very high, and these things came together.
You calculate the concentration, the world would have to be raining nucleotides.
And even if it were raining nucleotides at those concentrations, they wouldn't hook up.
They don't hook up.
You need enzymes to hook them up, but this is prebiotic.
There's no enzymes here.
Or you need very complex DNA synthesizers.
Those weren't there either on early Earth.
Now you have to assemble it.
So say we had the molecules.
How can you get them to assemble?
So here's the assembly experiments.
A protocell is a self-organized, endogiously-ordered spherical collection of lipids proposed as
a stepping stone to origin of life.
So that's what a protocell is.
But most so-called protocell assembly experiments in origin of life research can be summed up
by a protocol analysis to this.
You purchase homochiral diacyl lipids from a chemical company, or you synthesize stairs
scrambled lipids from smaller molecules.
Add those lipids to water and observe a small amount of it to form simple and expected thermodynamically
driven assembly of those lipids into synthetic bilayer vesicles upon agitation.
Sometimes the researchers will add other molecules that are getting engulfed by those vesicles.
Then you publish a paper claiming that the synthetic vesicle is a protocell and suggestive
of early forms of life, engage with the media, hype it up, watch the layperson be misled.
Every assembly experiment I'm telling you can be summarized in this.
Whatever you send me, don't send me any more.
I've dealt with it all.
All right?
I get enough of them.
And people say, well, what about this one?
What about this one?
And it fits all into this.
It's all garbage, all garbage.
