Go ahead, you got all your diacea, lipids, all in chiral form.
Make your proto cell.
Take it, put in your peptides any way you want, set it up, get your carbohydrates out
there.
I'll even hook the carbohydrates together.
You just tell me the pattern you want.
Then you got to stick them on your cell.
Can you do it?
No, nobody can.
Nobody.
Nobody's ever done it.
Nobody can do it.
That's not to say it won't ever be done.
I'm just telling you, as of today, it hasn't been done, and it's far, far away from being
able to do it.
People will quote to me this, synthetic cells.
Well, in 2010, Craig Venter's group copied an existing bacteria genome and transplanted
it into another cell.
What happens?
I buy, say, a Corvette.
What do I do?
I take the computer control box out of that Corvette, and I go to my clean room at the
university, and I copy the chips.
I copy them, and I put my chips that I copied into that control box, and I go back and I
stick that in my Corvette, and I say, I built that Corvette.
I made that Corvette.
I did that.
He just copied the same chip, and you put it back in.
That's all he did.
He took another one in 2016, and he did something similar, but he took the control box, and
he knocked out all but 473 of the working devices, and he stuck it back in the cell,
and he was like, whoa, you made a cell.
No, he didn't.
You just made a cell worse.
You just chopped out a bunch of stuff and left just a few pieces to keep it operating enough.
He didn't make the cell.
There's all this complexity, all these interactives.
Nobody ever made that.
Nobody knows how to do it.
Next slide.
So here's what's written in books that people read, people like you.
What is life?
I never read these books.
You never see people like me read these books.
This is the masses, but this is what they tell you.
So here's this science writer, Regis.
He says, life began with little bags of garbage, random assortments of molecules doing some
crude kind of metabolism.
That is stage one.
The garbage bags grow and occasionally split into two, and the ones that grow and split
fastest win.
That's in his book on what is life by Oxford University Press.
Well, few origin of life researchers would state it so shamelessly.
Nonetheless, little bags of garbage are precisely what they've been making, and those little
bags of garbage have little more resemblance to living cells than a big bag of garbage
to a horse.
Next slide.
So you say, well, that's a book from 2009.
Well, let me show you the primary literature, 2018, in the journal Nature.
This is our top journal.
You want to see what nature will publish in this area?
None of us could get away with this, except origin of life researchers do.
This guy is Nobel laureate, Jack Sostak.
Here's what he writes on how did life begin.
Let's go through it.
I'm interested in it.
How did life begin?
I mean, the guy's a Nobel prize winner.
He must know.
The early atmosphere had no oxygen.
It consisted mainly of nitrogen, carbon dioxide, with smaller amounts of hydrogen, water, and
methane.
Lightning, asteroid impacts, UV light from the sun, acted on the atmosphere to generate
hydrogen, cyanide, a compound of hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen.
Raining into volcanic or crater lakes, the cyanide reacted with iron, brought up water
circulating through rocks.
The resulting iron cyanide compounds accumulated over time, building up into a concentration
stew of reactive chemicals.
Okay, cool.
Where are we?
Life, as we know it, requires RNA.
Some scientists believe that RNA emerged directly from these reactive chemicals nudged
along by dynamic forces in the environment.
Huh?
Nudged has no, you can't put nudged in any of our articles.
No scientist knows what nudged means.
They don't know.
Nucleotides, the building blocks of RNA, eventually formed then joined together to make strands
of RNA.
Some stages of the process are still not well understood.
You think?
How do these things look together?
Show me the chemistry.
It's not there.
Once RNA was made, some strands of it become enclosed within tiny vesicles formed by spontaneous
assembly of fatty acid lipids in the membranes creating the first protocells.
As the membranes incorporated more fatty acids, they grew and divided at the same time internal
chemical reactions drove replication of encapsulated RNA.
That is nonsense.
Next slide.
Here is, next slide, the figure that he showed.
This is the figure.
From nature.
This is his figure.
Sinide derivatives and simple sugars.
Those are not sugars.
He says this is oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus.
That's fictitious.
I don't know any sugars that have that chemical composition.
You don't know that.
He's lying to you.
That's not real.
Is this HCN?
I mean, there should be a carbon, a nitrogen, and a hydrogen if that's HCN.
I'm colorblind.
I can see that's not really HCN.
I don't know what that is.
Maybe that's phosphate.
I can see that.
That'd be phosphorus, oxygen.
Maybe that's phosphate.
Okay.
You got an RNA nucleotide.
But the problem is that's not a nucleotide.
It's the wrong structure.
By far that's the wrong structure.
He didn't even put the right structure.
At least he could have put the right structure.
He didn't even put the right structure.
Well, what's acting upon this to make it do this?
Well, heat from here, UV light from there.
Boom.
Nobody knows.
That's in nature.
That's not in an eighth grade textbook from 2018.
People think I selectively choose these things from crazy places.
No.
This is nature, 2018.
This is what confuses even professors.
See this?
And they think, oh, yeah, people know.
Nobody knows.
This is a bunch of garbage.
This is garbage.
Next slide.
All right.
Exquisite exactness is needed in synthetic protocols.
This is one of the kingpins in origin of life research from Oxford, John Sutherland.
I've never spoken to John.
I'm not sure he likes me.
So this is from Nature Chemistry 2015.
Next slide.
So you go back to his protocols.
You go to the supplemental procedures, you read his protocols.
It is amazing how hard it is to make the things that he says he wants to make.
And then he makes a little bit of it and it's a bunch of junk.
And so then he says, well, we'll just use synthetic organic techniques, real techniques
to make more just to simplify handling procedures.
Come on, because you could only make like a fraction of it and you wanted to carry it
on.
But it was just a bunch of junk.
It was just a peak.
It's not real.
And even with all your synthetic prowess.
And these are just for intermediates, not even the real compounds.
Next slide.
So to give you an idea.
So he takes copper one and he says he makes it, copper chloride was mixed with potassium
chloride to generate the Newland catalyst at 70 degrees.
So this is supposed to mimic a prebiotic earth.
But he's using all clean glass where he's not under rock, he's in an advanced organic
lab.
Separately generated source of acetylene was prepared from calcium, carbide and water.
This gas was bubbled through the Newland catalyst, prepare acrylonitrile.
This is a highly unstable molecule.
You look at acrylonitrile, it'll polymerize.
When you buy it, you buy it with stabilizers to keep it from polymerizing.
So he has to properly inhibit its polymerization and store it.
Then he treated with a potassium cyanide for one hour with five equivalents of ammonia
as a 13 molar, ammonia, ammonium solution adjusted to pH 9.2 with sodium hydroxide to
generate the desired amino propion nitrile.
I mean, this is hard chemistry to do.
Even if I gave this to synthetic chemists, this would be hard to pull off.
Hard, hard chemistry.
There's all this.
Even the most skilled synthetic chemist preparing a very simple precursors to very few of the
molecules within the building block class and all the precursors.
And then we're all racemic at that.
Next slide.
Then he even goes so far as to say all the cellular subsystems could have arisen simultaneously
through common chemistry.
That is crazy, man.
I'll tell you, if you work in the era of nanotechnology, you try to build systems.
You take molecules to build into a system that functioned.
He says they all could have arisen simultaneously through common chemistry.
That's a lie.
And it's accepted in the best of journals.
This is crazy.
All he made was a couple of precursors and he's going into the assembly of all subsystems.
Show me.
