Music
You're listening to The Great Simplification with Nate Hagins. That's me.
On this show, we try to explore and simplify what's happening with energy, the economy, the environment, and our society.
Together with scientists, experts, and leaders, this show is about understanding the bird's eye view of how everything fits together.
Where we go from here and what we can do about it as a society and as individuals.
Today's guest is Arthur Berman. Art is a petroleum geologist with over 40 years of oil and gas industry experience.
His background includes a master's in geology from the Colorado School of Mines and over 20 years working at Amaco, which is now British Petroleum,
as well as writing articles and analysis for the energy website, The Oil Drum, 10 years ago, which is where we became colleagues.
In this discussion, Art and I do a bird's eye view of what oil is, what oil does, and some common misconceptions about oil and human futures.
I hope you enjoy this conversation.
Music
Art, you and I have known each other for over a decade. We talk all the time about energy and the economy.
I thought it would be a good idea to maybe record one of our conversations.
But instead of taking a deep dive into kind of the advanced nuances of oil depletion and credit growth energy,
I thought for this first time that we talk together, we might do a little primer on oil and the economy and energy, et cetera.
So if you're willing, I've never done this before, but maybe we'll just start with a speed round where I'm going to ask you a series of basic questions
and you give me like 15 to 30 second answer, and then we'll get into some of the nuances after.
Sounds good to me.
So Art, what is oil?
Oil is a substance that results from the cooking in the earth of organic rich material, mostly dead marine algae.
And over a period of geologic time, millions of years of increasing burial and heat and pressure,
it converts into the substance that we know as oil and very slowly migrates out of the organic rich beds that it was deposited in
and finds its way into various better quality rocks we call reservoirs, which are then drilled into and produced.
You get an A on accuracy and brevity. That was great.
So where is oil found generally?
Well, oil is found pretty much everywhere, but like income, there's a great deal of inequality as far as the volumes and the quality.
And so the Middle East has by far the richest endowment of oil, places like Saudi Arabia, Persian Gulf countries, including Iraq, Iran, etc.
Russia has a ton of oil, the United States and Canada and Mexico.
So really North America, Middle East, North Africa, West Africa and parts of Eastern South America have the most oil.
What those locations have in common was they were all or almost all where oceans were previously in Earth's history?
That's right.
So unlike the, I think there was a Chevron commercial many years ago that gave the impression that oil comes from dead dinosaurs.
That's not true.
Oil comes mostly from marine algae, very tiny little organisms that whales eat, in fact, and some other marine mammals.
And yes, it's mostly where oceans used to be, but the caveat is that the geologic conditions of depth of burial, heat and pressure have to be just right.
So there's a lot of places in the world where oil was, but no longer is because things got too hot or areas got uplifted and it leaked out.
So that's the reason principally for the inequality of the distribution.
Everything has to be just right.
Who are the world's largest oil producers and consumers?
The United States is the largest oil producer and we are followed pretty closely by Russia, Saudi Arabia, Canada.
And then a big drop off after those three, right?
Yeah, after those three.
So we're going from numbers of like 10 to 11 million barrels a day.
When we get down to Canada and Iraq, we're sort of in the four million barrels a day range.
And then after that, it falls down into the, you know, kind of one to three and etc.
The biggest users, consumers of oil are the United States and China by a long shot, followed by countries like Germany, Japan and India.
So you've often been quoted by saying that oil is the economy.
What do you mean by that?
Right.
Hard to be brief, but basically the economy is formed by work.
Work done by people, by machines, by animals, by all sorts of stuff.
And everything that lives, as you've noted, lives off of energy.
We hunt or animals hunt and they get energy through food.
The principle source of the most productive energy in the modern world is oil.
Now, there are other sources of energy, but by far the biggest bang for the buck, if you want to use the cliche, is from oil and also the largest percentage of our sources of energy.
And so as goes oil, so goes the economy.
Countries that use the most oil have the highest gross domestic product.
United States and China, I just told you, use the most oil.
And without question, they are far and away the two countries with the largest economies and the highest GDP.
So why is oil so special as an energy source?
It's special because it has an awful lot of energy, a lot of work.
So we're talking about, you know, calories or jewels in a very compact area that can also be moved around easily.
You can put oil into, you know, a barrel into, you know, a plastic container.
You can put it on a truck.
You can put it in a pipeline.
You can put it on a boat.
You can do just about anything with it and move it around the world fairly cheaply.
Other sources of energy, you know, let's say natural gas, you can put it into a barrel.
It won't stay there.
You can seal it up, but it's diffuse.
And so really the only way to move it around is in a pipeline or compress it a whole lot into a liquid and put it on a boat and that's real expensive.
So there's just something, you know, kind of special about oil and that it's got what we call a very high energy density, a lot of energy per unit volume.
And it just so happens to be in a pretty convenient liquid form that can be carried around, moved around without too much trouble.
So when we talk about millions of barrels, we extract oil and store it in barrels or tankers.
But oil isn't just gasoline that we fill our cars with.
What are the other components of a barrel of oil and what products are made from a barrel of oil briefly again?
Yeah.
So we take what we call crude oil.
That's the oil that's produced out of the ground and we put it into a big, ugly plant called a refinery and we heat it up.
And the various things that are distilled, just like in an alcohol still, same concept, we get first some gases, principally ethane that we make plastics from.
We get diesel, we get gasoline, we get just a whole variety of other substances that I won't go into.
But the largest portion of every barrel is gasoline, probably like 40%.
Diesel is next, jet fuel is up there.
And so those are principal components.
But I think the important thing for listeners to understand, it's not a pick and choose kind of thing.
That you put a barrel in and you have to take all the stuff that comes out like it or not.
You can't say, oh, well, you know, I'd really like to have some diesel, but I don't want any gasoline.
It doesn't work that way.
You get the whole spectrum.
What is depletion?
So I had a conversation a while ago with my mother-in-law and I said, how many years of oil do you think is left?
And she's like, what do you mean?
I said, well, at today's consumption, how much oil is left under the ground in number of years?
She's like, I don't know, a million.
I'm like a million years.
She's like, yeah, I have no idea.
So the concept of depletion, since you and I have been alive, we've always had more oil every year pretty much except for recessions.
And it's largely been pretty cheap, but it is a finite resource and it depletes.
So could you briefly describe oil depletion?
Sure.
So let me just make a distinction between depletion and decline.
OK, so everything in life declines.
And so if I have an oil well and I start producing it, the rate in the first year will be higher than the rate in the second year, which will be higher than the rate in the third year.
And so people talk about the decline rate of oil and gas and all sorts of things.
And that that's fine.
Depletion is similar except that depletion refers to how much you've you've proven you have in the ground.
So you drill a well or you drill a field and you do a lot of calculations.
Engineers work on their computers and they say, oh, well, you know, we think there's five billion barrels of oil in this field.
OK, so every barrel you produce then subtracts from that proved reserve.
That's depletion.
And the problem with depletion is a perfectly fine concept that everyone understands.
But as soon as more wells are drilled and more reserves are found, then which of those reserves are you depleting?
And so when you ask your mother-in-law, you know, well, how many years of oil do we have left?
Well, if we don't drill any more wells, then, you know, maybe we've got 10 or 20 years.
But if we drill more wells, at least for the last 75 years or so, we've always had 10 years of oil left because people are constantly drilling more, finding more, adding to reserves.
And therefore, even though we're using more and more, we're finding more and more.
And now it's it's more complicated than that.
But that's the simple answer.
So there are different qualities of oil and different geologic provinces of oil.
So what is the difference between what we used to refer to or what I used to refer to as the conventional oil or the Beverly Hillbillies just bubbling out of the ground oil and the larger category of unconventional oil?
The Beverly Hillbillies oil is sort of the standard oil you find in the United States, which by global standards is actually fairly light stuff.
OK, so, so, you know, you drill into the ground or is, you know, a jet clamp, it's shot into the ground and it just kind of comes up by itself because it's it's got a lot of natural gas in suspension that lifts it to the surface.
Now, the standard stuff that goes into refineries these days is a little bit heavier than that.
And so the typical oil from Saudi Arabia, while it's still fairly light is not that light.
And then there's all sorts of stuff that comes along with it like sulfur.
OK, so US oil has very little sulfur in it.
That's a good thing.
Saudi oil has more sulfur in it.
Some oil has so much sulfur in it, it's a problem.
And some oil is super light and some of it's almost like tar.
So again, you know, there there's sort of an income inequality between the the quality, the the thickness and the components of oil around the world.
So what is tight oil or shale oil?
Yeah, well, so now we're getting into sort of colloquialisms.
Tight oil or shale oil is is oil that's produced from the actual source rocks from which it was generated.
Now, you might remember that a while back, I said, well, it's generated in these organic rich kind of shaley beds.
But in most situations, it migrates out.
It kind of slips out of the cracks, goes into a nice sandstone that has lots of poor space to store it in and life is good.
But over the last 10 or 15 years, as we've run out of the easy stuff, we've had to resort to actually producing the source rocks.
And that's what's called shale oil or tight oil.
So what's left after the source rock, after the shale oil, tight oil?
Damn little.
There's plenty of gas, natural gas, a little bit more than there is oil.
There's various kinds of exotic things, you know, maybe like oil shale, like oil shale, which is oil that hasn't been cooked yet.
So, you know, at some time in the in the geological future, it might become oil, but today it hasn't been cooked yet.
Right. It has the energy density of a baked potato or so.
So it takes a lot of energy to get out.
And even though it is an oil resource of source, how useful it is to our economy might be a different question.
It's completely useless.
I mean, we would literally have to heat it, you know, to hundreds and hundreds of degrees centigrade, you know, in an area around the surface deposit.
And you can imagine the kind of environmental issues that might create.
So, no, it's not very useful.
OK, last question in the speed round.
What is peak oil?
Peak oil is the notion that you produce oil up to some maximum level where beyond which you've optimized, you know, all of the the ways you know how to drill it and produce it.
And after that, it starts to decline.
And there's not very much you can do to meaningfully increase that production level.
So it's sort of like life.
We grow as human beings until we're, you know, 20 years old and we stop growing and then we start aging.
I'm 55 and I'm still growing, but not vertically, but go on.
Well, so it's like life.
I mean, things don't grow forever.
You reach a maximum point and then things start to decline.
And that's what peak oil is.
And so there's peak oil.
There could be peak oil for a country or a region like the North Sea or a field like Cantorrel in Mexico peaked some 20 years ago.
But when we hear the term peak oil, at least historically, it's meant to refer to as all the countries in the world combined at a global level.
Oil production all added up at some point will hit its maximum and then go into permanent decline.
Right.
And there's, you know, sort of this idea that how do we know that?
And we can say, well, we've got estimates of, you know, what proved reserves are.
When we get to half of that, we'll call it peak.
And maybe that's just a, you know, a technical definition.
We do know that many, many countries in the world have some sort of a Gaussian normal curve and are on the down slope unequivocally and will never regain new highs.
Do you have any comment on that?
Absolutely.
In fact, today, the really the only countries in the world that are still on the upswing potentially are the United States and Canada, that everybody else is either on some sort of a plateau or as past peak.
Okay.
That concludes the speed round.
That was very informative art.
I actually even learned a few things.
So let's take a deeper dive in some of these things.
Let's talk about the United States as an example.
So MK Hubbard was a geologist at Shell that predicted that the United States would peak in its oil production in around 1970 or 71 and that the world would peak in the year 2000.
And lo and behold, the United States did peak in 1970.
And then we had a three and a half decade decline until 2008 or so when we started to access the tight oil, the shale oil you mentioned earlier.
And then we pierced the 1970 peak as if to show that technology overcame depletion.
So one of your charts that I use in almost all my presentations shows US oil production history from two lenses.
The first lenses is to lump all the oil together and show that there was this peak in 1970 and a decline and then another peak surpassing the 1970 production.
But then you so artfully created a duplicate graph that breaks out that production by sector or geographic province.
And the conventional oil, the Beverly Hillbilly oil as it were, peaked in 1970 and has been declining ever since.
And then laid on top of that is the North Slope of Alaska oil, which is not contiguous to the lower 48 states, but it is part of our country.
So we include that oil in the total.
And on top of that is oil underneath the ocean that we drill under the Gulf of Mexico, which is a province of the United States.
So that gets added to our total.
And those three together were continuing to decline.
But then we have this massive addition because it comes out so fast when we when we drill lots of wells of the light tight oil in the shale provinces.
So if you add that all together, we had a new peak close to 13 million barrels in 2019 and we're down from that right now.
So could you, from a geologist's perspective, describe that a little bit and maybe describe how your forecast going forward might differ from some conventional forecasting agencies like the International Energy Agency or the Energy Information Agency?
Yeah, so I don't think that there's a lot of geologists or geophysicists or even engineers that work for those agencies.
And so they're just dealing with numbers.
