That's a huge price to pay in order to reorganize your society.
So the answer to your question is my advice.
I'd like everybody to listen to it.
I'd like everybody to say, yeah, I should do that.
But realistically, I know most people won't.
But if a few do, or some do, then when the catastrophes happen, then those will be the people who can lead the way who say,
you know, look, I'm prepared for this and this is what I see while everybody else is freaking out and saying it's over.
You know, we're done.
You know, that's not real optimistic advice.
But I think if some of us don't do that, then as a species, I don't think we're going to go extinct anytime soon.
But I think we things could degenerate into a real ugly place if there aren't people that are capable of seeing through that ugliness and lead.
I happen to agree with that, which is why I do this work.
But on that note, let me just give you a chance to personally respond to this.
Over the years that you and I have been in discussion with people on our listserv and others, you seem to be facing these deep species level challenges with a lot of equanimity.
And you are intelligent about them, but you don't seem freaked out or stressed or anxious about the things that we discuss relative to our peers.
Do you have any advice on your stoic philosophy or for listeners on how you can be so balanced when discussing and thinking about these deep topics?
So a big part of that is the scientist in me.
I'm a geologist. I'm a scientist.
And what I know about the universe, and I didn't figure this out myself, but what I know from, you know, standing on the shoulders of Einstein and Heisenberg and others, is that uncertainty is the nature of the universe.
And those who think otherwise are relying on the human imagination.
And so uncertainty is the nature of things.
And it's just a whole lot more satisfying to not only accept it as such, but to even be in wonder and awe of it.
So that's the scientist in me.
And then there's the human being, the flawed human being in me, who says, well, I can let myself get all freaked out about this stuff, or I can spend my time reading the experience of people who came before, meditating, exercising, doing things that are well known by everyone to be just good for the human psyche.
Except most of us don't find time to do it.
And I put it high on my list of things that I must make time to do, because if I spend 90% of my energy being freaked out, I'm not much good to myself, to my family, or those who like to, you know, laugh at my funny ideas about oil, gas and energy.
But people do. People do like to pay attention to what I say. They fight with me on it.
But why is that? Because maybe because of what you say, because people say, well, you know, you're kind of a voice of reason.
And I take that as a very high compliment that, okay, maybe I have a certain ability to sort out these things and put them in context.
And if I can do that, then I'm a better scientist for it. I don't take credit for it.
I'm just learning, just doing what I think all of us know are smart things to do.
I'm trying to do many of those things myself. And it takes discipline and effort, as you know.
So what is something that's alive for you right now, intellectually, energy related that you would have liked to talk about today,
but given the constraints of time we couldn't get to, and maybe we talk about next time?
I'd really like to talk about the reality of renewable energy and a net zero future.
I'd like to do that as someone who, as I said before, is 100% in favor of it and 99% sure that we can't do it the way that most of us would like and are being told we can.
And so I think there's an important subject to provide information for people because what they're hearing is, in my opinion, as a scientist, simply a fairy tale and incorrect.
And so we have to know the truth before we can navigate our way through it. That's my position.
That's mine as well. Thank you. Let's do that as a plan and consider this a teaser for that next episode.
Art, thanks so much for your time and wisdom today. And I'm sure we'll talk soon.
Thanks, Nate. I've enjoyed it, as I always do.
If you enjoyed or learned from this episode of The Great Simplification, please subscribe to us on your favorite podcast platform and visit TheGreatSimplification.com for more information on future releases.
