And this is not in any way meant to criticize them, but they just project numbers.
And for those of us that actually look at the details, we find out that there's a certain amount of inequality in the distribution of this shale oil and tight oil as well.
And so these, you know, these big numbers that sometimes are thrown around that say, oh, we've got, you know, we're going to producing as much tight oil in 2050 as we are today.
Well, those include way beyond proved reserves.
I mean, that includes possible resources, probable resources.
In other words, a resource is something that may be there or may not, but we haven't found it yet.
And so those, those very big numbers are, they're not, they're not made up, but they're not exactly real either.
So my take is that I think we've got probably about 10 more years of shale oil or tight oil before it gets, you know, just as, as thin and expensive as conventional oil.
And then we're going to be in big trouble.
And, and I say 10 years and, you know, that's kind of a ballpark.
You know, we easily could be there in five, maybe, maybe we get lucky and it doesn't happen for 15.
But in real life terms, it doesn't matter.
You know, we're in trouble at some time in maybe in our lifetimes, but, you know, certainly in my children's and grandchildren's lifetimes.
Well, the way that I see it and I expect you know what I'm about to say is we were running out of oil from the first moment we drilled the first well in the US 150 years ago.
The issue isn't now that we're running out of oil.
The issue that is going to be relevant to our global situation is that we're running out of enough cheap energy, especially oil, to support the gargantuan financial claims that have been created over the last 50 years.
So there's there's three layers here.
The first is do we have enough oil to continue economic growth in either in order to maintain our financial system, which requires growth.
Because as you know, a barrel of oil does around four and a half years of my work and the world uses around 35 billion barrels of oil per year in aggregate with coal and natural gas.
It's about 100 billion barrels of oil.
So we're getting almost 500 billion fossil workers in the form of fossil carbon and hydrocarbons that we pull out of the ground and only have to pay for the cost of extraction.
But the other thing that happens here is that if we are unable to grow, then there potentially is a phase shift in the geopolitical response to we've all been riding in these ships as the tide lifted all boats.
But now as things get more difficult, there's plenty left, but there's not enough left to continue growth.
And I think oil production growth was 6% a year from the 30s until the 70s.
And since the 70s, it's only been like 1% a year.
I don't want to go down this rabbit hole on this show.
But one of the reasons for that is debt, not only global debt to support economies, but debt that went to the shale companies in order to get the more expensive oil.
But then the third thing, which is what you're bringing up, is irrespective of the next decade, if we have a 20, 30, 40, 50 year lens where your grandchildren and people I know will still be alive then, there will be hardly anything left.
And what will be our main energy source then is a question that our culture doesn't ask.
So let's get to the decline rate chart that I use of yours that I'll paraphrase and you can expand on it.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but approximately 80% of US oil production currently comes from five regions.
You can explain where those are.
But those regions, it's very high decline rates in the production because it's mostly tight oil and so it depletes very rapidly like 80% in the first 18 months or something like that.
So in those five regions that produce 80% of US oil, the yearly decline rate is around 40%, meaning if we stopped drilling, not that we're going to, but for environmental reasons, for affordability reasons, for complexity reasons or for any other reason,
if we were to stop drilling, 40% of our production would drop in one year of that 80% and then 40% the second year.
Can you expand on what I just said or clarify it or correct it?
Right.
So the reason that these wells decline so fast is partly what you said or largely, they're kind of, you know, they're crappy reservoir rocks.
But the other thing is, is that we've gotten so good at our technology that we're getting much, much higher flow rates than we ever used to.
And a lot of people think that somehow technology creates energy, but it doesn't.
Technology is just a straw.
It's a bigger straw.
It's a bigger straw and our straw has gotten huge.
And so we can suck out a ton of oil and gas very, very quickly, but that doesn't increase the container that it's in.
And that's a real problem.
So we're patting ourselves on the back for the increased amount of milkshake that we're eating, but we're ignoring the upcoming slurping sound.
Well, exactly.
We're getting near the bottom of the glass.
And there isn't any technology in the world that can create more oil except time.
And how much time?
Millions of years and a whole lot slower than society is using oil, you know, even what society was using a hundred years ago.
It's a it's a painfully slow process.
Well, as you know, in DJ and my materials, we refer to the era that we're living in as the carbon pulse.
This one time era where we are drawing down Earth's carbon battery 10 million times or more faster than it was trickle charged by daily photosynthesis in the past.
And yet, because of your straw, we just focus on how much is coming out at the top of the straw and all is good, at least for the moment, which is why I'm doing this podcast.
And you and I have been working on these issues for a long time is because we're trying to look two or three steps ahead on how society might respond to this.
But one of the problems as you are well aware is we get economists and technologists that look just at what's happening right now and they extrapolate that trend into the future.
And so let's let's briefly move to this peak demand theory that electric cars and other alternative energy sources are getting cheaper and better.
And for for carbon reasons, but partially also due to technology reasons, there's this concept of peak demand that oil production is going to decline in the future.
But not because of depletion, but because we're not going to need it anymore because we've shifted to electric cars instead of internal combustion cars.
Therefore, we won't need gasoline.
And so the world will move away from oil because of alternative energy and technology.
I know you have a lot of thoughts on this.
What are some of them?
Well, well, some of them are that we have to have oil to extract the materials for solar panels and wind turbines.
We have to have oil to transport those metals, if you will, to places that they're manufactured.
We have to have oil to transport the manufactured materials to the markets.
That's a problem.
The maritime world runs on diesel and that accounts for something like, you know, 90 percent of global trade.
And somebody might say, oh, well, you know, we'll replace that too with electric power.
Well, maybe over time, but that's not going to happen very quickly.
The other thing is if you go look at a wind turbine, you know, go look at the at the the rotor itself.
It's made of plastic. Where does plastic come from?
It comes from oil. It comes from natural gas.
So, you know, if you want to get off of oil, then you can't have the turbine that spins the windmill.
And then, you know, you get into all the the embedded or the supply chain oil and gas that's needed to manufacture all this stuff.
So, you know, I'm not trying to make a partisan case for oil.
I'm just saying people are not looking at the whole picture.
And if they did, they would say, oh, my gosh, you know, the idea of getting off of oil altogether as soon as we can is a huge problem.
It's a problem for renewables. And it's just that simple.
I struggle with this all the time because I started in this space 20 years ago because I deeply cared about the environment and climate change.
And as you know, I've I've come to the conclusion that climate change and environmental damage are downstream of human overshoot,
which is completely linked to the amount of energy surplus that we are riding on top of from the carbon pulse.
And quite quickly, in addition to climate change, we're going to have economic, political, geopolitical issues as not energy goes away,
but energy becomes more expensive because for for every process that we use energy, fossil energy for,
we use like between 1000 and 5000 times more energy per unit of output than humans used to do manually.
And we pay pennies on the dollar for this.
So we have traded energy efficiency because that's very inefficient relative to draft horses and humans for monetary efficiency,
because we just had to pay a tiny amount for this stuff.
But for the really energy intensive processes in the world like cement or aluminum or air travel,
as energy costs go up, that trade that we initiated where we added all this fossil energy to the process in return for higher wages,
higher profits and cheaper stuff starts to break down.
And so that is one of the problems as oil gets more expensive.
It's going to have a huge impact on our economy because if we have 500 billion human worker equivalents,
you can't just say let's go to renewables and fire all those 500 billion workers as we go to 500 billion to 450 billion to 400 billion
to 300 billion eventually to 100 billion or 50 billion additional workers in the form of fossil hydrocarbons.
That's going to have enormous impacts on the amount of work done in our economy and the complexity and the expectations, etc.
So I don't think that is talked about much when we talk about peak demand because peak demand also will mean peak growth almost certainly.
But here's a side of it that I would like your take on.
So as you've mentioned, we get thousands of products that the precursors come from oil and gas.
So let's just assume that some of the Wall Street Investment Bank forecasts are nominally correct that we are going to massively scale electric cars
and we will have less internal combustion cars because people will be able to buy and afford electric cars.
And ostensibly, we're doing that for carbon reasons.
And for the moment, let's not get into the discussion that the wider the boundary you use electric cars may or may not be lower CO2 emitting.
But here's the question I have for you.
Let's assume that we do eventually have all the cars that are produced are electric cars.
Therefore, ostensibly, narrow boundary analysis, we don't need gasoline anymore.
So that's a great win for climate change and the environment because we don't need gasoline.
Except gasoline is only around 40% of the barrel of oil.
So all the other things that created from oil, like you mentioned before, jet fuel, diesel, petrochemical inputs, football helmets, medicine, condoms, tents, crayons, a huge amounts of plastics from wind turbines, etc.
What do we do then? We just stop producing those things?
So unpack that a little bit. How much can refineries change in such a world?
Or is this really a critical issue that isn't talked about much?
It's a really critical issue. So refineries, as I said initially, they can't get away from making gasoline in order to produce the other things that we need and want.
There are some tricks that engineers can do where they can do what they call reforming the gasoline.
They can add, subtract some carbon and hydrogen and maybe make the gasoline into diesel.
But to do that at scale means a complete re-engineering of the entire refinery complex.
So the same Wall Street people are saying, oh, well, there's peak demand.
We're not going to need oil in 10 years or in 15 years.
So I have a hard time understanding who's going to make the multi-billion dollar investments to modify refineries if oil only has a 10 or 15 year lifespan.
It's not going to happen.
So that's a problem.
The other problem is that internal combustion vehicles are only responsible for 15 or 20 percent of global emissions.
It's significant, but it's not huge.
Most of the emissions that come from internal combustion engines are from things like agriculture, from construction, from industry.
And so focusing just on the cars, OK, it's a win, as you say, but it's a small piece of the bigger picture.
I think you had a tweet a couple of weeks ago where you said switching from electric cars from internal combustion cars is basically you're using methadone, but you're still a user.
Exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
I also had a tweet where Elon Musk had said that, you know, solar is by far the biggest source of energy in the solar system.
And I said, yeah, and oil is the biggest source of energy on earth.
What are you going to do with it, buddy?
You know?
Yeah.
Why is our society so energy blind?
Because as you said, Nate, we haven't had to think about it.
You know, it's like there's a lot of water in the ocean.
We don't have to think about throwing garbage into it until the garbage comes back to us until we have to live with it and see it until the fish get poisoned.
And I think energy is the same way.
And we have a psychology as humans that says, well, we must grow and we'll always find a way to continue to grow, to grow the economy, to grow our population.
And so we have this, this kind of faith in the fact that somebody's going to figure out a way, even though we have no idea what that is right now.
And we place huge faith in that idea.
And I think that's, you know, it's like a defense mechanism.
It's, it's cognitive dissonance.
We don't want to think about what if that's not possible?
What if it doesn't happen in time?
So we just don't want to go there.
That's what I think.
I think that's absolutely right.
But even before that is the dead end path that economists have led us down treating a dollar's worth of energy the same as a dollar's worth of any other input into our economic system.
When it's not, energy is vastly more important to our economic system, to the natural world.
Energy is the currency of life and of human systems, yet our economists and therefore our leaders, our culture, our media treat it the same.
Sure, everyone knows energy is important.
That's why we have military bases in the Middle East.
But the fundamental underpinnings of economic growth, our goods and services, our standards of living is directly linked to the amount of energy surplus we have.
And most people, because of our media and culture, think it's because of our ingenuity, our technology, our innovation.
And yes, that stuff has been important and always will be important.
But it's the coupling of that with this low entropy bonanza of carbon that we happened upon a couple centuries ago.
Yeah, and I think to carry it a step further, the simple reason that the United States became the dominant power in the world was, first, we won World War II and everybody else was in collapse.
So you don't have to be an MBA to know that having no competition is a big competitive advantage.
And secondly, we were the first developed economy to shift to petroleum.
So the Brits were still running around their economy on coal, we were on oil.
So we had this huge double advantage of the most productive energy source and no competition.
And as you said, sure, you know, we're ingenious, we're inventive as a people, but compared to those two singular events, I would say a more objective and realistic approach is we got lucky.
And we had a very hard time maintaining our advantage beyond 1970 or 1975.
Well, we got lucky in the sense that we landed on a geologically rich province that used to be an ancient ocean that had lots of great resources in that sense.
And then because of the things you just said, we created the petrodollar that we get seniority from the world because the US dollar is the world currency.
And so we also had additional benefits from that.
But but getting back to your previous point, the United States, most people don't think about this.
If you think about the massive benefits of fossil carbon and hydrocarbons, the United States in the last 20 years, in the last 50 years, in the last 100 years, since the dawn of time has used more of those fossil workers than any other country in the world.
And it largely describes our modern wealth or at least the complex system that that we're sitting atop.
So we could go a bunch of different directions here.
I would like to have you back every few months, but for now on this this introduction to oil, the economy, depletion, etc.
Do you want to offer any recommendations or suggestions or your philosophy regarding our future, regarding energy in our future, regarding how all this fits together?
I've come to know you over the years as extremely knowledgeable on energy topics, but you also read quite a lot of philosophy and and different aspects.
So you're kind of a polymath on this stuff.
So I'll give you the mic.
What else would you like to discuss or opine on?
Well, I think we have to find ways of being satisfied with enough as opposed to constantly needing more, chasing more in order to be happy, if you will, because the physics of it is unavoidable.
At some point, we can argue about when, but the physics of it says that at some point, maybe in our lifetimes, but certainly in the lifetimes of my children, we will be using less energy, not by choice, because that's that's what's going to be left to us.
And when that happens, we're going to have a much less robust standard of living.
It's still going to be OK in countries like the United States, but we're going to roll back to a standard of living, you know, maybe that that I grew up in 3040 years ago, which compared to today is is not great.
It was OK then, but I think we have to be realistic and realistically, I hope, I sincerely hope that we find a way to stop poisoning the earth with our emissions from oil and gas and coal.
And that we find a way to make renewables work better than I think they do right now.
But I think it's it's unavoidable that the amount of net energy that we get out of those sources will be less.
It's just physics, it's not it's not preference.
And therefore, I think we have to psychologically prepare ourselves and future generations for finding out how to be satisfied with what we have versus always needing more and to grow.
You know, I agree with that, but I'm wondering if you're giving that recommendation to listeners as individuals or as a culture as a whole, as a nation or as a global culture that we have to stop pursuing more.
Because I don't know how in aggregate, I mean, COVID was a pretty low bar as a cultural challenge that we like barely are crossing.
When we talk about oil depletion and some of the things we brought up here, I just don't know how collectively we will ever choose to stop pursuing more until we have to.
So my reason for doing this podcast and teaching students is that we have little pilots of learning and behavior change and cultural trajectory going down different paths by individuals in small groups.
Because I think that's how we might be able to influence things in the future, unless there's some top down rationing, etc.
But that will only come in response to a crisis.
Well, that's the key word, Nate.
And unfortunately, as a former history major, I don't know if you can ever be a former major, that's what I majored in.
In aggregate, we only learn to change, not by crisis, but by catastrophe, by trauma.
I mean, the great plague in Europe was on that level where half the population died.
That's a pretty big level.
And there was a rebirth called the Renaissance.
And there was an economic rebirth that followed.
