very uncertain about. I can wrap it up, and then if Dean or you want to say something,
we can continue with that, but let me conclude, and this is all I have to say for today,
I think I'm sure Chris will explain this more in coming sessions and lectures, but I think the
main key difference is in the emergence of space, how it might emerge from something more fundamental,
maybe a sense of network or who knows, but that's the big difference, and I suppose the
quantum free energy principle generalizes the classical free energy principle, because he
doesn't have this spatial embedding. Now this to me personally and also to folks in the audience
for asking questions is probably the hardest part to wrap your head around, and I foresee
interest in those discussions and lectures that deal with the concept of emergent space,
because every time you try to, and I've done this myself, I've been thinking about how you could
apply this formalism to better known pictures or compare it for instance with thermal equilibrium,
with relaxation with thermal equilibrium, and then you start thinking about okay what is the
boundary and so on, it's far from obvious, because again you have to remind yourself that the
definition is topological, so in that regard I think it might be worth talking about one of the
questions that came up that I thought was good, and then I can call it a day on this end,
so this question, and I think it was the first question asked since the last lecture.
Can you just read the full question and then read the full answer, thank you.
The question on the answer, it's number 28 here, can you guys see it? Should I zoom in a little bit?
It's pretty small, but reading it will be good. Okay, so this question I think, I fast myself this
question too, maybe in a different way, but basically it gets to the point of what I was
saying earlier, that it would be nice to see how we can use this quantum free energy principle
formalism to recover maybe familiar settings, such as relaxation to thermal equilibrium,
the equation, but that's far from obvious how you do it if your definition is topological.
So the question says, what happens when the agent becomes identical to the environment,
when the model has been improved so much that it does not differ from the environment, is this
a stadium impossible, would it be thermo-amical equilibrium maximum entanglement? Okay, so clearly
it's not thermo-amical equilibrium, but I think what the person is asking if I maybe,
if I'm understanding this correctly, they're wondering, okay, so if the free energy principle
drives AMB towards entanglement, then it's referred to say that they have, that any distinction
between them has been solved, right, that they have merged into the same thing.
And that has to do with this whole definition of philosophical debate of thing-ness, that Carl
Christon, you know, is a proponent of, right, what it means for two things to be separate. Okay,
so let's see what Chris said.
Christon has pointed out that the limit of the classical FEP, the limit of perfect
prediction, corresponds to the general synchrony between system and environment,
each sense messages that the other can perfectly predict. Now, however, it's clear,
I'm not reading anymore, I'm making a quick remark here, I'll continue in a second.
In the classical FEP, it's clear that AMB, even if they are, you know,
in the perfect limit of the FEP, they remain different, different entities, right, because
you have that, if you wish, that extra layers of differentiation coming from the spatial embedding,
right, in the classical FEP, that is clear, that they haven't, even if they are getting
synchronized, they have not lost their separate identities, you can always say, well, this is
the one that was to the left, and this is the one that was to the right, pun intended in the earlier
discussion, right. You have that extra resource for separating them, if you wish, by virtue of the
spatial embedding, right, the spatial embedding is giving you this extra information that allows
you to keep track of AMB separately. Okay, so I'll continue, this notion depends on the system
and its environment being separated and has distinguished somehow, in classical formulations,
they are separated in ordinary 3D space, i.e., they occupy different locations, so they are
different because they occupy different locations, right, but if you don't have that geometrical
background, then how do you know that they're different, right? Okay, so I continue, the quantum
formulation is background free, meaning it assumes no spatial embedding, system and environment do
not have different locations, even though they have different sets of degrees of freedom in
the overall Hilbert space. Here, the FEP, the limit of the FEP is maximum entanglement,
this does not mean that the system and its environment are identical, they are, and since
they have different degrees of freedom, okay, so this is just addressed as the question I just
posed, it means that the joint state is not separable, okay, into a system S and environment T,
their states are no longer conditionally independent, this is distinct from thermal
equilibrium, which means that they have the same temperature while remaining separable,
and that their interaction can be characterized as the change of thermal fluctuations,
you know, so I guess this is a nice format for things that are to come, but I do think that this
whole idea of emergent space is going to be possibly, you know, one of the most important in
the course, and it's going to help stick out between the class and quantum formulations for sure.
Dean, what's your take on this? What I saw was that when you have that kind of alignment,
that perfect alignment, that is one, that was one, that was D in that diagram, right, that was one
state of a complex state that included an A and a B and a C, and probably a whole bunch of other
ways that, yeah, right, so that one state where you've got this kind of entanglement
isn't into perpetuity, like you don't get there and then stay there, and that's where I think
the question of separability and complexity, it still works, because just because you've momentarily
gotten to a place that we define here as D, doesn't mean you stay there indefinitely.
You could be swapping around to B and C and A in the next instant, so that's, at least that
holds the complexity piece up, that moment for however long that moment is, where XA and XB
are aligned isn't permanent, so it's not predictable in that sense, therefore it is complex.
I still don't know how we get, though, that the closer we get to agreement, the more complex
things are, unless we're just talking about D in this array of A, B, C, and D.
That goes back to that quantum reference frame. I think, like I said, again,
maybe I'm interpreting this wrong, but when I message pass, the reason why I have to, like,
literally give it over to the other person and let them have it, I can't give them, have them copy
what I'm doing, is because there has to be, I guess that reinforces the separability piece of
this as well, the fact that I can't give them a copy that I can only give them the information,
and then they've got to sort of unpack it in their own, in their own way of taking it off the
boundary. But again, I struggle with this, I'm guilty as charged, but I am, what I'm trying to do
is trying to come up with my own narrative so that what Chris is saying makes sense to me,
as opposed to make sense to the world, which is what Chris is trying to do.
I'll try with another speculative fiction. So there's a screen between, let's just say, the
stage in the audience or whatever, it's a holographic screen. And on each side of the screen,
there's some embodied object. So that means that it must have, it's a volume-enclosing
object, because points and lines and planes are only abstractions, every real physical object
encloses volume. And now a light is going to be coming from behind each object facing the screen.
And that's this kind of cone that we're seeing from each side, it's like the shadow cast by the
object. So if the object was a sphere, then it would be projecting down to a circle onto the screen.
If the shape were a cube, it could be projecting down. And so where the light is positioned
is the perspective that that cognitive entity is taking on its QRF. Those lights could move. So
now we have this situation where the two spotlights are moving, maybe the shapes are staying the same,
maybe they're changing too. And it's like two searchlights scanning across this
B oval. And sometimes they are perfectly locked. I mean, there could be a situation where they're
perfectly aligned. Or there could be situations where they're totally disjoint. And each of those
situations have different implications for what one entity sees when it looks at the screen.
Maybe like the shadow is the only part where you can see, because the rest of it is too blinding
or something like that. And so then if we're in case A here, where maybe B doesn't have a projection
or maybe B's projections totally somewhere else, then A is in this solipsistic, I'm the active
agent interacting within an inert world setting. And D is like potentially the computer engineer's
classical dream or asymptote, which is like all the data going through the USB cable is just
being perfectly noiselessly received. And then we also get these B and C cases.
But A is kind of like the inert world. D is like the perfect communication channel and then to
connect it just to Friston's concept of generalized synchrony. As we've talked about many times,
generalized synchrony doesn't mean lockstep. Two agents could reduce their uncertainty about
each other, not by doing the same thing at every time step, but for example, by turn taking.
And I think that points the way to how we get reduction of variational free energy, reduction
of prediction error, surprise and so on, without especially spatial temporal enmeshment, but not
necessarily even informational identity enmeshment, because you could have two things that through
their alignment become actually differentiated. And that could increase the mutual information
between two metronomes, not just to have them going in the same direction, but to have them
going in opposite directions, the mutual information those two settings is going to be high.
So it's not the case that generalized synchrony means that things are becoming
blurred. We could actually also have integrated information through increased
articulation, not just decreased. And then life finds a way or cognition finds a way
on this trade off frontier of in our pursuit of unitarity, will we blur to unify or will we
differentiate to unify? But those are the paths we have, we don't have the backwards ratchet.
Yeah, yeah, makes sense.
Any other ladder slides, Ender? No, that's it. So Chris made a few more remarks at the end of
language here. But he mentioned that he's going to talk more about this in the coming lecture,
so we'll just leave it up to him.
Yeah, there could be some very powerful and interesting linguistic opportunities
for updating our speaking to reflect what we are learning here. I don't know what those necessarily
are. Whether it's a syntactic or semantic thing or whether it's a narrative thing,
but how to actually re enter some of these formalisms into our focus understanding
could just be immensely powerful. And we could have a lot of integrity between the natural
language way that potentially we're already showing up for engagement and some of these
formalisms that get to first principles about interacting entities and boundary conditions
and all of that. Dean, any penultimate thoughts? Not really. I'm going to go back and listen to
the I'm going to listen to Chris's comments again about this common cause and the fine
tuning assumption and whether that's sort of a metaphorically a dialing in or what it what he
what he means exactly by the fine tuning in the in the context of this conversation today.
What you just kind of said about are we dulling something here or are we sculpting something
to make it more fitable? Like, I'm going to go on now and go back and listen to what he
talks about in terms of fine tuning and maybe update my priors around that. So
And are any last thoughts or maybe scroll over to the schedule of the course again just so we
can close on that. Yeah, we're halfway through. We just completed the third discussion section now.
So we've had three lectures and three discussions. It's all downhill from here.
By the way, this was the first midterm. You guys both did well.
Um, we're going to head into four, or like session four, with these last three, how agents use
multiple communication channels and that's going to get connected to the quantum FEP.
How space time emerges from communication, which is something that we've brought up a
bunch. It's been in the background, but but making that explicit is going to be exciting.
And then section six, I think is just going to be such a jumping off point because the scope
and the intensity of what is transpiring is extreme. So connecting it to biology,
which is to say life more fully and where we go in, in 23 and beyond,
that's going to be awesome. So any last words, Andrew?
Uh, no, I was just going to go with what you said.
Very, I would, I would say it's going to be uphill in, in terms of how interesting it's going to get.
Up hill in the good sense, meaning that we're planning.
Cool. Well, I encourage people to check out the course website and submit questions that they'd
like to see addressed by Chris also to register and join these participatory discussions. There'll
be three more of them. So if you want to join, share your QRF, be part of the publication of
all of these works that we'll compile at the end and just get your exoskeleton in the game
with what is happening here. It'd be really awesome to hear more voices and to have more on board.
Okay. Thank you, Dean and Andrew. Till next time.
Thank you.
