Hello and welcome. It's July 29th, 2023, and we're here in session three discussion of
the course, Physicist Information Processing at the Active Inference Institute. We're having
a follow-up discussion on Chris Fields' third lecture on quantum reference frames, and we're
looking forward to your participation. So if you're watching along live and you've been invited
to the calendar event, it's not too late to jump in. If you're watching on YouTube, you can write
any questions or comments in the live chat with Dean and Andrew here. We're gonna be looking at
some of the key points and taking it in a few different directions, sharing our reference
frames, making a shared one. So Andrew, be awesome to have you zoom in a little bit on the slide,
and then feel free to take us through some of the key points so that we can see a little bit
how you're seeing it. Thank you. That looks good. Yep. Okay, so let's start by reviewing the last
lecture from a couple weeks ago, and then we can open up the discussions if there's any questions
that appear in the live chat. We can address those. All right, so lecture two, Chris introduced
this idea of the information processing between system AMB, you know, where they interact via
qubits on a boundary, and they have reference frames that give meaning to this communication.
You want to think of information processing as a communication channel, the way Shannon thought
about it. So that was the lecture two, and lecture three a couple weeks ago,
tried to make this more explicit by emphasizing the idea that this has to be physically embodied
somewhere. Okay, and I think that because we are so used to information being fungible,
you know small part because of the internet and everything. It's a little hard to understand
at first when the claim is made that you have a QRM, that it's non-fungible, or you have a piece
of quantum information that's non-fungible, or things like the no-cloning theorem,
we're so used to information being fungible to it being zeroes and ones, that it's a bit of a
change in mindset at first, but that's exactly what lecture three introduced.
This was all stuff, right? Could you maybe just unpack that a little bit? What would it mean for
information to be fungible, or what's that stance like, and then what does it mean for
information to be non-fungible, and what is that stance like? Yeah, I'm allowed to get there. So
let me scroll down the slides because that's addressed here. So I was maybe I should have
kept this in the beginning, but anyways, session two talked about how information theory makes
this simple and obvious, okay? And in session three, we talk about reference frames and
mechanistically how all of this works. So yeah, let's address that question of the difference between
between, hold on one second, let me use my mouse to scroll down here.
Okay, so that's a little faster, right? Okay, so can you restate your question, Daniel?
Yeah, what would it mean for information to be fungible or non-fungible? People might be familiar
with that in the economic setting with non-fungible tokens and all of that, but what are we talking
about with informational fungibility? I think it basically comes down to
whether you can replicate. I mean, it's basically the difference between classical
and quantum information. As far as I know, fungible information is everything that you can
basically turn into a message of zeros and ones. It's, you know, how you transmit it may be different,
you know, the channel, the physical hardware and so on, but at the end of the day,
it's something that you can write on a boundary and something that you can
transmit as zeros and ones. Whereas quantum information,
you literally have to send the hardware, the piece of hardware, the QRF. At least that's how I
understand it. So a simple answer might be that it's information encoded in a piece of software
versus a piece of hardware, but I don't think that analogy is perfect. Dean, what do you think?
Here's what I'm curious about. And again, you guys can help me with this. As opposed to reference
frames, I oftentimes default to frame of reference. And I know that in one of the live streams,
what I tried to bring out was the idea that there was an ice cream cone looking at an ice cream truck.
And the question was always whether or not, which one of those two entities, one is in the foreground
and one is in the background. And in this slide that Andrew has up, the question is,
is the non-fundability because only A and B can decide whether the A, the VA as seen by B,
the A is deeper into that image based on our frame of reference and the B is closer or is the B,
the one that's actually deeper and the A is the one that's in the foreground. And I was wondering
whether the idea of non-copyability is because of that depth of field aspect that cannot be
determined unless it's literally handed over the way that Chris was describing it.
I think that's basically accurate. I'm not sure that I can answer the question, but I think
I have the feeling that Chris said this in the lecture that, I mean, at the end of the day,
the QRF is somewhere in your nervous system. And here, whether, I mean, you bring up a good
point, right? It looks like this slide is a bit of an optical illusion. Whether you see A or B
deeper, I guess it depends on something going on inside your head. If you, this picture is so
symmetrical that if you focus an app on it, you can change your opinion. Well, just to even
connect that to what we're talking about, the classical fungible information on the holographic
screen on the blanket and then quantum cognitive rotation is those two images are on the screen
identical. And then whether it gets a quantum rotation such that the three points of the axes
are closer to us than the intersection on that kind of tetrahedron or the other way around,
whether the ballerina is rotating one way or the other, that's not on the boundary. So the
information about the depth of field is part of the QRF or part of the enactment of the QRF.
And it's not written on the boundary. And that goes back to the preparation question and not
just the measuring. Yeah, like at the preparation, if your whole enculturation or the last five minutes,
it was entrained or you were holding an object that predisposed you to think that the vertex of
the intersection was further away. That's the preparation that sets your prior so that when
you get this ambiguous artifact, you rotate it into the most natural position cognitively. And
that's the preparation that sets you up for measurement. No measurement can happen without
a preparation. What do you think, Andrew? Sure. Yeah, everything you said makes sense.
So perhaps let me recall what I said around the slides. There was a, in this whole spirit or
philosophy of making, emphasizing that information is physical, you know, income from QV, this whole
thing. One of the glaring omissions in physics was the embodiment of the reference frame,
which was treated as an abstraction, you know, in classical physics, such as by Galileo. But
maybe even Einstein, even if he, my hunch is that he did have more of this instinct of, you know,
particularly in all those thought experiments of trying to chase the library, you are chasing
the library, right? So at the end of the day. But I mean, this is a whole process of making
the observer and the reference frame more and more explicit and more and more physical,
because at the end of the day, it has to, right? If you start with this assumption that
so it is the assumption almost that, you know, all you see and, you know, it's part of the same
material ether that you are, then, you know, then you are part of the universe that you're
observing something that is out there. So you need to make, include a theory of what it means for
you to be observing that, right? And at the end of the day, the observer has to be physical.
That's what was emphasized by Chris at the beginning of this lecture. So this jump from
treating the reference frame as an abstraction to a real physical entity. Yeah, these people have
talked a lot about in these papers that are put in there, but I should also remark
that if folks want to see this, it's coming up in high energy theory also, in recent work of
Saskin and others, where they talk about quantum reference frames, very explicitly. So I don't
have the citations of the but, but it's definitely becoming an important thing in the last 20 years.
This attempt to really explicitly treat the reference frame and the observer as a quantum
entity, as a physical entity. Okay, so this, that's what I just said. Okay, the jump from
treating things, reference frames as abstractions to physical objects. Go. And
and because we cannot make a perfect copy of quantum information, we say that these are
unique and clonable and unfungible. So in order to recreate an experiment perfectly,
this is that this is addressed as the part of fungibility or not, right? Can Alice,
if you have some sort of quantum experiment and Alice and Bob are, you know, it's the usual
EPR thought experiment or whatever Alice and Bob are separated by light years.
Is it enough if they want to recreate the same exact, the same experiment or Alice to send
string of zeros and ones? Well, if you had an experiment where that's enough, then you can
recreate it with fungible information. If not, then you need to somehow send non-fungible
information, which really implies standing a piece of hardware.
Um, can I, can I add another, another piece here? Look on the previous slide. So this looks
really technical and scientific. But let's think about Alice's laboratory is Alice's
brain, mind and Bob's analogously. Alice is thinking about what to say, and then says it.
And that information might be written in a chat form. It might be said verbally,
it might be transmitted through digital or analog signal. But at some point,
it's going through this classical informational interface. And then Bob's laboratory is like
perceiving and unpacking it. And the question of semantic alignment is such that if Alice gives
a shopping list of 10 items, if there's semantic alignment, Bob would be able to go to the store
and then find those 10 items. And it made me think of the, the dictionary definition of left
and right. So this gets back to our discussion of whether the vertex on these axes is coming
towards us or away from us. So I looked up the deck, the dictionary definition of left
on towards or relating to the side of a human body or of a thing that is to the west when the
person or that thing is facing north. So that's, I guess, one attempt to anchor what it means to
be left. The second definition is the left hand part, side or direction. And you could imagine
there's an analogous definition for right. The point is, you can't describe verbally
leftness and rightness or chirality in general, because its reference is an embodied perspective.
And so if Alice said, okay, you're going to go down the street and then turn left at the stop sign,
how would Alice communicate to Bob what leftness meant at that stop sign versus rightness?
And that's this question of flipping. And the way that the quantum formalism accommodates that
is through the WIC rotation and the quantum cognitive events, where the fungible,
transmittable holographic information gets rotated into the imaginary axis
with the formalisms that enable it to be rotated at all. But that means you could
rotate it left quote or rotate it right. Yeah, I think that's, that's a very good explanation.
I don't know if I have much to add, Dean, do you want me to say something?
So, but I can't, I don't know the answer to this, but to take what Daniel just said, to take the
basic concept of being able to take something that for all intents and purposes can appear one way
or another. And then turn that into how Chris closed the last lecture with, we are, we are
seeing ourselves as both being entangled and also being separatable. How did we go literally from
a three dimension vertex to we're both entangled and we're, we're not living in a paradox. That's
just the way it is. We're also removing ourselves or separating ourselves at the same time.
That's what I would like to know because somewhere between three arbitrary lines and
complexity is not a paradox. Something has to be happening and I'm not exactly sure how that
transition plays out. Anybody want to enlighten me? Can you repeat your question please? Well,
how do we, how do we go like from the, at this point of the reference frame description of
saying it can't, you can't copy it. All you can do is pass it because we think things could be flipped
based on internal, internal reference frames, internal meanings and internal models. The thing
we choose for context goes all the way out to the conclusion of Chris's conversation with us in
number three where he said, bottom line is, is that it's not a paradox that as things become more
and more complex, then it wants to be able, it wants to get to a place of entanglement, alignment,
a sense of agreement and at the same time wants to remain separate. So between those two things,
a whole lot has happened but, and I don't think we've skipped over it, but we certainly haven't
opened it up and really looked at it closely and I'm just curious, what's in between those two
scales? I agree. I think we're, we're going to cover that towards the end of the, of the talk,
but I agree. I mean, I don't know how you see this related to QRS or the stuff we just talked about,
but I think it's the big question in this, in this lecture, right? That was like,
where does this tension between increasing complexity and, you know, wanting, wanting to predict
what the environment is doing? One requires entanglement and one requires separability, at
least colloquially speaking. I think this tension is basically what the free energy principle comes
down to, right? Daniel, what do you think? You have the free energy and you have the E minus TS
one is prediction error. I mean, not exactly E minus TS, right? That would be the dynamics, but
you know what I mean? One is prediction error and the other one is, what was it? I can't remember.
I'll definitely look forward to the, the technical unpacking that, that you'll get to soon, but,
but I was reminded of the William Blake quotation, do what you will, this life's a fiction and is made
up of contradiction. So let's modify that, project what you will, rotate what you will,
space times a fiction, not that it's false, but that it's a projected fictionalization,
that it doesn't have the ontological primacy that, that's apology of communication does,
and is made up of contradiction. Yes. And it's made up of this tension between
fitting and not overfitting between aligning and the principle of unitarity and differentiating and
becoming through others, we become ourselves and that type of articulation and recognizing that two
complementary forces like convex and concave come into existence at once, like a zero to two jump
is not an issue or a stumbling block. It's that we wouldn't have it any other way.
Couldn't have it any other way. Yeah. Sure. We'll get that towards the end. You can almost
even call it a duality. It's not far fetch. I mean, it's the sort of thing that I think most
people will be happy to take for granted such supersymmetry, like you have two kinds of particles,
but the same amount of them and dualities that are all over the place. So I think it's fairly,
it's not unreasonable to just accept that there is a tension between increasing complexity, which
you want you want me to be separable for and accuracy prediction. Now, how this is related to
emergent space. And this QRF stuff, you know, I don't want to make very far fetch claims,
we'll talk about emergent space later on the course. But for now, let's, let's, let's say a
few more words out here. And then we'll get to the complexity stuff towards the end.
So, so QRFs are almost building blocks if you want for information processing. Here it's very
useful to recall the definition that I feel. I think we, we have mentioned before
of information as being differences that make a difference. That's probably the best
definition of information I've heard. And I think, I think it does a lot of work. I mean,
it's almost mathematical. But anyways, we need to unpack it a little more and see. So
for a difference to make a difference, what do you want out of QRF, right? And surprisingly,
I mean, not surprisingly, but reassuringly, I think would be the word. You need a QRF to have
sensory action and a default state, right? This is sort of like
where your Bayesian prior distribution is encoded. These three things will give you a building block
for any information processing. And that, you know, ties together with all the work in the
pre-energy literature and perception action loops and whatnot. So before we see mathematically
how a QRF is defined, I think it's more illustrative. And I think Chris, when exactly on the right
order, when he presented this a couple of weeks ago, seen examples from nature. These are actual
pieces of forward are effectively QRFs. And it's remarkable how they map to, well, I'll skip ahead
a little bit. But when you get to them, to the mathematical definition of the QRF as a quantum
system that, you know, you can specify with this category theory diagram, you know, you have
incoming arrows into a node that then expands, right? And this roughly corresponds to measurement
and preparation degrees of, not degrees of freedom, degrees of freedom would be the same,
right, when you attach it to the boundary. But measurement and preparation stages, I guess,
would be the better word. But anyways, let me go back to these examples, right? And Daniel,
your biologist here, so correct me if I say anything wrong here. You have a cartoon picture
of the bacteria, I think. And this is a very simple sort of thing, right? It navigates in the
direction of food. And, and that's it, right? So it is a very simple rudimentary example of a QRF.
You have the sensory
stage here, I guess, the degrees of freedom. I guess the degrees of freedom,
it's not obvious here what the boundary is. That's one thing. But it is a good enough picture to see
