They are moving, actually. And yes, so, I mean, but the question is that at this point,
trying to deny that there is a change on the climate of the earth is completely absurd because
it's something that we can measure from many, many different ways. I will explain to you something
that if you don't know, probably you're going to find amazing, actually. Some years ago, one friend
of mine went to Antarctica and he commented to me that it was absolutely impressed because he has
been a lot of times there, of amount of blue ice bears that he saw. Why blue ice bears are so
special because the ice becomes blue only when it is very, very, very compressed. So, typically,
when you have blue ice, it means that it has been really very deep inside a thick layer of ice,
probably for thousands and thousands and thousands of years. So, these ice bears may
have blue ice that he saw, probably represented the ice that was there since, I don't know, maybe
20,000 years ago, 100,000 years ago, something like that. And now, the problem is that everything
gets, the system likes it there, they are running into the sea. And this is not normal. I mean,
prior to that, I mean, 30 years ago, you almost never saw one of these blue ice ice bears.
But this is one of many, many other evidences of the things that are taking place. And in particular,
regarding fishes, we are measuring this. We are observing that as decades pass, several spaces
are moving, are moving, going away from the equator. So, again, to the north pole, the south pole,
because otherwise they cannot live. There are some spaces that simply cannot resist some
temperatures and also for breathing, they need specific conditions. Not only that, but there
are some specific species of fishes in which the rate of the gender changes depending on
temperature. So, we are observing that because of these changes in temperature, they have, for
instance, an excess of female specimens in front of male specimens. And these, sometimes,
might make cause and problems, okay? So, then, as I say, there are many evidences, and it's not
only on the sea. We are also observing the displacement of some insects. For instance,
the Spain is quite evident right now. We have some species of insects that used to live in
the tropics that are arriving now to Spain, just because the conditions are low in it.
You also have those dedicated plantations that show there are trees in Spain, but they're
basically dead monocultures that don't have a lot of biodiversity and insects and life the way that
they used to do. There's that. So, let me ask you this. I don't know if you know much about this,
but since we're talking about the oceans and wind, there has been news that the AMOC, the Atlantic
Meridional Ocean Current, has slowed something like 15%, which is a massive amount in the last 30
or 40 years. And living in Spain and Northwest Europe, that has implications for future climate
and, in fact, if you look at the climate models worldwide, that area doesn't look to be heating
up that much relative to the rest of the world. Is that because of this AMOC? And what can you
say about your research and what the AMOC is and the implications?
Yes. So, the AMOC is what you call the Gulf Stream. So, it is the, let's say, surface
arm of AMOC. AMOC is a part of the global circulation of water that is essentially transferring heat
and moisture from the equator to the poles. So, there is one of these arms that goes on the surface,
what is called the Gulf Stream. It is running from North Brazil until the Gulf of Mexico,
then turning around Florida Peninsula, and then following all these coasts to the United States,
and then turning more or less a bit below Cape Athera, very close to New York. It is turning
down to East. And this is arriving, it follows more or less a constant latitude. So, it's like,
let's say, a horizontal, a straight line when you're seeing a map. And this is arriving in Europe,
and this is supposed to be one of the main reasons for which the climate in Europe is warmer
and moisture. I mean, we have more humidity thanks to that. And this also helps in order to have
a better harvest here and so on. So, it is very important from the agricultural point of view.
So, what you say is right. One of the implications of this slowing down of AMOC is that the climate
in Europe is going to be, by comparison, not as warm as the rest of the world. I wouldn't say
cooler because it's not cooler because the driver for increase in temperatures is also present in
Europe. But here, the temperature, I mean, Central Europe is different in the case of Spain.
Doesn't increase at the same pace as in the rest of the world because of that, because the lack of
this, but also it becomes drier. And this drying partisan worrisome right now, for instance,
we have a problem, important droughts in Europe that were unseen since five years ago,
five hundred years ago. It may be a coincidence or maybe it's an effect of the cumulative effect
of the climate change for sure. Okay, three more questions on oceans and then we can move on.
Number one, on AMOC, why is it slowing and how much further slowing is already built in because
of the inertia of the climate system? Yes, as I have said, AMOC is part of this
thermohaline circulation. So it is mainly driving by the difference in temperature and
sanity. Precisely the thing I am working around this, because now we are able to measure surface
sanity, we are able to measure surface temperatures from some years ago and also surface currents.
We're combining all together, we can identify at which rate water subsides and downwells at
specific places. So the question with AMOC is that you need to close the loop associated to the
thermohaline current because at the end it must make a circulation. So what is coming on surface,
but at the end it needs to go down in the ocean, running by the bottom of the ocean, then coming
up in Antarctica or in the Pacific Ocean and then coming back from several ways and then
finally arriving again to Gulf of Mexico and then completing the circuit. So the problem
that is probably one of the causes of this slowing down of AMOC is the problem that we are
observing in the south of Greenland, that was one of the specific places at which this current
which subsided was downwelling. Probably it's associated to different things, like a rain for
one thing, also the accumulation of fresh water because of the melting of water from Greenland
and also from continental Canada. This is for instance something that was observed in past
times in the geological history that the fact that you have a great amount of fresh water
fresh water is harder to sink. So the problem at the end is that this water normally what happens
normally south of Greenland is the combination of wind and other factors makes that some salt is
released and this water is getting saltier and colder and then it starts to sink and this is
the way it completes, but now because of the presence of this fresh water in surface, this warming
surface, it tends to be buoyant, this surface is very hard to sink and it's one of the reasons
it is slowing down. We have other two points at which the AMOC goes down which are south of
Iceland and probably there are also some efforts there, maybe not as intense in the case of Greenland.
So this is the reason, the main reason is this one, because the changes associated to the melting
especially coming from Greenland and from Canada. And how much more of that is already built in?
Well you know as this is a very slow current when you make a change on it, it takes a lot of time
to reinitiate it. So for rebooting it, this is very hard. Now the main concern right now is if
this current could be completely stopped because of this or diverted more to the south that it
could also happen. There was a Hollywood movie about that I think it was called the day after
tomorrow. Yeah I know, but it's very exaggerated actually because things are much slower in
reality. Let's say that the things that happen several days there typically will happen in
several thousand years actually. But anyway the question is that it could arrive to a complete
stop. If it stops it means that Europe will become very dry. Actually this is what happens
and probably it would imply that the east coast of the United States will become much hotter and
warmer even at latitudes like New York. Well and among other things it would eventually then lead
to stratified oceans and lots of very bad effects for oceans. And for hurricanes?
Why? For hurricanes because you have a warming gas because you know the main field for hurricanes
is the temperature of sea surface. Yes so as you know that above 28 degrees Celsius of sea
surface temperature you have energy to fuel the hurricane and this will imply that hurricanes
could go farther north with all the implications it has. Okay here's a hard question for you
maybe. Some people especially with what's going on not too many countries too far to the east of you
humans are afraid of that we're headed for a thermonuclear strategic exchange between NATO
and Russia. What would the effect of a multi-year nuclear winter have on the oceans and their
ecosystems? Have you looked into that? And the problem is that if we do this
well apart from the implications the direct implications from radiation and all the
the fallout from the nuclear weapons and so on that is absolutely devastating.
You these taking into account that now the conditions the let's say astrophysical conditions
of the earth astrophysical cycles associated to the slow changes in the nutation and eccentricity
of the orbit of the sun around the earth around the sun. Earth is now in a situation in which
if it was not for climate change it would be favored to go to frozen to become in a glacial
state because normally what has happened the last millions of years with this configuration
of continental masses with this configuration of chemical composition of the atmosphere and so on
we typically have periods of let's say 110,000 years in which the the earth is frozen it's in
glacial state and we have some beta stable states not so longer of interglacial which is temperate
which is another period in which we are right now that typically lasts around 10,000 years.
So the truth is that climate warming and climate change the fact that we have concentrated
CO2 in the atmosphere now it is making it possible that the earth to be frozen okay so this is the
only good effect associated to the release of CO2 the price that we have gone too far away in this
direction but in case if you make a nuclear winter you are forcing the earth from this classical
state because it is what is favored just because the current configuration of the orbit of the
earth so for sure the earth the earth probably won't for sure more probably the earth will enter
in let's say 103,000 years of of glacial state and also the the blocking out of the sun would kill
a lot of the plankton and yeah it will kill everything I mean no no this is clear I mean
you have the you have a let's say amount of aerosols and other particles will be dispersed
in the atmosphere that typically lasts for five years in the case of a total nuclear award I mean
I hope we are not coming to this scenario but in this case yes the time for the all the dust to
really start allowing the having the the rates of light to all the sun to come to the surface
will be last typically five years so in five years almost everything will be lost not everything
but almost everything will be lost so this will be a total it would be the spell a total disaster
for plants and for algae for sure no I mean the mass majority of the life on earth will be exterminated
this is clear and then we'll fall in this time 110,000 years of last election
jellyfish and urchins
yes some crocoches maybe okay so uh segueing into your other specialty and by the way let me pause
here you are truly a polymath I know that because I followed your your writing for a long time and
you have a strong Spanish accent and I just want to call out and and respect you that you are able
to articulate these incredibly complex scientific topics in Spanish obviously but also in English
which is not your language and it's it's just deep gratitude for people like you that are just so
multi-talented and care about these things so mucho gracias thanks a lot also in France if you're
interested so segueing into to energy so so you understand peak oil and other limits to growth
so given that we are now or close to peaking and that oil is the master resource how worried are you
then about the future of life in earth's oceans given that you know the the amount of emissions
are likely to go down in the not too distant future they're not going to go away they're
still going to be a lot but they're not going to be not increasing so that's question part one and
then part two of all the ocean risks given your knowledge about energy the depletion what is the
biggest ocean risk that you're you're worried about well that's you are complicated questions
complicated ones actually so regarding the first one is that you should take into account that even
if we are forced to reduce our oil consumption yes because the production of oil starts decreasing
that is a process that is since it is starting by now the rate of of descent the rate at which
the the production of oil on the case is not fast enough in order to let's say spell out the possibility
of a catastrophic climate change if we wanted to avoid the worst scenarios of climate change
we should be reducing our consumption of fossil fuels in general not only oil but let's say
five eight percent per year excuse me seven eight percent per year and this is not the way at which
the production of oil is going to decay not to not to say for instance coal is not going to fall
so fast the overall decline rate of legacy wells might be seven percent but we're gonna
still drill and that new drilling is gonna offset that yeah exactly the question is if we were
to stop completely oil will be more or less around the rate that we need but we have still
coal and you have a gas so this is not enough so this is and plus plus you can see that if
what happened in germany the last six months that's one of the greenest political environments
in the world and they're rebooting old cold towns because of the russia situation as expected
this is this is the another question so what happens in a situation of energy crisis is that
you make resort to resources that are worse from the point of view of CO2 emissions so even it may
be in terms of energy you are reducing your energy consumption because you are using something which
is worse which is not giving you as much energy as you have before probably in terms of CO2 you
could have an an worsening of the situation so you will have the worst of two worlds so to have
less energy and more CO2 well and I think we're going to do I sadly I agree with you and one part
that that's not talked about by the way there is not a single integrated assessment model in the IPCC
that specifically projects a decline in growth and not only that there's none that do the nuclear
winter scenario in the climate models and there's also none that include a deforestation as a response
to negative economic growth because yeah the burning of the trees wouldn't be as bad as coal maybe
but we are losing the sink what what if we lose half of our forest sink capacity yes at the question
at the end is thinking about that in the forest biomass you have CO2 that has been stored there
with some some changes some renewal but has been stored there typically for for centuries
so at the end you are releasing CO2 because it was accumulated there yeah this is clear I mean but
it's not that only that I mean it's also fracking it's also tar sands this is the kind of resources
that are so bad that they release a lot of CO2 just to obtain a bigger amount of energy so
and the question at the end is that most likely we're going to follow this path and as you have
said this is exactly what Germany has done while the situation has become dire enough
they have started burning more coal something which is quite paradoxical the past summer
is that in the situation in which we have heat waves in Europe in central europe and in germany
france and so on and we have droughts they have problems to carry the coal across the ring river
just because the level was so low that the boat couldn't pass so I just wanted the coal to pass
in order to burn it to aggravate the situation so but unfortunately we are so blinded to the energy
question we are so blinded to the climate question that we are trying to do our best I mean as a
society as a community as whatever civilization in order to to burn more and more this regarding
the effort the long term the long term so regarding this first question my intuition
is that even if CO2 emissions are going probably down in the next years to the case just because
of the inflation is something that we cannot avoid probably the rate of decay is not going to be
enough in order to really avoid a very sharp climate change even a catastrophic climate
this is for one regarding to your second question can you remind me because
second question is you you're an ocean marine expert of all the possible ocean risks given
what you just said about climate what is the the biggest risk that you are worried about in the oceans
in the in the next hundred years well we have the problem for I mean it depends if you are thinking
about marine life or you are thinking about the importance of oceans for humans there are many
things that are very massive risk yeah this is the problem there are very many things that are
massive risk risk for both in both senses so we have the problem with the inflation official
is for sure this is important because by 500 million persons depend on the protein they can
get they can get from fishes and we have a lot of overfills fisheries this is a problem we have
the serious very serious problem with the accumulation of plastics which is entering all
the traffic chains and you know plastic is the main problem that they represent is that when
they arrive to our our figures with our dish is that um they uh they they are what is called endocrine
endocrine disruptors endocrine disruptors so it's altering or your hormonal functions and this
this is not good so there there's two plastic problems right there's the big chunks of plastic
and then there's the minuscule ones we can't see that are in the ocean food chain yeah this is the
product the even some algae are able to assimilate so this assimilated them fishes and it's more and
more assimilated in greater predators and so on so we have the problem with plastics we have
