Amigos y amigas, bienvenidos a la great simplification. Today's guest is Antonio Turiel,
who is a physicist at the Institute of Marine Science in Barcelona, Spain, specializing in
remote sensing, turbulent sea surface salinity, water cycle, sea surface temperature, sea surface
currents, and chlorophyll concentration. He is also truly a polymath and a renaissance man.
Most times when you see the word polymath, it's someone self-describing themselves on LinkedIn.
I am describing Antonio Turiel as a polymath. We talk about oceans, how they are important
in regulating Earth's climate, yet they receive very little attention as to what's going on with
the ocean, temperatures, the AMOC, etc. Antonio also runs a popular blog in Europe called The Oil
Crash. He truly is working 60 to 80 hour weeks on the human predicament, very active in Spain
on trying to get Spain to do things more sustainably. This conversation covers a wide spectrum
of content. Antonio and I have known of each other's work for 15 years, but this was the very
time, first time we've ever spoken together. It was a great conversation for those of you who
are listening to this on the podcast apps. I might suggest that you watch this on YouTube,
where there are full captions available, because Antonio, even though it's his third language,
he speaks very, very fast. This was a great episode, and I hope to have Antonio back.
Please welcome Antonio Turiel.
Saludos, amigo. Good morning. Antonio, I have known of your work for a very long time,
and you've probably known of mine, and we are finally having a conversation. Thank you for
taking time out of your busy schedule today. Well, I am very glad to be here with you,
actually. Yes, I have been following with you for very long, like now.
We had to wait until the crisis was upon us to have a conversation, the irony.
You are, among many other things, you're a physicist specializing in remote sensing,
turbulence, sea surface salinity, water cycle, sea surface temperatures, sea surface currents,
chlorophyll concentrations, and other marine ocean issues. You also run a popular blog on
oil, and you're very active in Spanish, in Spain, in the sustainability discussions,
and you have a family and a full-time job. My first question is, how in the heck do you do all this?
Well, you know the secret, the secret is not sleeping. It's quite easy, actually.
For instance, today I have slept just for hours. This is not my usual schedule,
but sometimes it happens. Now, I think it's a question of having a good organization of time,
I guess, but also when you are in a combined set of something, when you think that something
must be done, I think that you find the energy to do it. Yeah, I feel the same way, but I still
need eight or nine hours of sleep, and you and I, on these prep calls with our technology,
you were up at 10, 10.30 p.m. doing these tech checks, so carry on with your important work.
So, I think we could talk for three or 12 hours, but we have a 90-minute hard
stop because of your train. What should we talk about?
I think that we can start talking about the situation with the climate in general,
and in particular ocean climate, which is my specialty, and then we can go ahead discussing
all natural resources and the kind of energy that we have for energy and for economy at the
global scale. I think this will be more or less the things that we could tackle.
Excellent. That was my idea as well. So, I've had a lot of ocean experts on this podcast,
one on peak fish, another on prior mass extinctions with hydrogen sulfide,
and DJ White, who's a cetacean activist, but no guest so far has unpacked specifically
how burning fossil fuels leads to acidifying oceans. Can you, just for starters, in like a
basic primer sort of way, explain the mechanisms and the risks and implications of ocean acidification?
Well, something that happens in the oceans is that the oceans are continually being mixed by the
action of wind because wind generates waves. So, the question at the end is that because of this
mechanism, oceans are continuously capturing a small bubble of air inside it. The question
is that if you are increasing the concentration of CO2, this is contributing to the solution of
this CO2 inside of the ocean. This is what we call inorganic dissolved CO2. There is another
mechanism for the dissolution of CO2 inside water, which is caused by the action of living organisms,
so in particular algae, because when they die, all the carbonates, all the chemical substances,
they have assimilated CO2 from these bubbles I mentioned before. And when they die, they go
to the bottom of the ocean, and then because several mechanisms, the CO2 is also released and
also dissolved, and this contributes to acidification of the ocean in the deeper layers of the ocean.
So, we have a mechanism for the lower layers, and anyway, all of them are contributing to have
more dissolved CO2. The CO2, when it is dissolved on water, because it is carbon oxidized,
it becomes the carbonic acid, and the carbonic acid, as the name implies, it's an acid.
So, this contributes to acidification. Why is acidification important? Because there are a lot
of marine organisms that needs the pH, the concentration of ions, the acidity, the say of the
water to be in a particular specific margin, otherwise they die. This affects fishes and
this affects, for instance, corals, because corals have a problem to integrate carbonate in order to
form the exoskeleton. So, this becomes dissolved, they tend to desegregate and disappear. This affects
also the skeletons of algae. At the end, it's affecting all marine life, because in one way or
the other, they are depending on having an stable, let's say, acidic level in the ocean. So, yes,
this is one of the conundrums that we have, because also we know that from all the emissions,
the man-made emissions of CO2, because of the burning of coastal fuels, we know that you first
of them finish into the ocean. So, this is the reason why the ocean is acidification at this very
rapid rate. Okay, I have multiple follow-up questions to that. Let's start with your last
one. So, most of the heat emissions from fossil fuels have been absorbed by the oceans, right?
Like something like 90 percent? What is that? 80% of the case of the heat, well, the main reason
is because the ocean has more capacity to store heat than air. So, this is what is called the
heat capacity, which is to say the amount of energy, the amount of heat that you need to accumulate in
order to increase the temperature by one degree. And when you compare the heat capacity of the
water against the heat capacity of the air, it's about one million times more in the case of water.
It's much, much, much larger. So, water is the large storage of heat of the earth. So, anytime
that you're putting into contact the warm air with the ocean in continuous basins, the water is
assimilating this heat, it's getting rid of this heat from the air and accumulating into the water
because it has a huge capability to store in it. The probability that it has a huge capability,
but not an infinite capability. So, the problem at the end is we continue to do this. We are going
to alter also, alter actually the structure of the of all the water column. We are affecting the
consistence where the fishes live. We are affecting the many, many things and this is what is happening.
And what is more worrisome even is that all this heat that the ocean is accumulating
could be released suddenly if the given specific, specific physical processes take place. And this
may happen. So, one part, a significant part of this accumulated heat could be suddenly released
causing a massive disruption. How would that happen and has that happened in the past?
It seems that there are several cycles that favor this release of heat from the ocean. It has mainly
to do with the movements, the vertical movements of water in the ocean and also the difference
between their temperature and the water temperature. So, what happens is that as we are accumulating
heat on the oceans, if the warm water finally upwells at a place at which the air is colder than
the water, the water will be transferring heat to the air. And this is the main mechanism of
transfer. And it seems that this happens with more intensity because this happens always, I mean.
But the question at which times this mechanism intensifies, it seems to happens following
several cycles. We don't know all of them. But it seems that we have a 20-year cycle that in fact
we are now going to the back part of the cycle in which the ocean is releasing a significant
amount of heat to the air. And there are other cycles, other periodicities, other times at which
this release is even increased more. But we don't know exactly why this happens with this
periodicity. We don't know the mechanisms. At the end, taking into account, as in any other branch
of science, we know some phenomena, but we don't know all the answers of why these things take
place. At least we know they take place, but we don't know all the mechanisms being involved.
So, it's safe to say that most people don't really think much about the ocean unless you
live on the coast. But the oceans have been acting as a huge buffer for the heat that we've been
emitting over the last 100 years. And we just take it for granted, yes?
Yes. Now, something which is important is when you are running climate simulations with large
computers, it is very clear that what is driving the behavior of the climate on the long run
is the ocean. The ocean is the main driver because it's the main system in terms of accumulating
heat and energy in general. So, the effect of the ocean is felt all over the world. And many
of the important perturbations, for instance, El Nino, which is something that we've been
discussing this year, because this year seems that there's probably to be one El Nino year,
and it is associated to droughts and floods, and it's associated also to heat waves and so on,
depending on the place you're living on. This is mainly, at the start, it's mainly ocean phenomenon.
It starts in the ocean, and it finish on the ocean, actually. So, yes, the dominant part
of all the climate machine is the ocean. So, compared to the rest of earth systems,
is the ocean fast or slow to change? And what if oceanic changes begin to speed up?
The ocean, because of this huge capacity that it has to store warm heat, let's say, and energy,
is the slowest part of the climate system. It's typically, well, not probably the slowest,
because maybe the cryosphere, the ice, is even slower, but the cryosphere has less size and
impact. So, from the most active parts, it's the slowest one with difference. And the fact that
some processes are speeding up, actually, right now in the ocean, is quite worrisome, actually,
because it is indicating that all the processes around what we typically call climate, which is
what is happening on the air, the weather, and so on, probably are going to accelerate as well,
and much more. So, this is the reason why any accelerating in the ocean is very important,
because normally it is slow, it should be slow, and actually it is accelerating.
Okay. So, getting back to your comment on coral, there are some scientific reports that suggest
coral reefs will be 75% gone by 2050 or nearly gone this century. So, this, I think, affects like
25 to 30% of ocean species, because they dependent them for their life cycles. But this is probably
due mostly to sea surface temperatures. Acidification will play a role going forward,
depending on latitude, currents, etc. But what are your thoughts on the implications of a loss of
coral, and what a loss of coral this century, in turn, kick off a collapse of trophic food webs in
the ocean? Well, this is clear because coral offers the habitat for many species of fishes,
in particular. So, the question is that if coral is collapsing, many species and especially species
of fishes are collapsing as well, because they are going to lose the place at which they live.
So, this is implying that all this part of the trophic chain disappears. Something that people
don't think it to account is that when you are considering the living beings on earth and the
different places on earth, they are all connected. This is the cycle of life. So, at the end, you
have, you have, first, you have the algae, which is the same as plants in the ocean. There are
other animals that eat those, those planes animals, those who which eat those other fishes,
other fishes that we do, those and so on, have to arrive to the greatest perpetrators. But at the
end, everything dies. And in dying, all the organic and inorganic matter that you have gets dissolved
and is the basis for the new generation of algae to bloom. So, the problem is that-
And 10 million years from now, it will be oil?
Well, 10 million years, I don't know, but several tens of millions of years? Yes, of course. Once
they accumulate and if the geological conditions are the appropriate ones, for sure this will be
turned into, yeah, of course. But the problem is that we cannot wait, so for so long. But the key
point here is that if you have one part of this trophic chain, you know, this trophic means eating,
so the way in which one eats from the other and the other which one this one and so on and so on,
at the end, everything is reduced, is composed and serves as food for the algae, you know,
everything restarts. The problem with this is that if one part of this chain collapses at the
end, all the chain collapses. And this is something that, for instance, we have observed in several
parts here in the Mediterranean Sea that we have what is called barren seas. So, on the barren
bottoms of the Mediterranean Sea, we have lost the posidonia, which is a kind of grass that
lives there. We have lost also corals. We have lost a lot of things. We have no fishes. So,
the only thing that we have there is orchids, you know, this small animal. And on top of it,
on the surface of water, you have jellyfish. And this is the only thing that you have.
Every other thing has disappeared. Is that just in some areas of the Mediterranean or a lot of areas?
It is happening maybe in some coastal areas, across Spain, across Italy, and across Greece.
So, are you chained to your office doing papers and presentations in science, or have you actually
gone, been able to scuba dive and go in to look at some of these reefs and actually in the ocean?
No, because I probably, you know, I have too many things ready to do that. No, my problem is that
I specialize a lot in remote sensing. And remote sensing, you see the ocean, but for a
distance, you know. And even if I travel a lot, because I'm forced to, because I have a lot of
meetings, for instance, with the European Space Agency for these kind of things,
I am not doing campaigns. I am not performing campaigns myself. My colleagues here are performing.
Sometimes they have invited me. But the problem is that you cannot arrive to everything, because
it's very hard to do everything. Yeah, no, I understand that. So, acidification,
it's going to affect aragonite and calcifying organisms. But it's another hit against coral,
but also, as you say, not only coral, but other calcifying plankton and organisms. So, I assume
that this will, because of the heat and maybe the oxygen, I'm not sure, I assume that this will
initially be in the shallow waters. But how fast will ocean mixing make this a full ocean thing?
This is hard to say, because, you know, we are observing that we have experienced
changes in the way the ocean is mixed. Because something which is quite interesting, actually,
it has to do also with the problem of taking profit of wind energy, is that winds are becoming
more intense in open ocean and less intense on the continents and on coastal areas.
And some places, this change has been traumatic. Why is that?
We are not completely sure. We think that it has to do with the most rapid pace of ocean in order
to absorb and release heat. But anyway, it is something that we are measuring. So, we know for
sure this is happening. And as I said, in some places, this is quite traumatic. So, the question
is that the wind is the main force for mixing. It's not the only one, but it's the main one
for the mixing of waters. So, we are changing the way in which
waters are mixing. But again, this is not homogeneous. There are some places at the ocean
at which the mixing rate is increased and the mixing rates at other places decrease.
So, you are commenting on temperature, water temperature, and this is true that this is
affecting in general all the life because temperature affects in many different ways.
One important way is that as you increase the temperature, you are reducing the solvability
of oxygen. So, it means that the amount of oxygen that is contained inside the water is diminished.
So, for organisms that like having this oxygen to live, for instance, fish, because they are
taking the oxygen from dissolving water, they have less and less added. And even at a point that
combined with the presence of some algae, there are death of the zones in the ocean which there
is no oxygen at all. So, no living species lives there. And this is one of the effects. But for
sure, the increase in temperature also, what is increasing is the solvability of the carbonates
from water. And this is also one of the reasons why the reefs, the coral reefs are suffering,
and other organisms are struggling because the carbonates, the substance at the end,
the carbonate to understand, to be understood is, I mean, it's like the concrete from which
the organisms are done. So, at the end, they are made. So, at the end, if you have not this,
if you get this off in the water, you have a problem because anything is being ruined,
it's been destroyed.
So, last year, I had a podcast with a British Columbia scientist, Daniel Pauley, who's studying
something called the Gil oxygen limit theory that fish are actually moving towards the poles
because they have to get, they can't breathe, they have to go to where the water is cooler and
there's more oxygen. So, fish don't care about the climate debate in the world, they're already
moving towards the poles.
