Wow. You're asking a lot there. Well, and if you don't mind, I actually want to make it even,
even harder because I was going to, and you can answer that later or separately or whatever,
but I'm even interested in going back further before that, right? Because there was some great
work in the 20s and 30s and 40s. And so anything you want to say about kind of all of that stuff
and growing, you know, going forward, we'd love to hear it. Oh, that's absolutely right. Yeah.
If you go back to the early 1900s, where people like Burr and, oh gosh, there's a variety of very
well-known biologists who are actually looking at these kinds of things,
measuring voltages with cotton wicks soaked in saline and putting it on different regions
of embryos. And that work was almost lost. It was, you know, it was really groundbreaking
and so unique that I think that it was just not quite appreciated. And the main reason,
I believe, is that in the 1950s, you know, the whole DNA story came out. So the molecular biology
took over and the 1930s, 1920s, the whole work that was a body of work measuring electric voltages
and showing that there are fields in these embryos was sort of forgotten in many, many respects.
But that was sad because, you know, certainly the molecular revolution, the DNA revolution,
was huge. And we thought that it would explain everything. We now know that it doesn't. But it
certainly made us believe that we could understand life by knowing the sequence of our DNA. And I
think even molecular biologists now agree that that doesn't tell you how things work, that it gives us
some idea of how proteins are made and what the structure of proteins are. But it doesn't really,
doesn't help us understand life completely. And that's where Mike's stuff is really much more
important. But in looking at the evolution, the molecular revolution pretty much, in my opinion,
completely overshadowed all the physiology. The developmental physiology that was going on just
went away and was not even looked at anymore. I think when Lionel's generation came in,
he was fairly unique. I don't really know of a lot of comrades for him that really
he could work with. He was a very unique person. And he started looking again at these
electrical currents in developing embryos and plants mainly in these pelvicia. And he sort of
erased the awareness again of this, but never really took off to a huge extent. He didn't have
that many followers. His students all followed him. Ken Robinson and Bill Rich Borgans and
and myself all continued doing his work. And we had a few other, maybe a dozen other scientists
who started using the vibrating probe in Germany and France in Italy and made some progress in
the field in Canada. But when that's sort of in the 70s and 80s and in the 90s and 2000 or so
is when I sort of found the role of ultra high voltage, ultra short fields in cell signaling.
So that's a whole different area of bio electricity that I've been exploring for the past decade
or so, two decades really. And that's another aspect of bio electricity that is just fascinating
that you know, we so I started out measuring nano volts, you know, 10 to the minus ninth volts.
And now I'm applying a 10 million times larger field of 50 kilovolts or 20 kilovolts. So, but
you know, in a way that's still physiological. So it's a way that still is very no heat that is
fractions of a jewel, but it communicates to the cell in a way that gives it a message. The message
is to undergo regulated cell death and to start doing something that it would normally do at the
end of its useful life, but start doing it now. So it's a fascinating area that I've been exploring
and really enjoying. Can you talk a bit about a bit more about that, about the ultra high voltage
field? Sure. Yeah, that that's what's called these nanosecond voltage pulses. So the whole idea
is that you, you know, basically something that was found back in the 50s actually,
yeah, 1954 was when the first discovery of a pulsed electric field could permeabilize cells.
It was called electroporation, still is called that. And what happens is you make electric field
that's strong enough to push water molecules, which are waters in normal, normal out in reality,
nor water is a dipole. It's H2O, two protons and one oxygen. And that has a net charge,
net positive charge. So when you put a voltage, it feels the voltage and it moves along the field.
And if you put us up to about 400 millivolts, maybe half, half a volt across of a bilayer,
a lipid bilayer, which all of our membranes are made of, if you put a voltage across that
of about half a volt, it's strong enough to push water into that lipid and form a water filled
pore. And that is permeabilization. So now this lipid bilayer, which normally separates inside
from out, has a little leak. And that leak would let ions pass through it if there's a gradient of
force. So what we're finding is that normally if you put a typical cell as maybe 10 microns,
between 10 and 100 microns, and if you put about 1000 volts per centimeter, 1 kV per centimeter
across that, that gives enough voltage across the membrane to permeabilize.
But we found with higher fields, if you want to permeabilize the organelles,
like the mitochondria, the ER, now that 1 kV is not enough, because now you're looking at a much
smaller distance across that organelle, so you need a larger field to generate the same
half a volt across that membrane, because their membranes are much closer together.
So now we have to have 20 or 30 kV per centimeter. And that's possible only with ultra short pulses.
So 1 kV per centimeter, you can use with a microsecond, it's no problem. It doesn't generate
enough joules or heat to cause too much heating. But if you go up 10-fold, up to 20 kV per centimeter,
or 20-fold, now that one microsecond pulse, that would be way too much heat. It would boil the cell.
So the joules that you're introducing is too much. So you have to shorten it. So instead of a
microsecond, you can do a nanosecond, which is one thousandth of that, or even 10 nanoseconds
or 100 nanoseconds, as long as you're less than a microsecond. You can get down and introduce it.
And now the trick now is not only do you permeabilize the plasma membrane, but you're
permeabilized to mitochondria. And that's important because mitochondria function by generating
200 millivolts inside negative across their inner membrane. That voltage is critical for making ATP
from ADP. So it adds a phosphate onto ADP, and that phosphate is added in part with the electric
field. It's also a proton gradient. That's important. So it's a combination of a proton gradient,
pH, and electric field that make that ATP. But if you permeabilize the mitochondria,
make it leaky so it can no longer generate a voltage gradient, you don't make any ATP.
That's been shown. And that's the magic of our energy is that we not only permeabilize the outer
membrane, we permeabilize mitochondria. The water pores in the mitochondria make it swell.
Water moves in because of the gradient. It moves in, and the mitochondria swell, and they stop
producing ATP. Did you lose Rich as well, Mike?
I did. Yes. Sorry, Rich. Hang on a second. Your sound is off. Rich?
I don't think he can hear us either, huh? Yeah, I don't think so. Rich, can you hear us?
We can't hear you. Yeah, I think he...
Say something? That's better. Now I can hear you.
You're back. Yeah, we lost about maybe 15 seconds or so.
Oh, I'm sorry about that. It must have been my headphones. Yeah. So where did I stop coming across?
You were talking about how the mitochondria would basically lose the energy in the ATP.
Yes. You can permeabilize it. Right. And so that when that happens,
not only does the cell lose its energy source of ATP, but now messages typically are released
by the mitochondria, for example, cytochrome C, which is one of the messages required to initiate
regulated cell death. So it starts the pathway that all cells have when they find that they're
not functioning well. They become leaky or they had been damaged. And that pathway is what normally
occurs. They release the cytochrome C. They make a message go from the ER to the plasma membrane,
cal reticuline. And then when the cal reticuline is expressed on the surface of the cell,
dendritic cells that are always looking around for problems, they bind to that. And that's a message
to phagocytose that cell. So it's a way for our body to go after cells that are damaged,
clean them up, and rescue any problems that are happening. Interesting. So does this have
significance for maybe cancer research and killing off cancer cells as well? Exactly. We've
been using it to treat different cancers. So in a mouse, for example, we're able to make mouse
models of all sorts of cancer, from pancreatic cancer to basal cell carcinoma, too, of a whole
variety. And in a mouse, if you can make a tumor, we treat it with the putting our electrodes around
the tumor. We simply give it a few pulses and it dries up and goes away. In literally a couple
of weeks, the tumor is completely gone and it never reoccurs. And when I found that with these
nanosecond pulses, I was absolutely blown away. And that happened in 2007. And ever since that
I've been working on that. And we now have pulse biosciences where I'm working. It has generated
a machine, a pulse generator for this. It's been approved for use now for treating benign
skin lesions. And also now we've just had an electrode, a percutaneous electrode approved
that we're using to treat thyroid nodules by putting the electrode into that. And it causes
nodule to shrink and completely go away. So we're starting to use it to go after
problems in our medical field. Wow. And is there any damage to the good cells
like in chemotherapy you might have? Yes, there can be. You just have to be careful
because every cell will respond to these fields for sure. That's what it's a good thing and it's a
bad thing because it's a biophysical phenomenon. You can't prevent getting holes in membranes when
you pulse with these fields. It's its physical property of the lipid bilayer. So when we apply
it we're always careful to try to limit the energy to the tumor so we don't damage other cells.
But the fact is that in the skin, for example, we've done a lot of treatment of skin lesions
and skin cells are pretty good about recovering. For example, when we treat a wart, which is embedded,
we'll typically get a few of the skin cells damaged as well. But skin is amazing for regeneration.
As you know, when you cut yourself, it heals so beautifully and recovers. So that skin can
regenerate and we damage a few of those skin cells and it's not a problem. But the main thing is we
get rid of the wart. So that's typically how it works. Going back a little bit to the progression
you mentioned. So early 1900s there were people doing some experiments with cotton wigs and
realized that okay, there might be electrical forces in our body, but a lot of that research was
lost. Then 1950s, you said, because of the whole DNA research, the entire field, everyone was focused
on that. And then Lionel Jaffe came along and you and Ken Robinson and you had the vibrating probe,
which made it much easier for people to detect these electrical signals on the body.
Around that time, when people started detecting electrical signals, I'm curious when did they
start realizing that these electrical signals play a very significant role beyond the DNA?
In other words, first you discover that okay, our body is electric, but when did they start
realizing what the significance of the electrical signals in the body could be?
Well, that's a great question. As I think about it, the field really was concentrated for a
long time on a technique called patch clamp. And this is what electrophysiologists use to
study ion channels and the way the channels operate, the gating of channels and that sort
of thing. And I think when the patch clamp technique was invented, that was again around,
when was that? I would say that was in the 1980s, between 75 and 80.
That really made electrophysiology all concentrate on that technique. And that's how they
decide how they were able to explore ion channel opening and closing the timing of it and that
sort of thing. But when you think about the polarity or development of the asymmetry in
channel activity, it's really hard to put your finger on that as a phenomenon that people really
appreciate. I think it's really the work that Mike has done that has made more progress in
people understanding the importance of that. One of the things that we showed over the years in
the 1980s and 90s were currents leaving growing limb bud stumps in regenerating limb buds and
tails and those things. Those currents were certainly published and people recognized that
they were happening. But I still think that the sole phenomenon of developmental currents and
voltages is something that people are still trying to get their head around. Would you agree, Mike?
Yeah. I mean, so there's a few. I was just looking up. The earliest paper that I have,
I mean, you could go back to Volta and so on, but the earliest developmental paper I have is
1892 from Wilhelm Ruh. Right. And it's 1892 and he's writing in German about the
effect of the electric fields on chicken embryos and things like that. Exactly. Yeah.
And then, you know, and then you had, well, like one of my old favorites is Burr, so Harold Burr.
So this is like 30s and 40s. And this guy just, right? I mean, he basically had a good voltmeter.
That's all he had. And he went around measuring everything from embryos to maple trees to various
psychiatric patients. I mean, just dozens and dozens of papers. And in his book, he
extremely prescient. I mean, he said things that he had no way of being certain of,
but then in the end turned out to be quite, quite correct. You know, he saw a lot of it,
you know, these pre-patterns and these like subtle voltage pre-patterns for, and then another guy
really, like his work is Cone, you know, Clarence Cone in the 70s. So he showed that if you depolarize
neurons, they reenter mitosis. And right. And so he was really pushing the volt, the resting
potential. You know, this is this idea of resting. Absolutely. Yeah. Right. And yeah.
Yeah. And then, and then, you know, in, in, in 2000s, what, what we started doing was
really tying this stuff to the molecular genetic downstream consequences. So like our first, our
first paper with, with Ken Robinson was on, was on left, right asymmetry in the, in the chicken.
And the deal there was that there was this very important gene, Sonic Hedgehog, and everybody
wanted to know about Sonic Hedgehog. Well, it turns out if you want to know why Sonic Hedgehog is,
is turned on on the left side and not on the right side, you have to know about the voltage gradient
that precedes it. Otherwise, you know, otherwise it's a, it's a big mystery. Exactly. Yeah. Now,
that's fascinating. So really, it's all coming together. When you look at, at the way you've
integrated the, the molecular biology with the electrical field understanding, pH gradients,
that sort of thing, potassium ion currents, potassium pump location, so critical. It's amazing.
Yeah. Rich, do you want to talk a little bit about what was it like working with Lionel? Because,
because I, you know, I knew him a little bit. And I always thought he was a very interesting
character. And you obviously knew him much better. What was that like in his lab in those days?
You know, it was amazing. Yeah, he was quite a character. I'd say not only had incredible
physical intuition, where he can just, he just had a way of thinking about these things that,
I hadn't encountered before him. But he'd also was very much into politics and very strong in his
political beliefs. Very, he was very liberal. And almost every afternoon when we had our coffee or
any time to sit and chat, it would be about politics. It was amazing. So, so he, and luckily,
Ken Robinson and myself were also very liberal. So we were able to get along pretty well.
But I'd say the thing about being in his lab is that he worked very hard. He was there typically
around eight in the morning and would often stay till eight or nine at night. Had no problem staying
late hours overnight to when we have an experiment that had to go 24 hours. He would share the
night time with me. So I would take the first shift and he would come to take the second shift.
He was a very hard worker and very fastidious. So when he started doing his work, the first thing
he does is clean everything. Everything gets removed. That's not necessary. You only have
the instruments you need. And he was very particular about that. And it was important
because the stuff that we're doing, the developing the vibrating probe required a very fine work
making the probe itself, which was a very fine needle. That's what the platinum ball on the end
of about 30 microns in diameter, which you make under a microscope. So you watch it grow
in front of your eyes with electric field, you know, to attract the platinum to the surface.
So that is all pretty fine work. We typically would have Bach in the background, his piano,
concertos, his music to keep us calm while we're doing this fine work. But it was really a fun
place to be, to tell you the truth. Everyone that was in the lab really enjoyed being there.
Would you say that it's always interesting to me, the motivation that that great scientists
have. And would you say that you, you know, he and you and, you know, I guess the rest of you,
were you motivated by a specific outcome or capability or kind of an end point that you
wanted to get to? Or was it more just the curiosity of whatever showed up in the kind of the in the
moment more sort of joy of the experiment? How did you guys see that? Yeah, I think that's,
I think that it was the joy of the moment there. You know, none of us knew, didn't have an expectation
to where we're going. This is all new. This whole thing of currents around cells, it was
completely a new concept. We didn't know where it would take us. So that's why one person in the lab
would put a field across the cell. Another person would try to measure the normal current. Ken was
trying to figure out what ions were carrying the current. So he actually put the eggs in a metal
screen separating one side from the other, and he used radioactive tracers to determine what's
