So excited to have you here and have a chance to talk about some of this stuff. I'll let
us go first and then I have a bunch of questions to ask you.
Yeah, Mike, feel free to just jump in and ask questions as well. Yeah, okay, perfect. Yeah,
so Rich, I know you started talking about the history of it, but let's just take it back.
Maybe you can get started by telling us a bit about your background and how you got interested
in bioelectricity in the first place. Sure, yeah, my background, I started out in physics
and I got my bachelor's degree in physics and then went to graduate school at Purdue.
And in the physics department, they had professors give us a lecture about their work.
It was a rotating thing, so we'd be able to hear all the professors what they're up to and
decide if we want to work with them. And one of the professors they came on to do that was Lionel
Jaffe. And he was actually in the Department of Biological Sciences, but he liked to go to the
physics department because he found the students there were better and more appropriate for his
interests. He told us about his work in measuring electrical currents in germinating seaweed eggs.
And I found that fascinating. At that point, I had never taken any biology in my career.
And to think that you can actually measure currents in living cells, I thought was fascinating.
So I went and did a rotation with him, fell in love with the whole idea of measuring
these currents and I did my PhD under his guidance. And that really was a turning point in my life
because instead of studying solids and solid state physics, I was studying living cells
and we're measuring currents in those cells. It was actually fascinating. So we developed a
whole new technique which we called at the time we called the vibrating probe. It was basically
an electrode that vibrated back and forth and we used a lock and amplifier to measure the voltage
between the two points. And if current is flowing in a medium, that will generate a voltage in the
medium and it's very small because you're in seawater. It's very conductive. So the voltage
you generate is really in the nano volt, 10 to the minus ninth volt range, very small. But with
some fancy electronics and averaging many, many measurements, you can get down into those regions
and we did. We measured currents around the single fucoid egg, a pelvicia egg, and that's how I got
into it. It was ever since then, I've been looking at those kinds of things, fields and currents,
in cells and their response to imposed fields because that's so critical for development
of our organisms. So it's really been a fun. So when you first got into this research, you
developed a vibrating probe with Lyme and Jaffe as well. What was the next step? What was the
significance of bioelectrics back then? And one, I guess, was it even called bioelectrics the field?
Not really. Bioelectric was a term that was coined much later. There it was simply called
ionic currents in development. We had a whole book that we wrote called Ionic Currents in Development
and that was about, we just referred to it. See, when people talked about currents,
they thought about electron movement in wires. And, you know, of course, we aren't talking about
that. We're talking about sodium, potassium, chloride movements through cells. So that's why
we emphasize the ionic current aspect because that's a whole new way of thinking of current
with ions carrying it. And, yeah, that's the whole way we started describing it. And it was
kind of new. I think it was fairly new. People didn't quite know what to make of it at the time
because of, you know, they didn't think of cells as driving currents through themselves. It was a
whole new way of thinking. And, you know, as Mike will attest, it still is somewhat difficult to get
people to realize that's what's going on. I think it's largely because it never quite made it into
the biology literature, into the biology textbooks. You know, they teach all kinds of things about
genetics and physical chemistry and all kinds of biochemistry, but you don't get much biophysics
taught in the biology realm. So even doctors growing up, they don't learn about this stuff until
they get into cardiology and they realize that their heart is controlled by electrical voltages
and currents. And they start realizing how important it is then. But before that, in their basic training,
they just don't hear much about it. And that's unfortunate because I think it's the basis of
life is bioelectric. And it's just not completely understood and taught that way. But when you
think about it, every single aspect, every organ in your body has a voltage across it, across the
outer boundary, the epidermis or the outer layer of the organ that the kidney does. It has an outer
envelope, the liver. And there's a voltage across each one. And that voltage is important for the
function of that organ. So we are electric beings, that's for sure. And it's something that's
very, very slow to be realized by the medical community or anybody else, really.
So this is one, go on, Mike. Well, I was just going to say that I came across the first paper
on the vibrating probe. I first read it in 1987. And I was like, oh, my God, it was obvious that
this was a breakthrough technology because for the first time, we were able to see this living
pattern of electrical activity around and spatialized too, around all of these things.
Just can you just mention real quick the range of things that it's since been applied to? I mean,
it's been applied to a million different things, right? Oh, absolutely. Yeah, it's been picked up
by about 20 to 30 scientists around the world. And they've used it to measure the currents
through germinating pollen tubes, through the gastrolysis stage of many embryos. We used it to
measure the current through a blastomere. You know, just a mouse blastomere has current going in
apricot land and out the basal land, a constant steady current. We measured that many years ago,
but it's been shown that in the chick embryo and in the frog embryo, during gastrulation, the
currents are coming out of the neural tube region. And those currents are generating a voltage within
the embryo itself that's very important for its polarity. And if you disrupt those voltages,
literally change the voltage inside the embryo, you completely mess up development. They don't
they don't develop properly. You get all kinds of monsters created. And that's one of the things
that Mike's been working on as well, looking at the molecular aspects of those pumps and leaks
to see how that's involved in pattern formation. And it's critical, absolutely critical. So,
yeah, the probe is used quite a bit. It's not currently being used by many people. I don't
know of any current labs that are using it every day. But there's, oh, there's about 100 or so
papers out there showing different different organisms that is used to probe to determine
the current patterns. Yeah. When you first got into bioelectricity and started recognizing that
ourselves are electric, what was the the thinking in the field around what the significance of this
was? What was the main research interest around what's going to happen with
understanding that ourselves are electric? Well, the first thing we did when we actually measured
the current in this fucoid egg, it's a seaweed egg that germinates a rhizoid at one end. So,
it starts out perfectly symmetrical sphere. And it has the capability of growing anywhere on its
surface. And it grows by secreting material that then softens the wall. So, it grows by pressure,
you see. It builds up pressure on the wall. And as the wall gets softer, it expands. And that's
how it elongates. So, it turns out that with this particular organism, it looks at the cues around
it, mainly light and temperature. And it grows to the dark. So, it goes to form a hold fast to
it sticks to a rock. And it can grow up from that. It turns out that that current is critical
for determining the axis of growth. And you can actually change that by changing the current flow.
So, normally it controls the current by the light being absorbed by photoreceptors, which then
change the permeability of channels in that area and open up a calcium channel that lets calcium
in and that stimulates secretion. But if you then take that same cell and you put an electric field
in a different direction, it'll grow towards that electric field. So, it listens to what's out there.
And if it's light, as the main factor, it'll listen to that. But if it's an electric field,
that's the main factor, it'll listen to that. So, it depends on the different environmental
variables that it cares about to make its decision. And I think that's the case with many cells in
the body. When they are developing, they're in an environment. They're surrounded by other cells
and they get information from that. And often that information is electrical, so that they have a
current nearby or a voltage gradient nearby that affects the way that their ion channels and pumps
are oriented or localized on that on their plasma membrane. And that will then in turn
generate a little current in there through them that'll polarize them. So, basically the electric
fields that any cell experiences will certainly influence the way it grows in both direction
and its differentiation. The genes that are turned on, that's one of the things that Mike has been
finding, that genetics is listening to the electrical signals and basically making decisions
based on these external inputs. Another thing that's not in the literature. So, not yet.
So, this is a question I have for both you and Mike then. Mike, when you said when you first
read about the vibrating probe, your head was just like, oh my gosh. And obviously this field
clearly still remains underrated, even though there's a bunch of fascinating research happening.
Why do you think biophysics or bioelectricity has not made its way into the textbook or still
remains so underrated? Rich, you want to go first? No, I think you should answer this one.
Okay. Well, so here are my thoughts. One of the things that make biochemistry and genetics a lot
easier is that you can study them in the dead state. So, you can fractionate your cell, you've
got your, you can isolate the DNA, the RNA, the proteins, the lipids, the sugars, spread this
stuff out and then you can analyze them. And so, the amazing thing about bioelectricity is that
it's fundamentally, I mean, as a number of people have said, it's the spark of life. It's only there
when the system is alive and functional. So, that means that it had to really wait for technologies
like what Rich created and various things since then, the fluorescent dyes that we've used and so
on, before you could actually get these data. Molecular biologists and biochemists have been
at this for how many decades, for long before that because you can break up your cell and that's
good enough. So, that's the first thing is I think it's more difficult than the technology needed
more time to catch up. Also, I think as Rich said, you kind of need a different mindset for this. It's
not as simple as the kinds of things that you normally would learn in a biology and chemistry
kind of to really comprehend it. And I don't know if Rich agrees, but to me, not only do you
need physics, but you also need a lot of what's now basically neuroscience, you need a lot of
computation to really understand what's going on, you need to understand computations. It's a very
sort of fundamentally interdisciplinary field and I think that's harder.
Yeah, definitely. I agree with you completely. And again, I think that a lot of the problem
is that our classical education divides things up and a biology student doesn't get enough physics
to really understand electricity and magnetism to a depth that makes them comfortable with it.
Although they typically get one, maybe one semester at the most two semesters of physics
and it's just enough to hate it and not to enjoy it and really have it become a tool.
So, they're afraid of it and because of that, they don't really go beyond it into the biophysics
needed to really appreciate the ion currents and those kinds of things. I think that's a
large part of it. And I don't know how to fix that other than having that be changed in the
mindset of our education system to get more physics to all the biologists out there and
all the pre-med. Yeah, but you know, it's in the Gilbert Developmental Biology textbook,
has two bioelectric stories in it now. So, it's getting there. Yeah. Yeah, that's great to hear.
Have you noticed then that most of the scientists were looking into the field? Do they also have
a bit of a physics background? Yes, in general, that's the case. When thinking of the ones that I
know of that have used the vibrating probe, for example, those guys all had to have
some pretty good feeling about physics to understand how to interpret the data and that sort of thing.
I think that is true. I mean, there's another way in which people get dragged kicking and
screaming into this field, which is that somebody who does regular genetics will do a screen of
some sort and they'll get their mutant and they say, oh, this is fantastic. This is the thing I
need to study. And then they find out it's an ion channel. And so now there's been like this amazing
work by Emily Bates and in the Harris lab at Harvard where they do these purely genetic screens
where nobody was out to find anything bioelectric, but then you find that, oh my god, it's a channel.
And so now I need to understand how this voltage change gives rise to an altered wing or size
control or whatever. And there's been, there's probably almost three dozen good developmental
channelopathies now that people have studied that bring them into the field even though they weren't
really trying to study that. Exactly. That's a great way to get in, to be pulled in unsuspectingly.
Yeah, I love that. I love it. Yeah, I mean, I would often, when I, when I give talks to those
kind of audiences, I would say at the beginning, how many of you have done, well, either a micro
array or an RNA seek for your, and they said, well, so how many of you have found ion channels in
your top list? Oh, absolutely. You know, the first 10 things, they said, well, what did you do? Oh,
well, we skipped them and went to the factors. Exactly. Right. And so because, because the
tools were there. And so like, that's one of the things that, that we worked on pretty hard is to
develop tools and protocols that we would share. And then I would say, okay, so, so everybody who
had that, here's the, here's a how to manual and here's some reagents and whatnot. Now that you
can, you know, now that we can, we can study these things. Yeah, fantastic. Now, is the reason
to skip from the ion channels to say the transcription factors or the factors, is that
because they don't recognize the significance of the ion channels? Like they don't, they don't,
at that point, recognize that it's doing much or they just don't have any knowledge of it?
Exactly. That's, that's the bottom line is they aren't, they don't have that basis of every cell
has a trans cellular current. They don't think about that. They aren't taught that. It's far
this from their mind. But it's absolutely true. We haven't found a cell yet, who doesn't have
a trans cellular current, which is intimately involved in its function. You know, thank you,
your epithelial cells and your gut, I mean, they're, they're polarized. They have sodium channels on
the apical side, potassium in the basal, they have current, they're generating a voltage across
themselves. That voltage is integrally important, involved in the digestion for crying out loud.
So things, it's basic as eating and digesting requires these trans cellular currents. But
they don't know about that. It's not part of their education.
Well, and there's, and there's also a subtlety here, which is that when you have a trans
transcription factor, you can tell a story about a gene that does a particular thing. And that's a
very popular story. But what you find is a popular kind of story. But what you find with these ion
channels is that it isn't actually the ion channel gene or protein that's doing it. It's
the physiological state that ends up being the critical factor. And you can get the same state
by different channels, and you can get multiple states from the same channel, depending on whether
it's open or closed. So, so seeing physiological patterns as a causal factor is not what people
are used to, you know, right? And then, and then it goes back to what Rich was saying before about
these different fields. So, so I remember in 2007, we had this, we had this paper on, there was a
particular proton pump that was required for tail regeneration and tadpoles. And then we showed
that if you get rid of that pump, you can rescue it back with a yeast proton pump that basically
has no sequence homology, but does the same physiological job, right? So we send, we send
this paper out, and we get two reviewers. And the first, the first reviewer says, oh,
and, you know, and of course, we had image of the voltage and all the stuff this was,
you know, Danny Adams was doing this, right? And so, so the first reviewer says, oh, good,
you found the gene for tail regeneration, get rid of all this voltage stuff, you don't need it,
you got the gene for tail regeneration, this other stuff is junk. And then, and then guess what the
other, the other reviewers says, oh, well, clearly the gene doesn't matter because you've
replaced it by this thing from yeast. So get rid of all of that stuff and just
unbelievable. Right. Yes. And, you know, and we wrote to the editor saying, so what,
so what do we do? And the editor said, I don't know, but, but to make it shorter. So
make it shorter. That's terrible. Yeah. So, so that's, you know, that's the thing, right? You
have to, you have to think a little bit differently, like it's not the gene, it's the, and then, and
then it gets progressively worse after that, because then you end up with patterns. It's
actually the voltage patterns that make, that determine what happens next.
Exactly. Yeah. Even more difficult to explain.
Fascinating. Okay. So I'd love to understand a bit of the progression of the field and the
research interest from say the 1970s up till now. Maybe a good way to do this would be a
comparison or you could just, the one way it could be, maybe you can talk about what was the
predominant thinking in the field in the 1970s and 80s and 90s, or you could also tell me how,
how it compares to today and well, how the thinking was different back then.
