going in and what's coming out. So we had all these different approaches to understand the
mechanism. It was a fascinating place to be. It was all discovery of new, completely new things
that no one had heard of before. So yeah, it was, it was, it was an exciting time, but we were there
just trying to understand how it worked. You know, what was carrying the current, why there was a
current at all, you know, what, you know, what was driving that, what was, and that was fascinating.
So we can actually show that the electric field could change the current direction,
and that would actually polarize the cells. So you can actually make the cells grow in a
certain direction by the electric field. And how does that work, you know, what was going on there?
And that we showed that it was affecting the chloride, the calcium permeability, which then
affected the chloride permeability. So it was remarkable, a remarkable time and still, still
have great memories of it. Mike, what was your impression of Lionel? You said you interacted
with him briefly. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I met him a few times. Also, when he was at Woods Hole,
you know, I would go up there and meet with him. Yeah, definitely, definitely a, you know, kind of
an iconic class, you know, he was always thinking in new directions and, you know, wasn't particularly
concerned with what anybody thought at all kinds of, all kinds of wild, wild ideas. Yeah, you know,
played tennis. He was, he was quite advanced in years, and he was still, you know, he was still
playing tennis. He complained to me about not being able to find enough partners at that point.
That's true. Yeah, yeah. I played tennis with him. I remember that. That was great. Yeah.
Yeah. Mike, when you first entered the research and entered the field, what was your understanding
of bioelectrics? Well, I mean, I, I, first of all, by the time, you know, I went through,
I went through, by the time I had gone through undergrad and grad school, I had been reading
what, you know, Rich and Lionel and Ken and Richard Borgans and those guys, you know, they were my
heroes. Okay. All you guys were my heroes. And I've been reading those things. I ate and slept
and dreamt all of this stuff. But I also knew it was pretty clear that at a certain early stage
of the game, I better keep my mouth shut about all this. And so, you know, I kind of, I got my
degree in genetics and not saying anything about any of this straight up, just learning the kind of
the molecular genetics of chick development with cliff, taven and so on. But then, then during
my postdoc, I started sliding into it because I figured that, you know, pretty soon if I, you know,
if I had my own lab, I would be able to really, really get at, you know, really get at this. And
around that time is when I started being able to meet you guys in person. And I would go to, you
know, I went to the Gordon conference. And then especially eventually I had some actual data to
show. I was just so thrilled. I was so thrilled to meet everybody. They were helpful and they were
excited. And which I found amazing because all the years, I mean, you guys did not have it easy,
you know, to do all that work against the kind of the mainstream of the genetics and the molecular
biology. And to hold on to that, that's the one, that's what I remember. I remember the
excitement about the field, like not at all diminished by all the years of hard work and
arguing with people and, you know, and having to break through with this stuff. And I just remember
thinking that this is great, that if I was able to ever do this, the key thing to hold on to is
that sense of wonder and that sense of excitement about the work and not let all the difficulties
of it, you know, sort of get you down. You know, that's, I was amazed. I was amazed at how welcoming
they were to, you know, to this new, you know, new, new young kid who didn't know anything and was,
but was also excited about the field. Yeah, I had really good experiences there.
Yeah. And it was, it was, we were excited to see a molecular person come in with interest in our
stuff because we had just not seen much of that. So you were the first one to come along and show
an interest and understanding the rope, the connection between the ion currents
and the molecular biology. And that was fantastic. We were so happy to see that.
Yeah, I couldn't believe I, I mean, you know, I just couldn't believe I got to,
that I got to meet all you guys in person. I would spend from, you know, I first, I first,
I first ran into this field in 1986. And then from there, I spent the next, and this was now
before the internet. Okay. So there's no searching that you can do online. This is like,
in a dusty, in a dusty basement of a library somewhere, you know, Boston Public Library,
trying to find these things, the catalog barely, you know, was functional, trying to, trying to,
and, and just finding all of these papers. And each one of these papers had citations
to other papers, and you got to go chase them down, right? And so, and then you make photo
copies, and then you sit there and, you know, you read all of it. So, so this is just,
yeah, that's literature that I was, I was, you know, eating and dreaming of for years.
Phenomenal. That's just so amazing to hear. Rich, maybe you can talk a bit about the criticism
that the field received when you, Lionel, Ken, were coming up with all this research.
Well, let me say criticism. I'm not sure that we had much problem getting it published.
We always did experiments with good controls and a large data set, so that we published in
good journals, Journal of Cell Biology, Development of Biology, without very much problem. So,
I don't think that there was any criticism in that regard. I think the main question is why
more people weren't excited by it, and why they, we didn't have a lot more followers than we did.
And again, that was a molecular biology aspect. I think the molecular, the most, most of the
biologists out there found our, our stuff kind of intriguing, but didn't get excited by it,
as we were, and didn't quite appreciate the importance of it. And I think that's still the
case. I really don't think that the importance, the role of these ion gradients and currents
in development and in physiology is really appreciated by the bulk of the community of
biology. Would you agree with that, Mike? Yeah, I mean, I think it's, I think it's gotten a lot
better. I think, I think once again, you know, we're, we're in, I mean, people, people publish
the stuff now in cell and development and whatnot. So, I think, I think we're sort of back there,
but still, a lot of people have never heard of it. So, that's always an issue. Right. And, and
there's kind of a, you know, there's kind of a sister field to this, which has had a similar
journey, which is, which is biomechanics, you know, all the physical forces, the stresses, the
strains. So, there were all these people in the, you know, in the past decades, you know,
left Baloozov and all these other people that were talking about the importance of all these things
and, and writing these papers and completely ignored until some of the technology came along.
And, you know, and people like Donningbur and other folks who made molecular tools,
where you can now make high resolution, quantitative models of what the actual physical
forces are doing, not the, not necessarily the genes, but the actual physical forces,
you know, and, and the fact that if you write the fact that if you culture cells on a square peg
versus a triangular peg, you get different genes turned on and this kind of thing. So,
so I think, I think they went through the same sort of thing. And again, very difficult time
until the technology showed up. And I think, you know, technology in these, in these cases. So,
so two things make a huge difference, the technology. And then, and then what you might
call killer apps, right, in the, in the computer science field, you know, something that, okay,
now, now you can see, you can do something now that you couldn't see do before. And, and that,
and that gets people's attention. And then the young people sort of, you know, come, come up with,
with knowing, knowing what it's about. What's the technology that you think is missing now or
would be helpful to advance the research further? Question for both of you, Mike, maybe you can
go first. Okay, well, I think the biggest thing that's missing, there's a few things, but, but
one of the biggest things that's missing now is the physiomics data sets. So we have these massive,
I mean, just think about trying to do molecular biology before we had genomic data and transcriptomic
data and all that stuff. What we still don't know is, if you wanted to know in some model system,
some organ under some disease state or at some stage of development, what is the bioelectric
pattern? We only have like a tiny number of these things mapped out. And I mean, you know,
Rich has done a ton of it with a vibrating probe, we've done some with the voltage dies.
But in the grand scheme of things, there's very little bulk data available. And that's pretty
critical because, you know, modern tools like AI and other other techniques require a lot of data
to really, to really extract the signatures and functional target endpoints and so on.
So, so that's one of the things that we're focused on now is trying to develop technologies where
in some sort of high throughput way, we can actually generate these data sets so that we
actually know what the native states are for these things. What do you think, Rich? What's the
Yeah, no, I think you're absolutely right. The I remember that beautiful paper that you guys
came out with when you labeled the frog embryo with the dye that measured membrane potential
in the different regions of the embryo and showed that actually got a picture, a visual picture of
the gradient of potential in the blast, you know, blastomere stage of the frog embryo. And that
is what we need. We need to have a visualization of the electrical properties that we're seeing.
And it's so hard to do because the organisms that we want to study are multicellular,
thousands and thousands of cells. And but those cells are working together in a very intricate way.
The ideal would be to be able to image the field, the whole electric field everywhere in
that organism. And that would be a dream. It's not obvious to me how to do that. But I'm sure that
one day we will have some molecules that will show the gradient in a way that we can image them.
And there's quite a few different tools that are working towards that, this whole optogenetics
business where you control gene activity with light. It'd be nice to be able to reverse that and show
have light come out with the bioelectric activity. That would be fantastic. I hope that that happens
someday. I don't see it on the horizon yet, but I wouldn't be surprised. Well, we and others have
now are generating transgenic mice where every cell is expressing one of these optogenetic
voltage reporter proteins. So I think in the next couple of years we're going to have model
systems where every cell is advertising its electric state and then we'll be able to
start. I mean, again, you still have the issue of, you know, it's hard to see through tissue,
right? And so you still have all that. But but at least the cells will be sort of,
you know, trying to tell you what their what their voltage is as much as you can see them.
Exactly. That would be fabulous if we can get that to work. I love it.
Now, maybe this is a stupid question, but do different humans have different electrical
states around the cells? Different humans. You and me and my electrical states around
tissues and organs themselves going to be different or do all cells like normal cells
have the same type? I think it would be generally be the same. I guess it depends on
the disease state. So clearly, if I would say that as you get older, the I know for a fact that
the patterns and the voltages get lower. So I've shown that, you know, skin wound, for example,
as you age, the amount of current flowing, the wound current goes down. You just don't have
quite as much energy, so to speak, to drive the drive the current. So I think you would find a
difference as a function of age and any kind of disease state, for sure. In general, a healthy
individual will have very similar patterns than than, you know, than not. It really depends on
what you're looking at. But typically, you'll you'll find a voltage across every epithelium,
every organ, and that voltage will drive currents in depending on what that organ is doing.
Yeah. I mean, there's also there have been stories in the cancer field about sodium versus
potassium rich diets. And yes, right. And so and so one can hypothesize that if what we're talking
about is this kind of like change in resting potential due to sodium and so on, you might
expect, right, people with with different diets to actually have shifted VMMs that would predispose
you to different, you know, different conditions like cancer and so on. Absolutely. I mean, it's
been shown pretty well that depolarization is required for a cancer cell to be very active.
They're typically when you look at their member potential, they're more depolarized than a healthy
cell. So that obviously you want to avoid that to avoid cancer state. So that's that's absolutely
right. Yeah. Last question for you, Regina, we are over time. What do you what would you like to
see developed in the field going forward? Well, that I think we just answered that. I think this
whole idea of getting cells to tell us what's going on in their electrical activity would be
fantastic. So this thing that Mike just mentioned showing having a reporter gene that expressing
a a signal such as such as a light emission or a fluorescence that we can detect that would tell us
if that cell is depolarized or hyperpolarized or if there's actually a current going through it.
That would be fabulous. Then we can have an image of the whole electrical
property of the organism in different areas of the organism. That would be fantastic.
Okay. Well, thank you so much, Mike. Do you want to add anything? Any last questions?
No, this was great, Rich. I just want to say thank you so much for taking this time with us.
It was awesome to get your thoughts on everything. Yeah, thank you. My pleasure. It was fun to talk
about. I'll be glad to talk anytime. Thank you so much. Yeah, this was wonderful. All right, guys.
Thanks, Rich. I'll see you in the Bioelectricity Journal. Plenty more. Oh yeah, absolutely. Okay,
good to meet you. Bye bye, Astro.
