Great, thank you for welcoming me to your lab meeting.
I appreciate it.
Oh wait, what am I doing?
I have to share my screen first.
All right, so you should see my slides now.
Oh, perfect.
Great, so yeah, thank you very much for welcoming me.
And I know there's potentially some common interest
in these kind of themes.
I'm just going to talk about one particular project
as the title says.
We're looking at the evolution of neural activity leading up
to a spontaneous voluntary movement.
I have here a case study in Perseverance.
I mentioned that this is work that I
started with Rob Shapire, who is one of the co-developers
of AttaBoost, then at Princeton and his then PhD student,
Mehmet Basbug.
Mehmet has since gone on to, he's working for a startup.
And my PhD student, my current PhD student,
Luca, has taken over leading the project.
But it is something that we literally started.
I think the conception of this goes all the way back to 2012.
We've been working on it for a while.
But I'm happy to say we're finally, I think,
we're under the bent.
And we're getting ready to actually submit this or resubmit
it.
So it was in review at PNES.
And the reviewers asked for more data.
And COVID came.
And then we had other problems.
We found bugs in the software, et cetera.
But I think we've rounded the bend.
So the theme here, when I say impending movement,
I'm really talking about a spontaneous voluntary movement.
And that's the phrase that I tend to use.
Here's an example.
Like you have the diver on the diving board.
And you can say, well, yes, there
are constraints here.
I mean, the diver's not totally free.
And he's on the diving board.
He's clearly expected to dive.
So on, there's this whole context that constrains things.
But at some point, there's a time scale
at which there's a decision to be made, like jump now.
And that's not as constrained.
So there is some room for what you might call a free decision
here that's not constrained in any obvious way
by anything going on locally.
So that brings up questions like, well, why was this movement
initiated exactly when it was and not, say,
500 milliseconds earlier or later?
How do those kinds of decisions get resolved in general
when there aren't any obvious constraints
or imperative to move?
So just to be clear about what we're interested in,
it's something that I refer to as the neural decision to move.
And if such a thing does exist, and I'm not necessarily
saying that it does, but if it does exist,
what we're looking for is this proximal neural event
that commits some part of the body to an imminent movement.
That's sort of what we're after.
And that question is pertinent in a lot of different contexts.
I throw up a few of them here, not least of which
is developing brain-computer interfaces.
So they have made incredible strides, especially now
that people have started to look at invasive methods.
But one of the most challenging, outstanding problems
is not to know what the user intends, but to know when,
to be able to detect in continuous time,
like when the user wants to do something.
That's more of a challenge.
And if you think about it, well, think about a brain-computer
interface, rather than one that's controlling a robotic arm
like in the picture here.
Imagine one that's you're controlling your word
processor on your computer, Microsoft Word.
So if you're an able-bodied person,
you might be sitting at your computer with your hands
like rested on your keyboard, and you're thinking about what
you want to write.
And if you're like me, you might sit there
for a very long time stuck just thinking
about what you want to write.
But you're thinking about what you want to write.
But then at some moment, you start typing.
And so there's the actual fact of, OK, now I'm doing this.
And with a brain-computer interface, which
is driven, as we say, by thought,
how is that interface to know when you're just
thinking about what you want to type versus really
meaning to actually type now?
And that's this streaming problem,
this problem of detection in continuous time,
knowing when a person really intends to do something.
It isn't just thinking about it.
So you may or may not be familiar with this research,
but you've probably heard of the readiness potential.
So research on this general theme arguably
started back in 1965 when Cornhuber and Deka published
this account, published their discovery
of this cortical electrical potential called
the readiness potential or the barite shaft's potential,
that you get when you record using EEG, in their case,
from these central sites, roughly over the motor
cortex.
And you see this very slow buildup
of a scalp electrical potential beginning
like one second or even more before the onset
of a spontaneous movement.
So the people were just instructed
to make a spontaneous movement every so often,
not too precise instructions.
And I think they were told to try to wait at least 10
or 15 seconds, but not too long, not too much more than that,
but to avoid counting time, just kind of wait
and just at some point spontaneously move.
The reel-to-reel tape here in the background, by the way,
that's just a nod to the low-tech methods they had
at the time.
So they had a reel-to-reel, this reel-to-reel tape device
that was recording the EEG.
And then when the person moved, they would stop it.
And then they would flip the tapes over and play it back
in reverse to capture what had happened in the few seconds
before the movement.
So Cornhuber and Deka dubbed this the electrophysiological
sign of planning, preparation, and initiation
of volitional acts, the readiness potential.
And that interpretation has held more or less ever since.
And this, what I call pre-movement buildup,
it really doesn't matter how you measure it.
You can certainly measure it.
It's very reliable, measured with EEG,
but it's also been measured at the level of single neurons,
even in humans.
So these were epilepsy patients.
And they were able to do it.
Itzhak Fried and colleagues did a similar task
with human patients and recorded in many different areas.
Here's in the pre-SMA a slow buildup
preceding the onset of movement.
So it doesn't matter how you measure it.
You get this slow buildup.
And it's not just in humans.
So you get this pre-movement buildup in primates, rodents,
and even invertebrates, even crayfish.
And I think I've heard some recent work in progress
looking at similar slow buildup in fruit flies, I think.
So about what was it?
30 years after Cornhuburn Deka, there
was this famous study by Benjamin Libet, which probably
most of you have heard of.
So he did the same thing.
He recorded the readiness potential
while subjects were making spontaneous voluntary movements.
But then they had to estimate when
they felt the urge to move each time they made a movement using
this fast rotating clock.
And the upshot of that was that the conscious decision,
at least as timed using this clock method that Libet devised,
averaged out.
The variance is quite broad, but it averaged at about 200
milliseconds before movement, whereas you
could see this readiness potential stretching back up
to a second or even more before movement.
And they often talked about the onset of this thing,
even though it really doesn't look very linear.
It looks pretty non-linear.
So if you follow it back in time, it's not clear
that there's any sort of an onset.
But you can say, well, the first point
at which it was detectable above the noise floor, I guess.
So these two studies, so these two findings, the Cornuver
and Deka and then Libet's, led to what I caricature here
as the prevailing view, which is that somewhere far back
in time on neural terms, one whole second or even more
than that, there's this decision.
There's this neural decision to initiate movement.
And then the rest is the outcome of that decision,
so this readiness potential that is
coursing towards an eventual triggering of movement.
And then as an aside, there's this later event,
which is when the self becomes conscious of the decision
to move, which you can really take with a grain of salt.
It's unclear what that really means,
considering that it's a post-talk judgment
that the subject makes a second or two after they move
and so on.
It's difficult to interpret.
But this is, I would say, a caricature of the prevailing view.
I've worked on leading up to the work I'm describing here,
or that I will be describing here,
is a different account of the readiness potential
that is based on there being spontaneous fluctuations,
spontaneous ongoing fluctuations in neural activity
in the motor system, probably in all systems.
And that ongoing activity is arguably just noisy.
