of subjectivity. So that's what Freud did. Freud's Freud, I hasten to, to add for all of his mistakes
with all of his faults, you know, etc. Because, you know, I'm not one of those people who thinks
that everything that Freud did was, you know, was correct by any means. But I think that this
thing that he did was correct, was to say that the centerpiece of psychological science, in other
words, it's, you have the psychological science has to has to be adapted to how do you study
subjectivity. And so he didn't hesitate to study subjectivity, the whole, his method
called free association, it's basically just a sample of the stream of consciousness
in a relatively controlled setting. And, and, and he used the same method to study dreams,
they're just getting the patient to, or the research participant to say everything that
comes to consciousness in relation to the remembered elements of the dream. And in doing that, he came
to the not very obvious conclusion, you know, that dreams are motivated, in fact, wishful
states of mind that dreams don't look like that to us most of them. And what about nightmares,
for example, most dreams just seem completely incomprehensible nonsense. But Freud said,
no, behind this, you know, and that's so there you have the weakness of his method,
because I mean, how do you falsify that you can't falsify it, to say behind every dream is a wish,
you know, if it's behind the dream is the wish, you know, then then you can always find that wish
if you're interpreting, you know, like he did, that's that that's the method. But now we have new
methods. So, you know, positron emission tomography, you look at the dreaming brain and you see that
that motivating wishful seeking mechanism switching on full blast. And so, you know,
I don't know if you know this, Tim, but I became interested in psychoanalysis
in large part because of my dream findings, you know, it was it was, you know, sort of
I was trained in an era where psychoanalysis was not part of the university. It wasn't
serious science at all. You know, so for me, it was a really a big surprise to discover,
first of all, that REM sleep is not what generates dreams. Secondly, that what generates dreams is
these emotional motivational circuits. And in fact, the most wishful one that we've got,
you know, is the one that made me take take a second look at Freud.
Okay, I can only remember what your question was, but that was my
no, it's fine. But I can imagine because I remember once, I mean, you've said this in
other podcasts as well. But remember, you also told me that studying psychoanalysis was akin to
people would describe it as almost being an astronomer studying astrology.
So it's so much backtracking, you already have to do. And then in order to defend someone like
Freud probably makes it even harder at that point. Because people have so many negative
connotations to it nowadays. Yes, yeah, that's right.
Now, I think that if we can, if we can reintroduce into psychological science, and we are in our
era, we are, you know, reintroduce the subjectivity in the full sense of the word. In other words,
not this function called consciousness, but rather, you know, the actual experiential
lived life, the phenomenologic, the qualitative stuff that is the proper subject matter of
psychology. Then, you know, we've, we've, we've re, we've got back to where Freud started from.
And then we can go way beyond where Freud ended.
Yeah, no, there is a field called phenomenological psychopathology, which a lot of people are
trying to bring into psychiatry and psychopathology just to assist with that lived experience
aspect of it all. But anyway, let's go, let's move on to the, to, to affect coming as I said,
you that quote of yours consciousness of cortical representations contextualized affect.
Then let's discuss those three features of affect first and move on from there. I mean,
you described them as valence, qualia and action. I'm going to go into detail with that
before we move on. Yeah. Well, the, the thing that distinguishes
affects from other mental states is the valence first and foremost
affects are intrinsically valence. In other words, they have an intrinsic goodness or
badness about them. And importantly, that goodness or badness is goodness and badness to me for me.
It's subjective. So it's, they are valence subjective states. Objects don't have intrinsic
valence. It's, it's, it's, it's this, it's only this subjective state that has this intrinsic
valence, the subjective state called affect. But pleasure and unpleasant valence is a
continuous variable. You know, you, you start at this end, there's unpleasant and you carry on,
you know, through neutral to pleasure. It's a, it's a, you can quantify it on a single scale.
It's, it can be reduced to a common denominator. But affects are not, they are categorical
variables in the sense that it's not just I feel good or I feel bad. It's that I feel bad about
what, you know, so the, so hunger is a particular need, which is different from thirst, which is
another need, which is different from sleepiness, which is another need. They all of them unpleasant,
but they have to be categorically distinct from each other. Because each of those needs
has to be met in their, in its own right. You can't, you can't say I've got eight out of 10
of sleepiness and four out of 10 of thirst. Therefore I've got 12 out of 20 of total need
or total unpleasant. So therefore all I'm going to do is sleep. You, you, I'm reducing the total
number. You'll, you'll die if you don't, you don't drink also. So there, this is a very important
point. You know, it's such a, such a simple point that I think that we can easily just sort of like
skim over it. But I really want to emphasize it that affects therefore must be qualitatively
distinct from each other because they have to be treated as categorical variables. It's, it's,
there's no, there's no alternative. You have to, you have to treat each need in its own right.
And so the subjective experience of the valence has to be valence in relation to this one, in
relation to this one, in relation to this one. And why that's important is because that means
that, because remember categorical variables are qualitatively distinguished from each other.
Eight out of 10 of sleep is not the same thing as eight out of 10 of, of thirst. You know,
they are they qualitatively different categorical variables work like that.
Why that's so important is because there you have the necessary basis for qualia.
Qualia have to exist in the mind in the sense that you have these subject of states which are
intrinsically valenced and they also are intrinsically qualitatively distinct from each other.
And I think that that's really important in terms again of the hard problem of consciousness. Why
do we have these qualitative states? Well, there's one very good reason why we have them. The third
aspect that you mentioned, which is the behavior, it's acting on those states. Because, you know,
they are, these are, these are not nice to have, you know, these are, these are needs. These are
phenotypic needs. If you don't meet those needs, you die. I mean, that's how homeostasis works.
So we have inbuilt behaviors that they reflexes or instincts that go with each of these different
phenotypic needs, you know, like foraging behavior and sexual behavior and sleep behavior and, you
know, etc. But those are, we're born with those things. They're far too stereotyped. They're not,
they're not even nearly enough to be able to enable us to meet our needs in the great
unpredictable variety of situations that we find ourselves in, including many novel situations.
And so we have to supplement these, these behaviors with through learning from experience.
And, and so we have, in addition to these innate predictions, which we call reflexes and instincts,
we have then the full gamut of all of the different things that we do. And I just want to
add this last point. Please note that everything we do ultimately, if you look at it biologically,
is in order to meet our needs, in order to stay alive, in order to arrive and reproduce,
to take us back to the thing about the purpose of life that we were speaking about at the beginning
of our conversation. So. Considymox are yours. No, no, that's, that's, that's what I wanted to say.
So that's what, that's what affects all. It's, it's intriguing because, I mean,
at some point in your paper, you eventually bring up the knowledge argument to sort of
solidify this aspect. I was chatting by email with Frank Jackson about that, trying to get him
on the show, but he says he's taking a break from social media because I think that's one of the
best arguments to show someone an example of, I mean, that pure essence of feeling. When Mike's
episode came out, I had people going at it in the comment section, you have people discussing how,
because Mike at some point had said that the only way to truly know, to truly get a conscious,
a future where we can all integrate and cooperate better is if we slowly learn what each other
experiencing more and more. And the only true way to know what someone else is experiencing is to
actually experience what they're experiencing, because otherwise there's no other way. It's,
it's pretty much an impossible reality at that point. And then people will bring up the knowledge
argument and saying, okay, well, if they have all the theory, why is that impossible? Do you want to
touch on that and give them an answer? Well, just in case there's people watching or listening who,
who are not familiar with the knowledge argument, it is in simplified form. This is my simplification
of it, that there's, there's, there's a visual neuroscientist named Mary, and she knows everything
that there is to know about the mechanisms of vision, the physical physiological processes whereby
visual information is processed, but Mary's blind, that's my simplified part of it. And so she doesn't
know what it is like to see, she knows everything, that's the knowledge, she's got all the knowledge
about how visual information is processed in the brain, but she knows nothing about what it
is like to see the actual qualitative phenomenological experience of vision. And so Jackson's argument
those days, because he's changed his mind, by the way, but in 1982, when he, when he published that,
he said, that shows that the actual qualitative phenomenological experience of seeing is not
accounted for by the causal physical mechanism. It exists in some other plane, and nothing about
her knowledge of the physical mechanisms of vision prepared Mary for what it is like to see,
even gave her any reason to predict that there would be something it is like to see. It seems
therefore that the, the qualitative subjective experience of seeing isn't necessary. It doesn't
do anything. It's just, you know, and it's where does it fit into the mechanism? It doesn't.
That was the knowledge argument. So my response to that was, that's because, as I've said previously
in this conversation, because vision is not an intrinsically conscious function. You can understand
everything about how visual information processing works, because without reference to what it is
like to see, because visual information processing can work without you having any experiential vision.
I mean, your phone can see the camera in your phone sees a face recognizes a face takes a
photograph of a face remembers therefore that face, all of that stuff. But there's nothing
that's like to be a camera or to be a phone. And it doesn't even better because if you are,
if you click take, remove the nose, the phone knows exactly which parts to remove. So it
sees even better than us. Yeah. So all of this very complicated visual information processing
can go on without any experience. Now, as I said earlier, that does not apply to another function.
So that's the function of vision. But the function of feeling, you cannot explain the
function of feeling without knowing what it is like to feel without explaining why it feels
like something if, if Mary was a affective neuroscientist, actually, first of all, if Mary
was an affective neuroscientist who'd never experienced affect, she would in fact be dead
because her brainstem mechanisms that keep her alive, you know, would would would not be working.
And in a manner of speaking, that's also an important point. It's that, you know, this is
not fluff. Feeling is has massive causal consequences. The patients in coma, you know,
they die unless we keep them alive. You can't live without being conscious. And, you know,
in other words, the consciousness is doing something bloody important. So that was my
argument is that had we started with affect rather than with vision, the knowledge problem would
never have arisen. And, and, and the hard problem, which, which comes 13 years later,
charmers builds on Jackson's knowledge argument. In fact, he, it's a very pivotal to
charmers as whole view, that, you know, you can explain the function without explaining why
there's an experience attached to the execution of that function. That's pretty much the essence
of the hard problem. Also, I made a note, sorry, I made a note just saying unconscious feeling is
an oxymoron. You also wrote exactly like that. Yeah. That's a very nice one. Yeah. But please
remember, Kevin, what I'm saying is that it's not only that it's an oxymoron, it is an oxymoron,
but it's an oxymoron for a very good reason. You know, it's, and when I say that the feeling
is where we should feeling is the elemental form of consciousness. And we should study that
if we want to understand its mechanism and how it arises, why it arises.
Then let us not forget that the part of the brain that generates feelings is the part of
the brain that generates consciousness. It's like this is intrinsically consciousness generating
tissue. So it's not just a word, you know, that feeling must be felt. It is that what this part
of the brain is doing is generating states of consciousness. It's the whole reason that the
that the arousal activating systems are there. I have to say, because when I first,
when I first started reading that your work on affect and the way you were approaching
consciousness, I remember also initially thinking, this might, this is a bit out there. So when you
say like people, people might think it's crazy and stuff, I can get where you're coming from.
But the more you read it, the more you see the evidence, the more you talk about it,
it becomes very, it almost becomes very obvious. It's almost like you're highlighting a problem
that we've been ignoring for quite some time. How do you feel about that? Do you feel like it's
it's about time people took this approach? Or do you think it's gaining some traction in the way
people perceive the problem? Well, I'll tell you, since we started our conversation, this conversation
now, you, you, we were talking about my recent trip to Boston. And other speakers at that meeting,
there's Mike Levin, Chris Fields, Carl Friston, what's his name, Richard, I forget his surname.
Watson, yes. You know, apologies, Richard Watson, if you're watching. These are
really, really outstanding minds, you know. And so I, my paper, I said to them, look,
you know, I wanted to, because the conference was mostly about biological versus artificial
minds. And I said, you know, I'm doing work in that area. And I really want to get there
to talk to you guys about this. But I want to spend at least the first half of my talk just
setting out my stall for why I believe that we're looking in the wrong place. It's not cortical.
It's, you know, it's a brain stem function, and it's an affective function and so on. And
I set out all the evidence for them. I said, the reason I'm doing this is because to my great
surprise, you know, many people still, you know, don't believe this. And I just, I just can't
understand it. What am I doing wrong? But, you know, that I'm, can't you see the evidence?
And so at that conference in, in, because you're asking me, is it gaining traction?
All of those guys who I just mentioned, they all were 100% on site. You know, so
I think, well, gosh, you know, so that's very, very gratifying. But I want to, while I'm busy
saying immodest things, I want to go back a little bit earlier than this Boston Congress
or mean symposium. You know, Tom Nagel, the other day at the Consciousness Conference,
he gave the keynote paper. And Tom Nagel, who wrote the 1974 paper, What Is It Like to Be a Bat,
spoke about everything that's happened since then in consciousness studies. I mean, it's really like
the kind of the great grandfather of the modern philosophy of consciousness.
He's, in his talk, about two thirds of the way through it. I mean, I couldn't believe my ears.
I'm sitting there listening to Tom Nagel. It's a wonderful treat and giving us this great sweeping
sort of description of where he started and where things have gone since then and where things are
now and how he sees the future. How does he see the future? Well, he says, I think this guy called
Mark Psalms is doing the right thing. He's pointed out that feelings are intrinsically conscious
states. And I think that's right, you know, and I think that that's the way forward. I thought,
wow, I've arrived. Tom Nagel. In that lecture, he named check two people. One was Mark Psalms.
The other one was Baruch Spinoza. That's one of the best name drops you can get.
I mean, if you think of Tom Nagel, he's like the father of modern philosophy of mine at this point.
Tom Nagel is probably the most quoted philosopher. And I think David Chalmers,
with his hard problem, is probably follows right after. But so that's pretty epic.
Yeah, I mean, I was really, I mean, not only because remember, you asked me, is it gaining
traction? I mean, I wasn't only gratified, and I was deeply gratified. But I was telling the truth,
I was frankly surprised, you know, I really, I really, I would never have thought that Tom Nagel
would say, no, actually, I think we are making progress toward a physical theory of experience.
That's really news. Well, I just want to say, congrats. If that comes out of Tom's mouth,
it must have been surreal in the moment. Yeah, it was. It really was. I mean,
but even from my own experience, Mark, when I speak to, when I spoke to Carl Friston,
