Hey, Mark, how's it going?
Fine, yourself?
Great, man. Great, great, great. Great to have you back.
Good to be back, although the word round two makes it sound like a boxing
match. Yeah, no, it's just a, it's just a way to keep track of the
conversations. Nothing serious.
How are you doing? Are you still in Boston, Mark?
No, I got back two days ago.
Okay, how was the, how was the track?
It was actually a slightly nightmarish flight to Boston.
I got diverted eventually to New York.
And then it was a bit of a shambles, but apart from that part of it, I mean, I
ended up losing almost the whole day.
But once I did get there, scientifically, it was just fantastic.
I really enjoyed it.
I know I saw some of you did a presentation at Tufts.
Yeah, it seemed like a really great time.
I did a presentation which I was happy with.
I was very happy with how it was received by some people who I respect,
you know, so it's, it's, it's good to get good feedback from minds
that you admire.
And then there was also the added dimension of Mike's lab.
I mean, I know about his work, but to actually visit his lab, it's
just quite extraordinary.
I'm actually going to touch on that at some point, because I wrote a note
here about the collaborations you guys are doing.
Friston, Fields, Levin, I mean, there's so much happening here.
And it's so exciting from the outside.
I asked Mike about this about a week ago, and it just seems incredible.
He left me with a nice question for you right at the very end.
What is the meaning of life?
You know, I tweeted this to you.
Mike also, he just wants to know, he thinks you actually might provide a
very valuable answer to this, because he thinks that your background
in your psychology will help enhance this answer.
So give us that.
Well, actually, I'd forgotten that you tweeted that.
I wish I'd, I wish I'd prepared an answer because that's not the kind
of question one likes to receive.
What is the meaning of life?
Especially when you expecting a serious and satisfying answer.
So what I would say, first of all, is we must distinguish between the sort
of purpose of life and the meaning of life.
The purpose of life is very easy to discern.
It's to keep on going, being alive, you know, to survive and to reproduce.
I'm afraid is the purpose of life described biologically.
I mean, because of course, life is a biological thing.
And so when you speak of, well, what is it for?
It's just for keeping itself going.
That's all it's for.
But that doesn't mean that's the meaning of life, you know.
So I would draw a distinction between us as biological organisms.
Which are just struggling to resist the second law of thermodynamics and keep
going or is resisted for as long as we can.
And then we lose, you know, that I would like to distinguish between that and
the, the, the being of an organism, you know, our subjective existence.
That's where I think the word meaning is appropriate.
It's like, OK, so I'm here, what, what, what am I going to, you know,
what should, what should I do with this other than just, you know, carry on
from a biological point of view existing as a, as a living thing?
What is the meaning of all of this?
And my, my emphasis, of course, is on feelings.
As you know, I think subjectivity is fundamentally
constituted by feeling.
We are feeling beings.
That's what being is, to be, to, to, for the, you know, that phrase,
there's an organism that there's something it is like to be, that organism.
It is a feeling organism.
Now, our feelings, again, as you know, because I've spoken to you about this
before, they are just the way in which we become aware of our needs.
So, so you could look at that biologically.
You could say, well, the reason why, for example, the reason why
pleasure is attached to sexuality is because that's how our species reproduces.
And so from a purely biological point of view, sex is pleasurable
because that's, that's got to do with that purpose side of things.
The meaning side of it.
I mean, why do we actually have sex as subjects, you know, as, as feeling beings?
It's, it's not because we're trying to do our biological duty, you know,
not at all.
We, we're, we're, in fact, most of the time that we have sex, we are hoping
not to reproduce, so it's, they rarely is, it's not a small distinction.
It's, it's a very different thing.
What we're doing in terms of, in terms of what motivates us as sentient
beings as subjects has, has to do with, so it's, for that reason, for me,
it has been a very important part of the meaning of my life is to try and
understand, you know, what is this?
What is feeling?
What, what, what is it?
What is it all about?
And to try and understand it, I think that that's been a very worthwhile quest
to try to understand what is it to be and what is feeling.
And the, the, I personally can't find a more
worthwhile way of spending my brief period of biological existence, trying
to understand what, what it is, or what it is all about.
And I'm perfectly happy with the meaning of my life from, from that point
of view.
Now, I used sex as a, as an example, because it's so easy to see the
biological versus the subjective, but it applies to all of our needs.
You know, what we are, what we are living is, it's like, let me take
something even more prosaic.
You know, we don't, we eat chocolate and sweets and stuff, you know,
because they taste nice.
The reason they taste nice is because they've got high energy content.
That's what makes them taste nice, but we are not thinking, oh, you know,
what I really need to do is get high energy supplies.
What we're doing is saying, I really like this, you know, so the, the
other main thing I've done in my life is, is, is train in and practice
psychoanalysis.
And that's really, you could easily say that it's not the only way of
going about it, but it is one of the, it's a, it's like, like, there are
many Eastern traditions where like meditative traditions and so on.
In fact, I met a very senior Buddhist when I was in Boston now.
And so I spoke quite a bit, interacted quite a bit with, with, with that
way of approaching the same task, which is, you know, really trying to
properly confront what is it to be, what is it to be mortal?
What are these feelings really for?
What do I feel about them?
What are my values?
What do I want to do in relation to my felt needs?
Felt needs, you know, which include needs to not only survive and reproduce
and eat, but, but, you know, to have fun, play, it's terribly important to
recognize that has been a real discovery in my life and to recognize
it as a, you know, as an experience of, of the need to play, the need to
have fun to wreck.
So the more I've understood about, you know, how minds work and how my
mind works, the better I'm able to enjoy in my mind and, and recognize
that it's inevitable that there's no such thing as a conflict free existence.
You know, all of our different needs are, they need to be balanced with each
other and you kind of, you become more sanguine about it all and, and allow
yourself to appreciate, you know, what it is, what it is to, to, and foregrounding
feelings has been a very important, not only because of my own work in
relation to the, to the neuroscience of feeling, but also in, in relation to
psychoanalysis, getting to know your own feelings, face up to them, face
up to your conflicts, ponder, how are you going to deal with them, recognize
you never going to be exempted from conflicts and so on.
So I suppose what is that there's a phrase, the examined life is not worth
living and, and, and also the old, you know, know thyself, I think that's the
meaning, that's, that's, that is the, that is the meaning that you end up, that
I end up realizing that's the best you can do with, with life is to, is to, is
to wonder at it, to ponder it, to try to understand it, to reflect upon it, to
be fully alive in the sense of being alive, you know, not, not, not biological
life, but, but experiential life and to, to, to, to, to ponder it, to reflect on
it, to study it, to, to wonder at it, to appreciate it.
I think, I think we're similar in that case.
And this podcast obviously embodies that, that curiosity, that, that sort of this
quest for us to try and conquer this mind.
And when I spoke to Mike, this, that question came at the very end.
And I remember it's because apparently Mike gets a lot of emails lately regarding
the meaning of life and he's not a psychologist.
So he doesn't have this background.
He's not a philosopher.
So for him, he gets, he gets caught in a, between a rock and a hard place because
he's obviously not an expert in those fields.
So he said, he'd rather just shift that onto you.
I'm not surprised he gets emails like that because his work, I mean, it, it really
is pretty fundamental in terms of, you know, what, what, what is an organism?
And, and, and, and, you know, what is, what is life right at the most basic
level of single cells and so on.
It's, it's fantastically interesting what he's doing.
It's pretty cool.
And I know that you guys, you were in Boston, you went, you visited Mike's lab.
First, I don't know if, for all of those curious, do you want to tell us about that
experience?
It was an extraordinary experience.
I know about his work, but knowing about something and experiencing it is, you
know, there are two different things.
And that's the rest of your work pretty much.
You actually got to feel it.
Yeah.
So the, the, the, the main species that he's studying, he studies various
different organisms, but these little worms that are the first thing that's
astonishing about them and to actually encounter one such worm is, is that
they're immortal.
I mean, literally immortal.
You know, they, they've been around for millions and millions of years.
They don't die.
They just subdivide.
And so there's no mixing of genomes.
You know, it's the same genome carrying on and on and on and on.
And so in some very real sense, you know, you're looking at a many millions of
years old creature and what's more, it's looking back at you.
It's got these big eyes.
So there's this encounter with, with, with, with an immortal being.
They, they, then the fact that they subdivide, you know, is what led Mike to,
to study the mechanisms of morphogenesis.
How does an organism know what it's meant to become?
You know, and how at the most fundamental mechanistic level does that happen?
Then you can chop these creatures in half.
And the, the head grows a tail and the tail grows a head.
And so, you know, having studied what those mechanisms are, he started to fiddle
about with them, because if you really do understand the mechanism, in fact, the
one way in which you can convince yourself and your colleagues that you do
understand the mechanism is to, is to make an intervention in it and predict
what the consequences will be.
And if you can predictably control that mechanism, then you really do
understand it.
And so as you no doubt know, he made a two-headed worm, you know, by manipulating
the, these bioelectrical fields that are what guide them all for genesis.
So I also met a two-headed worm, which was, which was something to behold.
You know, I mean, it's just really extraordinary.
