feelings. It's like air hunger or sleepiness or pain or whatever. These are all deviations
from homeostasis. And pleasurable feelings are returns towards homeostasis. But when you're
in homeostasis, you feel nothing. It's satiation. So I'm hungry. That's bad. I eat. That's good
until I've had enough. And then it's over. Same with sleep, same with thirst, same with everything.
So that's the first thing I wanted to say is that in terms of homeostasis, for the most part,
actually what we're trying to do is get out of the zone of feeling and into the zone of
automaticity, into the zone of satiation. But what do you actually feel satiated?
Well, you feel satiation as you come to the end of the return to homeostasis. But then
that particular homeostat is off the radar. You're not busy thinking, I'm not hungry,
I'm not thirsty, I'm not sexually aroused, I'm not sleepy. It's just not there. It's not on the
agenda. You're feeling those things which are going well or badly. But once you are at the
destination of those regulatory mechanisms, then they no longer are registered in consciousness.
So that, as I said, that first thing I said of three things I'm going to say, that's the
opposite of what you were saying. However, here's the second thing. One of those homeostats
is the very one I was talking about when I said this mesocortical, meso-olympic dopamine system
that has to do with the seeking drive, the exploratory foraging drive, what some people
call the epistemophilic drive. And how that homeostat works is quite different from the others.
Its set point is, I am engaging with novelty. I'm engaging with what I don't know. I'm
engaging with what is uncertain. And if that sounds paradoxical, it's not. It's because
uncertainty is dangerous. So if you have the opportunity to engage proactively with uncertainty
now, then you'll have less uncertainty later. So what you're doing is actually building a
better predictive model of the world. You're engaging with the world and better understanding
how it works, which in the long run enables you to better survive in that world. So the thing
that you just spoke of when you said, don't we always want to keep on, that's fundamentally
driven by this, it's not only seeking, but it's fundamentally driven by the seeking homeostat.
And then the third thing I wanted to say is that from all of this voluntary behavior of us engaging
with the world, trying to find how do I get back to where I need to be, we learn from that
experience. The conscious experience is the feeling your way through the problem. Then you lay down
new predictions based on what you learned from that experience. And the biological ideal is to
have predictions which are so reliable that you don't have to feel your way through the problem
again. So that's again a trend towards zombie them. That in fact, what we want is to have
predictions that are so reliable that they don't need reconciliation. And so this is what we call
non declarative memory. These things that we just know how to do, like how to drive a car,
you don't think, how does this work? You just know how to do it, how to ride a bike, how to walk,
how to play the piano, whatever these skills that we acquire, they become
automatized. And that is actually a good thing. So again, in those situations, I mean, I don't
know if you play any musical instrument or like if you play tennis, thinking about your stroke is a
very bad thing to do. It must just flow. And so in that sense too, although we don't feel it that
way, actually unconscious automatic processes are better than conscious deliberative ones
when it comes to learning from experience about how to meet your needs.
Okay. So let's say, so you had this hypothesis, you've done the studies, you've already uncovered
quite a lot. And there's obviously a lot more to come. But you've already touched briefly on this,
but I think let's go into a bit more because there's the gold standard I've wrote on in neuropsychology
where you guys discover, okay, REM sleep versus dream within the brainstem. When there's brainstem
lesions and cortical lesions, there's clear differences in REM sleep and dream sleep. Do
you want to run through those and exactly what those lesions are? Yeah, I actually already have
said this. So let me just be a little bit more precise. The mesocortical mesolambic dopamine
system starts in the ventral tegmental area, which is sort of at the transition between
midbrain and diencephalon at projects upwards to the nucleus accumbens, which is in the
ventral striatum that underneath part of the basal ganglia, that's the sort of main destination.
But it also projects beyond that up to frontal cortex and also down to amygdala. So it's a very
big part of the medial forebrain bundle. Damage anywhere in that circuit from the ventral tegmental
area upwards, certainly up to and including the nucleus accumbens. But we've also had patients
where it's anterior to the nucleus accumbens, they stop dreaming. The other area, as I said
earlier, it's posterior cortex. In particular, there are two sites where we see cessation of
dreaming. And I say two sites, it's really a continuous site, but it goes from the inferior
parietal lobule down to the convexity of the temporal lobe, but then also around into the
medial surface along the occipitotemporal, the medial surface. So it's basically a posterior
association cortex, predominantly visual, but not exclusive, but by no means exclusively visual.
So lesions there, those patients stop dreaming, but they tend to recover. They tend to recover
in one study that I did, I followed up 44 patients for a year, and only two of them were still not
dreaming. But the vast majority recover within six months, in fact. And one of the reasons it's
difficult to do research of the kind I was describing to you earlier when I said we were
taking patients with the posterior lesions who could not dream for that reason. But that
dopamine system was working fine. We wanted to see whether their sleep will be disturbed,
which as I say, it was. But many of our research participants recovered in the middle of the
while we were studying them, because dreaming talstent is a very robust phenomenon dreaming.
I think for the very reason that I said to you earlier that it's, if it has a sleep
protective function, then it's a very important thing. When you first started out in the field,
you've already done so much pioneering work in dreaming. What's brought you back to this?
Is it the link to consciousness, which we're obviously going to touch on as soon? But was it
that link? Yes. In fact, when I studied dreams, which was I started my research in that area in
the 1980s. And I must tell you, people don't realize those days consciousness was not a
respectable topic. Can you believe it? Even in neuropsychology, which you would think psychology,
hello, doesn't that have something to do with consciousness? No, the only respectable topic
as far as consciousness was concerned was not the subjective experience of anything. It was
the brain mechanisms of sleep and wakefulness. So how the sleep waking cycle is regulated,
and the discovery of REM sleep was within that tradition, these arousal states that occurred
during the sleeping part of the sleep waking cycle. And so I studied dreams. Actually, I
was studying brain mechanisms of sleep and dreaming. And sleep was the intrusion of wakeful,
I mean dreams or the intrusion of wakefulness into sleep. So wakefulness was a respectable
topic. And so I addressed up what I was doing as studying sleep and wakefulness, dreams being
wakefulness. So the discovery of the brain mechanisms of dreaming at that time took me
necessarily down into the basic arousal mechanisms of the brain stem. But bearing in mind that it
particularly took me to this one arousal mechanism, which is the dopaminergic one, this is not just
switching on and off the lights. It's an emotional motivational mechanism. And so that made me aware
how it made me interested in the fact that these brain stem arousal mechanisms are the
brain mechanisms of emotion. And that led me to working with Yarkpanksepp, because Yarkpanksepp
was the only person who said these brain stem arousal mechanisms generate affect,
they generate emotion, they generate feeling. So that was the second stage of my work,
from sleep and dreaming to emotion. And then the realization, which is the phase of my work that
I'm in now, that these mechanisms that generate feeling and affect and emotion are the very same
mechanisms that generate consciousness itself. So that the foundational elemental form of
consciousness is affective feeling. And so it sounds as if I've been all over the park,
but actually it's really quite a straight line. It is. I mean, and obviously in your paper,
you laid this out perfectly, you talk about, okay, this, of course, if this is affective
feeling, and we're experiencing constantly within this dream state, it must be something
that's necessary during consciousness, well, in conscious experience. So this is a perfect place
to actually look, because you don't have to, consciousness can occur outside, dreams have
to include some sort of a conscious experience, in a sense, because exactly. Yeah, now that's a
very interesting point, what you just said there. So, you know, one of the reasons that I
focused rather on the brainstem than the cortex, which also didn't win me any friends.
It's really to say in neuro psychology, that the cortex is not the organ of consciousness,
it's really to say something that goes very, very, very much against the grain.
But a strong reason why I did that, I mean, there are many reasons why I did that.
When I say reasons, I mean, there's much scientific evidence that led me to conclude that.
But within that body of evidence is the fact that the cortex can do just about all of its
cortical things without being conscious. So, I mean, things that only the cortex can do,
like recognize faces, read with comprehension and so on. You can read with comprehension,
and your behavior will be altered by what you've read without any conscious awareness of having
seen anything at all. So, most of the, when I say most, I mean, really just about all of the research
on trying to identify what they call the neural correlative consciousness,
was using vision as the cortical vision, because that's the conscious type of vision,
as our model example. But as I've just said to you, the cortex can do all of that visual
gymnastics unconsciously. So, vision, even cortical vision, is not an intrinsically conscious function.
So, why do you think you're going to solve the hard problem of consciousness by studying
something that is not actually necessarily conscious? The reticular activating system
and periaqueductal gray, these brainstem structures that generate feeling, their whole function
is to generate consciousness. That's why it's called the reticular activating system. It
activates the cortex. The cortex is only, I mean, this is not controversial, the evidence is just
like 100% there, that the cortex only is conscious when it is aroused by the reticular activating
system. Magun and Maruzzi showed in 1949, you sever, as they did in CATS, the ascending fibers,
the axons coming up from the reticular activating system to the cortex, the cortex loses all
consciousness. So, the consciousness is entirely supplied by the upper brainstem.
And it's only in recent years that we realize that that's not just a power supply,
that consciousness has a constant and a quality. It is affect, it's feeling. So, we feel our way
into our otherwise unconscious cognitions. So, why that's important is because, for the hard problem,
is that if you want to identify how and why does consciousness arise, you should be studying this
basic, in every sense, the foundational form of consciousness, a form that is called feeling,
which has to be felt. In other words, it necessarily is conscious. So, the way David
Chalmers put it, he said, there's no cognitive function that the explaining of its function or
mechanism will explain why you experience anything. And he's right when it comes to vision and so on,
cognitive functions, but you can't say that in relation to affect. You can't say there's no
affective function, you know, that if you explain its mechanism, you will explain why you experience
it. Because how can you explain the mechanism of feeling without explaining why you feel it?
Because, you know, that's the whole point of feelings is you feel them. You haven't understood
the mechanism of feeling if it doesn't explain why you experience it, you know, for heaven's sake.
So, I became interested in relation to the hard problem. I became interested in how does the
problem change if we look at this proper, basic, fundamental, elemental form of consciousness
called feeling. Now, the interesting thing, and this is why I was so interested in what you just
said. When I've said, you can't have a feeling without feeling it, it is intrinsically conscious,
that's the function we should be looking at. The same applies to dreams. You can't have a dream
without being conscious of it, because otherwise it's not a dream, you know, the whole, the defining
feature of dreaming is that the unconsciousness of sleep is punctuated by this thing called the
consciousness of a dream. You know, so, and I don't think that that's, I'm not playing games here,
you know, I'm not playing linguistic games or semantic games. I think that there's a deep reason
why that is the case. It's because dreams are driven by affective functions, you know, those
affective functions are generally, so affect is being generated during sleep. In other words,
there's a problem that's arisen for the organism, you know, it's in a state of uncertainty about
something that it's now got to deal with. And the dream is a way of dealing with that affective
arousal, in other words, that deviation from where we need to be. It's a biological problem that has
arisen during sleep that needs a solution. And the dream is doing the work of getting us, of managing
the feeling, in other words, of solving the problem, of getting us back to homeostasis.
It's almost like it makes so much sense that one should study dreams in order to understand
consciousness. It's almost like, why did we neglect this for so long? Oh, well, that's an easy question
to answer. It's because, you know, in fact, it's the biggest problem of psychology. Psychology is the
science of the mind. And what is a mind if not something subjective? The defining feature of
mental life is that it is the subjective being of the organism. It is intrinsically subjective. I
mean, hence, you can only observe your own consciousness. You can't observe anybody else's
consciousness ever because they are objects. You're a subject, you can only experience your own
subjectivity. Consciousness, the mind, subjectivity. These things are an embarrassment to science
because science aspires to objectivity. So how do you do science on something that
you can only observe your own? I wrote one of your lines in the papers,
scientists prefer objects over subjects. Yes, exactly. And not with dreams, it's even worse
because you're having a subjective experience while you're asleep. So there's no behavior
that goes with this mental state. The person, the dreamer, is asleep. And so the only way
you can get access to their dream is for them to wake up and remember the dream and then report it
to you. So it's a single witness retrospective report of a phenomenon that we know is notoriously
forgettable. And also, it's also very hard to translate dream experience into words. We all
know that when you try to tell your partner or something, what you dreamt last night, you know,
as you're doing it, it isn't really, that doesn't quite convey what it was like.
So I think that you said, why didn't we start there in the first place? I think that it's
for these sorts of reasons. It's also for these sorts of reasons that, as I said to you a couple
a good few minutes ago now, I said that once the correlation between dreaming and REM sleep had been
established, we dropped the dreams and just studied the REM sleep. But please note what
grave errors that can lead us into. I mean, we lost decades of research effort because we wanted to
only study the objective side of the mind-body correlation. I think that, let me say this,
the brain is the only thing that we know of in the universe that has subjective experience.
And surely, this subject, this extraordinary quality, it must be doing something. And if that's
the case, you're never going to understand how the brain works unless you understand why, unless
you take account of its subjectivity. I mean, as we all know from our own lived lives, you know
that what you do is caused in large part by how you feel. And say, if we leave that out of the
equation, we're never going to understand how that part of nature works. There's also a lot of
historical. I mean, you've already said this, but I mean, the behaviorist movement obviously played
a big role in this. Also, the fact that dreams are often associated with Sigmund Freud. I mean,
the interpretation of dreams is one of his biggest books. And a lot of people misinterpret a lot
of Freud's work. Or because of the flaws within it, people don't take it in a context and then
disregard a lot of it, which is incorrect. I mean, one of your lines was consciousness of
cortical representations contextualized affect. And that context, that context is so important.
Yes. Look, let's just go back to what you said there about the behaviorists, because there's
something that we must never forget. I told you, I don't need to tell you the word psychology
means science of the mind. And the behaviorists excluded the psyche from psychology. They said,
no, we can't study the mental states because they're subjective, we're only going to study behaviors.
I mean, how absurd is that to have psychology without the psyche is, and the mistake there
is to adjust the subject that you're studying to the methods that you have available, you know,
you've got to adjust the methods to the thing that you're studying. And embarrassing as subjectivity
may be to science, it certainly exists in nature. I mean, the one thing that we can all be absolutely
certain about is that we are experiencing as Descartes told us, that's the one thing you
can be sure of is that, you know, you exist because you experience. And so, you know,
you can't exclude it from science, you got to find methods that that are suited to the study
