And, and then when those worms subdivide, they subdivide into two-headed worms.
So he's sort of created a new species.
Yeah, I think, I think those are the ones he calls Xenobots, eh?
I'm not sure if that is.
Xenobots are, you know, they're various, you know, like he takes a tadpole and
shifts where it's eyes going to be and they end up with this frog that sees
out of itself and, but I mean, all these things could be, they could be perceived
as, as ghoulish or, or even as in, you know, in all sorts of ways inappropriate.
So it's important to remember that ultimately what it's all about is, you
know, to what extent can we translate this basic knowledge from the lab to the
clinic? And it has, it has profound potential implications for how we treat
amputees and how we deal with them in situations where currently one has to do
organ transplants, the possibility of being able to regenerate a diseased
organ rather than to transplant it.
And so, and I mean, the possibilities are, are amazing.
But then in terms of, you said, you know, what are we doing in terms
of collaborations, the, the, the main overlap, it's, it's the main overlap
because actually there are many ways in which our interests and, and research
intersect. But the main overlap is, I believe, and there's a long story
that attaches to that. So I'll just come to the conclusion, you know, I believe
for, for lots of very good scientific reasons that the fundamental form of
consciousness is feeling and feelings enable us to know how well or badly we
are doing in terms of remaining within our, our, our viable bounds.
So moving out of homeostasis feels bad, moving back towards homeostasis feels
good. And the, the, what this does, that's, that's an adaptation beyond
mere homeostasis, because many homeostatic mechanisms are purely
autonomic. There is no feeling involved, like blood pressure regulation and so
on. By being able to feel homeostasis, feel how well or badly you're doing in
terms of your attempts to, to, to maintain your biological bounds enables
you to change your mind. This is not working. So before it's too late, you,
you, you, you alter your, your, your behavior, you change your policy. And so
this, why that's so important is it enables a creature to survive in an
uncertain, unpredicted environment. So you can come up with novel solutions to
life's problems by feeling your way through the problem. You're not, you're
not limited to, to a single stereotype response. When you find yourself in a
situation for which you do not have an innate file, a genetically given
response, you can feel your way through the situation and come up with a novel
response. That is what I've just described as the very basis of voluntary
behavior, you know, which is no small thing. And then we learn from, from the,
from the experience. And so we can, we can adapt to unpredicted situations. And
God knows there are many of those in life. We can, we can do them during our
own onto genetic development. Now, the crucial thing is that with Mike fiddling
about with these creatures, I mean, what the problem of what do you do when
you've got two heads is a novel problem. It's not something that that species was
prepared for by evolution. What happens if you move the eye to an unexpected
location? You know, that's, this is not something for which there is any
possibility of there being an automatic in bone solution. And so I'm very
interested in, in what way is the, the, the sorts of things that these very
much simpler creatures than ourselves, the way that they solving these novel
problems raises questions of, you know, how far down does feeling go? Is, is, is
a creature like this worm feeling its way through a problem? Because if it is, you
know, then wow, I mean, I thought that I had set a cut, a cut among the pigeons
when I told my colleagues, I don't believe that cortex is the, the, the organ
of consciousness. I think that, you know, the, the reticular activating system and
periac, reductal gray, you know, these structures that we share with all
vertebrates. So for example, with fishes, you know, I thought this was radical. But
if it goes down even more than that, you know, then the implications are just, you
know, gigantic. So that's, that's where my work overlaps with, with Mike's. And
that's what the, the collaborations. And there's also Chris Fields, I don't
know if you know him. Yeah. And Richard Watson, you know, so we've all been, in
fact, Mike is a great, he gets us, he gets the right people together.
It seems like collaboration. Yeah. He called, I asked him for a name. He could
just give me like a nice name of this group. He said he called it the field of
diverse intelligence. Are you happy with that?
Yeah. I can't remember what he, he, he gave them, his lab was called something
like the Center for Possible Solves or something like that.
You know, it's very creative in that regard. But I was, I was just, it's so
fascinating to see all these great minds come together. Because then I told him
it's almost like the Avengers of mind getting together, trying to solve the
hard problem. It's pretty cool. So from our perspective, we just want to say
thanks. Tell me, so I think that we are living through a sort of a golden age.
If not of neuroscience as a whole, certainly consciousness studies. I think
we really are at a very interesting and important time in the history of that
field. Yeah, it seems to be just escalating so much more and so much
faster that hopefully we're around to see what happens next. It's kind of,
it's kind of disappointing knowing that we're, we're at this forefront and you
never know if you're just going to be alive long enough to see it. Do you ever
get that sort of anticipation anxiety?
Well, it's not the way I experienced that very issue that you're discussing.
It's more from the other end, the way I experience it. It is that when you
go against the grain, when you say something like I just said now, I believe
that a child who's got no cortex, this is a conscious being, that there's
something it's like to be such a child. It really doesn't when you,
a universal approval, people start saying,
if you go against the compact majority view in a science, your science
defends itself. And so what I'm leading up to saying is that I have found more
courage than I might otherwise have had. I'm willing to take risks and to say,
well, I know that this is going to put many noses out of joint. I know many
people are going to think I'm a nutter, that I've lost my way or whatever.
And I'm less anxious about that than I otherwise would have been because I
know you only live once. And as you can see, I'm not a kid. So I'm just going
to throw everything I have at it and try and try and make as much progress as I can,
regardless of the, not regardless of all consequences, because I am very concerned
about the ethical consequences of some of the issues we're dealing with. So it's not,
it's not, I don't care about any of the consequences. It's that I don't care about
the consequences for my reputation. That's what I mean.
Yeah. So you've lost that worry about the trivial stuff. You're more focused on the bigger picture.
Yeah. Well, it's because I realize it is the bigger picture. There's times in my life,
earlier in my life, when I have been very thrown by the fact that, I mean, just to take a very
earlier in my career, when I made some discoveries that made me realize that
what my entire field believed about the brain mechanism of dreaming was wrong,
you know, that dreams are not generated by the part of the brain that generates REM sleep,
that REM sleep and dreams are not the same thing. It was really a hell of a thing to have
all of your seniors, all of the great authorities in the field, all just being
very hostile because you were, you're spoiling the party. You're going against the status quo.
Nobody likes that. Nobody likes that. But I have a note on that. So the exact point you're talking
about, I've written down some notes. So I think we'll touch on that soon. Let's start at the
beginning, Mark. So the whole focus of this conversation for everyone watching or listening
is on dreams and the hard problem of consciousness. It's a paper. I'll put a link in the description
and a very great paper, as always. I've read many of your papers in the past. You even know that I
used one of your papers in Tristan for my own dissertation back when I was writing it. So
always a pleasure to read your work, Mark. And yeah, I'm looking forward to this. First,
do you want to start with how dreams can assist us with this approach to the hard problem of
consciousness? Well, look, I have a great many things to say about dreams in general. But I'm
taking your question in the narrow way that I think I heard it. I think before you do that,
because I see my next question is probably will address what you want to tell me.
We spent 20% of our sleep dreaming. Tell me why. Well, that's the interesting thing. It's an
embarrassment to science. Nobody knows why. The REM sleep was discovered in the early 1950s.
And it's high correlation with dreams, which is a sort of 90% correlation,
you know, was discovered in the mid 1950s, too. And from then onwards, they were taken to be one
and the same thing. Dreaming was construed as the subjective experience of REM sleep. REM sleep
was construed as the objective physiological manifestation of the dream. So everything that
we learned in the subsequent decades about what REM sleep is for, because of course,
it's a hell of a lot easier to study the mechanisms of something objective than of
something subjective. So once that correlation had been established, the dreams were thrown out
as like slippery fish that they were discarded. And we clung to this much more tractable problem
of what is REM sleep? What does it do? And those are easy problems, you know, because you can
manipulate it causally. It's very easy. And we were, therefore, for decades, we were studying
the biological function of REM sleep on the assumption that in so doing, we were studying
the biological function of dreams, but they are doubly dissociable phenomena. You can have dreams
without REM sleep, not only outside of REM sleep, but you can have dreams if you are incapable of
generating REM sleep due to brain lesion. And conversely, you can have REM sleep without any
dreams. If you have a lesion to the part of the brain that generates dreams, REM is preserved.
Damage to the part of the brain that generates REM, dreams are preserved. They are just simply
not the same thing. Therefore, everything that we learned about the biological function of REM
sleep, thinking that we were learning about the biological function of dreams, is not wasted work
because we learned a lot about the biological function of REM sleep. But it's wasted from the
point of view of what did it teach us about dreams that taught us next to nothing about the function
of dreams. So, I'll tell you what not only in recent years have I turned my attention to that
question and used appropriate methods because I'm not conflating those two things with each other.
I did a pilot study just before COVID. And then I was, of course, unable to
conclude the study because of COVID. So, I've only now, a couple of years later,
started the biggest study. So, I can only tell you what we found so far in our pilot study.
In order for me to tell you that, I need to just take a step backwards and tell you that there
are two parts of the brain which are essential for dreaming. I mean, of course, the whole brain,
in a way, is essential. But there are two parts that are really the crucial mechanisms. The one
which is not surprising is our perceptual cortex, the posterior cortex, especially visual cortex.
It's not surprising because what are dreams if not perceptual phenomena and especially visual
perceptual phenomena. If that cortical region is damaged, you can't dream because you can't
generate the imagery. The actual hallucination can't be generated. But the other part is much
more interesting. It's called the mesocortical mesolimbic dopamine circuit. And this is a
powerful positive motivational circuit of the mammal brain. If you stimulate that circuit
electrically or chemically, it produces the most animated exploratory reward-seeking behaviors
in the animal. Now, that circuit is essential for dreams. If that's damaged, you also can't dream.
And so, you know, that raises all sorts of interesting questions. But the one that I was
interested in was how on earth in the middle of sleep with this, as I said, it generates the most
powerful exploratory behaviors. When you look at the dreaming brain and you see that switched on,
you know, like a Christmas tree, you think, how on earth does this thing just lie there sleeping?
You know, it seems like an absolute paradox. So, the hypothesis was that the hallucinated
dream, it's a kind of virtual exploratory and other kinds of emotional motivated behavior,
that that happens instead of real behavior. So, the way that the animal
executes its motive, and when I say animal, of course, I'm including ourselves,
that where this motivational urge or surge goes to is into this imagined activity,
the hallucinated virtual behavior of the dream, which means that if you can't dream due to damage
to the posterior cortex, if you can't generate the imagery, then you should wake up because the
dream is there to enable you to continue sleeping. That was the hypothesis. And it's a lovely
hypothesis because it's entirely counterintuitive. Most people would think, if you can't dream,
you'll sleep better. But on this hypothesis, if you can't dream, your sleep will be disturbed.
And so in our pilot study, what we found was that on steroids, you know, you have never seen
such terrible sleep as you get in these patients who can't dream due to posterior cortical damage.
They have sleep onset insomnia, sleep maintenance insomnia. They have massively
more awakenings and sort of micro awakenings, what we call arousals and micro arousals.
The sleep efficiency index is off the charts different, total sleep time off the charts
different. So the one thing that, although it's only a pilot study so far, but the results were
so clear-cut, I'm prepared to say it publicly, you know, the one thing that I believe we can
say empirically, we have demonstrated is that whatever else dreams do, they enable
us to stay asleep in the face of arousals, of things that would otherwise arouse us.
Let's not forget REM sleep is itself an arousal state. When it was first discovered,
it was called paradoxical sleep. That was how come you're able to stay asleep when your brain
is so aroused? So I'm saying that whatever else dreams do, they are guardians of sleep.
They enable us to not have to wake up when we are motivated to act, to do something on the basis of
arousals, just our homeostatic deviations. So on the basis of homeostatic deviations.
And Mark, in terms of energy consumption, is this worth it? Is this constant need to
experience worth the trade-off? Well, remember, in a sense, it's the opposite of the question is,
can we afford not to sleep? So for the whole restitutive function of sleep,
you can't do without that. There's a hell of a lot of repair work and housekeeping that is done by
the body and the brain, including memory consolidation processes. How do you process
what you've learned during the day? There's a lot of very important work that is done
by the body and the brain while you're asleep. And if you don't give yourself enough of that,
you're a doctor, you know how bad it is to not sleep. It's a very serious thing to be deprived
of sleep for your health. So can we afford not to sleep? And the energy, the work that needs to
be done in order to maintain sleep is well worth the expenditure. It's almost intuitive when you
think about it. The idea of this, I mean, because when you think about the average human, we don't
really want to not experience. It's almost like there's this constant need to have a continuous
spectrum of experience. That's why a lot of people fear going under anesthesia. They know
there's almost a switching off of this shutdown of the whole human experience. Do you feel like
that makes sense? I think that... Or is it different somehow? No, no. I think that what you're saying
is true, but there are also things which contradict it. And I will give you...
I think there are three things I need to say about that. The one is the opposite of what you said,
which is that we want to retain homeostasis. So moving out of homeostasis generates negative
