approximate called more complexity. And called more complexity is not just a random measure
of complexity. It was proven in the sixties to be the measure of randomness. So different
mathematicians were trying to characterize randomness in the different ways by compression,
by prediction or by what is called universal studies, statistical tests, and they were proven
to be equivalent between each other. So that means that you have captured something very
fundamental in mathematics that basically randomness is really captured by this definition.
And one of the criticisms I'm already running in my head, what Corning would say is that,
yeah, but randomness is not the measure that we are interested in. It's more like a structure.
And that's right. But that's why many other measures have come up after algorithmic complexity
on top of algorithmic complexity use it to characterize what it is called sophistication.
So the number of steps, for example, exactly what they are talking about, that one is logical depth.
But actually, they are not even implementing anything similar to logical depth. So there's
always this disconnection with what they are saying they want to capture all this structure and how
the causal history and then something so extremely, I'm trying to find another way to
call it trivial because I really find difficult not to appear like I'm attacking them personally,
but this is incredibly trivial. So the method is incredibly trivial. And the theory is basically a
copy of algorithmic information theory. And as I was saying before, there are two ways to approximate
a model of complexity, basically compression algorithms that have been used for at least 25
years or 30 years for the purpose of applying it in all sorts of data, biological, chemical,
and so on. So even when these compression algorithms have been around for 40, 50 years,
it's been only 25 or 30 years that they have been used as approximations to call model complexity
by people like Paul Vitani and Lee, for example. They have a very beautiful paper where they can
reconstruct all the non-phylogenetic tree by looking at the compressibility of full genomes,
for example. And they didn't make any claims to the media where perhaps they could have done so.
Again, that was not very surprising for someone like me that is also in biology because we know
that, for example, GC content in genomic sequences is very similar to similar species. So it's almost
like trivial to reconstruct these trees, but it was an interesting approach to use compression
algorithms, which by the way is exactly LZW that includes LC-77 to reconstruct that phylogenetic
tree. And the other method is the ones that we have been using and we introduced a few years ago.
We've been working on this for 15 years that we call block decomposition method. And actually,
in appearance, it's very similar to their own index, which by the way is very difficult to
understand. One person wrote, and after multiple reads, I still have absolutely no idea what this
paper is doing. Another wrote, I read the paper and I feel more confused. I think reading that paper
has made me forget my own name. You even forget your name when you start reading their papers,
that is actually the case. It is very confusing, but anyway, what we know that it's going on is that
they are counting blocks. And our measure is called actually a block decomposition method and has
been around for 15 years. And what we do is exactly that count blocks, but instead of doing it just
trivially, behind every of these blocks, and that is the key that you are seeing in my definition,
we do something much more interesting, which is related to the likelihood of that computer program
to actually compress data. And it is not related to traditional statistics. So it has to do with
finding the computer programs that are able to generate that piece of information.
And that's because it is much more powerful. We found like 50 years ago, we had to move away from
Shannon entropy and this kind of simplicity of counting repetitions, because you would leave behind
so many things, including for example, just reversion. So imagine that you are counting the
complexity of a protein structure. If you find, if you read the protein in the reverse way,
assembly theory basically would miss it. So what this kind of new measures like the
one that we introduced is basically taking all the possible or many other linear and nonlinear
transformation of that data and not trivial repetitions. So it is an improvement over previous
measures. And if you look at our papers, we always compare our new index or this index
to previous ones, to Shannon entropy, to compression all the time, because that's
basic insight and that's a control experiment. So the group of assembly theory, they never compare,
they just start the paper basically just discarding everything else. Say, you know,
this is not Conmogorov complexity, this is not Shannon entropy, this is completely different.
And some people take it at face value and believe that it is actually the case, but it is not.
Well, I, you know, I found it interesting that you also got confused reading their paper because
I didn't understand it. So if you had trouble understanding it, it makes me, makes me relieve.
It is incredibly difficult. And I suspect that it is because, and as I said, I don't think this,
I'm hoping this didn't start as a dishonest exercise. I think in their group,
there's no computer science expert, perhaps, or I don't know if there's any mathematician,
this doesn't look like the work of a mathematician. But it looks like they kind of operate that way
that they don't look for what others may have done. And if they had the idea, they, they adopted
and implemented without doing any research. Right. And so, so let's give them the benefit
of the doubt. Lee said in the debate that he's an amateur mathematician and an amateur, I don't
know if he said computer scientist or something else. Right. I am a chemist. I also do computer
science in my spare time, a little bit robotics, want to be physicists, want to be math, mathematician,
had 2.3 million interactions on Twitter, had had a couple of hundred thousand downloads,
has provoked discussion. And the thing is, it could be quite wrong.
And Cronin says it when, when he's in the debate with other, in front of other scholars,
he says, this may be wrong. This is perhaps a small step. I don't know about this or that,
but then you, you saw on the screen the press release from their universities.
Right. So, so, and this is what happened in the debate. He opened himself up and he says, you
know, I may be wrong. I'm just throwing the ideas out there. But what you're saying is,
when he's before a group of scholars, that's, that's the, what he'll say, but when he is
speaking to, to non-experts, he portrays this quite differently.
That's right. And it is not only general public, but co-leagues in other areas. And unfortunately,
many of their citations, he's very proud of, to those papers, maybe from colleagues that don't
know much about this area and believe what they are saying, you know, on their titles, on the media.
So it is not only about deception in science, communication for the general public is,
is everywhere. And that contaminates science. It is not just the practice of science.
So I don't know what else there is for assembly theory. And you can see also on the clip that
he says that it is not scientifically disputed. I knew something interesting was going on,
because everyone's like, arguing about words and no one's disputing the science.
No one's disputing the fact we can measure assembly. Well, every step
is disputed. I told you, for me, for assembly theory, I did not see how it would apply to chemistry.
And then I said, you're making these oligopeptides. He showed a picture of oligopeptides in his figure,
where he had amino acids, and then he has now this oligopeptide. I said, how do these things get
together? And then in the debate, he said, well, this was never made to be a chemical model.
Jim talked to the graphs in the nature paper saying these are, you know, this is just
nonsensical graphs, mathematical objects. They're not schema. I didn't say in the legend they were
reaction diagrams. That's a massive misquote in this service. But he showed chemical structures.
So I was completely lost there. And I doubt if anybody else really understood it in that room,
because, you know, I'm supposed to know about these things. And it made no sense to me. And then
when I asked him about the very molecules that you show, why, you know, can you show a picture of a
duck and then describe that you describe things about this duck? And then somebody asked you, well,
how'd you get the duck? Well, it didn't really apply to a duck. Well, you showed a duck in the
article. Here you showed a bunch of polypeptide in the article coming from amino acids. And then
you tell me it doesn't apply. It was just a model. It wasn't meaning to apply to chemistry. That's
another point of confusion that I had. Maybe he just didn't know. You know, sometimes people write
to me with these amazing chemical ideas, and they say, you know, I'm not a chemist, but, you know,
I thought of this. We could mix this and mix this and this could happen. And I have to go back and
explain to them that that's not really the case. And you're a little bit confused on how these
things work. That could be the case that in the amateur side. But I think what you're saying
is it gets beyond that because you've pointed these things out to them, and they've doubled
down. And that's what gives you greater reason for pause in this case, correct?
That's correct. And there are many answers for those kind of limitations, because we all have
those limitations. My original background is in mathematics and computer science. And I've been
working in computational biology and systems medicine for a number of years now, perhaps a
decade or more. And what you do is basically to team up with experts. And that's the way you
start learning and make sure that you don't make basic mistakes. And as I told you, I approached
Cronin when I saw that he posted this paper on archive, the preprint, and told him, I think there
are many basic mistakes, and I will be happy to advise you and do something together. And he
refused. I don't know why. But I think that's the answer. And as you say, when someone is pointing
you out the possible mistakes, you have to do something about it instead of doubling down.
And something very important here is that the problem is that's fine. I can believe that perhaps
it is that because they didn't know. But we have to compare and measure everything related to
assembly theory against the public claims that they are making. And these are some of the public
claims that you also showed on the debate. So things like assembly theory puts chemistry
center stage to explain molecular complexity and life's origins. Assembly theory unites physics
and biology to explain the universe. Assembly theory, a new theory of everything. Assembly theory,
all new theory of everything could unite physics and evolution. A new theory of matter may help
explain life. And on the cover of Scientific America and also suggesting that they can now
detect extraterrestrial life. And there's so much more. And who is to blame? Because I don't think
they are making up these titles by themselves. I think it is mostly, I'm sorry to say it this
way, but garbage in garbage out. They are also saying life, modern physics can't explain it.
But our new theory, which says time is fundamental might, time is an object. So they are redefining
time. Conventional physics doesn't really recognize time as a thing other than just a,
you know, a coordinate. But what if time is a little bit different, right, in a block universe?
Nobody knows what that means. Our radical redefinition of life could help us find aliens. So there's no
moderation of our self-restraint here. If their claims would have been something like simplified
compression scheme based on algorithmic complexity and previous work produced similar results
applied to mass spectrum molecular data, we wouldn't probably even just discussing this.
No, no, nobody would accept a title like that for a lay heart and call. You know, that's only good
for the chemical, for the scientific literature. But, but yeah. And so we can't just throw things
like this always at the feet of the press, because very often the press will talk with,
with our scientists and say, have we got this thing right? Now they don't always,
but they often do. Sometimes their strictures don't allow us to, to critique it, but they'll
ask us about it. And certainly the best journals always do. They, they get a fact checker and they
go back with the author. We've said this is this right. We've said this is this right.
So one of my complaints in the origin of life community is that if the researchers themselves
are the source of the bold claims that are way beyond realistic here, it's not just the press
running wild. It starts with the researchers themselves making crazy claims that are way
bold beyond it. And I think that that's what you're saying here. It's not just some reporter doing this.
The source of this is the, the very authors of, of the article.
And that is the case. Actually, my next slide is the proof that this is not coming from the
media, unfortunately. So this is coming from themselves. So these are their press, the
university press releases that certainly are run by all through the authors, the senior authors
themselves. And actually they, they most likely wrote them because the press release departments
don't know what their research is about. That's the case. So, so what he's saying is this is from
their universities themselves. And I, this happens to me all the time when I work with a university
reporter in the public affairs office is that, that they will write an article and I have to
approve that. And I'll often edit it and I have to approve that. So if there's, if there's over
extrapolated claims in a university press article, that for sure has been seen by the author.
That's correct. And you can see also in the debate how different the attitudes of Croning was saying
that he was pretty much an amateur on everything and that he could be completely wrong. But that's
not the impression they are giving to the media, general public and other colleagues.
And one of the other things I should say is I'm a, I'm an amateur, Jim says I'm a bad chemist.
I'm an amateur philosopher because I want to learn how to think. And I really think the problems
are a sign of where we can make progress. And I've come here today not to argue with, with Jim and to
make grandstand, but just say, Hey, there's some really cool problems. These are the press releases
from their universities, even saying assembly theory could spell good news for drug discovery.
In no of their papers, I could find anything about drugs. So, so they are even anticipating
that this could be revolutionary in drug discovery. Yeah, I want to, want to focus on one other thing
here. Hector, you've said that, that in the debate, and you wrote this in your blog. So
for anybody, if you just googled eight fallacies of assembly theory, you would immediately find
Hector's blog. And he has 100 pages written like this of pointing out things in great detail.
But one of the things that you, you wrote on there concerning the debate was that, that Professor
Cronin came as, Oh, well, you know, I'm not an expert on, on, on this, I'm not an expert on that.
And you say, this is, this is, you know, the Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde in a sense, you know,
you didn't use those words, I'm using those words in that, in that the impression that he puts out
there is he's an absolute expert in these areas. And he's discovered all of these new theories.
Is, am I understanding this right Hector? That's, that's right. That's what I believe. And you can
see it on their own title that definitely was their author's choice and assembly theory explains
and quantifies selection and evolution. And again, I want to say that this is not exclusive of
Lee Cronin and Sarah Walker. But, but so far, they are kind of the best examples of how you
should not exaggerate your results. You may remember also how he said that this is how
science makes progress, that he likes to provoke and be provocative.
And I wondered into the field, relatively innocently, and I like making provocative statements to get
people to think, not to get people to shout at me until they're hoarse. Now assembly theory is
just the first step. Now, okay, Jim, you put up some, you know, you picked a handful of complaints
about the paper. But the paper is one of the most engaged, it was only published on the fourth of
October, had 2.3 million interactions on Twitter, had had a couple hundred thousand downloads,
has provoked discussion. And the thing is, it could be quite wrong. But maybe it's less wrong
than some other approaches. That is science. I definitely don't think that's how science
makes progress. I think actually this has the potential to kill science because it is killing
the credibility of the people that are doing science. And this is definitely not a good practice
of science or communicating science. Yes, this has been, as you heard, I said several times in
the debate, when you start claiming that you're going to make life in two years, or three years,
or five years, or you're very close, or all of the paradoxes, or most of the paradoxes in origin
of life have been solved, it's a disservice to the field. Because who wants to study it if you've
got this thing solved? And that's why the general public was so confused. I gave the statistics
on the general public, on the confused, they think that one third of the general public thinks that
scientists have made frogs in the lab. Two thirds think that they've made a bacterium in the lab.
And 80% of these people had college degrees. So there's a real danger in throwing this out there,
and to just say, well, we like to be provocative, that actually is a disservice to the field. And
I think, Hector, you're agreeing with that because you see it in this one paper, in this one area,
and I see it throughout origin of life. I see this sort of thing. I see it. I wouldn't know about
the other researches in that field, but I'm certainly know of others in other fields. And I
think it goes beyond just deceiving the general public. I think this deforms also the way in which
scientists are evaluated. So here on the screen, I'm showing what I think is some sort of a
vicious cycle. So when you do this kind of paper embellishment, media hype, totally unfounded,
