I predict Lee Cronin will remain silent on polypeptides, polynucleotides, polysaccharides,
these three key polymers that build us.
I predicted that he would talk about things other than that.
He would talk about bubbles, he would talk about salad dressing,
he would talk about the birth of stars, anything but the formation of molecules.
The paper is one of the most engaged, it was only published on the 4th of October,
had 2.3 million interactions on Twitter, had a couple of hundred thousand downloads,
has provoked discussion, and the thing is, it could be quite wrong.
I don't think that's the way science should be done, I don't think we should be proud of how many
likes we have on Twitter, and I think actually this has the potential to kill science because it
is killing the credibility of the people that are doing science.
There are segments in society that want to cause a god in the gaps,
and I'm sorry Jim, I actually think you're just trying, there's a god in the gaps.
It's actually kind of sad to have to clarify this,
but I feel Professor Tour is also attacked because of his personal beliefs, and that is,
I think, wrong. I think science communicators have a very hard time seeing behind
titles and unfounded claims.
That's the title of the paper, so you're wrong and lying, you know.
Those science communicators may be able to refute unsophisticated charlatans,
like later there is, but they wouldn't be able to call out sophisticated deceivers.
We're here today to talk about the recent debate that I had with Lee Cronin at Harvard,
and you can check out that online.
It was a streaming event, so the actual stream is now up there,
and it's been viewed to date by almost 100,000 people, and presumably there'll be more.
But I have today with me Dr. Hector Zanil, and let me just introduce Hector,
and then what I'm going to do is I'm going to talk a little bit about the debate,
and then I'm going to turn it over to Hector to give his views on this.
But Dr. Hector Zanil has two PhDs from Sorbonne in Paris and Lilly in Computer Science,
Logic, and Epistemology. He was a senior researcher at the Structural Biology Group
at the Department of Computer Science at the University of Oxford,
and the Alan Turing Institute in London, and more recently in the Machine Learning Group
at the Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology at the University of Cambridge.
He's also a lab leader at the Center of Molecular Medicine at Karolinska Institute,
the institution that awards the Nobel Prize in Medicine or Physiology,
and has been an invited scholar at Carnegie Mellon and MIT working on projects for NASA,
among other positions in academia and industry. He's published over 120 papers across some of
the best journals in physics, biology, mathematics, computer science, molecular biology, and artificial
intelligence. But let me just unpack it. So James is a really accomplished chemist,
he's a great designer, so he loves designing molecules and he's good at it, but he clearly
clearly doesn't understand information or the mathematics. Lee has said before that Jim Tour
doesn't know anything about information, so what we've got is we've got an information expert with
us today. Let me just give you my thoughts, and if you haven't watched that video where I was at
Harvard and had that debate slash discussion, let me just fill in a few points for you.
I was accused by Lee Cronin of shouting and hurting people's ears.
So problems are something we should embrace, not shout at relentlessly to say everyone's an idiot.
I wasn't shouting, I've gone back and watched my 20-minute presentation twice. I mean that's
just Jim Tour, that's who I am. I wasn't shouting, I wasn't raising my voice, I wasn't angry.
Professor Cronin's older work, he tried to make illegal peptides by some prebiotic-like
root. It was a bunch of garbage. There was nonsense there. And same thing with saccharides,
because this is hard. He tried to make these sugars that we made billions of compounds.
It's very hard to do this. You try to push molecules toward life, they don't want to go.
When I said his paper on peptides, I showed the title of his paper on peptides,
and I said that was garbage. That means the material that he made in that paper was absolute
garbage. He said he made illegal peptides, he made garbage. He made millions of illegal
peptides at once, all of them scrambled. And then in the few cases where he put
side-chain active peptides in there, they had to have been cross-linked. Yet he said in his
supplemental information that they did see linear ones, but he had no data to support that claim.
It would have been very hard to get any linear ones. And it was a bunch of garbage. The material
in there was a bunch of garbage. I even talked about one of his papers on saccharides. That, too,
made a bunch of garbage, absolute garbage. And I've pointed that out in other videos. He says
it made a billion compounds within an hour, and he somehow made it so that it had less compounds.
No, it still had, I don't know, half a billion or maybe more. And that's only because he skimmed
off the top of it. And he didn't take the ones that had already precipitated out. As far as his
comment on Origin of Life being a scam, yeah, when he went on Lex Friedman's podcast, he said
there was tongue in cheek. That's not how he portrayed it the first time. We go back, somebody
asked him, why do you say Origin of Life is a scam? And he said, because nobody is really doing it.
And those were his words. He never said it was tongue in cheek. That was a year later when he
got such grief probably from the Origin of Life community for saying that. Let me just tell
you about the people who organized the event at Harvard. They gave me every opportunity. I had
20 minutes undisturbed to say what I wanted to say. If I couldn't get my point across to the
community or to that roomful of people in that time, that's on me. That's my problem. I had 20
minutes to say what I wanted to say. Nobody interrupted me. And I think I made all my points.
I came loaded for bear. I fired that shot. And I think I hit a bullseye right on this thing of
pointing out all the difficulties with Origin of Life. So I'm not retracting any of that. I just
wanted you to know some of the constraints that I was under. I had agreed with the organizers
because they were afraid that I'd take over the conversation. I said, after my talk, I will say
nothing unless I'm asked a question. And you will see. I never responded. I never initiated
anything. I just sat at that table. And unless a question came to me, I didn't say it. And I also
said I wouldn't interrupt anybody. And so if they interrupted me, I would yield to them. And just so
that you know the background on that. Now, we have Hector Zaniel here. And I talked about Hector
Zaniel and his thoughts on assembly theory, which was Lee Cronin's major theory. What I had predicted
is Lee Cronin would not address anything with regard to polypeptide problem, polynucleotide,
and polysaccharide problem. I predict Lee Cronin will remain silent on polypeptides,
polynucleotides, polysaccharides, these three key polymers that build us and sell assembly,
resorting to calling those narrow questions and not worth even addressing. I predicted that he
would talk about things other than that. He would talk about bubbles. He would talk about
salad dressing. He would talk about the birth of stars, anything, but the formation of molecules.
So all of my predictions came true. I had also asked whether the audience would really understand
anything from his talk and come away from that, knowing anything more about the origin of life.
And as far as I can tell, I don't think anybody left that room knowing more about how life formed
from that conversation. One person wrote, and after multiple reads, I still have absolutely no idea
what this paper is doing. Another wrote, I read the paper and I feel more confused. I think reading
that paper has made me forget my own name. But now with Hector here, I just want you to know the
background. Hector is not a religious person. He doesn't share my religious convictions. And so
this is perfect. This is not a God of the gaps Christian evangelical coming here. Hector is
neutral to that as far as I can tell. But let's just hear what Hector has to say because when I
quoted him, I was actually pulling out the nice quotes of his concerning Lee. Just a few quotes.
These authors only a few months ago announced that they had achieved the breakthrough of making
time physical using assembly theory, a claim that nobody could understand. Now they claim the same
theory can explain selection and evolution, unifying biology and physics and explains all of life.
But I just want to turn it over to Hector to take it from here and give his perspective on the debate,
his perspective on assembly theory, and his perspective on the utility of assembly theory.
So with that Hector, I turn it over to you, my friend. Thank you very much,
Jim. And it is a pleasure to be here with you, analyzing the outcome of the debate. So let me
share my screen and some slides with you. This is the first time I accept an invitation to a
podcast. And I'm doing it because Professor Stewart and Cronin refer to me on the debate at
Harvard University. Professor Stewart and I may not share the same set of beliefs, but I respect
Professor Stewart's beliefs. And I also respect very much his work as a scientist as one of the
world-leading synthetic chemists. I want to set the record straight that I do not follow any religion
and I am a nice atheist. And that Professor Stewart has never made any religious argument,
as far as I know, in his scientific arguments. It's actually kind of sad to have to clarify this.
But I feel Professor Stewart is also attacked because of his personal beliefs and that is,
I think, wrong. I do not believe for supporting intelligent design. I'm the opposite of a creationist,
just as Professor Stewart says, I think he also believes that eventually there may be a plausible
mechanistic explanation for the origin of life. And that is still my hope and my expectation.
I do not follow all the research of origin of life. Whether they also exaggerate their claims,
I don't know. If they do, it is also very unfortunate. I never speak online with YouTubers or
influencers like the authors of Assembly Theory do all the time. I'm very selective and thank you
very much for this invitation, Jim. So let me start with what I think are the three main components
of Assembly Theory. I think it can be divided into the theory, whether there are any ideas behind
that may be novel. So the three main components of Assembly Theory is the theory itself, whether
there are any new ideas or actual substance, the methods, what they call the assembly index,
the molecular assembly, assembly pathways and so on. And then the application, especially that the
claim is that they can separate living from non-living systems or organic versus inorganic
matter, which by the way, I think it's a completely different question. And more many other claims
that they have made, including that they can detect extraterrestrial life, unified physics and
biology, redefine time, fully characterize life and much more. So this is really like almost
like a theory of everything according to the author. So we are going to explain what are the
contributions and limitations in each of these cases. So first question, are there any new ideas?
I think if there are any, they are very limited because almost word by word, I believe they are
taking much of the content from an area that is called Algorithmic Information Theory that has
its own indexes called more of complexity is one of them. Algorithmic probability is another one
that is deeply related and another one that is called logical depth that was introduced by Charles
Benedict of which you can see two papers on the screen. And this concept was introduced in the
80s and is basically exactly about trying to find the causal history of an object by applying
some sort of statistical and algorithmic index, which in this case is called logical depth.
And this was in the context precisely of trying to characterize life and explain
living systems and structure in the world. And most of these ideas are actually based on a concept
and theory that was developed in the 60s and 70s that quantifies time by the minimal number of steps.
And this is very related to compression as we are going to see in the next slides. So some say that
assembly theory is making some good points that assembly theory is telling us for example how
living systems are complex, highly modular and hierarchical. And I don't think that is a contribution.
We know this since the discovery of the cell. We know this since the development of genetics.
All the work by professional scientists that have been done in the field of omics and not from assembly
theory. Every complexity theorist and systems biologist would tell you that life is highly
modular and hierarchical. We talk about building blocks all the time, how living systems reuse
these building blocks to build everything at every steps from genes to proteins to cells.
And I think one of the tricks of assembly theory, if you see it as some sort of deception,
I'm going to make the case of why I think it is. I think it was not deception at the beginning,
but now it is becoming one when they are being represented with evidence that it is actually
the contrary, that it is not a contribution. But I think the strategy has been to mix full or half
truths with non-truths. And the truths are so obvious and undisputed that they
give some sort of credibility to the deceptive content. So for example, when they talk about
the combinatorial argument regarding how nature comes up with these highly structured entities,
their explanation is not different than algorithmic probability. And also we are not going to be able
to get into the details of what each of these theories actually try to explain. Anyone can
just go online and look for these theories. So algorithmic probability is another way to see
probability. As you may know with classical probability theory, what you do is to approach
events in a traditional statistical approach. Let me give you an example. We have an object like
the concept of a mathematical constant like pi, for example. You remember 3.14159 and so on.
If you ask the question, if you regard this number as some sort of generating mechanism
producing every one of the digits, and you ask what is the probability of getting every digit
right by typing randomly on a typewriter, for example, the probability is extremely low, right?
It's one over 10 to the number of digits that you want to get right in the first place. So the
probability diminishes very fast. But what if you ask the question of what is the probability of
coming up with a formula or the computer program that produces pi? Then things change dramatically
because pi is a number that has a very short formula because it has low complexity. That's
the definition of complexity. If something may be very large or long, but it has a very short
description. So pi has many short descriptions. It could be a formula, it could be a computer
program. So instead of hitting keystrokes on a typewriter, you hit keystrokes and each of them
are actually a piece of a computer program. It turns out that the probability of producing
an object with such a structure is actually quite high because the computer program that
produces pi is very short. And that's basically kind of the definition of what assembly theory
is offering. So they are taking all these pieces from algorithmic information theory,
putting them together, nothing that some other people and authors have already done,
and presenting it as something new. Okay, Hector, let me just interject. I just want to make sure
people are understanding what you're saying. So first of all, if you think I'm the only one who
talks technical, I mean, it's Hector too. This is our world. This isn't the world in which
scientists speak. But what Hector has just said is that assembly theory can be reduced to a number
of things that have been discussed in the 60s and 70s and 80s. But there's nothing particularly
new here. And he's also mentioned how he thinks that this has migrated beyond just fundamentally
getting things wrong and claiming something as being novel when it's not novel. But he did
interject there. He said it's moved into the deceptive. Because things have been pointed
out to them, yet they continue with this. So he's saying that now it's moved into the deceptive.
So Hector, did I summarize that to this point? Okay.
That's right. I think that actually they are even doubling down with their effort,
because they cannot back off now. It is probably too late for them. I'm going to continue showing
in more detail how actually how similar, if not indistinguishable, from algorithmic information
theory. So let me now move to the methods. We covered whether there are some new ideas in
the theory and the methods are going to support what I'm saying about the theory.
Just a few quotes. These authors only a few months ago announced that they had achieved
the breakthrough of making time physical using assembly theory, a claim that nobody could
understand. Now they claim the same theory can explain selection and evolution unifying biology
and physics and explains all of life. Assembly theory is a weaker version of one of the simplest
algorithms known in computer science, Huffman's coding scheme. If you remember from the debate,
Cronin came almost like offended when Jim suggested using my reference that this was
related to a compression algorithm. So it's not compression like Huffman encoding?
So definitely it is a compression algorithm. And I'm going to show you some of the examples,
specific examples that they use and how they would look like with another algorithm that has
been introduced in the 70s or even before. So why they don't recognize that this is a compression
