exaggerated claims, what you do is to also improve your citations because, and sometimes
for the wrong reasons, either they are negative citations, or they are positive from misled
colleagues. And then that increases basically everything else, your edge index, your credibility
reputation, that leads you to more taxpayer money for more grants, larger groups that can
write more papers. And it is a cycle that has no checkpoints. Nowhere here, you can see that if
you do something wrong, then you get something wrong. Basically, whatever you do, you do better.
The paper is one of the most engaged, it was only published on the 4th of October,
had 2.3 million interactions on Twitter, had had a couple of hundred thousand downloads,
has provoked discussion. And the thing is, it could be quite wrong.
I don't think that's the way science should be done. I don't think we should be proud of how many
likes we have on Twitter. And that's what has become with some authors and some groups.
What you've said on your blog is exactly this, is that there is this cycle. And if people say,
well, it's just gotten millions of impressions, well, you say in your blog that just because it
got millions of impressions, it's for the wrong reasons that many people are looking at this and
scratching their heads and saying this can't be. So just because something has an impression,
somebody downloads a paper, doesn't mean that it's correct. It could mean because it's grossly
incorrect. I'm glad you're pointing this out now, and I'm not the lone voice crying in the
wilderness. And I think there should be more people speaking out. And that's what I found around.
So my colleagues pretty much agree with how I see things, but they don't come out.
I don't know if there's some sort of unwritten agreement to keep the status quo or something.
But just to be more constructive, what can we do to solve this? And here's a random idea.
Should we have some sort of science watch organization to denounce abuses like this?
Or should institutions held accountable? What about Glasgow and Arizona State University?
Allowing all this to happen? There are no checkpoints.
One of the things that is going on here, as I've said before on my channel,
there are many colleagues that have said to me, Jim, I see your videos and I agree with you.
We don't know how these things happen. But they'll say, but don't use my name.
Don't use my name. And I'll invite them onto my channel to talk about it. They don't want to get
near my channel because they don't want to happen to them what has happened to me. Where
there is an establishment that makes it very difficult on those people who raise these sorts
of flags and say, hey, there's a problem here. There's an establishment that controls funding
and it does affect funding. And I've been greatly blessed in spite of this. Now, I've gone through
seasons where it really hit me. Interestingly enough, I had two program directors from two
different federal agencies tell me, Jim, don't even bother applying because they're not going to
fund you in this agency. And so, you know, that's kind of frightening because you take a stand on
something, you know, you get in trouble for it. So we have laws in the United States called
whistleblower laws that protect people that call out fraud in certain categories. But
when you cry foul in science, there's not an easy checkpoint here. And I've experienced this in my
own life. And this is why there's not more people coming up. I mean, there's young folks, young men
and women trying to get tenure. The last thing they want to do is have a community of scientists
against them because it's the community that is going to write their letters to say, yes,
this person's done great work, give them tenure or not. And so I came through a system where this
wasn't a big factor and I wasn't talking about origin of life. And thankfully, I'm a full professor
and it's harder to deal with me. Now, you can try to cut off my funding. But in spite of that,
I've been greatly blessed because the quality of our work, but it has been a battle and it is a battle.
And this is, I think, what you're experiencing, Hector, have you experienced some of this?
You know that for younger researchers, it's actually much more difficult and I felt it in
many ways. Just to give an example, I submitted this paper I showed you on the screen and it
appears that actually someone in Cronin's group was asked to be one of the reviewers. So you cannot
even get replies to their science easily go through because the way the system works, even if you can
ask them to not include some of the authors in Cronin's group, there are at least like 100
postdoc researchers. And it is most likely one of them trying to review our paper because
they are the experts in assembly theory and basically they do just world matching.
So we are going to be finding blogs at every stage. And as you say, we want to do research in
this area. Cronin is regarded as one of the leading scientists. So it's very likely that
there's a very good chance that he's going to go through him and obviously there's a competing
interest. So definitely there are issues. So the people understand the system. Let me explain
this. So at least in the United States, if I submit a grant to a grant proposal to the National
Science Foundation, that is going to be read and critiqued by four or five of people around the
United States and some even in other countries. And they say, is this good research? Is it worth
funding? Are there problems here? If you don't have all excellence, even if you have one person that
just checks good, you're not going to get funded. If you have one person that checks good, not even
fair or poor, but just good, you won't get funding. So if you have three or four excellence and one
good, you don't get funding. So it's very easy to cut somebody off from funding. And if you say, well,
they didn't get that grant, that is a career killer. You're paying graduate students and now
all of a sudden, because somebody's felt that way. And so in some agencies, there's a chance to
rebut. In other agencies, there's not so much of a chance to rebut. So it can be a real problem.
It's really scary, particularly for the younger people. And Hector, I mean, I know what you're
talking about and I feel for you. And hopefully, you're going to be proved right by a larger community
here so that at least there's some protection for you, protection for your career, and that
there's some reward at the end that would be good. Thanks, Jim. So before going to another subject,
let me show you some examples of what I think are measured self-restraint news headlines
from today, actually. Because if we, in medicine or some other fields, were seeing this kind of
claims, most likely they would bear some liability. Definitely would bring the attention and
scrutiny of regulating bodies. And they are borderline by talking about drugs, for example.
So one step further and in any other field, this would bring consequences. And again,
this is not only about crowning a worker. It's beyond what we are talking about, this particular
example. So I think we really have to do something about it. So when it comes to the theory,
I don't think there are any new ideas, no radical definition of life. They themselves
suggest and say that their definition is very simple. And as I have shown, and everybody
had can see just by googling LGC 77, that's exactly the definition of assembly theory.
Their measure is a compression algorithm and not a good one. It's beyond my comprehension
how they can defend that it is not a compression algorithm. I can understand why they don't like
the idea to be regarded as a compression algorithm, because then everything else collapses much easier.
They are taking ideas from other areas that they don't recognize as such if they credit them
for anything is actually for being wrong and not for basically contributing to what they are saying.
They don't cite anyone who is not their friends, unfortunately. So my whole work after 15 years
using very similar measures, almost with the same name, because as I said, it is block the
composition method. But doing more interesting things, but with very similar applications
actually, they don't cite it. We actually published almost five years before them,
results exactly in the same area. So this is a paper that we published in 2018,
and we show that if you take chemical compounds, and actually we took all of them from a repository,
so orders of magnitude, what they took in their own research, because they used first
100 compounds. And so that's the order of magnitude of the compounds they looked at
in their own paper. And we looked at 15,000, more than 15,000 elements and compounds.
And when we tried to, for example, separate acids and alcohols, we couldn't. But when we
wanted to separate organic and inorganic, we were able to do so with nomenclature and with
distance matrices, molecular distance matrices, both together or separately. So in other words,
it is very easy to separate these categories. We published this way before assembly theory,
we didn't make any grandiose claim, and it is out there for people to check out. And I think
Ronin is very well aware of this one, and they just don't say anything. Let me show you one of the
proper, perhaps the last slide. I think science communicators have a very hard time to distinguish
or seeing behind titles and unfounded claims. They would take it at face value.
The same for some researchers or colleagues from other areas, as I said. And those science
communicators may be able to refute unsophisticated charlatans, like Lat-Erders and so on. But they
wouldn't be able to call out sophisticated receivers. Fake rigor, for example. People taking
selecting parts of science that make sense, sometimes following the scientific method to
look credible, but then not following it when they feel threatened by the results. Part of fake
rigor in the entropy paper of assembly theory, for example, they provide a proof of the computability
of assembly or the assembly index as a way to prove the advantage that it has against
the Kolmogorov complexity that, as I said, is semi-computable. Which, by the way, is irrelevant
because, again, there are computable approximations to Kolmogorov complexity of which assembly theory
is one. But anyway, let's take that example. They provide a mathematical proof of computability
of this index, which is simpler than Shannon entropy, and nobody would have doubt that Shannon
entropy is completely computable. Computable means that if you run it on a computer for any input,
you are going to get a result. Uncomputable means that, basically, if you run your computer program,
there's a chance that it may not produce the result because it keeps computing it at infinitum.
That's the problem with uncomputability, and that's why you have to come up with resource-bounded
measures. That means that, basically, you restrict the area of application of your measure, you restrict
the memory, or you restrict the time, and that means that the result is going to always come back,
and it may not be the actual value, but it is an approximation, and that's what assembly theory is.
But when you have something like assembly theory that is so simple that I couldn't come up with a
better example to try to convey this, but it is the equivalent of proving Pythagoras theorem
that applies to all triangles for yellow triangles only. So, really, I don't know if this is the
result of ignorance or deception, but when I tell my colleagues about this, they literally laugh,
and I'm not trying to be mean to them, but it is really just incredible how these papers went
through any peer review with actual experts. And the problem, I think, is that many colleagues and
researchers in other areas and science communicators are not able to see behind the trees. As you do,
for example, I'm sure that you see behind the trees of the origin of life research where you
don't take titles of papers at face value, and actually, as you say, what all these papers are
actually saying is how difficult it is to find the conditions to push all these molecules to actually
look anything closer to life. So, all the literature is actually telling you the opposite. Even when
every one of the articles is saying something positive, when you take them all together, it's
the opposite of positive, because it is not a model. What you need is a model that is very likely,
like in gravitation, for example. In gravitation, you don't say, oh, planets have to be pushed in
this particular situation, and if they deviate, you bring them back in some way or another. They
apply everywhere, and actually, they can explain more phenomena that any other theory before could
explain. So, they are truly unifying models that don't require special situations, and all the origin
of life research requires a lot of very special situations. Maybe it is because we haven't found
the right assumptions, those special situations, but in both cases, it means that we haven't hit
really the right model, or we still know very little, even when there has been some progress. So,
I'm dividing progress here into levels. Very low progress, that we have these articles showing
that in special conditions, pushing things together with 10 people trying to move molecules,
they may have a chance to produce something close, not even life, but then when you took
everything together as a domain expert saying behind the trees, you actually see that it is the
opposite. Yes, yes, and this is what happens in science. So, what I'm suggesting is we need a
whole lot more basic science discoveries in chemical synthesis to be able to solve these
issues, and we're really not that good at it. To speak to any synthetic chemist, when we want to
make a new compound, make a new, just a particular carbon-carbon bond, we have to try 20 different
conditions in order to find something before we get, say, 80% yield. We can't just dial in,
and so I say we need a lot more basic discoveries. So, I predict that leachron in a synthetic
chemist will not discuss anything tonight about chemical reactions leading to life's origin.
I predict leachronin will remain silent on polypeptides, polynucleotides, polysaccharides,
these three key polymers that build us and sell assembly, resorting to calling those
narrow questions and not worth even addressing. Most importantly, with you, the audience, leave
tonight understanding anything more about life's origin based on what Professor Cronin says.
You know, in that debate, I predicted that Lee would not talk about any of the molecular
structures, any of the polypeptides, any of the items that I said are going to be critical,
the things that we're going to need to address this. He would avoid it, and that's what he did.
But he got into assembly theory and talked of that, spoke of that as if that would somehow
help us to explain how life might begin to come about because the topic of the discussion
was the origin of life. And so one would presuppose that the assembly theory is going
to help us with that. And I don't know that I certainly was not equipped to do battle with it
except the fact that say I don't see how that applies to chemistry. What we've had here is we've
had Hector Zaniel, Dr. Hector Zaniel, who is an expert in information, in the packaging of
information, in the describing of different entities, the structures, where Lee is saying his
measures can describe the complexities that have to do with life versus non-life. And what Hector
has shown is these sorts of compression algorithms have been around for 50 and 60 years. And in fact,
the things that are 50 years old often do better than assembly theory. So there really was not a
whole lot of novelty there. I'm glad we could have you, Hector, as an expert to help us to
understand what might be happening here. And I think that the audience sometimes thinks that I
can get a little heavy on the science side. But this is what science demands. It demands a description.
And so what Hector did is he was putting before us a description. And I'm sure he was trying to speak
lightly to us, but still it sounded pretty heavy. But this is the description of what went on.
Just Google eight fallacies of assembly theory. Hector's name will come up, click on that, and
you'll see this. And you'll see 100 pages like this of things that he has written regarding assembly
theory and with links to all of his papers that he has written five years ago and then links to
other papers that have been put out there 50 years ago on these sorts of topics. And do your own
analysis here. And with that, I just want to thank you, Hector. You've given us a lot of your time.
You've given us a lot of your insight. And hopefully this message will come out. Thanks so much.
Thank you very much, Ian, for the invitation. My pleasure.
If you're enjoying this series, give us a thumbs up and click the subscribe button. And that way
you'll hear when we're coming out with new videos. There are no salary to employees in this
organization, all the accounting, all the legal work that's all done by friends of mine. The only
thing that I have to pay for is the production work. And if you could help us out with that,
I'd appreciate it. There's a link below where you can just click on that and help us in several
different ways. Thank you.
