to derange on that far. You're putting a high price on person. I mean, I get, well, no, you love
about on personal loyalty. Yeah. Well, but you know, Sam, I honestly, I find the same thing about
you where if I'm in a storm, you're one of the tiny number of phone calls I can place. And it's
very odd for me that I would want you to, I would want you to feel that way. I do. And I absolutely
do. So when I call, pick it up and... Yeah, yeah. Okay. But you need not shudder at what's coming.
But getting back to this large... So with all of these very dangerous and disturbing topics,
I start to understand that you believe, and I think it's correct, that we can often get
to hell through a road paved with good intentions. Yeah. I don't disagree with that.
And the converse is also true. You can have good effects of bad intentions and that's
and you shouldn't credit the good effects too highly there. Because I think intentions matter
for the most part. I mean, intentions are the operating system. So if you're iterating on
your intentions, if you're error correcting and hewing back to the outcomes you actually want,
right? Those are the people we can collaborate with when they're ethical. The people who are
right by accident or producing good things by accident are... It's how we encode this
that's so interesting to me. When we order veal, we just say the word veal. We don't think about
what it is that we're causing to occur. I want the three minute video before I eat the veal.
Exactly. Very few of us do that. When I think about how Debbie Wasserman and children...
But that's why I don't order veal. That's a difference. At a certain point,
too much information has a consequence. I'm not comfortable with veal or foie gras.
And it would matter if you said, well, here's veal, but this is pain-free veal. This is veal
that was synthesized in a lab, no animals involved. The problem goes away. The fact that
there is... You'd want there to be a difference there. Take the most extreme case. You wouldn't
want to be the person who would pay more for the veal if you knew there was more suffering
associated with it. It would be the person for whom the suffering is part of the pleasure.
That's clearly a place on the moral landscape you don't want to be and you don't want to be
associated with. If that's at all unsavory, then there are many gradations of better than that.
Let's get back to my issue about orcas. Are either the best or worst species?
Yeah. No, but I didn't mean to derail you there, but it matters. We need to unpack the memetic
complex and get at what's inside. And it matters if we fail to. If there's a lot inside and we're
unaware of it, that matters. How often are we just saying veal without realizing?
But for example, I remember when Debbie Wasserman Schultz was being interviewed about super
delegates and she said, they're not super delegates. They're unpledged delegates and
why do we have to have them? And I think she said something to the effect. And if I'm getting
this wrong, I apologize. Something like, well, you wouldn't want the people who aren't regular
party workers just being able to take over the party or something like this. I was thinking like,
oh, that's what we all think it is, that it's a primary and that the people who are registered
Democrats should figure out who they should support as a candidate. Her point was, well,
we have to have a thumb on the scale. Otherwise, democracy might happen. And
that thing is how we encode the badness. We encode it by creating some different way of
talking about it. How we encode it or fail to encode it? How it becomes operable?
Well, nobody's a bad person in their own mind most of the time. So when I do bad things,
I encode it differently. So we were just in a situation where we were waiting in a very long
line of cars for an off-ramp and our car sort of zoomed ahead and then asked somebody's
understanding that we would cut in right towards the exit. So sort of high-fiving like,
geez, we almost got caught in that really long line. Later in the day, somebody cuts in front
of us, much less of a problem. It's like, can you believe that guy? And so this way in which
we sort of see ourselves as the permanent good guy protagonist in the first case being savvy.
Yeah, but so don't you think living a good life is in large measure a matter of
squeezing the delta between those two states of mind?
You think that that's true. I think that was the leading question.
I know. I know. But I think that it's actually much more tricky.
So let's take the antithesis. What if I told you that I thought it was a matter of getting
broadening that gulf, right? So to be more extremely at odds with one's self,
depending on what side of the table you're on and those like...
I think you would have been less likely to cut in line. But if you did cut in line,
I wonder if you'd be less likely to notice it and talk about it the way I do. So I think that
your morality and my morality differs slightly. I don't think you're giving me...
You're giving Naseem to live too much credit and you're not giving me enough.
Oh, is that right?
So I am...
I see you as pretty consistent in a lot of ways.
Yeah. What I aspire to be is to cut in line the right amount and to be
appropriately non-judgmental when I see someone else cut in line with the right amount.
It's very odd. I'm pretty close to that.
So I don't have too many illusions about what it is to do it but what it is when somebody
else does it. So I don't... I'm not as... And when I catch... I occasionally catch myself in that
mismatch between who I'm capable of being in one moment and how judgmental I am of somebody
else in that same mode.
Noticing your own sort of issues makes you a better person if you can port them more generally.
So in other words, if you say, look, I recognize that I'm not the best around food or something.
I am very conscious in some other area like being timely. Well, if you can recognize
somebody else's failings as akin to your own in a different area and port that,
that's a way in which being in touch with your own hypocrisy I think makes you a better person.
And I worry about people who are trying to rid themselves of their hypocrisy
rather than first noticing it and then sort of minimizing it so that it's less garish.
But to be... To truly want to minimize it, you have to be in touch with it.
You run those... There's two pieces of software you're running at the same time.
Well, I think it's more like I don't see any prospect for ridding myself of it.
And other people say, oh, I caught some and I have to get rid of it. It's an imagined state that
they could prove more or less that you can't live without it.
Because you're not a unitary thing.
You aren't a unitary thing. And most of us, even though we know that,
we still treat ourselves as unitary things, which is bizarre.
Yeah. Well, you're in the mindfulness space.
Yeah, I work hard not to do that.
Yeah, but I don't have an app and I don't do these practices,
but I'm still very conscious of that fact that I'm not unitary.
Yeah. No, I mean, if you follow that a little bit further, that becomes very interesting because
you're not... But that doesn't mean there's no norm you want to aspire to follow.
You can be... There are faces of your mind you can prefer to others.
There's also something that happens when you cease to be taken in by your different selves
in all these different modes to the normal degree. Then you can actually... Then there's a kind of
freedom to navigate to a happier conversation.
But there is some way in which what you're talking about is that one of your parliament of selves
is that your metta self, which you're probably getting as close to identifying with
unitarity, is anything else. Well, it's just there is...
The more you see... The thing that supervises the subroutines,
you would probably call Sam Harris. Well, it's more diaphanous than that.
I mean, ultimately, it's just consciousness. I mean, the only thing that can supervise
anything or be aware of anything or experience anything is what I'm calling consciousness.
Now, that's not... When you really pay attention to what that's like,
it doesn't actually answer to the name I or me. I mean, it really is just this open space in which
everything's appearing, including thoughts and intentions and desires and emotions. And there,
it really is a cacophony. But the cacophony changes the more you fall back to this position of just
witnessing the show. And so, it's like your... I guess one analogy that's actually fairly
apropos is the difference between dreaming and lucid dreaming. The more you lucid dream,
the more you actually can change your dreams. I mean, that's what it is to point.
Yeah, but you're still... There's a consequence to being lucid and being perpetually lost
in thought, being identified... Not noticing.
Not noticing thought is thought. Being identified with every intention that surfaces in the mind
is really deeply analogous to being asleep and dreaming and not knowing you're dreaming.
You're in a situation you're not recognizing.
Well, it's interesting because sometimes I can't actually use the information. So,
for example, when you went into the don't we want the best and brightest thing,
I thought, oh my God, Sam is going to drag me there. And that way he's going to be the guy who
believed... Well, no, because there is no thing called xenophilic restrictionism, which is what
most of us are. Certainly, I am in my belief structure. And the idea that every single news
organ is ready to call any restrictionist a xenophobe, I'm thinking, oh my God, Sam is dragging
me to this place. He doesn't even know it. And I'm starting to get angry and agitated and excited.
And there was nothing I could do to actually... I couldn't find any control knob.
But to come back to earth where something is more concrete than pure consciousness,
I'm aware of the potential hypocrisy in judging people. So, I just kind of shit all over and
not seem to live. So, I don't believe in free will. I know he didn't invent himself. There's
a place in which I'm totally non-judgmental of him. And he can't do otherwise. He's just
being the perfect version of not seem to live as is Donald Trump. And in Trump's case,
the thing that I'm judgmental, I'm not especially judgmental of him. He seems like a
malfunctioning robot to me. He's just... What I'm judgmental of is the larger situation of
all of this happening and half the population seem to be pretending that there's something
optimal about it. That's so terrifyingly risky to me that I think it's appropriate to be in touch
with the outrage module rather than the non-judgmental, oh, we're all... Nobody invented... Nobody
created themselves module. But I pick and choose my moments of outrage and I get off the ride as
soon as there's no longer... As soon as I notice, there's no reason to be on it.
That's no longer adaptive.
Yeah. So, it's like, how much time am I... So, now, in my use of social media, I'll get on Twitter,
I'll see something outrageous, I'll get triggered by it, but I mean, I'll get off 30 seconds later
and it's over. Whereas, if I were to do the thing that entangled me, it could take up much more of
my life. And so... Well, it's very interesting to me that you've gotten off Twitter as you've become
more focused on the meditation and mindfulness part of your offering.
Right. I mean, there's... The juxtaposition there may be somewhat accidental, but the vividness...
There's a spell that's been broken for me with respect to social media. Actually, I had paid
lip service to this and just didn't know that it was just lip service, but I had been talking about
Twitter and social media generally as a psychological experiment that we were running on ourselves to
which no one had consented. We just enrolled half of humanity in this thing and we're just...
Let's see what happens. And it's clearly having effects that are at best nonoptimal,
at worst catastrophic. And I was talking about this and thinking in these terms,
but still totally embedded in the activity of taking Twitter seriously and feeling that it
was a professional necessity. And on some level, it was just sticky enough emotionally,
like this is... Because I'm getting a lot of my news that way, I'm following smart people,
I want to see what articles they're reading and there's an opportunity for conversation.
And then somebody like Nassim Taleb said something outrageously stupid that is
directed at me. And it goes... It's going out to hundreds of thousands of people.
And so it's an opportunity for me to tell them to fuck off. And so I find some way to say that.
And this thing begins playing out and to the degree that I've stepped away, which is like 95%,
now when I come back and I see some of my friends, I see you embroiled with Claire
Lehman or somebody. And it does look like I'm now in touch with the...
Do you saw that get diffused?
Yeah, I know that. And I think the skillful diffusal of those conflicts is its own public good.
Well, the thing is I've tried to maximize.
There are people that I can't diffuse because I don't think they want the thing diffused.
Like you got into some... You went on this person nice mangoes podcast.
Yeah, that was... Talk about no good deed going to punish.
You know, there's just something wrong...
I did my best to launch your podcast.
There's something wrong with that account because there's many ways in which it seems quite reasonable.
Yeah, it's degraded into mental illness.
Well, there's a personal nastiness about it that just doesn't let up
and a lack of charity. And what I find is that there are certain things I can do to slow down
that kind of negative experience. And then there are certain diehard actors,
some of them are quite polite and charming and funny, who just will not...
Like their thing is they will ride this to the most negative place if they get there.
And that sub community, I've been talking about in terms of we have diversity and inclusion,
which I'm willing to say is a good thing. And then it needs a different function,
which is interoperability and exclusion because there are certain people who can't be at the
table for a conversation if it's going to progress because their interest is in derailing.
Now, I got into some weird thing just now. Do you know the singer Billy Bragg?
No. He's like a progressive... He's kind of like a punk Arlo Guthrie or Woody Guthrie,
rather. And he turns out he wrote a book and he's talking about Eric Weinstein,
an investment banker who is a free speech champion, won't meet with... I don't know,
he's got a whole story in his mind. So he took a shot at you in his book?
He went on Sam Cedars' program. Well, there's a venue that he's not going to select for.
Honest opinions. I spoke to Sam... Look, there's a problem with the
Saul Alinsky thing where Saul Alinsky rules for radicals. The focus on ridicule.
I think it's hard to remember like Country Joe and the Fish was ridiculing a bad war
in terms that are ridiculous. You've now got a group of people who, if a mathematician says,
you know that in different arithmetic, you could have an equation like 2 plus 3 equals 1.
And so then you get somebody saying, I don't know what they're smoking over there at Princeton,
but well, that's ridicule, but you're ridiculing something that you straw man didn't understand
because the person actually was making sense. And so what I see is that the left,
and in particular, the Sam Cedar crowd has a... Doing that with abandon.
It's willing to do two separate things. Sam is quite willing, like there's this whole thing,
but when you talk to Sam Cedar, will you debate Sam Cedar? And my feeling is I would debate part
of Sam Cedar, the part that just is focused on the ideas, but the part that is kind of like
nasty and ridiculing and doing the Alinsky thing. I don't know what to do with it.
I'm not interested. I've spoken to Sam Cedar and the phone is perfectly
reasonable, made sense to me. We disagreed on positions, but...
Well, the line that gets crossed for me always with these guys, and again,
it's disproportionately on the left, is the line of conscious dishonesty. I mean,
it's your brother's aphorism. Bad faith changes everything.
Bad faith changes everything.
And these guys are in bad faith. They know their line about, in my case, my views,
