Hello, you found the portal. I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and we're here today with
my good friend, Sam Harris. Sam, thanks for coming by.
Thank you. It was great.
So first question, are you in any trouble that I don't know about?
I don't think so. I think you know what trouble I get into as I get into it. So I often look
to you for counseling. Well, occasionally I get a call from you and you say,
I'm thinking about getting you into the following form of trouble. Talk me out of it.
If it happens that I'm not there for an hour and a half, I get another call saying, too late.
I remember one that a vacation that was unraveling and I was calling you from literally
poolside. Yeah, the one vacation I had taken with my family in a year and I was poised to ruin it
and ruin it. I did. I don't blame you for it, but whatever counsel you gave me did not prevent
the unraveling of a vacation. Well, I'm here to afford you the opportunity to ruin a future
vacation, but let's try to avoid it if we can. I'm just curious. First of all, I've taken your
advice and Tim Ferriss and Joe Roggensen started this podcast. You were actually the first person
I sat down with, but I had so little idea what I was doing that we blocked out the windows.
We had an uncomfortable table in front and the Feng Shui was completely off.
We had an Addams Family podcast. Exactly. So we're trying things. I'm learning a little bit,
but first of all, anytime you want to flip the tables on me, I'm game two. What is top of mind
for you at the moment? Or should I can go into some topics that I'm curious? Go wherever you
want to go. This is your show. Okay. So one of the things that I'm starting to think about
is doing a little bit of retrospective work, trying to think about where our world, our
country is. We're going into another electoral cycle. And I just think this is the most bizarre
age imaginable. It doesn't behave like any previous time. And I hear that we're at peak this and
peak that, but I don't see any signs of the, what I increasingly see is the incoherence
slowing down. Are you also perceiving a world that is kind of intellectually unraveling or
are you seeing new kinds of formations that give you the idea that something is actually
filling the voids that have been opening up when it comes to coherence?
Well, I worry that this is a kind of cognitive delusion that to think that the time you're in
is always sort of newly chaotic or incoherent or civilizations on the brink in some new way
in your time. But I'm taken in by it. You've got to be kidding me. This has never happened.
But there's got to be some name for this where it's just, it's a
some kind of recency effect. Clearly there have been periods in history where
things really have been on the brink in some new way.
Oh, I don't mean to suggest that like this is the, I mean, in general.
No, no, I don't mean like World War II is about to happen. You know, World War III is about to
happen. But I do feel like we are witnessing several sea changes, which I couldn't have honestly said
that 15 years ago or 20 years ago. I mean, something has changed and some things have
clearly changed for the worse. And maybe there's a silver lining to this chaos, but
I would be hard pressed to find it at the moment.
Well, so when I'm starting to think about what kind of chaos we're in and using the fact that you and
I agree on a lot, which I think makes our disagreements more interesting because I don't
like the ground level. He said, she said kinds of disagreements. I don't think they're that
interesting. For me, the big thing that's really new is that I can't think of a single institution
I trust. There's no place that I can go to for ground truth.
Well, this is an example so that you take the New York Times and you and I
whinge about the New York Times a fair amount.
I've been watching you transition.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've grown pretty dark about the paper record.
That's new.
Yeah, yeah.
Five years ago, you were somewhere else.
Yeah, but I guess I'm wondering whether the cohort before us 20 years ago had this same
litany of complaints about the New York Times or whether something fundamentally has shifted.
Well, I've been on the New York Times since the 80s.
Okay, so you were early to this party?
Yeah, I was very early to this party for-
But something has changed. So is this worse than the 80s?
It's a good question. Worse isn't the right word in my opinion. The way I would play with it is,
I'd say that its problem has always been the same, which is narrative-driven journalism.
The first clear indication I have of this, I think, was a story about Woodstock in which
the paper told the reporter-
How old are you? You're not that much older than me. I was still in my diapers.
No, no, no. I don't remember this as a three-year-old.
Well, it's like a 69?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, no, no. It's not that.
I remember reading, I will clarify, I remember reading a story about the journalist
being sent, who was sent to cover Woodstock by the times,
being told right about the filth and the hippies and the unkemptness.
Strangely, that's a bias that I now share. At one point, I had a,
there was a point in my life in my 20s where I kind of recapitulated the 60s for myself
and had nothing but nostalgia for the 60s that I missed, but now I have a fairly Joan Didion
look at slouching toward Bethlehem moment. The level of dysfunction and the non-acknowledgement
of dysfunction, it was pretty shocking. I'm not going to take you off the top.
But I'm not going to, yeah, but declined. Okay.
What I recall of the story was is that the Times had told the reporter what sort of story to file,
and the reporter called up the Times and said, I refuse. I'm seeing something different. I'm
seeing something inspiring and heart-opening, and I'm not going to file that story. So if that's
what you want. And I have cholera. And I have cholera. So I think that the narrative aspect
of the New York Times has been both its structural reason for its importance and the fatal flaw
that in essence, it carries these very long narrative arcs that come from the editorial
function at the Times. And that those are written in some sense before the facts are known.
And so the facts are then fit to the narratives. And then when the counter-narratives occur,
the Times really either doesn't report the story as in they really couldn't handle the
situation that happened with my brother because it was exactly counter-narrative,
or then they distort based on the idea that they need to push things back into the narrative.
So I think that has always been present. And there are particular kinds of stories that the
Times writes that I find absolutely, I'll go so far as to say borderline evil.
And what they do is they crowd out whatever natural inquiry process would be happening.
So I'm happy to get into a couple of examples about that. But I would say
I think that the problem has been there at the New York Times all along. There are some new
things that I see as happening there, like a conflict between the old line journalists with
the new line of sort of, you know, Brooklyn based writers who are telling us how to think.
Well, I don't know if this, the Times may be an exception here, but I think generally what's
happened in journalism is there's just been a clearing out of real journalists, right? I mean,
the business has gotten so bad. And again, the Times and the Post and the Atlantic,
there's a few outliers here, they're doing well in the age of Trump, at least, you know, sort of well.
The Trump is saving their business.
Yes. Yeah. I mean, they were actually, they weren't doing great before Trump, but
now they're doing okay. But the rest of journalism has been gutted. And now we basically have the
blogosphere. And, you know, it's kind of what the Huffington Post did to the landscape, where you
just have a lot of people blogging for free, propping up an ad-based clickbait business model.
Sure. But again, I guess what I want to play with is,
is there something special about institutions? Imagine that you can get all of the interesting
articles that you like somewhere, and somebody's saying something interesting and you can piece
them together. But the fact that there's no institutional home where you can trust that,
like, you know, the office of management and budget or something or...
But what I'm saying about journalism in general is that what you think of as the
institution, I mean, just like the veneer, the front-facing website, is not even an institution
in many cases. It's hard to differentiate what is a blog and what is an actual journalistic
resource that has editors and fact-checkers and copy editors. And, you know, for certain sites,
the distinction is apparently non-existent. I mean, so like, you know, people used to think
salon was real journalism or the Guardian. I mean, the Guardian has, like, kind of the
blog side and the Guardian side. You can't tell the difference. You're just reading what somebody
wrote and... Well, and you find the same people on Twitter. Yeah. And then everyone is nuts on
Twitter, whatever their reputation really is, you know, or should have been. But you could just
see their bias, like, they're not hiding it on Twitter and then they hide it when they're in
their journalistic frame. Well, I would argue that, you know, I'm fairly forgiving on that point
because I feel that Trump has made the hiding of one's so-called bias irresponsible, essentially.
It's like, you can't pretend that this is a normal president doing normal things and you're
going to be a normal journalist without an opinion. Well, I agree with that. Although,
I would say you and I are very split on this. So to put a placeholder, maybe we'll get back to it,
maybe not, that I'm more worried about the loss of things like nature and science than I am the
New York Times. I'm now worried that there is nothing, even in the hard sciences almost, that
can stand up to the onslaught of political pressure creeping into everything that has to be able to
say no, that we've lost the ability to tell people to screw off if they're wrong.
Well, it's certainly been creeping up on us in the life sciences. It's been true of the social
sciences for a very long time. Yeah. Probably, you know, physics and math are going to be the last
to go, but I've even seen a little bit of inroads there. And so I find the loss of nature and
cell in the university is terrifying, differently from the New York Times. This is
a few layers deeper and more dangerous. Do you not perceive that? Oh, I think it's,
there's just different problems. I don't know which is more consequential. I think the
failure to have a fact-based discussion and the incentives to avoid one
I think that's just the scariest thing we have going apart from the true monsters of
pandemic and nuclear war and things like that. Well, those are now increasingly relative with the
Vax or Andy Vax or controversy. But there's the self-referring. One of the things that's
really important to have a decent discussion, in my opinion, is you have to agree what a
discussion is and what constitutes an illegal move. And increasingly, I feel like we're having
these combat sports where we can't agree on what rules like is biting an ear part of boxing.
Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Who's to say, well, that's an imposition of your views on mine.
Who can still self adjudicate? Well, I think if you wait long enough, you see
the failures of hypocrisy. You see people try to enshrine a new set of rules that prove unworkable
in some of the context or they just can't live up to them because it's impossible.
And we're now noticing and it's been widely observed that more or less, if you wait around
long enough, everyone's going to get canceled. It's like the repurposing of the Warhol quote,
you know, we'll all be canceled for 15 minutes at some point.
I'd like to be 15 minutes. And it's, I mean, so we just,
just before we started this podcast, we were joking that Justin Trudeau has yet another
blackface photo of himself, apparently, appearing online. And here's one of the most
woke and sanctimonious enforcers of this new norm of just political correctness stretching
to infinity. And he's got not only blackface in his past, but apparently a positive passion for
blackface. That's a recurring issue. Yeah. So it's, I mean, the hypocrisy is so delicious,
but it's just the, yeah, these new norms of not being honest about facts just can't scale. I mean,
people will be tripped up by them. And it's not to say we can't do a lot of harm to ourselves
in the meantime or in certain areas. I think we're trying to do harm to ourselves.
I think that the idea, you know, sometimes I think about Trump as the doctor who has to
break a bone that has been mis-set in the hopes that it can finally heal properly. And this is
one of the places where you and I are like- He's a doctor who doesn't know which bone he has in
hand and isn't actually intending to heal you. So it's the happy accident of the doctor who
happens, the madman who happens to have a hold of the right femur and is breaking it for the
wrong reasons, but to good effect. Right. Or, you know, is it doctored in folklore and from some
non-accredited university? So it's hard to keep segue on you, but I know you have a passion for
India. I remember once traveling in India and seeing somebody's doctors, it was actually a dentist's
shingle. And it was, say, you know, a Western trained dentist and in parentheses, it's failed.
But having just made the attempt was enough to put that on the shingle.
Oh, that's good. Yeah. I mean, it does have a good...
So I think you get Trump wrong. Right.
And it's not... I see what you see. And it's maddening. It's driving me crazy. The idea of
spending four more precious years of my dwindling life talking about whatever Trump last said or
tweeted or worried that I don't know what would happen if we actually had a five-alarm fire
in the U.S. that had to be handled. Do you think my model of his mind is wrong or my
model of the consequences of him being in office is wrong? Well, I think that you were slow to
give him his due. I mean, of course, as you know, I wrote this essay on kayfabe, anticipating that
professional wrestling was going to turn out to be incredibly important. And in fact, I thought
it was going to determine the presidency. That was a belief I had that understanding how lies
play within the mind and how hypocrisy works and then a concept called namespaces out of
Python programming and the like, how we compartmentalize led me to believe that in essence we were...
I had seen these other candidacies in other countries in which people seem not to be able
to distinguish an actor from the character that they played and whatnot. And so I believed that
the system of lies within professional wrestling told us what was possible. And Trump actually
sort of came out of the WWE through his association with the McMahon family. And I believe that he
actually understood deep things that psychology departments will wake up to 20 years from now.
Yeah, well, I guess... I've suggested by analogy to the Chauncey Gardner effect or the
evil Chauncey Gardner effect that that's wrong. Well, but it isn't intentional.
Yeah. But it's hard to know. That could happen. It's definitely falsifiable. My theory is
falsifiable. He could prove to me with a string of utterances that he's the evil genius that I
haven't imagined him to be, but he hasn't done that. I bet if you and I had a couple of old
fashions between us and we sat down with a thousand of his tweets, we could figure out that there
were current structures and we could write an Eliza program to generate them to tangle Democrats.
I think that there's much more method to the madness. And I don't have to go full Scott Adams,
Scott, I know you're out there somewhere, to say that everything is intentional and brilliant.
I just think he's got a... It was for years. I said that if you wanted to win an election
against a Democrat, you just would talk about the nuclear family, let them correct you to
nuclear and then you'd win because you've come across as an ass. Exactly. So I think that there
is a certain amount of method that you were slow to give him credit for, but I think you're probably
inching towards the idea that if he's not an evil genius, he has some evil genius.
I think it's just, again, I'm enamored of my Chauncey Gardner analogy. All right. Well, here's
another analogy that is even simpler and more easier to confirm. It's clear there's a method,
but I think it's just a very simple method that the power of which is an accident of the context.
So it's like an Instagram model has a method. If you have a great body, show it to great effect
on your Instagram channel and then wait around for people to follow you. So there's a very simple
