But oh, yeah, I haven't. So for example, that's Beth Sheba Grossman's art. And that's a 24 cell,
which is the unique new analog of a platonic solid that is not found.
Sorry. The convex polytopes are the analogs of the platonic solids in dimension four.
This is pushed back into dimension three. And that's the unique convex polytope that has no
analog directly in dimension three. So then the other one that you have there is the analog of
the dodeca... So what do you mean? This is a three-dimensional projection of a four-dimensional
object. So like, if you've seen the Tesseract, that is the hypercube, which is the three-dimensional
model that represents a four-dimensional structure. This right here is pretty directly
the analog of the dodecahedron in four dimensions projected back into three dimensions.
Now, when you... And again, my topology is a layman's topology. But
are some projections back into three dimensions far more evocative of the four-dimensional object?
Yeah, you'd want to see a lot of them so that you could understand.
So how do you have an internal sense of how much you understand or don't understand
the higher dimensionality of an object based on its three-dimensional...
Well, for example, if we took a regular Klein bottle here, and for those of you at home,
I guess we should be talking about what we're doing on video. So I have a glass
bottle where the neck has been passed through to what would be called the punt. And in three
dimensions, it appears to intersect the side of the bottle. But if you had an extra dimension
represented by the amount of blueness in the bottle, and we colored this blue in the bell
clear here, you could see literally in four dimensions, this doesn't intersect itself,
because this part of the glass would be clear and that part of the glass would be blue,
hence they're separated by some dimension that we can't represent spatially.
So by mixing spatial dimensions with colored dimensions, I claim you can actually see in
four dimensions that this thing doesn't run into itself. The Klein bottle appears to intersect
mathematically. Does that have the same logic as a Mobius strip?
Two Mobius bands sewn together. Okay. Right.
Right. Now, the point that I was making is that that is an example of an object where
you don't realize you can see four dimensions by just adding a color dimension to spatial dimensions.
Right. So I can give you lots of intuition pumps to, and this is what I did on the Rogan
program with the hop vibration. I called it the most important object in the universe,
not because the hop vibration is, but it's the only example of a principal fiber bundle,
which is the underpinning of really the most fundamental physics we have.
And my intention is to read one paragraph of Ed Whitten with my audience. So, you know,
Oprah has a book club or had a book club. So I'm going to just try to get through one paragraph,
which I think is the most important paragraph ever written in the English language,
not because Ed Whitten's prose is so beautiful, not because it's free of error,
but because it actually makes an attempt to say what our most deep notions of reality are
in a single paragraph with relatively few symbols and unknown words.
So maybe to do a paragraph club where other people do a book club. So the hope is to really
start off with conversations, but if people are following along at home and they say,
where's the portal? We're just getting started. These are the opening shots.
But I would encourage you as a, even as a side gig to the portal, maybe this is not podcast
material, this maybe this is a online course or something, but to find a route in to higher
mathematics for the symbol blocked. I want to do music. I want to do the unity of knowledge.
Um, all the stuff that people don't even know is out there to be found because I believe that,
you know, I call this transcendence hacking that the feeling of transcendence that often induces
religious feelings is really better purposed as a guide to what is it, what is worth paying
special notice towards in a world drowning in distraction and that feeling of, oh my god,
like this thing here, I don't know if you've seen this. No, I'm pointing at a crystal cube.
That is a three dimensional projection of an eight dimensional root system of the 248 dimensional
exceptionally group E eight. So this is sort of the most complicated exceptional object known
just your nemesis is favorite. I've known it. In fact, I was on it before he was. I abandoned
Garrett Leasy. Yeah. Yeah. But everyone should know that it's there and worry about it,
whether they're a professional mathematician or not. So the idea I wasn't planning to talk about
the objects is to leave Easter eggs and clues all over the place as people start to habituate
themselves to the idea that you don't need angels or magic texts in order to commune with something
that gives you the feeling that maybe we're not totally alone and that doesn't have to be an
animate thing that one worships. It can be just the wonder of my god, there's so much more mystery
than anyone knew was was here even a short time ago. Yeah. Yeah. Well, keep going. I'm enjoying
the ride. All right. Well, Sam, thanks very much for coming by. You're welcome to come back anytime
and thanks for helping launch us all those years ago with the first podcast we did over
at your studio. Nice. Nice. So you've been through the portal with Sam Harris. Please
subscribe to us on Apple iTunes or Spotify, Stitcher, wherever you get your podcasts. And
please check us out on YouTube. Make sure to subscribe and click the bell if you want to
be notified for future episodes. Thanks for hanging in there. Be well.
