my actual beliefs. And... Not all of them.
There's just too much information there. David Pakman?
No, David Pakman's fine. I just did his podcast.
Yeah, I know. But David Pakman said some pretty non-charitable things in some parts that seem
kind of ridiculing. And I think you, me, other people...
Well, I haven't... Whatever I haven't... I've never seen him misrepresenting my views.
And I think that, I mean, again, I don't know him. I just did his podcast once.
But he seems like somebody who, if I said, listen, you got me wrong here, that would
matter. And he would make an effort to get me right.
And that's the thing, which is the problem that we have increasingly is that the tactics that
are being used in what are called progressive circles have been confused with the content.
So that is, the objections to the vehicle, which might be Saul Linsky's rules for radicals,
which is a totally unethical program for smearing people dishonestly.
Well, no, it's immoral technology.
Well, no, it's, no, it's, you're just, it's an ends justify the means.
That's the big problem on the left.
Yeah. So, but that, that ethic is flawed, right? So like, so for instance, I mean,
like with me and Trump, like, there's nobody who denigrates Trump as avidly as I do,
but I am super careful to be honest, right? So like, it's not that anything you can smear
him with is fair. Because you can be, Sam. I mean, the problem was...
All these guys can be. Sam Cedar can be honest on his show and still have a show,
right? Nobody's going to cancel him because he was too honest.
No, I think that there's like this very weird other, I mean, Sam,
I don't want to get into the Sam Cedar thing in particular, first of all,
because he can do an entire show. We know you're saying, you know what I'm saying,
but... He'll take these quotations and...
No, but he, he has the, see, he has Pacman's ability to reason. I mean, I got...
This is the banality of evil, right? Like, there's not that many evil people, right?
There's just a lot of people who are functioning in some normal mode with normal incentives,
and they become assholes because they're not heroes, right? So like, it takes some work
not to be an asshole when you are incentivized to be one. And we're all vulnerable to this,
but there's some people who have just cashed in to go for it.
That nonsense on the left makes me crazy because in part, it just feels like all of my ideals
turned into some piece of crap that's... Where of the left?
Not only the left, man. I came from a farther left part than I don't even,
I don't even know where you started, but... Yeah, no, I mean, I've never been tempted to be anything
other than a Democrat. I've never even said, I'm going to be an independent because, you know,
the Democratic Party isn't me. I'm certainly, if I could, if I could,
if I could move to another party that made sense, I'd do it at this point. But anyway,
I think that what they, I think that what we don't really understand is, is that there's a
homelessness problem that is really significant. If you are the sort of a person who needs to attach
to some kind of institutional structure in a time when there is no institution
that actually holds your perspective, you're going to start to do very bizarre things. Now,
the thing about you and me is, is that to some extent, and I don't think we can do this long
term, we're okay with being homeless, right? You can use sort of first principles, try to
think your way out of stuff. But it's very tough for most people. And I think that there is,
there are these sort of collection points in the adaptive landscape of politics. Would you
disagree with that? Yeah, well, one thing that seems important is
the connection to science. I mean, we're not spending a lot of time talking about science
in this mode, but the dispassion and self-criticism that is the only rubric under which real science
can be done, bleeds into our thinking about all these other issues. I mean, I think that's,
that's got to be a relevant variable. It's like, you either have a scientific cast of mind
or you don't, and when you don't... I have both. Right. But when you don't, you're not seeing the,
I mean, you're not even seeing intellectual dishonesty for what it is, right? It's just,
it's just like, like motivated reasoning isn't a bad thing, right? Wishful thinking isn't a
bad thing. Confirmation bias isn't a bad thing. These are virtues. This is in religion, this is
faith, right? This is, you know... Well, this is like always the issue with our friend Jordan
Peterson, which is that when he gets really far out there in the, I don't know, people now call
mythopoetic, I don't know the lingo. You always wonder, are you still maintaining a fact-checking
ability to bring you back to earth? And so as long as those two facilities are present
and in dialogue, and as long as the fact-checking, you know, what we call the scientific method
is in some sense inadequate to me to explain how science has progressed.
All the mad thinking and then the spirituality of coming up with breaking new ground doesn't
happen. You just gave us Ramanujan about an hour ago. Yeah. So he's, he's
having dreams about the goddess Lakshmi handing him theorems. Well, there's, there's that, you know,
the careless school of astronomy that came up with infinite series before Newton and Leibniz
was doing it in religious poetry. You know, it rhymed, I think, over there in Kerala. So
there is a, there is a kind of madness that you have to invite to break new ground. And there's
a kind of sanity that you have to invite to wrestle with the madness. And our friend Dan
Barkay came up with this idea that science is a two front war, but that most people have only
been deployed to one front. And I think that that's a really, that's a really nice image.
Um, I do worry that in part the activist mindset, particularly on the left has a very clear idea,
which is that, um, yeah, it's really a shame the number of people have to get hurt for justice
to be done. And that is a highly conserved idea that I had not understood was, was broadly distributed.
Yeah. But I mean, that, that is a, an ethic or a pseudo ethic that we have to
to just relentlessly criticize because it's so much harm. It gets done. I mean, that, that is the,
the thinking that allows good people or otherwise good people to create immense harm. It's like,
let's, yeah, throw, throw them off the rooftops because they, you know, the purge is on and it's
sorry we have to break these many eggs to make this omelet. But partially the question is,
how do we spend enough time together to get past this problem? Like I really think it's
quite serious that part of it is, is that we're not actually doing much of this face-to-face,
right? Like I've never met Nassim. I've never met Sam Cedar. I've never met it. They shouldn't have
been in the same sentence. They have very different problems. But if, if I had, if before any of this
is happening, Sam Cedar, I think has done probably a dozen shows or I mean, I'm always getting,
someone's always sending me a video that he's made that, you know, I don't watch, but I log the
fact that there's a yet another export from his world where he's, he's attacked me. The,
if I had, had lunch with him before any of this ever, he ever took an interest in me,
there might have been a very different fact. Well, it's why I had a phone call with him.
It's the fact we've never, you know, we were, there's no, this is why I anchor to civility.
And you, you know, you now seem as a friend of yours. So you have a, there's a kind of a loyalty
effect or just a fact, you know, you have a different relationship to his flaws, knowing
him as a person. And I, the same things happen to me, like the fact that I've hung out with Jordan
or Ben Shapiro. Well, you saw it happen with Claire. Let's talk, let's talk about the Claire
situation. Okay. That would have been different had you never hung out with Claire, or it might have
been different. No, I think there was a more serious issue. And it just didn't. Well, it was,
no, the flip it around, it was more of a betrayal, you know, or a seeming betrayal,
given the fact that you had hung out together. It wasn't just coming over the transom.
Betrayal in part was, was my betrayal of Claire. I just didn't know it.
Well, whatever, I'm just saying the dynamic change, if you know each other,
right? I'm trying to make a different point. Right.
When somebody you know behaves in a way that is very, most unexpected,
right, what I try to do is I try to slow it down. I say, I bet we're watching
two different movies. Yeah.
And your story and my story are not, the gears are not lining up. And so if we just push on the
gears, the teeth are going to pop off and it'll be the end of everything. And so with Claire,
what I tried to figure out is why are you repeatedly sort of coming at me? You know,
do you need to burnish your credentials that you're objective, that you don't have
tribalist loyalty? That was one set of issues. There was another issue, which is this,
that Naseem had gone after Claire and I was silent. I didn't want to get involved in it.
I didn't like the way Naseem was going about doing what he was doing. Absolutely couldn't
take it. Didn't like it, detested it. On the other hand, I have a particular bug in my bonnet
about IQ and race, which is that I think it's an absolutely dangerous topic that's being explored
in a really bad way, even by good people. Right.
And that in part, IQ has this curse that I've said, it's a pretty good measure of intelligence.
It would be much better if it was obviously terrible or really terrific,
but it's in exactly the wrong place that it does tell us something about intelligence
and not nearly enough so you can be a genius with low IQ. That problem was being teased out
and neither of them, the reason I stayed out of it is just I didn't believe in Claire's position
as I understood it and I didn't believe in Naseem's tactics as I understood them.
And Claire interpreted that, I think, and I don't know this to be true,
as, wow, you're seeing me getting mauled. Right.
And I thought, you would be there or something like that. And so in part, just backing up everything,
slowing it down, trying to listen. Ben and I have gotten sideways a few times to his credit.
Every time I take something to Ben Shapiro, he'll think better of himself.
That's my experience as well. Even though he's part of his business.
Yeah, yeah. No, that counts for a lot. So the place where we've reached some kind of bad faith
singularity is where I think, okay, we just have to cut our losses. There's no conversation.
That's why I would never talk to Sam Seder in a public forum. He's proven himself so committed
to the singularity. There's maybe 20 people who are just on this part of the landscape where
there's no coming back from it. Any conversation that would have to happen
would have to begin with an actual apology. It's just so bad
there's no alternate movie version that's exculpatory. These people know they're lying,
they're avidly lying. It's all malicious. It's all Saul Linsky. It's all just smear.
Well, it is Saul Linsky. But look, the best that can be said for it, and again, I don't get along
with it, is I believe that they think that they're in desperate times and they believe that desperate
times call for desperate measures. And that's sort of the mindset, which is the ridicule is
necessary to stop a greater evil. And that entitlement, as soon as you start experimenting.
But ridicule is not the problem. It's the line. That's the problem.
You can, if it's an honest joke, if it's somebody's expense.
I've probably watched 45 minutes of Sam Seder total.
Well, that's more than I've watched. But I've watched enough to know that these are people who,
when they're trafficking in audio of my podcast that's been edited to show the opposite of what
I was saying, and they get a thousand blistering comments telling them this, they keep the audio
up or they don't, they never correct an error. I agree, but that's what's coming out of it.
That's psychopathic behavior. Whether or not they're psychopaths, they're acting.
All right. But then we've got a giant chunk of our world and then part a lot of the sense-making
apparatus that is explicitly amongst itself psychopathic. It believes that it is under
threat and desperate times and desperate times call for desperate measures. This is its opportunity
and it's going to do things and it's going to be, the thing that I didn't understand about it,
because I came from the left, is that it just explicitly thinks in, that's too bad.
I'll get you a Kleenex. Next. It's just this dead, cold-heartedness that
progress requires that good people get hurt, boo-hoo. That thing is so hardcore.
That makes the Trumpian backlash understandable. That's really in part what I'm trying to get at,
which is that when I went to Washington in 1996 on the immigration issues, I went
into some staffers, some warrant of cubicles, and I saw the sign on one of the cubicles that said,
if it's worth fighting for, it's worth fighting dirty for.
And I came to understand that if you wanted to survive and thrive and get stuff done in
Washington, that that had been absorbed almost universally. And then once I realized that,
I had to make a decision, did I really want to get good things done or did I want to stay a
person I could live with? And that's very painful to actually have to think about.
Yeah, but I think that is an easy choice, or it should be. We want to create a world where
that's an easy choice. We want to create a world in which that's an easy choice. What we've created
is a system of selective pressures, which may actually end up selecting for that over and over
again. And you don't realize, and this is the issue, the reason that so many of these things
make me angry, like the great moderation or the abuse of the immigration system to decrease wages
and then you cry xenophobia when somebody points it out, or NAFTA and large areas of
the country get really hurt and you're saying everybody's going to be made better off,
is that all of these things I can see in real time, like right now what I can see, like those
things of the past, is I can see this weird, and this is getting back to the Jeff Epstein thing,
there is a deliberate attempt not to talk about the intelligence community and its links to Jeffrey
Epstein, and it is clear, and it's a very short proof because assume that he had no links to the
intelligence community, like none whatsoever, somehow a member of the trilateral commission
affiliated with Rockefeller University, Harvard, no links to any intelligence community anywhere
in the world. You could sell papers debunking the claims that people want to know, which is how
is this guy tied in with the intelligence community, right? So you're saying it's fishy that no one's
doing that? Well, I mean, it's beyond fishy. In other words, you have something that everybody's
demanding and wants. If it weren't true, you could get paid by showing that it's not true,
or making the best argument possible, or making fun of how thin the claims are.
Well, that may yet happen. I mean, again, I don't know that somebody isn't writing the
5,000-word Atlantic article on Epstein that's going to answer.
Dude, how long has it been? This guy supposedly commits suicide. We don't know whether, you know,
what branch of the decision tree that's on. And you can search, go to the New York Times and
search on intelligence. The thing, and Epstein, like it's not being explored. It's not being
shut down. It's like an echoic tile in your echo locating. It's not what you're hearing.
Go to the search bar and search for things that people are discussing that don't come up.
And that's what's telling you that there's something very... I mean, this guy was apparently a
serious sexual predator. We're in an era of Me Too. Right. But there are anomalies like that. I
mean, the clear anomaly for me was... And it's one for which I don't have any sinister explanation.
I just think it's an anomaly of the news cycle we're in. That's sort of what Trump has done to
our information diet. When the Las Vegas shooting perpetrated by a man whose name I don't even know,
right? And I'm kind of a student of these things. But I never even took the time to
learn the guy's name. I think many press reports decided to not use his name. No, but
this was the biggest shooting in American history, right? And 48 hours later, nobody was talking about
it. That's not true. That's like it had fallen out of the news cycle and never came back in.
It vanished very quickly. But there you... I don't think there's any reason why it vanished
apart from the fact that we just don't have the bandwidth for it anymore. There was no link that
made it clearly ideological. I mean, nothing surfaced. He wasn't a clear white supremacist
or he wasn't a jihadist. I mean, there was no... You remember the word bump stock?
Yeah. Yeah. So the bump stocks... So why weren't we talking about bump stocks?
Yeah. So we banned bump stocks as a result of that thing. And that's the legacy of that
