formula. There's no question it works. There's not a lot of method to it. But even the rallies
that he likes, the rallies are a feedback mechanism. So he knows that the feedback that he's getting
from the press in general has a constant distortion. And so by holding a rally, he can figure out to
something, it means like constant A, B test. But it doesn't have the fact that he wasn't cancelled
for one of his sins. He was. No, but the fact that there's enough, there are enough people
to insulate, he has enough fans of this style of communication and living that he's uncancelable,
right? The fact that we have 40%. No, no, but we have 40% of the American population
that fundamentally does not care about any of the things I care about in him.
I disagree with the Sam. I think you're getting this wrong. This is what I think might be interesting.
I'm happy to be wrong too. So at what point? I think we're still on the stage
of being so angry at Bill Clintonism that we just want to know you're not owned.
We want something that convinces us that it's not taking orders. But we're completely
insuchant on the point of you potentially being owned by the Russians when that begins to get
leaked. Believe me, I think about this. I don't know. I haven't followed all the details. It's
possibly compromised and under direct control. Well, let's just bracket that. Let's say we
don't know. But when that begins to become a story and a credible story, zero interest
from the people who are worried about him being owned by the usual.
You don't carry the same anger and passion that I do for getting rid of the rot that was the
American center. In other words, I believe one of the things that I find very confusing is that
you and I would normally have been called centerists. But we're not kleptocenterists.
I've never been in a position to loot the treasury from the position of being a centerist.
So the interesting thing about the center is that the center produces the blank canvas of
America on which we get to paint. So I'm not really super excited to get a politician that
makes me swoon. I want somebody to just gesso a canvas so that we can build all of the
companies and nonprofits and do all the beautiful work that makes this country amazing. I'm not
trying to get my entertainment from government. The thing that crept in to our system with Reagan
and Bush giving way to the Clintons back to Bush and then bizarrely, I thought Obama was going
to be a break from this. That thing induces a passion in some of us to get rid of it. We hate it.
And I don't know that you carry that passion. And so I think it's harder for you to understand it.
And I carry it not from a right-wing perspective. I carry it from a progressive to center-left
position. Well, some of this comes back to the hypocrisy point I was making before. So I have
that Trumpian module in my brain that feels just the pure schadenfreude of seeing Justin Trudeau get
hoisted on his own part. So here's this sanctimonious enforcer of woke culture just pandering to the
left. It's clearly unsustainable. It's clearly dishonest. It's unworkable. And offline, we
spoke about just that moment where he's admonishing this elementary school age girl when she says
the word mankind, which is great to hear a sixth grader use the word mankind. Basically,
no, we say peoplekind. Maybe they say peoplekind up in Canada. I haven't heard that. But even just
saying humankind there and enforcing that taboo there was just, that's the elitism, the goofy
elitism that- But it's not the elitism. It's the fact that these people have been picking our
pockets and they've been divorcing us from each other. I'm just saying, I get the, let's just
watch these fuckers burn stream of pleasure that you can get coursing in your brain. And that
explains a lot of the Trump phenomenon, where it's just on some level, they don't care that he's the
most odious liar we've ever seen, a baby in his fan base. They just love to see him wind up the
libtards. They love to see- Not the libtards. I'm really trying to get at something. I may be
wrong. So forgive me if I'm going off on a tangent. But I really think that there was something much
more evil. It wasn't just that these people were sneering at us over crudité. It's like,
it's that they were picking our pockets. They were divorcing us from each other. They came up
with a bullshit ideology, if you will, of the Davos flavor that said, we are the world and
divorced us from each other in terms of our obligations to fellow countrymen above our
obligations to people who live abroad. That was really a cover for figuring out how to make money
when we were largely in many ways stagnant. And so you had a class of people who probably blew
out the Gini coefficient for the U.S. without getting to the real issues of the fact that we're
a country, that we put people in uniform and send them into harm's way, that we have a higher duty
and care in most of our minds to each other than we do to equally deserving people overseas.
But for the most part, the left was the political party that everyone was part of
that same extractive economy, but the left at least paid lip service to the virtue of spreading
the wealth around. Well, you know, there's this poem by Lewis Carroll about the walrus and the
carpenter and one of the Alice sagas. And they're both going to trick a bunch of oysters into following
them and then eating the oysters. And one of them is quite clear about his desire to eat oysters.
And the other one makes a big show of how sad it is that they played a little trick and all of them
were eaten. And the key question is which of these two figures is more reprehensible. And I
always dislike the one who was terribly sad about what they'd done. And I think that's the left.
Yeah, there's something to that. But I think there's also
the all too common phenomenon of people motivated by actually good intentions,
even incredibly noble intentions, causing a lot of chaos that they didn't intend, right? So let me
take- Is that your model for what was going on? Well, it's my model for part of it. Let me take
someone like Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook, right? Well, I don't know, Mark, I don't know how mercenary
he's been from the beginning and how out of touch with the possible harms he might cause he's been.
But I can well imagine that here's somebody who could honestly say connecting people is an intrinsic
good. I'm just going to do that better than anybody. And the wealth will come and this is all
good for everybody, right? And then only at the 11th hour, long after many of us have noticed a
problem, he begins to play catch up with the problem. That's a fairly charitable view of
what he was up to. Or the Google guys, don't be evil. I don't think when they said don't be evil,
they were twirling their mustaches and winking at each other, knowing all the while they were
going to create a juggernaut of instability and also get
fantastically wealthy and anchored to an extractive and ultimately unethical
new kind of surveillance economy that we're going to be hard pressed to change.
I don't think, at what point did they grade into having consciously bad intentions or
consciously intentions that were so mercenary as to be unethical. But a pure case of this,
for me, falls in another sector, not economy, but foreign policy. You look at somebody like
Samantha Power, who wrote this famous book on genocide, A Problem from Hell.
She drew lessons from our failure to intervene in a place like Rwanda. We were morally culpable
in some basic sense for not having intervened. We could have stopped the bloodshed. We didn't.
We even had Navy SEAL teams. I mean, Jaco was just on this podcast. Jaco, I think, was off
shore at the time. He'd drawn a lesson from Somalia seeing the Black Hawk Down incident,
seeing our soldiers dragged through the streets that we just can't get involved. What happens
when you are the one superpower and you decide you can't get involved, well, then people butcher
their neighbors and there's no way to stop them. I think with the best of intentions,
she and many others drew the lesson that we really do have to be the world's cop
on some level and we have to get involved. And we're morally culpable for not stopping a
rape in progress or a murder in progress. But now we're on the other side of that,
U-shaped horror curve, where we now know what it's like to get involved with however mixed
intentions and it's a thankless job. Nation building is not a job that
we're going to want for a long time and for good reason.
Well, I actually have some weird backstory on that one. So I knew Samantha Power at the Kennedy
School and she and I sat down. I mean, not well. I think we sat down at a meal and we had friends
that connected us. And I asked, what are you interested in? And she said, well, I'm obsessed
with the Red Sox and genocide. Yeah. I said, what? That's a good icebreaker. And she said, well,
you know, the rap on me is I'm all genocide all the time, but nobody cares. And I, you know,
I've got this book and I can't figure out the answer to the question. Why is there not a resolution
that we will never, why is never again, not a resolution? And every time I try to get a state
to sign up for this, or somebody take this seriously, there's this weird wall that comes
down. It's the clearest thing in the world that we should never let genocide ever happen again.
And she was convinced that nobody's going to take her seriously. This was going to go nowhere.
And then progressively somehow this thing started to catch fire. And I, for a period of time,
I was emailing her like, do you believe it now? Do you believe it now? Because I knew this thing
was going to get huge. I also knew that it wasn't going to work because it just, it comes from this
beautiful place that is not really deeply beautiful. I mean, it's sort of meretricious. It's
appealing, but it doesn't understand what the forces are that create genocide because very
few people want to go that deep on that question. And in that case, I saw a human being who I can
just vouch for. This was the purest of intentions at early on. And then it, as the complexities
started to reveal themselves, she became enmeshed in a very difficult series of trolley problems
or, you know, trolley like problems. I believe that that partially happens in places like Facebook
and Google, but very often, I think it's your theory of mind that I'm going to take issue with,
which is that I don't think people are as unified in their thinking. They very often
have a mercenary part of their brain and a beautiful part of their brain. And they have
a partition that keeps those from talking to each other. And one of the ways in which I
found this out was when a group of people, doctors actually in New York City,
wanted to sort of use me as a consultant for my mathematical and analytic mind. And we went out
for a very fancy dinner and they said, I said, what's the topic? And they said, reconceptualizing
medical debt. I knew nothing about this. And essentially what they told me is that if you
go to an emergency room and you agree to have all sorts of things done, you don't feel like paying
exorbitant inflated bills later because you feel like that was an emergency. I had no ability to
actually think this through. You could chop around, yeah. Exactly. And this is extortionary.
But if you give somebody the ability to say, okay, what if you pay us 82 cents on the dollar
and we'll let 18 cents go, then suddenly the performance of that debt skyrockets.
And a phrase came out, which was when they talked about reconceptualization, they said,
it's a beautiful thing. And I realized that I had heard that phrase in New York whenever
people are up to no good. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. I then put out
this thing in my group, which is, did you notice that when people in New York do bad things to
other people, they always say it's a beautiful thing? And sure enough, it caught in people's
mind. So whenever anybody started to say it, they realized, oh my gosh, I'm in a part of my mind
that recognizes that I can transfer wealth from somebody else to me largely without the other
person knowing it in a way that results in benefit for me and some harm that's been externalized.
I think that people both know that they're doing tremendous harm and carry the idealism that
propels it. And that's, it's the combination of these things and the fact that they don't talk
to each other. Yeah, well, I think people are, you're not going to get me to disagree there that
people are impressively split or at least can be. And I think coherence, generally speaking,
or at least striving for it is good. And I think living an examined life in part is struggling
with those discoveries of incoherence and figuring out how to get this Congress of mind,
you call yourself to actually cohere. But you're getting them to cohere.
Yeah, no. But when you're talking about the normal person who, I think it is a frequent
phenomenon to be, to have the normal range of good intentions, to not be a sociopath,
to want to help the world, to be in philanthropy, for instance, to actually, to be,
if you're devoting your life, if you're a smart person who got a good degree, who could
work more or less anywhere, but you decide to work for a charity, you're already an outlier.
You're already somebody who said no to Wall Street or no to Hollywood or no to something,
and now you're working for the Southern Poverty Law Center or something like you want to just
stop racism. So you're already one of the good guys. But, this is an example
dear to my heart that I flog at every opportunity. The Southern Poverty Law Center is, I think,
was probably consciously started for the best of intentions, operated under the blindingly
brilliant light of those intentions for a very long time, but something flipped. And one thing
that flipped is that, and probably unbeknownst to everybody, there's a bad incentive problem here.
The only way they survive as an organization is to continue to stay in this long emergency mode of
there are Nazis everywhere. Everyone is like, this is a problem. It's a four-alarm fire. Give us
money. We now have a budget of whatever it is, $30 million a year. It's got to be huge,
and the fundraising drive never stops. So what happens to an organization like that when
you begin to run out of Nazis? Well, then you have to find more. The incentive is to never
recognize that you've gotten a handle on the problem. It'd be like in some epidemiological
space where you're curing smallpox, but you could never admit that you've actually cured it. You
have to pretend to find smallpox everywhere. Now, I'm not saying, obviously, I'm not saying white
supremacy or white power or anything has been cured, but what has happened is you have people who
probably were true outliers in their ethical scrupulosity, who are now behaving in appalling
ways, destroying people's reputations, calling them Nazis when they know they're not Nazis.
Well, let's put a finer point on it. They are now more likely to let the genie out of the bottle
because of their bad behavior or to huff and puff on an ember that is the pathetic
Ku Klux Klan of 2019 to actually create something that could turn into a roaring fire.
This is a general feature. I often talk about this in terms of magnetic and true north,
where the angle of declination that separates them is very small at the equator,
but in northern Canada, it's very large. At the pole, south is everywhere.
That's right. The problem is that the institution, look, I've made this point elsewhere, so
regular listeners will have heard it, but the concept of the embedded growth obligation,
the ego of an institution, which is that it has to do work and grow in order to meet its mandates,
that is the thing that has metastasized throughout our institutional structure.
It's not the Southern Poverty Law Center. That's particularly egregious, but the entire
university system, every single measure you can take on that thing looks like an intergenerational
wealth transfer right down to the nondischargeability of student debt and bankruptcy, the loading up
of every university by administrators and the monopolization at the moment, almost 100%
of our leading institutions are run by a baby boomer, whereas the average age in a different era
of a university president, we could have most of them under Gen X control and some of them
under millennial control. There were university presidents in their 30s who had a huge impact.
I mean, that is a system which has gone totally metastatic.
That may be an outlier. It's the worst large system of its kind.
The way costs have gone up there, way outpacing inflation.
Outpacing medical inflation.
Yeah, that's amazing. The fact that you can't discharge your debt in bankruptcy.
Yeah, and the fact that many of our friends have spent a lot of time complaining about this,
but the fact that you have whole fields that are essentially sham fields that are in the humanities
where it's just pseudo-knowledge is being imparted to the next generation and it's not only its own
walled garden of pseudo-knowledge, it is a disparagement of real knowledge,
the anti-science moral panic that is happening in the humanities.
It is a fit memetic complex.
Apparently, it's fit thus far. It's producing new graduates.
And it's colonizing things outside of itself. Journalism, tech, human resources, anything
which is a high leverage but often poorly paid for the level of intelligence usually required
or the amount of training usually required becomes attractive.
So there's a perverse incentive when you can't pay journalists or scientists
or even technologists at appropriate levels. I know people will scream,
so you have no idea how much money tech people get paid.
And I really don't believe it. I think that those jobs are supposed to be even better
