So there's total breakdown on that thing.
What I'm confused by is the more of this kind of shielding that we have, the more likely
we're going to have former years of Donald Trump.
And I can only imagine what's going to happen after an eight-year Trump presidency.
Are we going to move to the next level of really unexpected candidate?
We've got to realize that we're making-
Now for the most shocking rose ceremony ever.
We've got to realize that what we're doing is we're making people crazy,
because they can see that it's the Truman Show.
So if we had a discussion where we-
Like, have you heard strategic silence before?
For me, I know-
Yeah, I think I'd heard the phrase, but-
We're not having a national discussion and coming to a national consensus about this,
or we're going to use strategic silence when it's jihadi violence, and we're not going to use it-
When it's white supremacist violence.
Yeah, in a different way.
We're going to leak particular information provided it goes this way and not that way.
That's what's going to cause an infinite series of Trumps.
Yeah, well, yeah, and more importantly for this topic, I think it's imperative that we understand
what is actually going on, and why people are doing what they're doing, and what the
scale of the relative risks are, and just how big a problem is-
My last podcast, which I haven't released yet, is on this topic, just talking to someone who's
written a history of white supremacy and white power in the U.S.
And I'm just trying to get a handle on how big a problem it is, and I came away from that podcast,
convinced more or less that nobody knows how big a problem it is, right?
In this particular space, there's the possibility of conflating
the new mimetics of 4chan and 8chan, where you have incel teenagers trafficking in
Holocaust imagery and lynching photos, just to get a rise out of the normies,
where it's not actually the ideological software program that we're worried about when we're
worried about the KKK and neo-Nazis and their sincere attempt to create a coup in the U.S.
I agree with that. And then we also have this very different situation in which
we have a problem on the left, where I don't think that the left is as yet
has the same propensity for violence that the KKK-style white supremacist had,
but it's been totally normalized this far-left woke destruction of the basic ability to think
inside of the sense-making organs, whereas there's no normalization of storm front,
and people are going to try to say that the president is the normalization of that, and I
agree that a lot of problems with the presidency, but I don't think that that's storm front.
And so in that picture, I think what I'm increasingly coming to the conclusion of
surrounds the idea that we're trying to have very low-resolution conversations,
which is what the baby boomers and the traditional media taught us to do.
We had these very small sound bites, and do you think the left is worse than the right?
Are you kidding me? Well, there's no way to square that, because it's multivariate,
and it depends which way you compressed worse or better to say which thing actually,
you know, do you talk about potential energy or you're talking about realized energy?
Yeah, and also there's just the fringe is not the same thickness on the far left and the far
right. The far left fringe has much more of an effect on the mainstream than the far right
fringe does. I mean, the far left fringe has affected how the New York Times does its thing,
and how tech does its thing, and you know, if we had members of the KKK
determining what gets published on the opinion page of the New York Times,
that would be the analogous problem, and that's... We don't see it.
We don't see it. No, and we can't discuss it in my opinion because of the key thing that we were
supposed to do with long-form stuff is to raise the level of resolution possible in the discussion.
We didn't push out enough terminology, enough sort of new patterns of thinking,
and that's the work left to be done. So this is like sort of a personal
question, and it has to do with the fact that I know you've reviewed some of the episodes of
the show that you've been partially responsible for helping birth. Do you have any feedback for me
as to what's worked, what hasn't? I can sort of talk to you a little bit about where I'm thinking
about taking the show, and are you happy with it, or what would you like to see from the portal?
I don't think I've asked this from anybody else. Yeah, no, I'm just incredibly happy you're doing
it. I think you're the right man for the job, so you should be...
Honored that you'd say that. You should be... I'm just, you know, it's about time, right?
Like, I've been nudging you too. You have been nudging, but it's a little
bit intimidating to, you know, for some reason, I broke into this sort of top
echelon of people with enormous audiences and really professional content. So it's...
But what I think you're doing is novel in that...
I mean, you only have so much control over what you get because the other person has to show up,
and you're not quite sure, in many cases, what they're going to bring. But like in your case,
you had a conversation with David Wolpe, right, who I've debated several times,
both in public and in private, and you had a great conversation with him, right? So like,
you had a much better conversation with him than I've ever had with him.
That's not fair.
Well, it is fair.
No, it is true.
No, it's not fair because that conversation wouldn't have happened if I hadn't observed
your conversations with him. And I sort of watched...
But I've observed my conversations with him, and I guarantee you the next conversation I have with
him will still be worse than the conversation you had with him, right? Because I'm going to feel
like I need to fight certain battles, right? Like, I'm not going to let him get away with
certain things which you are right to let him get away with. One, because you honestly feel like
you don't occupy precisely my position with respect to those points. So you're not being
dishonest. You just see it differently. But two, you also are trying to have a different
conversation. You're not trying to pressure test all of his ideas about God whenever they surface.
Although you did go in that direction a little bit, you were actually trying to have a conversation
about the richness of Judaism without coming in with my agenda, which is clearly we have to get
past this parochial balkanization of humanity based on these Iron Age philosophies, right?
We have to find some new, modern, non-sectarian equivalent to everything we think we care about
in religion. That's not your game. And because it's not your game, you had a much better experience
of David Wolpe than I get. So that's... It was a conjecture that there was more there.
Yeah.
In part, it was born from watching you guys interact and figuring that, in fact, I don't
think David was particularly attached to the rigid interpretation of the text in a literal sense,
nor even to the concept of an anthropomorphic-like deity.
Oh, yeah. I know he's not. And the first time I debated him, maybe it was the second time with
Hitch. In the middle of one of those debates, I was sort of blindsided by his lack of commitment
to a personal deity because I said something that presupposed that he believed in a god that could
hear our prayers. And he said, what makes you think I believe in a god who can hear prayers,
right? And he's a conservative rabbi. So this was a surprise to me. But anyway,
I've changed my view of what to expect there as a result of that. But still, there are things he
would say that would get me bogged down... In the way that I got bogged down with Jordan Peterson
in our first podcast, a two-hour conversation about the nature of truth, right? So with Jordan,
I had to decide, okay, because we've just put a bunch of live events on the calendar and we need
to find a way to have an enjoyable conversation. In addition to disagreeing where we're going to
disagree, there has to be a different geometry to it here. It just can't always just dive straight
into the true basin of attraction, which is, let's figure out exactly what you mean
because I smell something fishy, right? But so I thought it was great, your conversation with
David and I really enjoyed it. I learned a lot. It's like I learned stuff from him
that I wouldn't learn had I been having the conversation because I would have had a...
I can't tell you how much that means to me. Thank you.
Yeah. So I know I think what you're doing here is bound to be super unique because you're
I mean, you're a real polymath doing this and there are not a lot of people who are
doing podcasts with the same kind of wealth of information you have on so many fronts.
So I'm flattered and I really appreciate what you're saying. The odd thing is, is that
it's not really supposed to be an interview show. And we've done a bunch of interviews in part,
you know, Joe said something, Joe Rogan said something to me early on. He said,
look at my earliest podcast. He's like, stop worrying about whether it's perfect.
I was just climbing around with my friends with a webcam and I went back to the original
Joe Rogan experiences and he's not kidding. I haven't done that yet.
Oh, you'll enjoy it. The problem is, is that people are really angry about everything that
happens as I'm beginning. It's like, why is the glass on the edge of the table and
the plosives are too loud and there's like a lot of stuff that is...
There is no introductory period because weirdly this thing was discussed on the
Rogan program and so it debuted on Apple because of their ridiculous algorithm at number one.
They're 800,000 podcasts and you were number one.
Exactly, which I've never been remotely close to since. And even though the podcast has grown
in listenership. So partially what's happening is that we're just trying to find a format
and to get comfortable with the idea. But a lot of what it's supposed to do
is to go into intellectual territory that isn't based on an interview with a guest
to see whether or not we can bring an enormous number of people closer to the most transcendent,
solid intellectual achievement that is on offer. Because in general, it feels to me like there's
this monastery where all the good stuff is kept and almost nobody ever visits or reads any of it.
And... So you're saying you're speaking specifically of your wheelhouse of physics?
No. Or just anything that interests you? Biology, music, language.
But just to make sure that I understand what you're saying, you're saying that you're envisioning
many podcasts being just you and a whiteboard or something where you're...
Some kind of graphics. I think graphics are going to be important.
I think there are going to be some difficult topics that are going to be pretty heavy going
intellectually that I'm going to try to make as easy as I can. But to partially leverage the fact
that... And this is kind of a theme running below the surface, which occasionally like
Magma comes up through the crust. Because it was so difficult for me to understand anything
that was going on in my junior high school and high school years because of symbolic issues
and learning style differences. A lot of what happened was that I was able to put things together
out of sheer necessity without going through the symbolic channel. And it's my belief that
even if people don't see themselves like, let's say, learning disabled, that the symbolic channel
is where we get stuck. That most people, if you show them a page of equations, they tune out.
And it's very difficult to figure, well, what can you communicate that isn't an analogy,
but that actually gets people to an understanding of just the majesty of human intellectual
achievement. And so the hope is going to be that if we can get some decent production values and
get the ad models to work, that we can start experimenting with some sort of hybrid
graphical and discussion and solo.
Can be great. Yeah.
Yeah. And I think you should explore... It'd be fascinating for you to explore the alternative
learning paradigm, learning disability question. I mean, people would find that incredibly useful
and inspiring if there was something there to explore that would be, especially if it would
be actionable on the basis of... Well, the thing... For parents or... So many of us...
Teenagers, you know.
Like, I can't tell you how much hopelessness I produced in my parents because no matter what
I tried to do, nothing worked. And I know that that experience of a bright interested kid
who just can't buy a base hit in school is duplicated in probably 15, 20% of the households
in America. It's like an enormous unknown population. What my hope is, is to show people why
the sort of learning disabled or dyslexic mind might have superpowers.
Do you actually have a diagnosis of dyslexia?
Dyslexia, dysgraphia, something called kinesthetic reinforcement.
You know, people have... Did you get these as a teenager or is it something...
Things were in their infancy back then. There were batteries of tests that are different. Like,
you know, there was this Kurdish word test when they assume nobody knew Kurdish. I didn't know
Kurdish for sure. And they tested to see whether you could remember a bunch of words you'd probably
never seen. And in one list, you wrote them out and in one list, you didn't to aid in the memory.
And so when I got back at test, this was at Harvard, I was like very high 90s in lots of
different areas. In one area, my score plummeted to like third percentile. I said, what is that?
Somebody said, well, that's kinesthetic reinforcement. I said, well, what does that mean?
They said, well, were you to take notes, you would erase everything that you're learning.
And I said, what did you just say? And I realized that my note taking had wiped out
my entire education up to that point.
Well, now, why would you have taken a test like this at Harvard?
I was struggling. I was in the most symbolically dependent subject. I mean,
at some point, I'll get into my history in mathematics. But there was no one remotely
like me in my situation as a PhD student at Harvard. And it was the worst possible
ostensible mismatch you could imagine because math lives in symbols. It isn't symbols.
But the symbols are really crucial for understanding what's going on. And that's exactly where I'm
blocked. And the hope that I have is if I can get around symbols in large measure for myself,
can I do it for people who aren't even necessarily blocked on learning channels?
I would love that because I consider myself more or less by comparison enumerate because
I took math. In high school, it's not that I was sort of equivalently good on both humanities
and math. I mean, it was not obvious that I shouldn't be pursuing math. But once I
did calculus in high school, I just never got math. It was just work.
And I never really got it. And then I've just taken mathematical logic and statistics
at the college level. But my math education stopped at a point because I hit a wall of
one just lack of exposure to the beauty of it. I mean, I'm like a fan of math now in terms of
its broad concepts. But I hit a wall. The burden of having to grapple, to learn the language of
the symbolism was high enough that it just crippled. There was no reason to struggle with it.
And I just bounced off. This is why learning disabilities, if you can overcome them,
end up in part as this incredible superpower. And I talk about this in terms of color blindness.
So both my brother and I are colorblind in a standard way. But we make the point about contrast
blindness because there's a trade-off between whether you see color better than others or worse
or whether you see contrast better. So to the extent that what you see is learning disabilities
is mysterious to you, like why would this be retained in such a large portion of the population?
It's because I think it has the characteristic of being the cost that is paying for another
superpower relative to somebody who's not blocked on those channels. And like, for example,
I don't know whether you notice the objects that are around here. The Klein bottles, I saw that.
