atrocity. But if you had told me at any point beforehand that on whatever day of the week it
was, you're going to have the biggest mass shooting in American history by far, and it was going to
be a fairly cinematic one, right? I mean, it's like you're talking about shooting out from the
windows of a... Did you see Dan Bilzerian was at this thing? Oh, no, no. I think I...
Dan Bilzerian is running out of this thing saying like, we're under fire. I'm going to go get my
gun and he's like, he's doing it in real time. If you told me we're not going to be talking about
this a week later, right? That just wouldn't compute. But that is the situation we're in. I
mean, somehow it just didn't survive the Darwinian contest with whatever else was on social media.
I don't really think that that's what happens.
Well, so why aren't we talking about it?
Well, that's... See, like when you're starting to smile. No, this is the thing that conspiracy
theorists get dead wrong, which is, you are allowed to notice some very weird anomaly and
not have to say what it is you're noticing, right? So my claim...
But you don't buy my explanation, which is because there was not an immediate purchase on a larger
story of motive, and this guy, it was just... Not a lot of information came out about this guy that
was salient. It just... We're so deluged by other stuff, most of it Trumpian.
Correct. You're not correct in my opinion. That's interesting.
So the way I would say it.
But whoever's right or wrong, I'm just saying that this belief that I now have,
that we have a different relationship to information now in recent years.
We can agree that we're cycling through things very quickly, but that was a spectacular...
There's a reason we're talking about it.
It was amazing.
Because it's anomalously weird how fast that story disappeared.
Now, one of the things that we have to talk about in that realm is Dana Boyd and her discussion
of strategic silence. So that's your search string people playing along at home. Strategic silence
is a doctrine of some kind that says that news media should not report the news because of its
potential impact. And where was this articulated?
You should check out data and society, which is a particularly interesting organization
which fingered our friends as the alternative influencer network.
Oh, right, right.
And Dana Boyd, who I believe is sort of in our circles, in the tech circles,
starts talking about the need for strategic silence.
Girl Dana or a boy Dana?
A female.
Somebody I perceive to be female.
I now don't want to touch a human named Dana Boyd.
And strategic silence, she also talks about data gaps, if I'm not mistaken,
I have my terminology right. And so then you have to look at things like style guides,
like the AP style guide or the New York Times style guide, which is the way in which people
are directed to report news stories. Is there a danger of copycat killings?
So there may be a body of thought around what does one do around mass shootings
so that we don't have future mass shootings? Or if this is particularly exciting
to certain people, should we publish the manifesto?
So as you start to understand what the meta rules around these things are,
some of those could be innocent.
Well, I think some are better than innocent. I think some are benign and we've been slow to
adopt them. I think the fact that I don't know this guy's name is probably a good thing for
the world. And that was part of the new style guide. You just don't...
Did you read the New Zealand Shooters Manifesto?
No, but part of it. But yeah, I haven't read the whole thing.
So what I don't want is I don't want somebody saying we should criminalize reading the New
Zealand Shooters Manifesto. But by the way, let me tell you, he told us all that Candace Owens
was his inspiration because that's not what the shooter did.
No one wants to criminalize. I'm just saying that you...
No, no, no. I'm saying something much more disturbing.
It's appropriate for journalists to worry that merely shining a light,
pointing a camera at this new atrocity, should be the default setting.
Right? Like, name the guy, let's get into his story, let's find out why he did it,
and do all of this in public.
We're in such a much more dangerous place in my opinion.
But no, Bob, maybe we're talking past each other here. It's just that it is...
We've been very slow to realize that the part of the memetic contagion here is the copycat effect,
the fact that in their own perverse way, these people are being martyred and lionized just by
just the mere sharing of this information about...
Let's agree that in a better world, we would have a situation by which we would not want
to communicate relatively...
We're going to make these people famous.
We don't...
There's fame as part of the motive, right?
Posthumous fame even is part of the motive.
Even if it's not part of the motive,
it's part of what is attractive to the living, aspiring gunman, right?
First of all, let me steal me in your position to make sure I'm getting it,
and then I can take issue with you and you'll see whether I'm adding or subtracting.
I think what you're saying is that because of the information quality
and the fame quality and the inspirational quality to copycat killers,
that communicating the information that somebody wished to communicate
provided they're willing to make a down payment in terms of dead bodies taken...
Lives taken out of this world.
I'm not even focused on the manifesto.
I'm focused on just naming the person.
You're sympathetic at some level with the concept of strategic silence.
Yeah.
I would be sympathetic with the concept of strategic silence if I trusted the people
who are supposed to manage it.
But that's... I'm trying to get to the next layer, which is that...
I understand that concern.
I am very concerned that the people who are enthusiastic about strategic silence
are interested in telling us partial information about all of these things
so that we cannot actually tell what the hell just happened.
Well, yeah.
So, you just changed the topic to jihadism and we're perfectly in agreement because, yes,
they will elide the religious identity of perpetrators in various contexts
and actually hide information from us.
Right?
So, you'll see something happen.
The media will pretend it's inexplicable, like the end of the Orlando shooting.
It's like maybe this guy was just...
It was his repressed homosexuality that was the problem.
And yet, those who have a little bit of information recognize that this is a clear cut
case of jihadism and indoctrination and the consequences of certain ideas.
And the analogous situation on the other side would be,
what if we were going to systematically conceal evidence of white supremacy
being the motive for a certain death?
But what I'm trying to say is that in all of these killings,
like you just pointed out that the unabomber...
You read... reread the unabomber's manifesto.
Right.
Now, the unabomber wrote a story called Ship of Fools,
which I thought was relatively interesting,
about people losing their heads in social justice and society...
There's some of that in the manifesto too.
He's very critical of...
He's not a dumb man, that Kaczynski guy.
However, the point was is that you were able to mine that for information
and then you were able to reach some pretty interesting conclusions about where Kaczynski
was relative to society in general, you trusted yourself.
Right.
Okay. My guess is that when it comes to jihadis, you are more interested in
communicating the information about what the motivational structure is,
because it is prescriptive that something might be done.
However, it is also...
Actually, there's another reason.
It's not just that it's prescriptive, it may not be.
It's just that there's more contact between...
There are more levers to play with to try to control the situation.
And it's a much larger problem.
No kidding.
Right.
But on the other hand, if I look at the New Zealand shooters and the Squirrel Hill shooters
manifestos, it's disgusting and it has content.
And the way on which I can explain to people how all of the open border type stuff
is going to cause future problems is just to say,
you may not think of a country the way I do or somebody else,
but imagine that somebody comes to your home as a guest and you give them the key and they say,
I hope you don't mind, but I noticed that there were a lot of people on Skid Row today
who didn't have anything to eat, no place to sleep.
So I ran off 2,000 copies of your key.
And I hope we can adopt all those people when they come over later tonight
because I gave them the address and the security code.
Now, if that starts to rattle around in your brain, you don't feel good about it.
You may not conceive of your country as a house with a front door and a security code
and rules as to who gets in and out, but they do.
And some of those people are going to go crazy and they're going to kill people.
And I know that to be the case.
And it's not that I'm sympathetic with a synagogue shooter or a mosque killer.
Fuck those guys.
The point is, is that we are not trying to get the information because we have this
class of people, this intermediating class that I don't trust as far as I can throw them
and that you still have more residual trust in.
In other words, my feeling about data in society is, is that I understand all sorts
of things that they're trying to do, but they're super dangerous.
Like they are incredibly dangerous in part because they're going to be backed by people
like Bill and Melinda Gates or the Ford Foundation or whatever it is.
This is the Southern Poverty Law Center problem and other guys.
I think you and I have been talking past each other a little bit here.
I totally agree that in this case, we can't really trust the gatekeepers.
The only thing that I was expressing open-mindedness about or agreement about
with respect to strategic silence is, there is this...
I would trust you to do strategic silence here.
Well, in some ways, it's impossible.
It's like, take it out of the atrocity.
Because you know that.
Yeah, but there's the atrocity side of it, which is its own thing.
Just take the case of famous suicides, right?
We know that suicide is contagious.
This has a name, the Werther effect based on Goethe's novel, The Sorrows of Young Werther.
So there's the fact that a sufficiently prominent person who's got any kind of
especially, and this is true, I think, for any suicide, but especially if there's some sort of
bironic romantic gloss that can be put on it, suicides go up.
And suicides go up in ways that are plane crashes go up, right?
And we believe, I don't know if the data has changed on this, but as of 20 years ago,
whenever this was done, I think this was in...
Might have been in Caldini's book, Influence.
The plane crashes go up, and the interpretation of that is that some number of airline pilots
commit suicide with everyone on board, right?
We know that's happened before.
There's one famous case of that, but it just added the statistics that seems to be suggested.
But so what do you do when Anthony Bourdain commits suicide?
How do you cover that story?
There has to be some style guide around how you cover it.
At one point, it could look like an unwillingness to actually get at the truth, but what's actually
motivating you is not an unwillingness to get at the truth, it's just you're aware of the
potential contagion effect here, depending on what the actual story is.
So I can't figure out where our energy differs.
I agree with you that in theory, strategic silence, don't publicize things where the
benefit is very slight and the cost is enormous.
I get it.
But right now, we're in some different place, which is that a lot of us just don't trust any
of the gatekeepers.
There's not one gatekeeper that I want making that decision for me at the moment.
And in particular, it's very weird that I get the concept, Dana, but I don't trust you,
because you came out with this alternative influencer network thing,
which had zero methodology on it.
So you're volunteering.
And it's all guilt by association.
And Noam Chomsky talks to Stefan Malinu, and he's not included, but it's total nonsense.
And the person who wrote it has been revealing herself as a complete activist,
rather than a researcher.
