compensated because of large-scale tampering in the sector.
What I believe is that we're looking at the difference between truth and fitness.
And if you recall when I went first one in your program, I said,
I care about four things. Truth is one of them, but I also care about meaning fitness and grace.
This is a great example where fitness is out competing truth.
But we have a hand in this. We can tune the landscape, right?
You and me?
Well, sometimes I just feel it's like the two of us. That's why I call you Sam, what the hell's
going on? Yes. A relatively small number of people can do it. It doesn't take seven billion
people or eight billion people to do this. Who do we got at the moment?
No, but you need to convince the top 3,000 people that one way of talking doesn't work,
to align fitness and truth more faithfully.
I'm not used to disagreeing with you this much.
I think we've screwed up a lot worse than you're imagining in the past,
and that that is the fodder for the twin evils of Trumpism and wokeism.
But just grant me the possible sea change effect of the 3,000 people, the right 3,000 people
fundamentally getting their head straight on these issues or any issue, whatever it is.
So you're talking about basically all of Hollywood, all of journalism,
and all of science that's public facing.
If we could do that. Okay, in some thought experiment, I guess what my feeling is, first of
all, is that my head is so filled with malware. I'm running so many nonsensical programs put
there by other people that I don't even know are nonsense, or I can detect.
Do you have a sense of what direction to point to where you're going to find the nonsense?
Well, so what are you worried about? Well, so we're currently sitting in a room with reflective
glass and anechoic tiles that dead in sound. If I echo locate by things that I am absolutely
positive would sell newspapers that aren't printed, it's like, okay, you're echo locating and instead
of hearing the reflection off of glass, you're hearing an absence, which is anechoic tile.
And so if I just look at Google Trends, which tells me what people are searching on,
if I look at how Google auto completes, which tells me what they want me to see is what other
people are searching on in the search bar. If I look at what stories aren't being run,
all of the dead stuff is astounding to me right at the moment.
Like, I know, for example, that people are fascinated by the Jeffrey Epstein story.
And in general, like, you know, we just had, so normally I don't love talking about current
events because it dates the program, but we just had Kevin Spacey's accuser reported as dying.
I don't think that that is likely to be part of some super evil plot. So just so people can
calibrate. It's not that everything that could make sense because there's an incentive. I chalk
up to a conspiracy. The Jeffrey Epstein thing is totally different. And you and I both met this guy
for 15 years, and he's the only person I've been saying this with conviction about for 15 years.
I had one meeting with him. I've said he's a construct. Somebody hired a person, probably
named Jeffrey Epstein, to play a role, super genius, mega billionaire philanthropist. I
wasn't buying any of it. I've never bought it. And I've talked to everybody in our sort of
mutual network and always used one word because I want to make a huge bet that when the time came,
I would say he's a construct and that I would be revealed to be correct and that everybody
was asked, what do you mean by a construct? Right. Okay. Do you need to have you clarify that on
your podcast before? Probably not. I recorded an entire Jeffrey Epstein episode, which is just me
soloing for an hour. Right. But I haven't released it because I'm terrified. And I've had one
ambiguous dinner where somebody sort of quasi threatened me and I wasn't entirely sure what
they were saying. It was a little bit creepy. Well, this is a strand of human complication
that you're way more in touch with than I am. I don't deny that it exists. So I think there are
real conspiracies and powerful people occasionally do what... Powerful people are occasionally
sociopaths and then they do what you would expect or conspire to do what you'd expect.
So I don't have a strong feeling about the likelihood that Epstein had a facilitated suicide.
I think the likelihood that he was murdered is low. But I'm not... I'm not... I'm not gonna commit
suicide. I don't have a strong... I'm agnostic about whether people stepped away so that he could do
the thing that he needed to do, whether there's some vanishing probability that he actually
isn't dead. I don't know. I put that at very low. I put that at very low odds as well.
But do you put it at zero odds, Sam? Well, I wouldn't. I know enough about probability
to put almost nothing at zero odds. It's a huge difference between those people who insist...
When I hear somebody insist that that probability be zero, I take it... And that person is smart.
But effectively zero. I mean, zero in the sense that we don't have to worry about it.
I waste no time thinking about it at the moment. But I'm happy to have my Bayesian priors tutored.
Right. So, I just don't have a... I mean, as you know, I'm taken in or I utilize this
homily that you shouldn't describe to malice what can be explained by incompetence or whatever
that the formulation is. And I find that that's a interesting heuristic for somebody...
It's usually... I think it's usually true, right? So, it works much of the time and then it fails.
But it fails in a case where you get more information and then you update...
That was exactly my point, that the Kevin Spacey thing, I would say, is in the realm of Newtonian
mechanics. And then the Jeff Epstein thing is like relativistic quantum field theory, whatever
your Newtonian laws are, we're not in Kansas anymore. But I had no... So, you put me in the
same room with him, so I should probably clarify that. So, I found myself...
Which you both apologize that nothing happened.
Yes, right. I found myself at a lunch with him at the TED conference and had no insight into
him or what he was up to, apart from the fact that he... My sort of creep detector went off.
That spiked like crazy.
Yeah. I mean, I just... He was someone who I didn't want to spend any more time with
because he had this sort of schlocky, rich guy...
But within normal?
Well, no. But when you see a... I guess he was probably close to 60 at this point and
he's with a 21-year-old, it's like the optics of that are always...
Obviously, there are many rich guys who do that and there are certainly many people in
Hollywood who do that and that's just the way some people roll when they have the opportunity
to roll that way and that, okay, fine. But there was just a... I have a kind of a level of
judgmentalism around that. It's like, at minimum, that's an attractor on the landscape of well-being
that is not all that interesting to me. And so, when you see someone captivated by that,
this is like... Life is going great because I'm 60 and she's 20. That's the one variable that...
We're talking about as Lamborghini all the time.
Exactly. You've bored me already. But I had no more insight into him than that.
From one meeting, I've been talking about him for 15 years.
Because this was like a 10-person lunch and I had maybe three sentences exchanged with him.
So, mine was at his house. I'm ushered into a waiting room. He's got some super complicated
electronic art. I get up, I look at it and I say, wait, is that a camera inside the art?
I first think, I'm a genius for finding a camera inside there. My next thought is,
I'm supposed to find the camera inside the art because the art is supposed to draw my attention
and I'm supposed to see that I'm being recorded. I'm called out to a room and back with a huge,
long, sort of exaggerated dining table with a giant American flag as its tablecloth so that
any food or drink that is served on it may spill onto an American flag. And I'm just in high alert,
fuck you. Who are you? And he comes in, he's got this attractive again,
over probably 22, 23-year-old woman I think she's introduced as an heiress or something.
And he's bouncing her on his knee in order to get my attention. There's some other guy who says
nothing during the meeting. I have no idea what he was doing there.
And I think one detail I'd like to add here in defense of the many people
and the many scientists who were in this guy's orbit and who didn't know how
unseemly his life actually was, some of these young women who you'd meet in his company were not
just bimbos or strippers. I mean, some of these people were going to medical school and these
were like smart young women who were benefiting. No, this is an incredibly important distinction.
I don't think that the news media has done a good job of teasing. It's very attached to the idea
pedophile island and Lolita Express. And that lazy, sensationalist journalism
is crowding something out, which is that in general, from what I understand,
so I met him in 2000, I think 2004, maybe 2003, but before his Florida incarceration and charges.
Most people that I knew who met him met him with young adult women. And so my theory is that he
was constructed to be the sapiosexual Hugh Hefner and that they stupidly hired probably,
and I guess I don't know this, Humbert Humbert for the role, and that that dichotomy explains
at least a lot of the initial willingness of the science community to play with this person.
I mean, I'll be honest, I'm not particularly judgmental about consenting adults, even if
it's probably ill advised to have a 50-year spread between two people. If somebody's 20 and
somebody's 80 and they both know. It's a completely different thing. It's very easy to see that if
you've seen this guy be sort of the womanizing schmuck within the bounds of total legality,
and he's surrounded by 20-year-olds and he's got a 40-year difference in age.
And everybody's party to the game and something about money.
You would never suspect this other thing about him.
Okay. That is not fair defense after the Florida situation. The Florida situation changes
that structure. You mean his prosecution or the Miami Herald thing that came out a year ago?
No, no, no. The prosecution. So a lot of people continued to talk to him in part because, and I
think this is something that hasn't been teased out, he was supporting an older style of science,
which this is, again, something that's going to be super complicated, was much more disagreeable.
Now, the woke movement has seized on this as, well, that's the cowboy oppressive science of
male assholes, but he was supporting a network of people who might not have been supported
otherwise to somewhat break out of the mold. And because the US government had stepped away
from that work in large measure, in my opinion, people were so dependent on him that they were
eager to look the other way. And there was also the hint, I think, that this wasn't really Jeffrey
Epstein, that this was really something else funding. Well, I don't know about that. I mean,
I think the relative penury of science is a corrupting variable. And the fact that we
underfund science and that it matters when the rich guy comes into the room to scientists,
because they're so starved for money, that's just corrupting.
Well, look, this is going to get us into the immigration question, which is that
the in the mid 80s under Reagan, the science complex, particularly the National Science Foundation
under Eric Block, through the National Academy of Sciences and a subdivision called the Government
University Industry Research Roundtable, G-U-I-R-R, conspired to destroy the bargaining power of
American scientists by flooding the market. And what they did is they did an economic analysis
with both supply and demand curves to say that the wages, which you can calculate when you have
two intersecting curves, we're going to go above six figures for new PhDs.
Let's get a lot of Indians in here. Well, it was four countries. It was China, India,
Taiwan, and Korea. And China went from zero to 60, and they were sending us nobody. And then
there I think there were like over 25% of all graduate students. And of course,
graduate students aren't students, they're workers. So there's a cryptic labor economy
inside of the universities. And what the university system figured out was, is that in order to get
this work done, we'd have to have these misclassified students who do the work imported as foreign
workers. And what we would do is we would take the economic analysis, which they secretly did in 1986,
and they'd subtract off the demand curve. And they'd just do a supply analysis based
on the demography of the baby boom going into the baby bust, which is our generation, Gen X.
And that demographic alarm was sounded to get the Immigration Act of 1990 passed,
which has like the H1B as one of its most famous features. So that's a whole story
about how the actual workings, I'm the guy who uncovered that. And I chased that all the way
down to the person who wrote that secret study that was never released, never dated, never authored.
That thing was the stepping away of the federal government from its commitment through the
Vannevar-Busch endless frontier agreement to fund the kick-ass blue sky research that this country
has done better than anyone else. But how is that distinguishable from what on its face seems to me
to be a rational policy, which is why not try to attract the world's best and brightest and
incentivize them to start their businesses here, settle here. Once you've gotten your PhD at Harvard,
you've got a green card, and here's Silicon Valley's over there.
When you start speaking, I feel like I'm hearing the stars and stripes forever. I've got one hand
over my heart. And the Statue of Liberty is in the background with Emma Lazarus' poem at the base.
Do you actually believe that?
No, but no, my point is that strikes me as a good policy, even though that would create
more competition for so-called Americans because we're now open for the world's business.
But if you actually wanted to maximize creativity and industry here, you would want to import
Indians and Chinese and Taiwanese and Koreans.
Well, I mean, look, I've married the maximum number of brilliant women from the developing
world who came here to do STEM that the law will allow. So I'm absolutely guilty.
You got your wife and then you want to close the border?
What? Yeah. Well, first of all, that's how country clubs work.
So the idea is that when you get through a country club, when you get into a country club,
you don't instantly say, well, I don't understand. It would be immoral for me to close
the country club. I mean, so it's a very weird thing for me that people who are very steeped
in what you were just talking about, which is this interesting memetic complex that got pushed out,
don't tend to think critically about it. Of course, we want the best people in the world
to come to the US selfishly. Well, not everyone doesn't. I mean, the person who has to compete
with the best coming from India and Taiwan and China, that person, let's say in software engineering,
that person is now suddenly on a much more competitive playing field.
So what I was told about this...
I'm not saying that it's not without cost to somebody. It's definitely costing somebody
something. Right. Like the bad people, the people who can't compete.
Not the bad people, but just it's like...
I don't even know how to go into all of the things that are really funny and wrong about
this. One of which is, well, are you afraid to compete with somebody from India? Well,
maybe I'm afraid to compete with 100 people from India. The issue is what is the price point?
You are though. On this podcast, you're competing with people from India. I mean,
you're competing with... No.
There are 800,000 podcasts. No.
You're competing with 799...
Because it's not a uniform product, Sam.
No, but you're still...
No, when you talked about software, most of software is glorified foreign
while loops. You invoke a library, you code up a class.
Yes. You can add sources.
Yeah.
All right. Well, no, I'm just saying that most of what it is is you're just writing code.
It's got a kind of a mystique about it because a lot of people haven't done it and
it's too symbolic, whatever.
Right. But it's plumbing.
