It's plumbing. Yeah.
And a lot of science is plumbing.
Yeah.
And so a lot of the stuff about the best is not very relevant. If you wanted to take the stuff
that's really distinguished, like you've got Ramanujan coming from India,
you've got Ellis coming from South Africa, whoever it is that's really amazing,
we have plenty of room for the tiny number of people who are absolutely non-homogeneous
super contributors.
So you're just saying you want to set the bar higher?
I'm not saying that. I'm saying a lot of different things.
One is that people in the country have rights and they have asymmetric rights to their own
labor market. That's a large part of what it means to be a citizen of a country.
If I start to talk about your rights that are perhaps your most valuable economic possession,
if you really think about it, the American worker's most valuable economic possession
is asymmetric access to the American labor market.
If I say, you know, your right is not an asset, but is instead an impediment.
It's a barrier. And what we need to do is get rid of the red tape.
And I'm not going to pay you for it because it's not an asset.
I'm going to take it from you.
And I'm going to say that that's what the free market is.
Well, that has nothing to do with the free market.
I wrote a paper called Migration for the Benefit of All that pointed out,
you're free to securitize people's right and pay for it, and then everybody wins.
That's not what we do.
Okay. So that's something we could do though.
We could put an economic price on that.
It's called a cosian solution.
And the funny part about it, the hysterically funny part about it is that
no capitalists who claim that they're interested in getting rid of the inefficiency
that comes from being forced to use your own labor are interested in the model in which
you actually pay people for their securitized rights.
Because the real thing they're interested in is not the tiny inefficiency,
which is called the Harberger Triangle.
There's a giant structure below it called the Bohas Rectangle,
which is what is transferred from labor to capital.
The amazing thing is you've referenced this several times over cocktails.
In the last two years, yeah.
Well, but my point, this is a cocktail party chatter.
No, but I see it differently, Sam.
I see your comment that, well, don't we want the best and the brightest,
where you don't reference wage competition.
It sounds more like intellectual competition, right?
When you open a border and selectively only in certain fields,
it's like opening a window in an airplane, and it specifically affects the seat at which
it's opened differently than everywhere else in the plane.
So the problem I have with this is that it's a large memetic complex.
And popping back up to the Jeff Epstein issue,
the entire university and scientific complex was built on this incredible
embedded growth obligation.
Right.
That is the thing that caused the system to have to rescue itself with immigration.
So it's really not about immigration or brown people,
or I don't want to compete against the best and the brightest.
The issue was we didn't have enough people to feed into a pyramid system.
And what you could do is you could reference a poverty differential between Asia,
which was training people, acceptably well in technical subjects,
but had it at a lower level.
Now that's changed some to fill in the bottom of the pyramid.
And so that's really what it was.
It was an economic exploit that has nothing to do with the best and the brightest
or the color of one's skin.
It was just a way of saving a pyramid scheme.
Well, so clearly there's room for innovation on all these fronts,
and we should be eager to do it.
And we should be certainly eager to find Ponzi schemes that we didn't know were Ponzi schemes,
I think it touches where we started when we were talking about
Samantha Power and the Southern Poverty Law Center.
I think there are systems we set up with the best of intentions and projects and meme,
memetic complexes we launch upon the world with the best of intentions.
And we don't see the way incentives will align or the knock-on effects
or the externalities of doing those things.
And it's just the world is more complicated than we realize.
And that's like the thing that scares me a little bit.
Remember when I said that I have malware in my head?
My belief is that a lot of the beautiful things that you were thinking about,
about being open to the world, training the best and the brightest,
keeping some of them for ourselves, distributing some of them back home to grow the pie for
everyone, et cetera, et cetera. That's a memetic complex that I associate with malware.
It's not that there aren't aspects of it with movement.
But I think it's close to the right program.
So, for instance, if you say, yeah, it's the fact that I'm not thinking when I say that about
the, I forget how you put it, but the difference between
the local case and the imported case, by analogy, opening the window on the airplane,
or just the fact that you've got people here who are paying taxes to help build out local
infrastructure, that some, then some titan of industry is going to leverage and globalize,
right? And that money is not coming back to the people who are paying taxes.
To these games, the totality of these games is what got us very angry at the Clinton era people.
This is that the Brad DeLong's and Paul Krugman's and Jagdish Bugvates and Bill
Clinton's of the world, all these people pushed out this idea and we didn't know how to oppose it.
But what they were doing was allowing a slice of our country to continue to grow its slices of the
pie. But again, it's just easy to find the non-nepharius, not malignantly selfish understanding
of what happened. I'll give you another example, which I think you're totally familiar with, but
will seem less sinister, or at least it seems so to me. So you take what happened to the music
industry, right? So it's like we have a breakthrough in technology. We go from vinyl to CDs,
and then we suffer those jewel cases for about a decade, and then we get MP3s,
which open the door to piracy of a sort no one has anticipated, and then we manage to close down
the piracy. We have the iTunes store and people are, but because of this explosion of piracy,
and now the prospect of just, now it's all bits, it's not atoms anymore, we have a fundamental
devaluation of the product. The music, the value of the music has basically gone to zero,
because my using a copy of it is not taking it from you.
Because of two things. It's exhaustability and excludability. The idea is that if I buy a vinyl
record, one, my use of it will eventually wear down the grooves as we used to do in the old days,
and two, my having the record means that you don't have that copy, and that the unit cost
is not zero. I can't copy your record for free. That is this issue about private goods and services
became public goods and services, and even the diehard economists who are free market have to
recognize that if something is inexhaustible and an excludable price does not equal value,
and therefore it cannot command its value. That was clear to many of us just as-
But I'm saying there's a non-nepharius account of what happened there where your iTunes,
your Apple, you open iTunes for the good of all. You obviously want to make a profit. This is a
fantastic business, but if you're the musician who's catalog is now worth one-tenth of what it
used to be worth, and now you have this sort of life change foisted on you where now the only way
for you to make ends meet is to tour, but you're 70 years old and you felt your touring was behind
you, right? All of this looks awful, but again, nobody was thinking about that guy when these
changes. Bullshit. It's easy to see that most people weren't thinking- No one had bad intentions
toward that. No, remember information just wants to be free and free like beer and all this nonsense?
I thought that stuff was just like moronic at the time, and the same thing with NAFTA,
right? The claim- But again, so what you had in your sights was not, you can't-
I don't think you're the wrong theory of mind if you think everyone was aware of what you were
aware of and just had the ethical switch flipped in the other direction.
The class, the economic class, teaches public goods in every econ 101 textbook.
They also teach trade. They have two different names for what happens to improve a society
in terms of how it's measured. One called Pareto Improvement, which is that everybody in the
society is as good or better off. The other one called Caldor Hicks, which is some people get
hurt, some people get helped, but were you to tax the winners to pay the losers, everyone could be
Pareto Improved. Okay. When you ask these people in real time, why are you talking about a Caldor
Hicks improvement in Pareto terms? This is the technical esoteric conversation. Why is your
esoteric description of this at odds with your esoteric? This is pure Straussian cryptic bullshit.
They said, well, we can't really say that and we hope that somebody, it's not our job. It was this
wall of total nonsense. It wasn't that this wasn't being said in real time.
I'm sure you can find the people at the conference who were, I mean, they have one way of speaking
to the profession and one way of speaking on the op-ed phase of the New York Times.
This is one of the reasons why you and I split on Nassim Taleb. I stood shoulder to shoulder
with Nassim during the total nonsense called the Great Moderation in our financial structure
before 2008. The only reason why I split on Nassim is that he just wakes up one morning and
off his meds and attacks me for reasons I can never pass him. It's totally personal. It's
intended to be personal. It's not that I take it personally. I don't even think it's intended to be
personal. He can correct me on that. It's apropos of nothing. I've been sleeping when he was sleeping
and then I turn on Twitter and I see that he's attacked me by name for some reason.
When my phone lights up and it says Nassim... There's no intellectual content.
When it says Nassim, Nicholas Taleb. He's been my friend for a long time. I literally shake.
Like, I have to hit. Right? The answer.
But that's a problem of his personality that he's exporting to the environment.
No, you're part of the environment. Look, Nassim is not an inside cat. He just isn't.
I see the things he does and I get a lump in my throat and I think,
am I going to have to defend this? I know what he does. But I think people don't understand him.
So at least let me offer up an apology for Nassim Taleb, which he may rip my head off for say.
Nassim is constructed around things that are much larger than what other people are considering.
And I don't... I'm not saying that he does everything well. I obviously have a totally
different tack than he does. So I'm very uncomfortable with his methods. But let's
at least say what they are in steel manner to the extent possible.
Other people say, you Joe are misusing statistics. Nassim would say,
there's a problem with statistics. Yeah.
And it's constructed to be misused and it's misused all the time in the same way. And if you do
anything that you were normally taught to do in statistics class, if you have a PhD in statistics,
you're part of the problem and I'm going to hold you personally responsible.
Now, this is very disconcerting to people. I mean, I don't think we should spend a lot of
time on this, but there are areas where I am not qualified to fact check him. The areas where I am,
where he has opinions are just as strident. It's just a deluge of bullshit coming from him.
So the stuff he has said about religion and science is not even, I mean, the truth is,
it's not even wrong. It's incoherent. It's not like he's got a counterpoint that I still think is
wrong, but it has to be argued against. Look, I've gotten there too. I can't stand the style
because it just hurts me. I'm very uncomfortable by it. However, there are plenty of times when
I thought he was talking nonsense. At first, it sounds like he's making a sensible objection,
then I'm just convinced that he's going off the rails and then I push further and it turns out
there's even more of a point. So I have learned to be very cautious around him, not because
he's the person you want around for most of the time, but when we were in the middle of the great
moderation and I punked out because I was with him and I was giving talks about Epstein
and Madoff. There were two mysterious functions in New York and I used to put slides up about
Black Arts Capital. It was sort of a play on Blackstone or Blackrock and the idea is we'd
tell you what we're doing, but we'd have to kill you. We just didn't know and I got Madoff wrong.
I thought he was front running his legitimate business, which turns out it was just a Ponzi
scheme, but I knew Epstein was very likely to be something totally other than he was.
During this period of time that we were both discussing the nonsense that was the supposed
great moderation, was the other guy who would take as much punishment as the community would
throw at him and they would just humiliate him. It's like, oh, he made one lucky trade in 1987,
the guy's an idiot, he's a blowhard, he's a fool and I couldn't take the pressure
from giving this talk that obviously we hadn't banished volatility and I think around 2005,
I was about three years in and Nasim says, you're going to regret getting out of this early.
You should see it through. It always stuck with me that I didn't quite have the courage or the
strength or the guts or the disagreeability to continue at least to hold the intellectual
position. I couldn't time when this thing was going to blow, but I wrote this thing on
mortgage-backed securities with Adil Abdul Ali in 2001. This was nonsense and it was a world in
which almost no one was willing to call it out. The singularity in my world about Nasim has to
do with, he's willing to be one person against billions. He will literally just stand up against
any crowd. Okay, well, so that's often a bug and you found the one case perhaps where it was a feature,
but it's, I mean, first of all, we're all like that to some degree. We're all standing up against
a lot. It's very hard for me. I mean, I do it and you do it, but you don't get weak need,
I get weak need. Yeah, occasionally, but it's, there is a kind, I mean, again, I'm not to psychoanalyze
him, but there's a sort of Trumpian-level personality problem layered on top of his
intellect where I'm not disputing the guy is smart. There's no question he's smart,
but there's just, there's so much personality to get through and wrangle with to interact with
whatever, whatever smarts are showing up for, depending on the topic. And again, with some
topics, you know, I haven't found the smarts, but I'm not disputing that the guy, obviously,
he's intelligent. It's just he's so, there's no one more enamored of his intelligence than him,
right? And it's just, it's like that level of egocentricity. Again, it has a kind of Trumpian,
you know, Peacock fan quality to it. And in the cases where it's warranted, it's still extra and
it's bullshit and it's annoying. When it's unwarranted, it's embarrassing. And he has zero
sense of where he is on that landscape. I hear what you're saying. I do have the sense of
the number of floorboards that I can hide under when the stormtroopers come from me,
a very few and far between that I can count on and I can count on his. Okay. So we don't need
