Yeah, it is.
All right.
Yeah, I don't I without knowing what these categories are and how to tell the
story, it would be hard to say how that fits in.
Oh, well, whenever I mention it, it's also kind of tongue in cheek
because it's said so much.
And on the one hand, it's a truism.
And on the other hand, it's complete bullshit.
So I think you can like pick like nitpick it like technicalities about stuff
like Xeno fiction or maybe like weird forms of fan fiction or like.
Poetry, but you just take your heels in and say that's not really story or something.
No, I'm not saying it's not really story.
I don't know.
Like I think that yeah, you're basically what you were saying is just that like
it's kind of true in a sense.
And then also you can like nitpick it and find fringe examples where it's not true.
Maybe there's like seven stories that just really resonate with people
because that like describes their experience for the most part.
The seven basic experiences.
That sounds fun.
I need to learn more about reading and writing, I guess.
I know how to read and write.
That's where my education on the subject stopped.
So you guys are the ones who write in the 10 like analysis stuff.
I also can't do that.
I'm working on it.
I think you're better at it than you think.
I'm getting there.
Well, I'm trying.
Zeke Aron says one of my favorite TED talks is about the three metrics
that allow us to continually break more records.
The TLDTLDW too long didn't watch.
Oh, OK, is one better training, two better tech, such as lighter shoes
with more friction, three genetic selection, such as going to the middle
of Africa and finding the fastest man in the world.
Also, we know how much faster tech improvements make us.
So we know how fast the record breakers from decades past would be if they ran today.
I would like to say I also saw that video.
I also thought it was freaking awesome.
And so we will post a link on our website, the basin conspiracy dot com
with a link to that TED talk.
Sounds dope.
I didn't actually watch that yet and I'm interested.
So it's not just the case that we're better, stronger and faster.
Well, he said that's part of it.
Yeah, it is part of it.
OK, yeah, but it seems to be implying we know exactly how much faster tech improves.
It's not like you're saying that if we gave whatever the 1950s gold medalist
in sprinting, you know, new running shoes on a good track that they'd be able
to keep up with today's speed speedsters.
Yeah, I think he's saying that we could calculate how fast they would be today.
We calculate how much they would lose by today.
OK, there's better training.
There's better, you know, there's a wider pool of people to grab athletes from.
This reminds me of the Slate Start Codex post yesterday, which was does
reality drive straight lines on graphs or do straight lines on graphs drive
reality where I'm wondering, like, how far can we take this continual improvement?
I think I said that when we talked about it last time, too.
So I shouldn't go on my transhumans spiel again.
We haven't had an explicitly transhumanism episode, have we?
We have one.
You guys did before I was on the show, but I might be misremembering.
It was like episode in the late teens, I think.
Well, maybe time for.
Could do a part two.
To revisit it.
Yeah, it's been a couple of years.
All right, next one.
Calvin three to one says, everyone thinks they are an above average driver
because people don't agree on the correct metric to judge good driving.
The speed safety tradeoff is different between people.
Strategies such as when to change lanes is debated or how to handle heavy traffic.
When is rolling through a stop sign permissible?
Never. God, no, sometimes it is.
Does always stopping make you a good driver or a terrible rule follower?
And so forth.
But I can see how every individual person can see that they think they're an above
average driver because by their metric, there's a lot of shitty drivers out there.
But those drivers are just using a different metric, which they think puts
them, you know, is the correct way to drive.
Yeah, I can see that.
That's a good way to put it.
There's like a book I want to highlight again.
I feel like I've mentioned this maybe twice on the podcast before, but there's
a book called traffic, why we drive the way we do.
And it's like a book on kind of the psychology of driving.
And they talk about a lot of this stuff in this book.
And that was pretty cool for me because I kind of like got really upset
about driving and so I have to drive a lot and a lot of rules of the road are
not like explicit and I want them written down.
So like, you know, the stuff you learned in driving class when you're first
getting your licenses, not like the stuff that people do on the road.
And we're running into that with self-driving cars too, having to train
the AIs and all the like implicit driving stuff that you're supposed to just
pick up through experience.
The one thing that I thought was pretty cool that like I learned from this
book is that there's basically like two styles of merging that everyone does.
And people seem to kind of just learn one or the other, I guess, through like
whoever taught them through experience, but there's early merge and late merge.
And there's these two schools of thought where if everyone were to just
start early merging, which is where say that there's a line of traffic and you're
on a ramp trying to merge into the left, you would pull all the way up as far as
you could before merging.
And then you like kind of zipper merge or whatever.
There's also other merge styles at that point.
And then there's early merge where people try to get in as soon as possible.
So as not to do the thing where they're like pulling all the way up, which seems
rude to them.
So I'm saying this because I'm a early merger.
Me too.
Yeah.
There are dozens of us.
Well, apparently it's the objectively worst way to merge.
No, actually, apparently either one works great as long as everybody's using the same one.
Oh, okay.
Which I thought was really funny because I thought my way was right until I read this.
Well, what's the point of early merging?
Because I want to say when there's construction, you're going from two
lanes to one.
And the point where you only have one lane is shitty because much less traffic can
get through.
So you, why, why make that one lane area even longer by merging like a block
earlier, have it be two lanes as far as you can have it be two lanes.
So until I just learned that this is not the objectively best way to do it, my
thinking was that I see the assholes and nice cars go speeding up to the speed
limit to slam on their brakes at the cones and then force their way in and cause
this cascade of people slamming on the brakes.
Okay. Well, first of all, don't speed up and then slam on your brakes.
Generally, you just drive like a normal person.
And then when you get to the end, you zip her in.
And yes, the philosophy behind early merge is that it's easier to get in early
on because cars are spaced out further apart.
That's what I do.
I don't force my way in.
I get over when there's room and I'm like, so I can save 30 seconds and get to
the front of the line or I'll just get there when I get there.
To me, to me, it's, it's, it's the passive way of driving.
Hey, you guys just found something you disagree on.
Damn, it's Steven.
We can't be friends anymore.
Yeah.
You're looking for one so you could double croaks.
That's right.
Yeah.
This probably isn't important enough.
We'll find it.
We'll find a way.
We'll find a way to run our friendship over this.
Yeah.
So that's exactly it.
I let people in when I can, but I can see, you know, in, in the events that,
that's, that's not the best way to do it.
I will, you know, I'll keep that in mind, but really it's just like,
when is there a safe opportunity?
Like maybe it depends on the area and how, like, like, like Jess said, it's how
everyone else is doing it.
If they're all doing it the same way, both will work.
But since that's not how it works, neither work, it looks like.
I've, I've literally seen this going to the point where it was more than one
stoplight from where the, the actual construction started, which is just
ridiculous.
It screws over the people that want to turn left or want to turn right before
you get to the, uh, the construction.
And also you just, it's so unnecessary.
So driving is dumb and a robot should do it is what I'm hearing here, but it's
hard to teach robots how to do it.
Cause we're, we don't really know how to do it.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
We do a lot of stuff on instinct.
And, uh, I forget if this was from this book or not, but like, if you ask
someone to pantomime the hand motions they make when they're turning a car,
they actually do it incorrectly.
Right.
Like turning left and turning right.
Yeah.
People do that the wrong way.
Well, you actually did it correctly.
But, but I know what you mean.
And that's, that's true.
I think cause it's kind of intuitive, especially like when reversing, uh, we're
trying to get my fiancee into her, into the garage cause it snowed crazy in Denver
this week and the, my parking lot was like kind of plowed in that there was like
room for like one car, but since the, the snow piles were three feet tall, she
couldn't like back into spots to try and angle in.
And so trying to tell her from standing behind the car, like go this way or like
turn left and then, you know, see how the wheels work when you're trying to like
three point turn in.
It's, it's not super intuitive.
I guess unless you are painting a picture in your head of what your wheels are
doing while you're doing it, rather than just doing what, what you feel like you're
doing, I guess I'm getting as driving as confusing.
Um, but I did like, there was one note on here.
When is rolling through a stop sign permissible?
Never question mark.
Um, and then you just mentioned driving exams.
When I took my driving exam, I was told the first thing you said when, when we
stopped was like, you didn't stop once during your exam.
Here's your doubt.
Here's your permit.
