just like the sign that they post, which is basically the way of saying
like if you're acting weird, we'll kick you out.
But the sign doesn't say that it says we can refuse service for any reason.
I would assume if it's your company, you can give free stuff to whoever you want.
Yeah, but there's also the public access laws
where if you are a public facing company, you have to treat all customers equally.
Like if you are selling shoes,
you can't kick out black people.
You can't kick out women.
You can't be like, we will not serve you birthday kick thing.
Oh, yeah, they're pretty kicking too, I guess.
But the law was originally passed to allow black people to eat at diners with white people.
They're like, if you're a public facing company,
you have to serve everyone who wants to give you money to get your product.
And that's that's it.
You don't get to say, no, you're black, so we won't sell you a sandwich.
Maybe these bars get around that by serving everybody,
but only some people have to pay.
Well, I mean, for me, it sounds like they aren't getting our way with it anymore
because someone took it to court and won.
I think this was like, you know, one guy doing this to several bars in one state or something.
I don't think that has changed the.
I believe the state was Colorado.
Really? Yeah.
Oh, I assumed it was Florida.
What happened exactly?
I apparently I don't have the details.
I my understanding is the thing that he went to several night clubs or bars or something
on ladies nights and tried to get free drinks and said, sorry, ladies only.
And he's like, aha, I got you for discrimination and then sued
and won a few times to different at different establishments.
I assume it was just some asshole trying to make some easy money.
Now, I think it was no actual dude with principles who wanted to see if the law applies.
No, I always assumed that he was making in hundreds of thousands on each of these lawsuits
and was just doing that for a living.
How do you make money on lawsuits?
Don't people make money like Sue McDonald's for hot coffee and this don't get wrong.
She was disgustingly intensely injured.
I heard another person come back and say that actually the McDonald's
coffee wasn't hotter than any of the other coffee being served at the time.
But the debate continues.
In the United States, state courts in California, Maryland,
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin have ruled that ladies night discounts are unlawful,
gender-based price discrimination under state or local statutes.
However, courts in Illinois, Minnesota and Washington have rejected
a variety of challenges to such discounts. Weird.
Yeah. The more we talk about this, the more I think I'm against ladies night.
But I have to think about it more to form like a coherent opinion
rather than just a gut instinct thing.
I'm like I said, I'm not.
I don't really care what the other because I don't go out.
And I think most people like them.
And if most people like things and they aren't hurting people, then whatever.
But I think they do go against the principle of gender equality.
So that's my opinion on that.
It goes against the principle, but whatever.
Yeah. And it's also like weird, like I'm non-binary.
Do I get a drink?
Yeah, non-binary night.
I mean, are they, I guess that depends on whether they're giving the drink
based on gender or sex.
What are they exactly?
How are, you know, that's what I'm getting weird vibes off of it from.
Yeah.
I'd rather everybody just get treated equally now that I, you know,
kind of am thinking about it.
But then you're imputing on a company to do whatever it wants
with its own company, right?
So I guess, I mean, a bunch of big government leftists.
This is hard. I'm done.
Let's make an episode about this later.
I don't have a lot to say about it.
I was just thrown in there because it was somehow vaguely related to the chess
thing, which I should have saved that guy, that post about the guy talking
about chess championships and stuff, because I thought it was relevant.
But then in my defense, I thought we were going to get to this sooner.
So.
So not without incident asked, I'm not a writer.
So be curious about Inya Ash's opinion.
And I think this is before we had Jess on as a as a co-host and you're also a writer.
So I want your feedback on that.
Yeah, I'm not published, but yeah.
But great things.
It doesn't seem to me like most bestselling authors are sellouts.
Obviously, some are.
But even looking at sci-fi, not generally the case, for example,
ready player one may seem like pandering, but based on it on interviews,
it also seemed like exactly what Ernest Klein wanted to write.
God, I butchered that. That's why you guys read these.
Yeah, I think not without incident has a very, very good point.
And for the most part, every single with a few exceptions,
everything I've seen that catches on and becomes bestseller is something
that the author did really want to write and feels, you know,
strongly for and is not just like making a cold, calculated cash grab.
To be honest, I, in my personal experience, have only run across that once.
And it just really left such a bad taste in my mouth that I remembered it.
I'm sure it happens every now and then.
I hear James Patterson does it constantly.
I know the creative Garfield did it, but it really doesn't happen very much.
So if I gave the impression that it does, I'm really sorry.
I think what I was more on about was that
you were channeling that you wrote a non-traditional book
and it didn't become a New York Times bestseller.
You know, right? Not even that.
I mean, sure, that's it's not as optimal as writing a bestseller would be.
And in any case, but no, the thing is you read a lot
and you start to kind of see what will become a bestseller and why.
And it just kind of I understand why people like it.
So I don't know.
I don't remember where this video was, so I can't link it.
But all of the most popular movies, games, books, anything, any sort of media,
the most popular ones always have the same message.
And that message is always you were right all along.
Yeah, Neo in the Matrix, the main story of that
the main message of that movie, Neil was right all along.
Harry Potter. Yeah, he started out being, you know, living under the stairs.
Everyone hated him.
He was right all along.
Any sort of story that's really affirming and that people love
is a story that the main message is you were right all along.
And I just am bored with those now.
And yeah, I'm trying to think of that applied to things like worm,
I guess specifically just worm, because Ward is in finished every wild
those other stuff and almost a little I'm like wondering about that.
Finally, everyone is working together.
Yeah, well, like she's also a what is the word, unreliable protagonist.
So unreliable narrator or unreliable.
Yeah, that's it. Oh, that's interesting.
Oh, well, we spoiled it.
I mean, it's not really a spoiler because it's never explicitly said.
In fact, I didn't really think of that until you pointed that out a couple
weeks ago when we were chatting about it.
Really? I mean, there's there's times
definitely where like she's unreliable for like explicit in text reasons,
like she's blind or something.
But that was like for the narrative of that those scenes.
But it didn't occur to me until like mainly, I guess, when you had me reflect on it
and listening to we've got worm.
But like, yeah, you're in her head the whole story.
And of course, like, and it makes sense to me because I totally feel where she's
going from all the time.
But then it occurs to me like she totally feels where she's going from all the time.
And I'm in her in her head.
So I guess I would.
But I guess I didn't think about the unreliable narrator thing until he
pointed it out to me.
I didn't mean to cut you off.
I'm sorry.
I was enthusiastic, much my thought.
I'm sorry.
I was eager to to join in on how I was enlightened by that.
And then the point.
Let's see.
It kind of maybe you know, it's kind of like your your thing with like the generic
superhero movie.
It's like, here's the recipe for a superhero movie.
Go forth and make it a high that you guys all enjoyed it.
Just like we all knew you would.
And so like there's been that suite of like basically child battle
battle royale movies that are based off of books that have been coming
in the last five years, like The Hunger Games and Divergent and other things
like that, where it's like all exactly the same.
So I'm just talking about future with tribes of humans that don't get to choose
their tribes and then one's awesome.
That that seems like a recipe.
And I can't believe that the third or fourth person to do that thought that
they had an original idea, right?
Right.
Maybe they did.
Then again, that's not really fair because like there's a hundred movies
are like the person's secretly a wizard.
Yeah, it doesn't have to be an original idea.
It was just someone who thought, oh, that's a really cool concept.
I want to write something like that.
And they did.
It doesn't have to be original to in spark a passion at someone.
Yeah, that's stories I think are unoriginal.
I mean, really, there's only seven stories in the world, right?
Well, not really, but what's that from?
It's it's an old theory of not even literature, just theory of story
telling in general, that there's really only seven basic stories
and sometimes the number fluctuates.
Sometimes there's only three, sometimes there's only 12, whatever.
But it comes down to there's only so many broad general categories
that you can more or less fit everything into, but that doesn't mean
things aren't unoriginal.
If you have a summary of that, whatever analysis I'm interested in reading,
it sounds like something Robin Hansen might notice or point out.
I think like the I think it's true for mainstream stuff.
I don't know.
I like to read weird experimental short stories that are just like Xeno fiction,
which I don't think fall into any of them, but like depends what you're counting.
What's Xeno fiction or like starfish alien fiction?
Like somebody is just basically trying to get into the head of the most inhuman
thing they can imagine and kind of describe stories about them or their
daily lives.
OK, like three worlds collide from the super happiest point of view.
Yeah, stuff like that.
That sounds cool.
That sounds awesome.
