That's a good question.
How smart does the animal have to be before you would fight back?
Like, I'm just being like an asshole.
Let's go on.
Can you take antibiotics?
Yeah, can you, uh,
that seems to be like the, the bottom level of where it's okay to resist.
But to get back to, to, to more than a male's question here, speaking of,
which more than a male is a shep is a amalgamation of two words of the
ancient language and wheel of time.
So I think this is the third time you've mentioned it.
Yeah, but the running joke on we've got ward is that Scott will plug his Twitter
handle and then fail to pronounce mats in a different way every week.
So it's, it's, it's funny.
Sort of an inside joke, but at least two people on the inside get it.
So, uh, so I thought it was just a fun question that I don't know if we have a
quick answer to, cause we did talk about a bit, like the, what was his name?
Alex Jones saying some letters to these people, the, the actors who pretended to
have kids that got shot at this fake shooting or whatever.
That, that's not, I think you even considered that that was like, that's
just harassment.
And so yeah, shoot, you know, take them off for that.
Right.
But then I guess it's weird.
Cause when we were talking about like the punching Nazis thing, if it's just
someone talking about a peaceful reclamation of, of white culture or something,
they could go up there and make all the right noises that sound perfectly
nonviolent, but there's no such thing as a peaceful, what amounts to a peaceful genocide.
Right.
Which is what you would say.
You would respond with, there's no such thing.
Here's why that's ridiculous.
And yeah, but then they, they could still make the same complaints about like,
I'll, as D platform, just for expressing my, my desire to not be multicultural.
He won't, he's not multicultural.
Multicultural, multicultural.
I mean, he's not the platform.
But if you responded to him, right?
That was just you saying things on your platform.
Right.
But what if they took him off Patreon?
I don't know what, what Richard Spencer High makes his living, but if he was a
podcaster or something and that this was his message, could they, would you be,
would is that cool to kick him off for being like that?
It's hard to say.
If the president gets up there and makes noises about not wanting to,
you know, concede our, our way of life or the, this insidious threat of the others,
whether it's the Mexicans or the Muslims or the whatever.
And then somebody runs and shoots up a synagogue and says the exact same things
about the Jews he just massacred.
Like one's just saying, oh, we don't want to, we're, we're, we're for threatened or
something.
But then it seems like the very natural extension to feeling threatened is to act out
against it.
Right.
I actually think if someone did do that, it would be valuable to point out their
speech and say, this is, this is what he said.
This is where thinking and saying these sorts of things will get you.
It'll turn you into homicidal maniac.
This did happen.
Yeah.
I was talking about shooting at the synagogue in Pennsylvania.
Right.
Yeah.
And, and you know about it.
And then that's what you can say to people who are like, no, I'm, I'm for the, the peaceful
reclamation of, of America for the white people.
You're like, people who listen to what you say, go and shoot up synagogues.
They quoted you in their tweet just before they did it.
And therefore we're taking off Twitter.
Is that, you know, no, no, not in there for taking off Twitter.
That is helping people see why you don't want to say and think those things because
it drives you into becoming a homicidal person that kills the innocent before he
kills himself or has the police got him down.
I think the person who says those things and inspires those maniacs is fully aware
of what they're doing and they're doing it on purpose.
And so they're not going to be dissuaded by the fact that people are actually
running with what they're saying.
Okay.
They'll, they'll make noises about, oh, they shouldn't have done that.
That's not what I meant, but, or maybe they mean it, but for my thought experiment,
whatever, pretending that they're not.
I see.
You think he's secretly happy because that'll make people of that minority scared to live
in this country and move away.
That sounds like the kind of thing that sounds super plausible.
Yeah.
And if it's not plausible for a real person, which I think it is, then it's plausible
for a fake person for the sake of argument.
Right.
And then at that point, it's, I think that's sort of like, is that sufficiently harmful
to say, all right, cool, fuck you.
We're taking away your, your access on our platform.
It's, it's, it's slippery.
And I, I don't, I didn't bring this, I didn't want to talk about
more than a male's submission because I thought it was an easy one.
I thought it was just kind of fun.
Yeah.
Now this is a good way to reframe that discussion we had too.
Like, uh, we were pointing out a bunch of specific examples about this, this would be
bad and push should be punishable.
This seems fine, but like, yeah, if, if you can make rules about what kind of speech
should be banned and versus not, but uh, yeah, then I don't know, you get into all the stuff
that you guys were just talking about, like there's ways that you could, uh, have plausible
deniability.
Yeah, it gets weird.
I think at some point you would be able, once they've said enough things to make a case that
they are complicit in it.
Yeah, that would be like evidence against them.
Yeah, I mean, I'm thinking specifically, uh, Eliezer has on more than one occasion said,
don't ever, ever do any violence to anyone based on something they've said that argument
always gets counter argument, never gets a bullet.
So in everything I've ever seen of him, he's been very explicit about don't do bad things
like shooting up places, don't ever enact violence against people.
And I don't think you could ever make a case that he is complicit in something like that,
whereas I'm pretty sure someone like Richard Spencer, you wouldn't have to dig very far at all
to see him saying things like, yeah, you know, I'm, I'm kind of glad they're scared now.
I hope, I hope that continues.
And at that point, you could probably not actually in, in our society, but ideally you
could take someone to court and say you are threatening people.
Yeah, you're inciting violence.
Yeah, you're inciting violence.
They wouldn't be like a bunch of rules that you would have to write ahead of time.
And then you could judge each individual like, you know, thing that a person says,
you'd have to actually look at the history of what they've been saying and then what the
cause is.
Yeah.
So, but that's probably like a more sensible way to do this actually.
Yeah, I think being able to make a good case that someone is actually inciting violence is
what we would need.
Although I do agree that I don't think that executives of companies or the PR departments
of companies are good at making those decisions.
I think that they're just in it for whatever will make them look the best to the majority
of their user base.
Yeah.
Like I could easily see someone kicking off Liam Neeson for being like, oh,
that racist asshole, we don't want him on our platform.
Sure.
Right after he said that.
But like you said, they've got to make a reasonable case that this person was like this,
right?
I mean, under a due process system, yes.
But if right now, Patreon or Twitter, no, they wouldn't have to, they'd be like,
oh, he said this thing, he's out of here.
We have all these people calling for his blood.
Yeah.
And he confessed to doing something if that were a court, if you went and confessed to
doing a crime, like.
He confessed to wanting to commit a crime.
Yeah.
But that's not illegal yet, is it?
No, but talking about, yeah, I don't know.
That's not illegal, but it might get him banned from a platform for like doing wrong speech.
In his specific case, he wasn't saying, and this was awesome, go, you know,
I hope people take this message and go forth and beat people up.
Right. No system of due process would ever find him guilty.
I think even like a reasonable public process shouldn't either, right?
Like, because again, his message, you know, due process might not find Richard Spencer guilty,
which is fine.
Due process should be, should be limited that way, probably, you know, whatever.
I'm not a lawyer, but it should be, it's hard to get somebody convicted of a crime.
That should be the case.
But with Liam Neeson's thing, he couldn't have, I can't think of a way it could possibly have
been better, given that he once thought bad things for a few weeks in his youth,
in the, in the middle of, you know, the IRA car bombing Ireland in 40 years ago.
Like, I don't know, man, who, who in 60 years hasn't had a bad thought, right?
There was a great thing I saw it on, might have been on not wholesome memes.
It was not wholesome enough for wholesome memes.
So it's some nice subreddit that was like, decent memes.
Yeah, we're okay memes.
But, but it was just like somebody's, it was a capture of a tweet that was like,
progress happens, people change 15 years ago.
I was lightly transphobic.
I was passively sexist.
Like just because you grew up with ideas, then you overcome them.
And I've had, I was raised in an environment that let, that had me instill some bad ideas.
And I shook them off, but God forbid if I had a podcast 20 years or what, how old am I?
10, 20, 15 years ago, who cares?
And I had said some of these things back then, right?
And I wasn't like, I didn't have the power or just, you know,
was never in it enough to advocate for whatever.
But people, people grow and change.
I don't know what I'm trying to get at here, other than I think I've gotten distracted
because you weren't drawing an equivalency between, you were trying to, I think,
point at how muddy the line is, because whatever Robert Richard Spencer falls under,
Liam Neeson might fall under it too.
But I, I, I can't see them as more different.
No, no, I agree that I absolutely agree with you 100%.
The way that the mob treats the two of them is almost identical.
Yeah.
And for that reason, since the, the social media PR departments respond to the mob,
I don't think they are a good arbiter of this sort of thing.
Okay. I see what you're saying.
I think so you're saying censorship isn't the way to go from the,
from the point of view of the, of the platform owner.
Right.
Because they're going to do whatever the mob wants,
because the mob uses their platform the most.
All right.
But the, the rational, the sensible.
