I'll take it at face value because everyone else is how, how, what more could they possibly
wanted?
His only, like I said, his crime is having once had racist thoughts 40 years ago and
that he doesn't have anymore and that he feels that like he's ashamed of.
To me, this was like an inspiring story of growth.
He might have changed some minds that day, you know, I guess I, I didn't know what, what
the mob wanted.
I don't think they know either.
They just want something to crucify.
They're like, you said something racist in some way.
And so up on the cross for you time.
I guess.
Yeah.
That reminds me, Johnny Depp, um, his girlfriend or wife, I forget, said that, you know, he
used to beat her and stuff and had bruises and took pictures and all that.
Well, he just, I think he, I think he won the suit or just like it became public that
that he countersuit the defamation and he's got surveillance footage of her like being
crazy abusive.
One time she had smashed his hand so hard that has lost a piece of his finger.
Wow.
Um, you know, cause he's got some mansion and he's a rich guy.
He's got cameras and stuff and all of them have all this abuse towards her and all the
stuff that she said happened was never, never on any of this footage.
Wow.
I hadn't heard of that.
That's wild.
That the news came out about Johnny Depp and yesterday being what, 13th of March.
So it was interesting cause I was reading the comments there like people learning about
this.
And they're like, yeah, I was on the bandwagon.
I, I'm kind of ashamed that I jumped on this just cause.
Cause he's a guy.
Well, yeah.
And the, you know, this was.
Yeah.
The whole narrative of a.
Guy suck.
Well, that and also celebrities, people in, you know, positions of power in particular
are going to abuse them and reinforce hierarchies.
Yeah.
And it, it's dragons that does happen and what sucks.
And that, this is the same every time somebody makes a false, false claim whatsoever.
Like, um, I'm realizing that I'm picking a lot of like left leaning examples.
That's cause we, the reason I do that and to be an asshole, that's cause I expect better
of the left.
Like on the right, that guy who tried to, who paid that woman to pretend that, uh, Mueller
raped her.
I hadn't heard about that.
Oh, I'll find his name cause it sounds like this sounds ridiculous, not that I'm making
it up.
The whole thing was completely farcical.
Well, there was that whole, uh, two person team, a guy and a girl who, uh, we're trying
to sting, uh, abortion centers into like admitting that they sell baby parts or something.
Oh, I remember that.
Yeah.
Didn't hear about this one.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
It was fucking crazy.
That's nuts.
Yeah.
The guy you tried to, to make up this claim against Mueller, nothing happened against
him.
So he did something else recently.
And it was just yesterday, the day before, I think I didn't, I can't, I involved another
false police report, but I can't remember what it was.
There was that right wing lady who carved a B in her face when Obama was running for the
first time.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So anyway.
She, she's carved a B into her face and said that a black man attacked her and said something
about like, Obama's going to be the next president or something, right?
Why a B?
Uh, for Barack.
Okay.
Have you done an O for Obama?
Yeah.
Well, I think a B is easier to carve than an O.
I guess.
Yeah.
But, uh, importantly, the B was mirror-imaged on her face, so it was kind of obvious she
did it in a mirror.
Cause everyone was like, that B's backwards.
No one would carve a B that way unless they were looking at you in a mirror, huh?
That's ridiculous.
And with makeup, she actually carved this to her own face.
Yes.
And didn't reverse it.
What a fucking idiot.
I mean, don't get wrong.
It was all dumb, but that's like the one part of the crime.
You get right.
Well, I mean, maybe.
Maybe.
So.
So we're just like making fun of dumb artists now?
No, no.
I, I, I, I, I only brought that up because.
All right.
Let's make fun of the left again.
Well, I only brought that up because all the examples that I bring up are like left-leaning
things.
Yeah.
And I think, and this is, I think Sam Harris put it this way was that like, you know, why
do you only get on the left for like complaining about being dishonest or intellectual dishonesty
is he's constantly complaining about is like, because we expect better of the left.
Yeah.
He didn't put it quite subpoinantly, but I think that's, that's the main thing.
And I guess because me, it's like, it's quote, my tribe.
Yeah.
Like I want, I want my guys to be the cool guys.
If you guys are going to suck like them, why am I even hanging out with you?
I'm more along the lines of because I expect people on, I know this is, it's not racist.
It's whatever it is, tribalist, I guess, to expect people on the right to attack me.
So whatever.
But the first time you're like seriously attacked by someone on the left, it feels like you
are being betrayed and your allies are suddenly turned on you.
And it's really shitty.
And it happens a lot, fucking happened to Al Franken.
It shouldn't.
And yet all the time.
Yeah.
And so the reason I was thinking of the Johnny Depp situation and then on the other side,
the Mueller fabricator, it sucks because crimes happen all the time.
And you know, a lot of people do suck.
And then when somebody makes something up for either to get attention or when oppression
Olympics points or to try and defame somebody, they delegitimize, they help delegitimize
every legitimate claim.
And that's crazy annoying.
So I don't know what to do about it.
I actually, I have a suggestion, like as long as I'm talking up my ass and we're already
kind of all over the place, because Reddit's got a big circle jerk about rape, or false
accusations, never having anything happen, just other than the guy getting expelled and
you know, dragged through the mud for three years while he clears his name.
And then, you know, she maybe gets a couple of months in prison or something, he's like,
they should reverse the sentence.
And yeah, I think that's a great idea.
I think that's a fair, but the downside is that then like, if you try to frame someone
for murder, then you get the jail time that he would have gotten if he was found guilty.
That sounds good for a clear cut crime, like murder where there was a body, but the downside
is like, if you say, yeah, a month ago, this guy assaulted me, the downside of reversing
the punishment is that there's not a way to prove either way.
So I guess in that case, you just let there's not an easier solution for that.
But if you can prove that it was made up, there was one that I saw years ago where somebody
had said that they were assaulted by a professional sports person.
I can't remember what, what, no, it was basketball or football or whatever.
And they like said when and where.
And another editor saw this and he was like, they were on a flight from like Chicago to
whatever, going to a game at that exact hour.
Like, what are you talking about?
So like, if that's the, if it's that cut and dry, and you can say, look, it's made
up, then whatever, but so often you can't.
And if you're, I don't even know about like whatever, I feel like there should be some
consequence.
It is really hard to, first of all, like find that person.
And did you say that that was like, someone had come out and made that accusation or was
it just like they kind of, they posted it somewhere?
The, the football person?
Yeah, I read this three or four years ago.
I can't remember, but for, well, it's paying to as easy as you want for the thought
experiment and we'll run with that.
I think it should be punished just as much as if it wasn't easily disprovable because
the whole point is most of the time they're not easily disprovable.
So when you can disprove it, then it should be punished as a deterrent, right?
Yeah, but I think like, imagine if you claimed that like some rich asshole
spitballing, maybe someone like Donald Trump assaulted you, right?
Daddy Trump has enough money to like bribe the case, you know, if he wanted to.
There was just that thing yesterday about all those people paying to get their kids
into nice schools.
If you can, if you can afford to write a $20 million check, you can afford to fake
some evidence.
Well, so you could turn this around by cheating the system and bribing forensic
experts or something, right?
I see. Or faking records.
So like it sounds appealing and it sounds like a nice, easy solution, but it sounds
so easily scrubbable.
And it might disincentivize people who actually did get raped by Donald Trump or
someone like him to, you know, come forward and say something.
Because well, I don't think he'd ever get if he actually did rape someone, there
wouldn't ever be a case of him actually being on a flight towards him during that
time. No, but you could, I mean, they could doctor evidence of some sort.
Exactly.
If you get a million dollars to pay the best forensics faker to fake you a, you
know, plain log or something, whatever, and then pay a judge to say, don't look at
the plain log too closely or something.
I don't know.
I feel like sneaky things happen in court and the more money you have, the
sneakier you can be.
But yeah, so next, next thing.
Oh, I got a quick, really quick one.
This will only take 30 seconds.
All right.
Richard, you wrote in and said that our episodes are coming out really quiet.
So everyone who heard last week's episode, episode 80 on GPT2, I upped that by
whatever the units of things that Audacity uses.
Disables.
Is it just decibels on the slider?
Yeah.
