Welcome to The Basin Conspiracy, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Stephen Zuber, I'm Jess Dickey,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky, I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
I'm Inie Ashbrotsky,
Okay, then.
Okay, then.
I think they do pay better than average.
Don't quote me on that.
In that case, we should be supporting Chick-fil-A because they're helping overthrow the capitalist regime.
See, that's the thing. I think this is all signalling stuff. If you looked at all the CEOs of different companies and boycotted them based on terrible things they believed, I feel like you wouldn't be able to shop anywhere.
Also, you would have to boycott everyone because everyone in the world has at least one thing they disagree with you on.
Yeah, that's what I was saying.
I'm sure me and Stephen have one thing that I'm like, you believe that thing? You can't be my friend anymore.
We'll have to find that.
But to be clear, I wasn't talking about fast food stuff. And honestly, I wish I'd reread the post because I don't really remember the full context of this.
I forgot the link somewhere, but it's not readily available, so we'll just power through.
Basically, the post was saying that it's exclusion if you don't hire somebody based on criteria that is unrelated to their fit for the job, their fitness for the job.
And I think you and I talked about this a bit. I think I threw it into like the censorship episode.
Yeah, I have something to say about that, too, but it's going to be maybe a derailment.
I mean, it's the feedback episode. Derailment is what we're all about.
That's what we're here for, but I'll power through just the bold question I've got here at the end.
Yeah, that's what I wanted to give you.
An extreme case to the supply to literally Nazis.
So I used the example of bringing someone into your house, and that's maybe a little different than working at your store.
If you owned a mom-and-pop shop and you needed 10 people to staff it, I feel like it would be hard for me not to be prejudiced against people.
I guess if they had a blatant swastika tattoo, they'd probably have that out while they're on the shift and that would scare people away.
So that's a good reason that actually does relate to the job.
But I don't know if they just came into the MAGA hat and the workplace mandated a certain like kind of hair catching hat or something.
So they'd be wearing that instead of their MAGA one.
I don't know, you might be like, one might be more inclined to hire people that they more ideologically get along with.
And that's also, I guess, company fitness.
It's somewhat like, yeah, you're allowed to choose employees.
That's basically what I was going to say.
A lot of places, I think like aside from maybe strict scientific or like software engineering jobs, use behavioral questions only on job tests now.
The software job I worked at definitely did a behavioral component on the application and interview process that I did.
And I can attest that everybody I spoke to there that I ever came up with was at least on the left side of center on most things.
But you're in Denver.
That's true.
But I mean, well, I mean, this kind of a swing state.
There's people would not in.
I mean, sure there is, but in Denver proper, most people are left.
There's pretty blue.
That's part of why I moved here.
Well, that's what I get for never going outside.
So, um, all right, I'll say the book and let you down.
I had this all like ready to talk about.
And I kind of forgot the full context other than,
Well, you still, we haven't answered this supply to Nazis, though.
Yeah, but I guess, I mean, there's not really a good like, like I said, I think the thing is, is that like,
if someone is friendly, provides good customer service, there's no outward sign that he's a Nazi.
I mean, he's blonde and blue-eyed, but so are a lot of non-Nazis, right?
And you just find out that when he goes home, he likes to read Mein Kampf and he's like,
man, this country would be so much better off if we could get rid of all the Jews.
The caveat here that Scott gave, which I think is really important is that
any characteristic related job performance broadly defined, including things like company fit and fun to work with.
If you had that guy who won't shut up about how the earth is flat or something,
every time that someone says, like, look at the sunset or something, right?
Yeah.
Like, whatever, that's not a good company fit.
And so like, to the extent that you're the only person in the office
who like really wishes all of your Jewish co-workers would die, then like,
if that belief ever came out, then it's like, look, you're not a good fit for the company.
It has nothing to do with you. Well, it has everything to do with you as a person.
It's not you, it's me.
I don't want some genocidal maniac in my store, so you've got to go.
Yeah.
But if you don't say it, then I mean, I guess.
If you never knew about it, you'd never know about it.
Well, not if you never knew about it, but like, if he never brought it up,
you could still, you know, hire someone to go dig into his Facebook profile
and find out what his views are or interview his friends if you really wanted to.
You'd have to do that to every employee, and that's awful.
First of all, yeah, that's awful.
Of course, like, I think companies do that already.
Oh, there's companies that demand that you give them your Facebook password before they'll hire you.
And I'm like, that's not a company I would ever work for,
because you can eat all of my ass.
Yeah.
But not everyone has that luxury, first of all.
And also, should it matter in that case?
Like, I kind of don't think it should.
Yeah, I kind of, when you first asked the question, it was like,
I think I'd still hire him as long as he wasn't actively harassing any of the other like co-workers
or if it was like a customer service position, you know?
I mean, more than anything.
I'm just waiting for him to show up at, you know, some MAGA rally,
you know, not to rail against these people, but whatever, 2019.
This is what's going on.
All right.
And then, you know, they're pictures on the news and be like,
oh, look, they're still wearing their Zuber's Pizzeria t-shirt at this rally.
You probably should not be wearing the Zuber's Pizzeria t-shirt.
So, but that's the thing is like, I think a company that said you can only wear our stuff
when engaging in like morally permissible behavior or something grotesque like that
would also be super turn-offing, right?
Yeah.
So it's, or like maybe they weren't wearing the t-shirt, but when this guy,
if they get on a podcast and start spewing a bunch of hate and then someone like goes at them on Twitter
and digs up their profile or something like, oh, look, they,
I mean, isn't this what got James Gunn fired?
Well,
Someone digging up this past stuff.
Yes.
But there's two important differences there.
And one's something way for me, but the most important thing is that James Gunn is awesome.
And what he got in trouble for was bullshit.
This could be an awesome Nazi.
Yeah.
But if his stuff was 10 years old,
Yeah.
That's totally fine.
Is that totally fine?
I think so.
Can you go non-genocidal in just 10 years?
Yes.
Okay.
I mean,
I think you can go non-genocidal.
You can go from murderous to non-murderous in like a month.
No, okay.
Probably less.
I mean, the thing,
We should talk about the Liam Neeson thing that was going on last month.
Oh, yeah.
That was neat.
It was awesome.
The thing I keep thinking about is like, if this was the 50s,
you could replace this with, does this apply to atheists?
And people would be like, well, that's going too far.
We don't want any atheists around in our company because, you know,
they were godless society destroying people.
And don't get me wrong,
my impulse is completely to agree with you.
Yeah.
But I think when I'm wearing two different hats,
if I'm the person looking for the job,
I don't care if my coworkers are as long as they're nice and cool to work with
and go to their jobs.
If I ran a company,
especially a small company that, you know,
couldn't take a big hit like this, you know,
if there are people picketing out in front of my mom and pop shop
and nobody could get in past the sign wielding angry mob,
then my business shuts down.
I lose my livelihood, right?
So it's, this is actually really reminiscent of,
Peter Singer wrote a great essay,
probably like 30, 40 years ago called
Is Rational Discrimination Always Arbitrary?
And it had three thought experiments in it.
And one of them was, I think they're all,
they're all thought provoking,
but one of them was if you ran a restaurant in, you know,
some racist backhills area in the South or something,
again, not shooting on people from there,
it's just, this was the thought experiment.
And you're not racist,
but you realize a lot of your clients are.
You know, you would lose business if you hired this black,
what do you call it, bus boy or something, waiter,
that's the word I was looking for.
So is it racist of you not to hire the person?
It's hard to, like that's the point is it's hard to say,
it's a bit of head scratcher,
because like on the one hand you're not hiring him because he's black,
which is like, well, that sounds like textbook,
but it's like, I'm not, that's not really why it's because I'll lose business.
And it's like, well, then you should get up and move to a different part,
but that sounds hard to do for almost everybody, right?
A lot of people can't just leave their business and their lives
and move to a more accepting area,
although unless you can, like, yes.
I mean, but the solution seemed to be past laws
so that they have to hire black people, right?
Yeah, but I think either this was,
well, this would have been definitely after that probably,
but maybe it was before it was widely enforced
and thought experiment rules on apply.
And did the passing of those laws help in those areas?
I have no idea.
It's hard to say.
I mean, race is not going to hire people
just because they're assholes anyway,
but now if you, this guy said,
hey, look, you know, to his racist patrons,
like, oh, you know, it was the law and I'm okay with it.
And then maybe it'd make a few less races,
but oh, this guy's just as good as everybody else or something, right?
So I don't know.
I want to say that stuff like really did actually help.
I think certainly some parts that did.
I'm not sure how legitimate like the idea of quotas is,
like if that's actually a thing that people do anymore.
