There are some things that are actually, yeah,
that should be stopped from being spread.
Fair enough.
Such as direct incitement to violence.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And there are things that shouldn't be stopped from being said.
Yeah.
Cool.
Even if they're shitty things, if they're not hurting anyone.
I mean, even if they are hurting people like race,
saying racist things does hurt people.
Yeah.
And I still think it should be okay to say that.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Or yeah, like hurting people's feelings shouldn't be illegal,
unless it's like a harassment campaign or something.
Interesting side note.
More than a male brought up the, the standard example of,
we all agree that yelling fire in a crowded theater should be punishable,
which I'm sure we all do.
But assuming the theater isn't on fire.
Yes.
Yeah.
Apparently this was the thing that happened a lot,
where there were bad theater fires and just hundreds would die,
either in the fire or in the stampede to get out.
Anyways, this came from a Supreme Court case,
where a justice pointed this out that that should be punishable.
The Supreme Court case in question was a man being tried
for saying that the draft in World War One should not be a thing,
that the draft was unconscionable and we should move away from a draft system.
And they sent him to jail because he said,
I have freedom of speech.
I can say this thing.
And they're like,
this is the equivalent of yelling fire in a crowded theater.
You're going to jail.
So that's a slimy way to, to, to employ that sort of reasoning, isn't it?
You know, I think we all think so nowadays.
It's yeah, it really shows you how much society has changed
and how good arguments can be used in bad causes.
Yeah, that's, that's a danger.
I mean, that's, I think,
because we did eventually get rid of the draft
because we do think it's unconscionable.
I mean, that's something that, you know, like he said,
using good arguments for bad reasons is something
that I think every aspiring rationalist tries not to do.
That's sort of like the inverse of that dendern thing I've repeated over and over
of like, bad arguments for positions I agree with.
It's like good arguments for positions I hate.
But that's, that's different because you can't quite do that
because that's not really, I mean, I guess now in today's context,
that's not the same.
The fire.
The government decided that he was directly endangering people's lives
by saying that people shouldn't be pressed into the military.
He was threatening the security of the nation by doing this,
which is as bad as yelling fire in a credit theater.
It's interesting in the context of World War I,
they make a somewhat compelling point.
Oh, World War I wasn't the same as World War II.
No, but I think, and I guess I'm not a historian,
but just in the context of like, we need bodies.
The world wasn't at risk because we don't have nukes yet, but whatever.
Our way of life might have been something like that, right?
I don't think we have to get involved.
I'm not, I'm not a historian, so I'm speaking up my ass,
but I can see a context in which that thing kind of is defensible.
Like, look, you can't be telling,
you can't be making these really good points about how people shouldn't be joining
because we need them to.
So you need to shut the fuck up or we're going to make you shut up.
I can imagine a world in which that is a good argument to make,
not saying that our world is it.
In my world, I would say if you really think the war is both this important and this just,
you should make a counterargument to that effect
so that people will agree that the draft is a good thing,
as opposed to silencing me and throwing me in jail for talking.
Yeah, like, appeal to patriotism instead of appeal to, like,
here's some facts about future predictions.
But we don't have the time during the war to engage you and your platform and your discourse.
We're currently fighting.
We need to throw more bodies into this clusterfuck.
Yeah.
War is weird.
Glad the draft is gone.
Although I did get and subsequently throw away without opening my,
like, you've been enrolled in whatever you call it.
Selective service?
Selective service, yeah.
When I, on my, I think, can't even write them,
like, the week that I turned 18 too.
We are going to cut this from the podcast because that is technically illegal.
I just got the letter saying I was enrolled.
How did you get enrolled?
Because I was a guy and I turned 18.
They just sent it to you?
Yeah, they just sent me a thing that, yeah, you're in this.
If we call a draft, we might call you.
When I turned 18, they had a whole bunch of things at our high school saying,
all right, everybody's got to sign up for this now.
Interesting.
Maybe they automated it.
I don't really know.
Yeah, maybe they have.
Maybe because I didn't read it.
I don't really know what it said, but my brother opened his and I skimmed his, so.
Okay, and it just said you're in now.
I'm pretty sure, but now that you've pointed this out,
I might have been wrong.
Maybe it said you need to call us and sign up,
but no one ever came by to my house to arrest me.
It's absolutely unenforced.
No one really cares.
It's been unenforced for decades.
Well, I mean, you can leave that in or out.
We talked about drug use before too, so.
All the ones.
That's true.
Yeah, who cares?
Yeah, you're right.
There's more people in jail for drugs than the zero people that have been hurt by this thing.
We should get to the less wrong stuff and get to the rest of the feedback later.
I'll just go say that, yeah.
All right, we've got almost a couple hours worth of feedback,
so I think it's time to move on to.
We have more feedback, which we will get to later.
There's always more feedback.
Maybe next episode.
Maybe we'll do an episode of something else and then get back to feedback,
but yeah, there's more.
We're sorry we didn't get to more.
But thanks for having conversations on stuff.
It's nice.
There are, I already saw some stuff today on GPT2 on the subreddit, so.
Yeah, there is a lot actually.
Yeah, it's exciting.
By all means, go forth and continue saying stuff and talk with each other and us,
and we're happy to engage as often as we can, so.
Heck yeah.
If you can find other people in your town to talk with, that is even better.
And if you can't, there's a subreddit, so.
Exactly.
Alrighty, on to our less wrong posts.
All right, so the previous ones are kind of setting up like what's a bias.
You should tell our listeners what we're doing that we hadn't mentioned before,
three instead of two.
Oh yes, we are doing three.
I think I put this in the show notes.
I can't remember.
We're doing three.
Sequences posts.
Thank you.
Three sequences posts this episode, because the second two are both pretty short,
and the third one's really short, and it really fits with the second one.
My thousand foot view of all three of these is that, and the last couple,
is that Yuzkowski's just setting up like what a bias is.
What is, what are biases, and then the context of what he's talking about.
You know, it's like not math, not statistics, not analysis,
where he's moving into talking about cognitive biases,
and because he's going to spend the next two years writing about them.
So I think he wants to make it dead clear what he's on about.
So with that in mind, the first post we're talking about is useful statistical biases,
which is the opposite of what we talked about in the last post.
Who's our statistician who wants to talk about this one?
None of us.
I think you.
So Yuzkowski says that bias in humans means a particular tendency, trend, inclination,
feeling, or opinion, especially one that is preconceived or unreasoned,
and then says bias in statistics means a systematic as opposed to a random distortion
of a statistic as a result of a sampling procedure.
So those are two different meanings of the word bias, and I think that this is kind of
just tackling the fact that people confuse the one word for the other when they start
talking about like tackling biases or how we can get rid of biases.
He points out that sometimes biases in statistical analysis are useful for simplifying
and removing noise from things, which makes your estimate ultimately slightly less accurate.
But on the other hand, it also reduces crazy variances.
If one particular subvariable has large swings, it'll possibly move your data
more than you want it to move based on that one little thing.
And so you'll underweight it a little bit, which is a statistical bias,
which also makes things easier to model and to predict.
And so he said sometimes they can't be useful in statistical modeling.
Gave a bunch of math to it too, which it's hard to get into on the podcast,
especially with three non-math people.
Yeah. And for me, my eyes glaze over at that because I take the message and I'll
take his word for it on the numbers. Yes, it's lazy, but it's also, I don't know.
I feel like if he was pulling the numbers out of his ass, somebody would call him out by now,
and I'm pretty sure that that's not what was going on.
So yeah, I think he's a math nerd.
To him, that's probably easier than talking in English, and he's good at talking in English.
So I don't have much to say about it other than he's laying out that there are cases
out where statistical biases can be useful in this specific context of statistics.
Yeah. It's accepted because you can't get precise data.
You can't measure the biases, directions, and magnitude. Otherwise, you'd subtract it out.
So you'd try to get rid of bias and statistics too, if you were able to.
With cognitive bias, you do have some idea of the direction of your area,
and the whole point of rationality is the attempt to subtract that out.
