You did a good job.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
So I think when I took my driver's exam, I knew that not stopping at any red was
an immediate fail.
So I stopped at every single stupid stop sign, but there are some stop signs that
I literally do not stop for.
I will slow down check, but it's such a low traffic.
And more importantly, there's some red lights that I don't stop for because
they're ridiculous.
They're in places where they shouldn't be.
There is no traffic in any direction for quite a ways.
If I were to stop at that red stop sign, first of all, I am burning the total
amount of useful human productive minutes in the world, which is a sin by itself
by sitting in that car instead of doing something fun or productive, whatever.
I'm also increasing air pollution by burning gasoline unnecessarily sitting at
that red light.
There are some red lights that one should run if one is a moral person talking
that one on Yosemite that is for a bike lane that's on a timer or excuse me, on
a path lane that's on a timer.
Oh my God.
If you're heading towards Bellevue because there's it's not even another
line of traffic, it's for a bike lane that doesn't turn into a bike lane on
this side of the road on the, on the West side.
So it's just for like people, I guess, riding, riding or walking across to a
bike path over there, but it's on a timer.
That's ridiculous.
Yeah, that's not the one I was talking about.
Cause that, that's one that I've, I've thought of running before.
I, I guess I'm never in that much of a rush, but I totally get the impulse
cause I'm sitting there.
I guess I don't want to risk the ticket, but for me, I'm sitting at this light
and knowing that there's, I'm not stopped for anybody and that we're, we're
all stopping here at this line going both ways and there's no cross traffic
cause it's not another street.
And why is it on a fucking timer?
Put it on a button and then stop traffic for the one ass who wants to stop
traffic to cross the street.
That's fine.
Everyone needs to cross, but it's hard not to hate the person that stops
traffic to, to, but everyone's gotta get somewhere.
Anyway, it was funny.
I'm, I don't think I must not have encountered a go through a red light
or something during my test.
I didn't run a red light.
What I did is I guess came to rolling stops for my right turns at red lights
and then stop signs.
So I just distinctly remember that was the thing that was the first thing you
said was you didn't stop once and then gave you the permit.
Yep.
Well, it's hard not to pass.
I guess.
Yeah.
Um, my mom taught me the wrong way to parallel park.
And so I did that during the exam and the guy's like, all right, pull out and
then do it again, but do it this way.
And then I was able to do it correctly.
And he was like, all right, do it that way from now on.
That's hilarious.
Is the way your mom taught you just as effective?
No.
Oh, okay.
It's the wrong way.
I don't know what she was thinking.
Ah, I've got one here from more dinner mail, but it's too long for me to read
because do you guys hear how I read things?
I want someone else to read it, but it was on the censorship episode that we did.
I got it.
Red in the mail says, y'all seem to agree that yelling fire in a crowded theater
should be punishable.
On that level, you all agree that censorship has its uses.
In that particular case, the harm of the speech is immediate and obvious.
Other kinds of speech cause less obvious, less causally direct or less
immediate harm.
So the true question isn't, should censorship be permitted?
Should Patreon discriminate among its clients based on the contents of their
speech?
Instead, it's what kind of speech should be considered sufficiently harmful
that it is censored and or otherwise disincentivized.
Under basic consequentialism, I think we can all agree that there's an ethical
imperative to stop someone who's calling for violence against a specific
individual or group.
There's probably an ethical imperative to stop someone who seems to be
fomenting a mass panic.
The norm of shutting down speech, which directly causes harm is actually a
good one.
The problem again is what kind of speech constitutes harm when that becomes a
polarized, a politicized question.
And I'm not sure I trust the executives of tech companies to make those calls
in a sufficiently John Luke Picard fashion.
Also call back to John Luke Picard because I've been listening to, we've
got Worm, their excellent podcast that Matt, or Matt Slashmore Denimale and
Scott Daly do.
And they were talking about, they were trying to like basically figure out
whether or not the protagonist was doing the right or wrong thing.
And then they, and then Matt came back the next episode and he's like, you
know what, I was thinking about this.
I feel like the way to think about this would be WWJPD or yeah, what would
John, JLPD, what would John Luke Picard do?
And the answer is like, you know, never leave a man behind, never sacrifice
anybody, all that, you know, the heroic things.
And so I like the shout out to John Luke here.
And I've heard that on more than one occasion.
I think honestly, John Luke Picard is sort of the Jesus of the modern day.
Everyone, if they modeled their actions on what John Luke Picard would do, we'd
be living in a near ideal society.
That extends to Patrick Stewart as a person.
Oh, I don't know enough about Patrick Stewart.
He seems to be an outstanding dude.
Okay.
I also am really worried about ever drawing that sort of mythological
inspiration from a real person because real people have real problems.
Whereas mythological figures like John Luke Picard can be perfect
because they aren't real people.
But we can try to be as close to perfect as we can.
Yeah.
But maybe Patrick Stewart lost his temper once and yelled at his kid or something.
You know?
He wasn't doing what John Luke Picard would have done.
Right.
Which is why what would John Luke Picard do?
Not what would Patrick Stewart do.
Sure.
I would rather, I would rather, based my like, I don't know, I would rather idealize
a real person who is a really good person.
Because like, if you have as your role model, someone who doesn't actually
exist, then they're going to be perfect and humans aren't perfect.
I would rather watch somebody who makes mistakes and then see how they recover
from those mistakes.
I think.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's, that's also useful.
Yeah.
I mean, the real problem with that is that in a hundred years or so, you'll find out
that this real person like eight meter did something, I don't know, talked to children,
which apparently damages them psychologically.
Whatever we find out in a hundred years is a thing you can't do because it's
evil that we all do today.
Yeah.
Or even something that like was frowned upon at the time, but was still awesome.
Like Martin Luther King Jr. was apparently kind of womanizer and cheated on his wife
and stuff.
Like that sucks.
Not a cool thing to do, bro.
But it doesn't mean he's not super inspiring dude.
Similar to, I don't know if this is true or not, but her Gandhi didn't like black people.
And Gandhi had a bunch of problematic things about him apparently.
Yeah.
And I think, I never liked the word problematic, not an attack, but
it's gotten very politicized.
It kind of wasted a little tongue in cheek.
No, no, yeah, but it was just because it sounds like this vague sort of thing.
But yeah, I mean, so he's got his things, but that doesn't mean that then again,
also I'm not a fan of non-violence.
Don't get me wrong.
I'm not, I'm the opposite of a fan of violence in real life.
So Stephen, just before heading off to his fight club.
Right.
Yeah, but macho max was important too.
Yeah.
Well, I think my thing with non-violence is the standard thing of like, you know, any
asshole with a machete can come through and take out a whole town of non-violent
resistors, right?
Not let's say dog pile in person.
That's violent, isn't it?
Not if you don't hurt them.
I don't know.
Yeah, like then.
I guess it depends on what form of non-violence it takes.
You're supposed to just lay down and take it.
Allah Muhammad Gandhi.
Then like your, then again, he did it in a smart way.
He said, do it in front of cameras.
And you know, he, he, he did this in a way that broadcast these atrocities to the
world, which is sort of the point.
Um, I think a lot of the non-violent, um, activists actually were doing it
strategically like that.
That's good.
I think, um, there's a, there's a faction of people in the wheel of time book
series that, uh, they are strictly non-violent and in sort of like the,
the idealized Gandhi way, but to the point that it's stupid, there's literally
monsters running around like orcs.
And so, you know, they don't, they don't just find themselves against the wheel
of time as averse of orcs, which is ridiculous.
Well, you don't, because the orcs, you don't need to go as far as orcs.
I mean, even in the real world, there's monsters like bears and wolves, which
you would have to defend yourself against.
I can't remember what their version is on bears and wolves.
I can't remember if they're vegetarians or not, but hypothetically,
they could have been and sure, then yeah, that's how dumb is that?
I mean,
Yeah.
Does that extend to like non, like living things too?
Like if, if, uh, rock is rolling towards you, do you have to stand there
and take it to, or can you smash the rock?
Like,
I'm pretty sure anything without sentience is fine.
What about animals?
I, yeah, I don't know.
