Yes. This is this is your wheelhouse.
I'll let I'll let you guys read this. I can't talk.
I'll read it.
Rockham also wants to emphasize that those two guys from Yukowsky's post,
Merton and Scholes are big names in the world of derivative pricing.
Their model might not be in scare quotes true,
but it is so darn useful and near accurate that it's still the way that you
introduce anyone to the subject.
Hearing how their company failed kind of feels like how it would feel
to learn that Newton died by falling off of an apple tree.
So these are the guys who just kept investing and wouldn't let their ships sink.
Yeah. Lost tons and tons of money.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I think I was the person that didn't realize that those reveal people.
It was kind of like, man, those guys for the example, idiots,
though, nobody in real life would do that.
And then somebody pointed out, I think they're real.
I was like, damn it.
In your defense, it seemed indefensively stupid.
So stupid that would have to not be a real person.
And I wonder it sounds and I'm assuming Rockham knows more than I do.
So I'll take their word for it.
But my my impression was that they were just conning the whole time.
Like, no, no, no.
Well, but I think my impression of reading the post was that like,
you go on long enough, you need you.
It's like those alien cultists that like thought that their
alien ship was trailing behind Haley's Comet or something.
So they bought that big telescope.
And then when they didn't see it, they blamed the telescope manufacturer
and tried to return it.
OK. I thought it was like that.
We're like, they were deluded.
Yeah, they were deluded for sure.
But supposedly they believed in their own model enough to keep betting on it.
Yeah, I sort of I always sort of assumed that the ringleaders of any cult is.
Yeah, but it wasn't.
I think they were taking the hits after a while and they just kept like.
They kept running with it.
Yeah. But I thought it was kind of like some sort of Ponzi scheme stuff.
But the post didn't get into much about how they were doing all of this.
I assume it was some shady, you know, like I'm huckstering you.
Now, I think if it was that we would have heard about it,
the same we did about Madoff.
I didn't hear about Madoff.
Yeah, and also they would have made money off it.
Madoff was the guy who went to jail for his gigantic Ponzi scheme.
The biggest one in history cost literally billions of dollars.
Dope.
Man, life gets easy.
You get to live life on easy mode if you're willing to live without ethics.
Well, I mean, kind of.
Sort of.
Unless you get caught.
Yeah, that's fair.
Yeah. Speaking of cult leaders and since I got the Avengers in my mind,
there was a movie called it's actually really fun.
Bad Night at the El Royale.
It sort of did like a little anthology thing with all check into the CD motel.
That's like on the border of I think Nevada and Utah and like half the hotel
is Nevada, half is in Utah, but that's not really interesting.
And then it does like, you know, room four, room five.
And it does like what was going on because like you see kind of little bits
and then brings it all together and the crazy cult leader in that movie was Thor.
Actual Thor or the actor?
Yes. Oh, OK, neat.
Yeah, it was Chris Hemsworth.
But did he was he he didn't he didn't have his hammer.
He wasn't Thor.
I call Chris Hemsworth Thor.
OK, OK, OK, sorry. Yeah, I see the confusion.
Yeah, because if he's a crazy cult leader, he could in theory claim to be Thor
and have followers that way.
Yeah. I mean, it could have been some other actor entirely who was just like,
I am Thor worship me.
It was a fun movie. OK, sorry.
No, no, no, no, no, you're totally good.
No, it was just it was one of those bizarre sex cults.
It doesn't really explain it made him so appealing other than like the fact
that he didn't wear a shirt that closed and it was awesome.
So who who isn't into bizarre sex, right? Right.
Did he look like Chris Hemsworth?
Yeah, OK, with a weird mustache.
But I can't remember was like a goatee or something.
It was something weird. No, it wasn't a goatee.
Whatever one of those U shaped mustaches, it worked on him.
And then the dude was in it.
He was great from the Big Lebowski. Yeah. Oh, OK.
I like how you're just referring to actors as the other roles that they've played.
And the only actor's names I know I also do that because I don't know actor names.
I got it. His name was because he was also Obadiah Stain in the first Ironman movie.
The dude was. Yeah.
So I refer to people by other stuff they've been.
I don't know anyone's names.
Now I don't know his name, which is ridiculous, because I know his name.
I refer to him all the time.
And yet you have somehow catapulted his name out of my brain.
And Drake's not here, so we can't ask him.
Oh, next comment. OK.
So Elk 12 Jeff Bridges.
Anyway, Elk 12 429 was talking about chess.
I forget when we were talking about chess exactly,
but oh, yeah, we should start dating these for the future.
We should, yeah, because we put in eight days ago,
but those eight days ago when we grabbed the post.
So also we should put what they're in reference to.
There was a chess question and Elk says heads up on the chess question.
There are chess championships, which are open to anyone
regardless of gender and women's chess championships.
The dual system recognizes the most excellent women,
but the top handful of women are able to compete in both.
I think we're talking about I forget his name,
but the guy who like trained his daughters to be a really awesome at chess.
Yeah, that might have been that.
Or there's something after that, too,
where I was saying that there was that they segregate chess championships.
Well, that was probably in response to you saying that.
Yeah, but I can't remember if I learned this before or after,
if this is the same thing that I talked about that brought this comment.
But apparently they kind of only have to like,
there's the like open to anyone and then the specific women's ones.
And I understand that the reason that is,
is that there's just less women that play chess. Yeah.
So that's like that's one way to keep people engaged.
But I think I think I learned this after there was somebody
who competes at chess at the national level,
who was commenting about this on Reddit,
they were saying that the bar for being a grandmaster at chess
is lower for women in whatever this guy was competing in.
And that I think it was like a scale of 25 or something.
And anyone 23 and up was a grand champion.
It may just be because there's less women in the women's championship.
It could be, but he was annoyed because he was like,
I think for whatever it was, if he was woman, he would be a grand champion.
But since he's not, he's not.
Well, if it's only like the top two percent in your league can be grand
champion, then if there's less people in it,
the raw point number is going to have to be lower.
I think it was the same competition, though.
But yeah, whatever it is, it was some weird thing.
That dude could always just transition and become a woman,
then join the chess championship.
But there's a reason he's now doing that, huh?
Or he could try to do what I did at the pot store once,
which was it was women's Wednesdays where they got like half off.
And I just told the guys like, I'm a woman.
And I was like, no, I said, if I said I was woman,
would you give me half off?
And he kind of was just like, I don't know, man.
And I'm like, I'm not going to push it.
That's fine.
But I was sort of in a way that, you know, it's like whatever.
But that was me not really
sincerely doing that because I'm not an asshole.
I did say that to the guy, but I didn't push it because I'm not a dick.
There's that guy who goes around
suing nightclubs for ladies' nights, which seems like a dick move.
Because does he not have a point?
I don't know, like they're trying to just get more business.
Yeah, I know.
I understand absolutely the business justification for it.
It's the same reason we don't hire black people in racist towns, right?
Is it? I'm actually thinking about this.
I don't have any opinions about this
because I haven't really thought about it.
Well, because guys will go to where the women are.
And if women can drink free, they'll go to where the free drinks are.
Exactly. So it's a great business man.
And then you bring in paying customers. Yeah.
So do you have a problem with it?
No, not necessarily, aside from the fact
that it is discriminating based on gender.
I guess.
You know, if we have said that we are not cool with that in society,
is the exception, unless it's ladies' night?
I don't go to ladies' night things
because I don't want to get hit on by all the dudes
that come there to like hit on people from ladies' night.
So, like, there's some more effects going on there.
But I don't know.
I don't I don't have enough brain power
to make a like opinion on this right now.
I just I guess to me is it always comes back to
are we actually against gender discrimination in all forms at all times?
And just I'm just imagining you
putting this in a letter that's dressed dear intellectual dark.
Do it. No, no, I don't.
I honestly don't care about ladies' nights.
I'm just interested on if we as a society
do have that principle or if we have exceptions.
I want to see smart people debate about this
so I can steal their opinions because I'm like drawing a blank.
There's probably this happening somewhere.
So I don't know about the smart people part.
But is there like a I guess I'm not a lawyer is kind of my answer.
Like, I know that you can refuse service
to anybody for no reason or for whatever reason you want.
Generally.
So like, I mean, I remember even going to gas stations
that we can refuse service anyone for any reason,
