I think it's not, although I'm not really sure.
I don't know if there's a law for that.
I don't own a business if that's clear,
but it'd be hard to see how it wouldn't have helped.
You know, this is what was this like a Mark Twain quote
about how like traveling makes you less of,
like makes you hate strangers less or something.
Just like, it's really easy to hate those, you know,
those terrible brown people on the other side of the world
because they're just the worst, but then you go over there
and like, they're just, they're like everybody else
because everybody's like everybody else
because we're all people.
I think it was actually a Sudkowski quote,
and this is a rationally adjacent podcast.
It sounds appropriate.
It was like, we're all the same car with different shades of paint.
All of our brains are barring, you know,
mutation or damage are like architecturally identical.
We're all the same.
I mean, on one hand, that sounds like a deepity.
It's like, of course, we've all known that forever.
No shit, but it's like, on the other hand,
I don't know, I think he brings it up with the same kind of like
feeling of why are we, why is this even a conversation
that anyone's having, you know?
So you've decided that it does apply to Nazis or it doesn't?
I haven't decided.
I think it's just, it's in bold.
So it keeps jumping out at me every time I look down at my screen.
No, that's fine.
I think if I had to give one answer,
if I ran a small business, it'd be,
I would have to think of an answer, I guess.
But since I don't, I'm cool with my coworkers
as long as they don't suck.
I agree with you.
Do you think there's a difference between like a small business
and a large institutional corporation though?
Yeah, because a company that makes, you know,
40 million a year can afford to take a PR hit.
I'm not sure that's necessarily true.
I was going more with like a company that's a large institution,
doesn't feel very much like a family.
It's just a place where you go, slot in,
give your units of production, get units of currency in exchange.
Whereas a small business is very much more like a,
a social group.
It is.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I think my personal experience there is weird because
in software, you tend to be divided into small teams
where like you sit with them and those are the people you work with
and you might work in collaboration with other teams,
but like that's your family there.
So it kind of fostered that both.
And then when I was still living in Peaches through college,
there definitely was that familial thing.
In fact, half of them lived together.
If you, if someone on your development team had been like
a racist, would you have been able to still work with them?
If they didn't like say it while on the job?
I mean, one of my teammates was low key pretty racist and it annoyed me,
but not really.
I mean, also there's incompetence at his job.
Or how do you know that you weren't just noticing it more?
I think I was noticing before I learned if his, his,
I'm just like messing with you.
No, no, that's good point though.
It could be, it could be that although I think it wasn't,
but that's, I mean, that's certainly a plausible thing that could happen.
If somebody annoys you for non-work reasons,
then you start hating their work.
It's like horns effect.
Yeah, exactly.
I feel like my answer is still the same,
but now I'm like starting to question it.
What was your answer?
That I would still hire them, but like as long as it didn't interfere
with their job performance as far as getting in fights with co-workers
or offending customers, but like ideal world,
I want to think that it seems like people kind of would self sort themselves
to an extent.
I know that some people have financial needs and whatnot,
but it just seems like if somebody, if a Nazi went and got a job
at like a software development company where everybody was super liberal,
it would not work out.
They'd probably get it too.
Yeah.
It wouldn't be just a matter of their team being annoyed at them.
They'd be like super annoyed at their team all the time.
Yeah, that's like the whole like, you know, the caveat being
if you get in fights with your co-workers or offend the customers
and I feel like that would just happen naturally.
Maybe not.
And if they're good enough at not doing that, then like a,
fine, fine, let them stay.
Yeah.
The downside is that sounds like it would lead to like more,
like we talked about with fast food.
That makes that, that relevant is that you'll end up with this bizarre
situation where I'm trying to think of what the blue restaurant would be.
I'm guessing like Wendy's.
Chipotle.
Okay.
It's definitely Chipotle.
I can take that.
I was thinking Wendy's because their Twitter is just hilarious.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
And now I guess also Gillette apparently.
Yeah.
It depends.
They only heard about it like peripherally.
I don't know about this.
I saw it on Reddit.
They had some commercial that was basically waived all the flags of liberalism.
Okay.
But people are like, look, look where their money goes.
They don't give a shit.
This is just virtual signaling to you bunch of idiots.
They were annoyed.
But it was Reddit.
So everyone's always pissed.
Man, it's came up with a not super appropriate theory for everyone on Reddit.
It's always so annoyed.
But now I've mentioned that I had the idea.
So I've got to share it.
I imagine many people are already on their phones on the toilet.
And the only time they have enough time to write a comment is when it's not going
smoothly on the toilet.
Right.
So of course you're going to sound pissed.
It kind of accepted.
Yeah.
I'm going to think about that all the time now.
Thank you, Steven.
You bet.
Well, to be fair, a lot of people just do it when they're at work and hitting their
jobs and doing their jobs.
Yeah.
Doing the equivalent.
No one's on Reddit because they're having a great time.
You know, and are happy to be there when there's other opportunities.
So maybe that just drew the internet in general.
Did I just solve internet rudeness?
Maybe not.
I mean, you didn't solve it.
You finally got the cause though.
Yeah.
So you were going to talk about Liam Neeson quickly before we went on to something else.
Yeah.
I'll try and power through.
I know we've been at the first one for a while.
What?
Like a month ago?
Liam Neeson, maybe two.
I don't know.
I think it's like at least two now.
He was asked like how he gets that like awesome, we're talking about Mads Mickelson's new
movie with that revenge porn kind of just like that vibe of like murderous rage.
Yeah.
And they were like, you know, how did you get that?
You know, where did you draw that from with your character for like taken and those sorts
of things?
And you said that when he was in his twenties, one of his friends got raped by a black guy.
And he apparently, Liam Neeson walked around and I figured his exact words, but he was
it was specifically not looking for the for the perpetrator was looking for any poor set
black son of a bitch to give him any shit so he could beat the shit out of him.
Yeah.
Which is pretty disgusting thought to have.
Yeah.
Um, he said he was like this for a few weeks, I think less than a month.
And then he kind of woke up and he was like, what the fuck was I doing?
And he never, according to his story, got the opportunity to hurt somebody, which is
good.
And there is the reaction that I heard to this was kind of, I guess, what you'd expect.
Like I said, if you know, half the people went fucking nuts, which is weird because
okay, well, let me explain why I think it's weird.
I agree with you that it's weird.
My thing is that I can't imagine a better way for this to have possibly gone, you know,
his crime is for having once been racist.
Yeah.
And like another, I think more clarification, didn't he actually like, this wasn't like
widely known about him, right?
He actually like came out, told this story and then said, I used to be like this, but
I've changed and I'm ashamed of who I had been and I'm sorry or something like that.
Yeah.
I don't remember if it came with an apology or not, but it was like, I'm ashamed.
And this was, this was, yeah, me.
And how old is the reason like 65?
So this was 40 years ago.
Yeah.
This was during the time when Ireland was still going through its terrorism phase, you know,
maybe he was probably living with car bombs and shit going off in his neighborhood.
Yeah.
That's a good point.
I kind of forgot he was Irish too.
But yeah, my thing is I can't think of a better circumstance for someone to wake up
from a, a prejudice position, you know, nobody got hurt again, according to the story, but
