So I think it's just generally a downright bad movie.
But the thing is, I have seen a lot of people who really, really love it.
And almost all of those people are of the female persuasion.
And so I think there is something in it that talks to people.
Uh, like there's a really brief, like a minute and a half, maybe two minute
montage of people being sexist to her and her, like trying to do things.
And everyone's like, you can't do that because you're a woman.
You know why they call it a cockpit, right?
And I was like, that is, okay, that's infuriating.
Sure.
But that is just like, not enough.
That doesn't show us personal struggle.
That doesn't really show us her being hurt.
It's a brief montage, but apparently it really talked to a lot of people who have
that experience in their own life.
And they didn't need to see it like fully brought out in the story.
They were just like, Oh, yeah.
I've had that happen to me too.
And just an instant emotional hook for them.
Because like, you don't need to show me all that.
I am on her wavelength right now.
So it may very well be a movie that is just not really for me.
That talks directly to one audience.
And I think it might be like the Harry Potter and the methods of rationality
for women, sort of.
I don't want to say for women in general, because that's way too broad.
But I think we're going to raise eyebrows from our local women.
When people brag on how Harry Potter and methods rationality is all about
like this bratty, uber smart, uber mensch guy, and nobody can stand him.
I think I haven't heard him described as uber mensch.
But I probably someone has done it.
I think the reason a lot of us really love it is because we instantly recognize
our struggles and the shit we went through when we were kids, when we read Harry.
And so you don't need to do a lot more to win us over.
We're like, I know that person.
I was that person.
Oh, my God, this is perfect.
I was that smart as.
Yeah, exactly.
And so maybe maybe Captain Marvel is the same thing for a certain audience.
That's possible.
I mean, for what it's worth, I brought up put this out there.
I brought up the Winnie the Pooh from like the I was going to have like
people vote on Reddit, whether they like the movie or not.
I didn't mean to to derail us on it for more than five seconds.
But I don't know.
I think I might suffer from what Paul Bloom calls like Marvel derangement syndrome.
I was going to say like a pathological empathy or something.
And that I didn't have to be a woman to really.
I guess I know women.
I think that's normal empathy, Stephen.
Yeah, but you can empathize with someone who's not you.
But someone who's so not me.
Precisely not. Yeah.
I don't know. I I saw her struggle and not not through my own history,
but through history of, you know, that I've imagined from what I've heard,
you know, from from women in my life.
So but it's not like like Masters of Sex had a beautiful like several
episode arc where you really see how much she struggles because she's a woman
in these it was either 50s or 60s and just in general,
how they're so easily dismissed and the few women that make it big,
what they have to go through.
And Mad Men just made my blood fucking boil to the point where I couldn't watch it.
And this had none of that.
This was just like, here's the thing that happened sometimes.
So to be fair, if Mad Men was only two hours long,
then it wouldn't have had time to get your blood that hot, right?
I only watched one one hour episode.
Oh, OK. It pissed me off enough.
I couldn't watch anymore.
I completely retract my my statement.
So I think that they they tried to walk the line between like this isn't just
the story of a woman who overcame people being a dick and proved to be crazy.
Awesome.
They tied it into the 20 movie along saga of the MCU in a way that I thought
was fantastically done and loved. But what did she do to become awesome?
She was she was hit by an explosion.
Almost none of them did anything like, well, let me rephrase that.
So like, I mean, we could go through the roster,
but the the the powered individuals on the team, maybe two of them earned it.
Like, unless they're going to I guess Steve Rogers, maybe,
because he was cool enough to get the shot, but whatever.
Like he didn't to quote Iron Man,
everything special about him came out of a bottle, right?
No, because like his character, you know, his personality, maybe was his.
But so was hers.
You know, she could have been an asshole.
She could she could have, you know, so.
Well, what was her personality?
She I so I liked her character a lot more than I liked Wonder Woman's.
OK, and I'm I'm saying this as somebody saw Wonder Woman three times.
I think Wonder Woman, her I loved it.
I loved it a lot more the first time.
Her like adorable naivete becomes super unbearable
until it's going to rewatches.
Like you watch this and she she it's not just that she doesn't know what stuff is.
That's that's quaint and adorable.
And that was fun with Thor when he was from space and whatever.
It's that she directed America because he was from the 50s.
She never gets it, though.
The whole time she's just like, why do people have watches?
What's war? Why is it from being a dick?
And again, that's that's how it sounded on the third watch.
Like, I know and there are a lot of moments I loved in that movie.
And she also overcomes her struggles again.
She didn't earn her powers either, right?
But didn't she get them?
I mean, like, I know she was some kind of special race of super women or something.
But didn't she also train her entire life?
She trained, but she was the daughter of Zeus.
She probably been strong no matter what. Right.
So but but but that aside, the point is, isn't like,
no, but whether or not they earn their powers through being awesome,
like maybe Iron Man did.
But on the naivety thing, real quick, before we move on, the first of all,
I love all the naive fish out of water characters,
which I've told you multiple times before.
I love Thor and Captain America for the same reason.
But one of the things about the sort of naive character
is that it lets you see your own society from a new point of view,
like from someone who is completely shocked by these things.
And to just stop that after a half hour is kind of like lame.
You got this cool way to explore society by pointing out
how weird it would be from someone outside of it.
Run with it for the whole length of the movie, or at least I like that.
Because seriously, why do we have war?
It's fucking stupid.
And I mean, I know why we have war.
But if I didn't, looking at it from someone from the outside,
like, oh, my God, I can't believe these people do this shit.
No, that is a lot of fun.
And it's a great thought experiment.
Like I think Daniel Dennett saying, putting on your your three
your three alien shoes and standing in that position to see the world.
That said, I've got a plug.
I'll have to find the name.
I'll put it in the episode description.
There's the series of adorable comments,
comics with these little blue aliens.
Oh, yes. And it's like, here, I've handed you your present.
And it's concealed.
They're like, oh, thank you.
It's like, no, you must destroy the concealment paper right now.
I want to watch.
And it's like just someone getting a birthday present.
But it's it's putting it from a perspective of someone who doesn't know
any of the stuff is and it sounds hilarious and they lay it all out.
And that is fun. It's cute.
I think we've probably gone on Captain Marvel too long.
I liked it a lot and I totally understand and see why you didn't like it.
And I totally support picking things apart and being annoyed at
at inconsistencies or at least noticing them.
I've got nothing against any of that stuff either.
So moving on.
OK. All right.
Probably back to feedback.
Yes.
This is what you get when you get a feedback episode.
That's talking about movies.
Real quick, so we can get through this from Rockham.
Rockham, is it pronounced Rockham?
Sounds right. OK.
Yes. Now my expertise comes out.
This is when we were talking about derivatives and what they are.
A derivative is any kind of financial contract
whose value is based on something else.
For example, I bet the stock price next week
will be between $10 and $15.
If I am wrong, I will pay you $1.
A simple example why derivatives are helpful to the real economy are airlines.
The airline will say, I bet jet fuel prices will go way up.
If that's true, the airline wins the bet
and uses the earnings to offset their losses on jet fuel.
Either way, the airline wins.
That's awesome. Yeah.
It's useful to realize that a derivative position
that's 200 times higher than an equity position
is not necessarily 200 times worse.
In my first example, you could lose at most $1.
But your books would say that you have a derivative on $15 worth of underlying.
That kind of sounds like the rationalist magic stuff we were talking about,
only with real money.
Rationalist magic stuff?
We had David Yusef on six, eight months ago.
Yeah. Yeah.
This sounds like less magic and more math, but I like it.
And someone might try to forgive me for saying this, David, if you're listening,
but someone might try to to pass this off as like I'm being arcane and mystical.
And really, they just they know derivatives.
But is that like a I guess financial industry ins and outs?
What's like the field that lives in?
Finance. Finance. Thank you, God.
Now, you know how well educated I am.
I'm just not into the business world very much.
Well, there's multiple meanings of derivative, but that's the money one.
Right. There's also the math one and the language one.
Yeah. Are there others?
I think that's it, maybe.
Rockham has a second one on here that's on the same episode.
Oh, yeah. And also about money.
