He did say that, but he was doing it in a nudge, nudge, wink, wink way. But I mean,
there's something about the audio quality. People aren't, I don't think anyone can maintain that
like it sounds more like listening to the music in the recording studio. It sounds like listening
to a record and that has this authentic-y feel to it, and it does. So if that's what you're going
for, that's that's not a good example. There were a lot of comments pointing out that there are a
lot of cases where the most popular thing is the best thing. I think that's fair. Yeah, I mean,
that sounds like it would be also sort of tautological, right? Like, of course, the best
thing is going to win out a lot. So I don't know, I don't have a great example. I didn't,
I thought we could handle this on the fly, but I'm way more tired than I thought I was going to be.
Yeah, I kind of was able to think of examples where somebody might want to buy something because
it's cheaper. I don't think that's like maybe what Eliezer was thinking over, but like I would
be willing to take a hit on quality for something if it's cheaper to an extent. Yeah, depending
on what it is for sure. Or to like reduce decision fatigue. Yeah, I think the whole PC Master Race
thing is kind of an example of this. PCs really are better for gaming, but they're harder to use
and they're a lot more expensive. And their interface looks crappy. And that's why everyone
buys consoles instead. I was going to bring up that example too, but I thought that there's
conversation there, I guess, because I don't game on a PC because I don't own a PC, but I guess I
don't play games enough to invest in a good gaming PC. Like, I could buy a $400 desktop PC and game
on that, but then I'm not getting what the real true gamers are getting out of it. I need a $700
graphics card just to play the ultimate res that only the PC can visualize. But that's more just
like I play games for casual fun. And for that purpose, and the controller is comfortable,
but you can plug your controller into some of the stuff too. And if I was practiced at a keyboard
and mouse, I could do that even better. The controller is specifically what I have issues with.
The keyboard and mouse is just such a much better interface system for gaming that
there's no comparison, which is why I don't think it's even that important to have the best gaming
card. I mean, you can if you're really into it and you want things to be ultra beautiful, but
even with not the top of the line graphics, I still think PCs are better. I'd rather have
a PC that costs more and has worse graphics than my PS4 or my Xbox than to have the Xbox,
because I could use a controller, not a controller, but I could use a mouse and keyboard.
I just value having my video game separate from my like work.
That was the reason that I would get a console. So it's in another room and it's got this specific
video game time context. Yeah. I guess I've been a console gamer since I was a kid. Like,
I got my first Sega Genesis when I was under 10 years old, well under, I think, and there wasn't
Sonic the Hedgehog on a PC in 1996. Like, I doubt it. No, I don't think so. You know, I think it was
just sort of for me like historical effects and then Cascades for the rest of your life where,
you know, you mentioned that like co-workers are like family and stuff. So when I was at the
pizzeria, the only reason I got an Xbox one was because all my co-workers are getting it and I
wanted to continue playing games with them. So since you couldn't play from any other game console
or gaming platform, whether PC or whatever, and play the next Call of Duty with your friends,
then I had to get the Xbox. Yeah, I don't know. I would have been able to think of examples or make
case for like maybe iPhones over androids or something, but that case is getting flimsy and
flimsy over the last few years. So I'm out of steam. I can't think of one. We should wrap this up then.
Probably about time to do that. Yeah, we got some stuff covered here. There's a bunch of other
feedback I want to get to, especially Mordinomail's awesome thing about static time and why things
matter, but we should get that next time because it's late. That was a good one. Yeah. That was a
really good one. All right, well, we'll hit all this stuff at some point. Everyone stay in there.
Yeah. All right. Some point soon even. Yes. Yes, coming through the rest of our notes. We've got
like, you know, video game section movies, which we talked about plenty. So I don't know that we
need those sections. No, I put those in there back in the early days of making notes here.
And then Steven stirred the pot. I feel like we did that with Liam Neeson. So
all right. Yep. Oh, wait, before we thank the Patreon, what is an omelot and how do I
I think it's the O with the two dots over it. Yeah. How does that pronounced? Usually it's
pronounced by drawing it out a bit. I've heard the best way to think of it as an American is if
that letter was written twice, such as in cooperate in most other languages, that would be an O with
not over it instead of two O's. I think yeah, you said O instead of A, right?
Then you just draw it out a bit. Okay. Like instead of Motley Crue would be Motley Crue.
Fair enough. Okay. All right, we got this. So
so our patron for this episode is Simon Coder. I did that terribly. There's a little note that
says the O in Coder has an omelot and I don't know. I tried. It's late. Thank you, Simon.
We're sorry for butchering your name or for not being. Thank you, Simon. Yeah. God, it's late.
But we do want to especially take time always out to thank our patrons because it really does
help us. Yeah. I've said that a lot. I feel like a broken record when you get to this part. It's
hard not to, but the sentiment is the same. It's like for me, it's, you know, the money is very,
very helpful and very thoughtful. For me, it's the fact that people care enough to actually,
you know, want to support this financially. And I don't know. It, I think you know, I
choked one time that, you know, it's the unit of caring and that proves that you guys
appreciate it. And that's pretty literal sense that that means something. Yeah. So
and it is, we are reminded of that caring every single time the episode comes out,
which is, which is nice because like people don't have the energy to comment every single time or
be like, Hey, great, great show guys every time. And honestly, we couldn't read all those emails.
People did all that. We can't even get their feedback. Yeah. Right. And to people who don't
have the means or desire to support financially, that's totally cool. There's iTunes,
leave a rating and review. This gets, you know, more notices in the iTunes algorithm store or
whatever. My understanding is that it also wants like a review, not just a rating for some stupid
reasons. So, you know, I think either one is good, but yeah, but if you have a chance to write a
sentence or, you know, anything, just, I think that helps the dog rhythm, but that's not really
super important to me. Just put like good podcast, like a thumbs up emoji and like that's fine.
Exactly. That's all we want. And I think, like I said, that makes it easier to find and it shows
up better and like, you know, trending searches or something. But the other way people find it is
by being, by hearing about it. So, you know, if you like the show, you can share it, you can talk
about it, all that stuff we've talked about. So that's all I've got. Do we do another thing at
every episode? I can't remember. I don't think so. I think we're good. I think we're good. All right.
Turns out there was actually one thing we forgot to do. The less wrong posts that we will be reading
next week are knowing about biases can hurt people and debiasing as non-self-destruction.
Thanks for bringing with us, everybody. You're going with me. We're gonna go to bed. Yeah.
Good night, everybody. The Blizzard here has this all tired, hibernating mode. So,
all right. Thanks again. We'll see you in a couple weeks. Peace out. Bye.
