What I was going to talk about is this, this, this issue of, of part of agency.
So goal directedness is really critical problem solving, but also this, this
auto poetic step of, um, knowing, uh, or, or estimating for yourself, having a
model of where you end in the outside world begins.
So this, this issue of, right?
So this, this, this in for, in sort of informational self-construction.
And, and one, one model I have for this has to do with early embryogenesis.
So imagine, imagine you're a blast, the disc of, uh, you know, I don't know,
a bird or a human, some kind of amniote.
And you're, you're a disc of about 50,000 cells, something like that.
And, um, typically we look at this thing and we say, okay, there's one embryo,
one individual, it's going to be one agent.
It's going to be a duck or a human or whatever it's going to be.
But, you know, but, but what are we counting when you say there's 50,000
cells, what do you count?
When there's 50,000 cells, there's one embryo.
When you say there's one embryo, what are you counting?
So what you're counting is the reliable alignment of all the cells towards a
specific path in anatomical morpho space, meaning that left to its own devices or
even perturbed in various ways, all of the cells will work together to make
exactly the right thing, whatever the target morphology for that species is.
And you can do all kinds of stuff and move things around and they'll move back.
And, you know, you have some, there's, there's all kinds of ingenuity there
about getting to where it needs to go.
But, but that's what you're counting is that there's one job to be done to
build this particular thing.
And we all know what it is.
And, and I, but, but it's actually much more interesting than that.
Cause what you can do, and I used to do this as a grad student with duck embryos,
you can take a little needle and you can make some scratches into that
blaster.
When you make the scratches, you separate it into several islands, two or,
let's say two or three.
And that early system that aligns cells towards being one embryo, it's got
this, among other things, what it has is this ability of local activation,
long range inhibition, such that, you know, there's an organizational, it's a
few cells become the organizer and they tell everybody else, you guys are not
the organizer, I'm the organizer.
And then, and then they sort of organize the embryo.
So when you separate this thing into disconnected islands, you, basically
each one of them can't feel the others because there's a, there's a bad,
there's an empty space between them later they will heal.
But until that happens, each one is an individual and each one becomes a
separate embryo.
And when they do heal, you get twins or triplets.
And so now this is very interesting because if you think about that 50,000
cells, every cell is some other cells neighbor.
So the question is, where is the agent, right?
And when there's three of them now, now that's even more interesting because
there are some cells on the boundary and they're sort of confused about who
they belong to, right?
And there's all kinds of medical implications of that, that I used to study.
And so there's this, this idea that the number of agents or cells in this
medium, it's like this, this, this, this kind of excitable medium or, or, or,
you know, this, this Freudian ocean of potential cells.
There could be zero, one, two, three, you know, maybe up to half a dozen in a
typical blastoderm.
And you don't know how many there is.
It isn't preset.
It's not preset by the genetics.
It's not preset by the hardware.
It's an emergent fact of, of, of the physiology where some number of
cells will demarcate themselves from the outside world.
And so, and so I really like this.
And I really like, um, uh, thinking that what's, what's important, uh, and
that's just one, one thing that's, that's important beyond goal directiveness.
But, but that's, there are some other stuff, but, but that, that, that process
of, of, uh, delineation of a self as separate from the outside world.
And the fact that you have to do that yourself, as opposed to a lot of our
robotics and AI that way that's given and, and, uh, you know, pre-determined
from the outside, the agent doesn't have any choice about it.
This is, this is your limits.
And that's it, right?
That, that I think is very important.
And it has all kinds of implications and biology that lead to a lot of the
cool things that we like about biology.
One of them is this weird, um, intelligence ratchet, which, which is,
which is, which is this, um, first, I'll tell you about the ratchet first
and then, and then how it relates to all this.
So the ratchet is this, imagine that, um, uh, one, one of the funny things
about planaria, these, these flatworms is that they're incredibly regenerative.
Um, very reliably regenerative.
They are, uh, cancer resistant.
They are immortal.
Basically they don't age.
And yet they have a really chaotic genome.
And the reason is because when they divide that the way they, the way
they, um, uh, reproduce, unlike us, if we get a mutation in our bodies, our
children don't automatically inherit that mutation, right?
The, in the planaria, they, they rip themselves in half and then each half
regenerates.
So that's how, that's how they mostly reproduce.
And so, and there are other species that do sperm and egg, but, but there
are species that just regenerate.
And so that means that any mutation that doesn't kill the cell is amplified
into the next generation and makes up the body.
So they can be mix a ploid.
Every cell could have a different number of chromosomes.
You know, it's incredibly, incredibly messy on the, on the, on the hardware.
And yet the animal with the, with the, with the, with the messiest
genome is the one that has the most, uh, cancer resistance, uh, regenerative
ability, and, uh, it less aging.
So that seems really strange.
And that bothered me for many years, uh, how that can be wise.
The animal with the, with the, with the noisiest genome, the, with the, has
the most, uh, morphological stability.
And so recently we kind of studied this in a computational way.
And, and, and I think we finally have a little bit of insight into how it works.
Um, because this is, this whole process, this evolutionary process is not dealing
with a passive material.
It's dealing with, uh, cells and, and, and tissues that themselves have
various agendas and physiological space and anatomical space and so on.
What happens is that, um, here's a, for an example, if I take a, if I take a
taphole and, uh, um, I, I move in the embryo, I move the mouth off to the side,
right?
Uh, what happens during, during development is that it fixes itself.
The mouth, the mouth will come back to where it needs to be.
So if you had a mutation that made that change, your fitness is not zero
because you can't eat.
Actually, your fitness will be fine because the mouth will come back.
And so those, the ability of, of, uh, the cells to make up for these
kind of weird, um, uh, mutations and other, other problems means that it's,
it's quite hard for evolution to, to gauge the quality of the hardware.
When you come up for selection, if you're, if you're a pretty good tadpole,
selection doesn't know whether you're a good tadpole because your genetics
was amazing or you're a good tadpole because your genetics was so, so, but
you fixed it, right?
The, the, the structural genome was eh, but, but the competencies fixed it up.
So that means that, uh, the evolution has a hard time, uh, improving,
improving, even with a little bit of competency, evolution starts to have a
hard time improving the structural genome.
But what it can do very easily is improve the competency.
But when you improve the competency, it becomes even harder to gauge the actual
structural genome.
And that means, that means all the effort goes into increasing the
competency and so on and so on.
So you get this, you get, you get this, uh, positive feedback loop where the more
competency in the individual parts, the less emphasis and the less pressure goes
onto the hardware, meaning the genome and the more onto this actual competency.
It's like, um, Steve Frank once gave me this great example of a, uh, uh, he said
that once, uh, raid arrays started being popular in computers, um, the quality of
the actual disks has gone down because you don't need to have great disks
anymore because you have a raid array, right?
So the pressure on having, uh, having really low error media is, it goes,
goes down.
So it's something like this, the pressure is released because of the competency.
So if you're a planarian where, you know, for a fact that you really can't, uh,
rely on your genome being very clean, right?
Your hardware is, is, is, is unreliable.
Um, you really, uh, all the pressure is on to develop a, an algorithm that makes
a good worm, no matter what the hardware looks like with limits, obviously.
Um, and this, this actually explains a very weird, uh, you know, sort of fact,
which is that, uh, unlike every other, uh, most other creatures where you can get
mutant lines, right?
So, so flies with curly wings and albino, you know, rats and things like that.
Um, there's no such thing in planaria.
There is, there are no abnormal lines of planaria except for the two headed form
ours.
And those are not genetic.
Those are, those are made by, by altering the bio electrical memory, not by,
there's nothing genetically wrong with them.
So, um, so all of that, uh, bring, bring us back to the original, uh, discussion.
So all of that means, um, that, uh, you really, uh, because you can't know ahead
of time as an embryo, you can't know ahead of time.
Do I have the right number of cells, the right size of cells is my DNA?
Okay.
You don't know any of this.
And there are many examples in biology where, you know, embryos, um, construct
themselves despite all sorts of crazy variabilities.
It's because none of this is baked in.
You have to solve these problems on the fly.
So however many cells, bigger cells, smaller cells, they're very good at nature.
Evolution gives us these, like, um, problem solving machines.
It doesn't just make specific, you know, solutions to specific environments.
So, so because of that, because of this need to solve this thing from the word go,
I think that, um, the kinds of things that we associate with biological agents are,
are part of this intelligence ratchet where in different spaces, some of it visible to us,
some of it, we're very bad at noticing, but there's this constant
ratcheting of problem solving capacity because they have to do this.
Because no one is there to reliably tell them where do you end?
What are your sensors?
What are your effectors?
What space do you work in?
No, no, you know, that it's all up for grabs, right?
No, no life form that, that, um, uh, took that for granted could really survive nowadays,
maybe early life did, but nowadays that, that wouldn't fly.
You know, with all the competition.
So anyway, so that's, that's my very long, long answer to, to, to your, to your point.
Oh, okay.
So, yeah, so, yeah.
So in essence, there's these, um, we have agent, agential matter that has, uh, evolved over
billions of years that have this competency that it can solve, um, these, um, different problems for
keeping itself alive, essentially, or having itself grow, right?
But you're always beginning with this kind of matter, which, um, a, um, a deep learning system
will not have or does not have.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
So it's just, um, uh, um, Calculus and linear algebra, essentially, right?
Yeah.
