things. I mean, people talk about Gattaca, this movie. So Ethan Hawke is this guy who
was born in the old fashioned way and he wants to get in the space program. And then at the end,
he has to pull all these tricks and he gets into the space program. And in the story, the thing
is, isn't it so great that that guy was so determined? But I think that guy should be arrested
because you don't want non-genetically enhanced people in your space program who aren't going
to be able to survive the radiation in space. And I think we may need to move in this direction.
So there's just that our stories that we are telling ourselves are going to be challenged.
And this idea that we're going to have predictive life and that we're going to know are not just
our disease risks, but maybe there are going to be people who are in refugee camps now who
are going to say, this person has a potential to be a Mozart. Let's make sure that we get resources
to that person. So that's one really big and fundamental change. Our lives are going to be,
it'll never be 100% predictability, but it will be probabilistic and it'll be numerical. And we're
going to have to learn to live with that uncertainty. That's going to be the nature of life. Second,
we're going to see the genetics revolution moving outside of the realm of healthcare. We don't have
a disease genome or a healthcare genome. We have a human genome and we're going to have just a lot
of people giving us information about ourselves. Some of it will be reliable, some of it will
not be, but it'll just be way beyond the realm of healthcare. And then we're going to see this shift
in how we make babies, a shift toward increasing numbers of percentage of babies born in IVF.
U.S. it's about 2%, Japan's 5%, Norway and Denmark are now 10% IVF. And then we're going to see that
trend. And that once we take conception outside of the human body, then we're going to be able to
apply science in all kinds of incredible ways, but in ways that are going to scare a lot of people.
Is there anything that you in particular are terrified of?
Yeah. Oh my God. So I'm afraid that we're going to make decisions about the future of our species
based on what feel like eternal truths, but in fact are transient fashions.
Say more. So right now, you ask most people, people would say, well, I want a child with
low disease risk, optimized to live a long time, maybe high IQ, maybe tall. These are all perfectly
fine things that people who have those traits now actually are thriving. But diversity isn't
just some kind of nice to have thing in our species. It's the sole survival strategy of our
species or of any species. And so this thing, as I mentioned before, this diversity that's just
happened to us for 4 billion years, we're going to have to choose it. We're going to have to
identify what we mean by diversity and celebrate it. And I think that's really,
I mean, there are existential level risks, not just if we make our species less diverse,
but now individual actors. I mean, that was what I talked in the beginning about Dick Clark
and terrorism. And the whole point of terrorism was that individuals now had the capacity to
wreak a level of havoc that previously could only be wreaked by states. Now we're in the age of DIY
bio and biohacking. I was speaking in New York at the World Science Festival about a month ago
alongside Jennifer Doudna. And Jennifer is the co-inventor of the CRISPR-Cas9 system. And what I
said, a little bit tongue-in-cheek, is that if you invent the CRISPR-Cas9 system like Jennifer,
actually she's on my left, like Jennifer did, you will almost certainly win the Nobel Prize.
But if you apply CRISPR to edit a genome, you just get an A in your high school biology class.
And afterwards this woman came down and said, hey, didn't want to interrupt you in your talk,
but I am a high school biology teacher. If you apply CRISPR in my class, you just get a B.
And so this technology, it's not like nuclear weapons where only the state could do it. This
stuff is out. But to that point, there's this story and I should chase it down. So I have it
exactly about somebody scavenging radioactive material from 500 smoke alarms or something like
to build a functioning reactor. It's not clear that it's not clear that nuclear is going to stay
the province of states. I totally agree. I think all of technology is moving along this curve.
But biology, it's just happened so quickly. And I totally agree with that. And so it was a year
and a half ago, a group of Canadian researchers, mostly grad students, they used synthetic
biology tools to create an active form of horsepox, which is a relative of smallpox,
which killed a gazillion people. So that's $100,000. And my guess is you could do that now
for $50,000 and in five years, $5,000 because we're just like this whole thing of biobricks
we are going to have the tools to remake life. And it creates incredible potential with synthetic
biology to do manufacturing differently, to do life differently. And just as we have these tools
to do good, because like I said before, these tools are themselves agnostic, there are capabilities
to do better. Well, let's talk about the way in which this interacts with national culture.
Which are the national cultures that are the most gung-ho to actually try to exploit these
things in the here and now. And how do you feel about those national state-sponsored experiments?
And do we have to worry about geopolitical tensions and biology being the next battlefield,
where we won't even know if war has been declared? Yeah, leading the witness, your honor. So, yes.
And I write about in the book what I called... Well, I should say I'm not really leading the
witness because I was given the book 10 minutes before we started the podcast.
And you were incredible. You absorbed the whole thing so quickly. So, China is the big... And I
would say it's like the big concern. But let me start with the positive story about China. Because
there's a lot to complain about China. I study China and do a lot of work in and around China.
And I have a lot of very deep concerns. I feel like China is in many ways breaking the world
through many of its actions. And certainly, there are privacy advocates in places like
where we are now in California who feel that privacy is just an unadorned good. But China
has very low levels of privacy on an individual level. And so, what they are doing are they're
building just these massive data sets. And these data sets can and are being used to oppress people.
But they also can be used to do a lot of things that we think are good. Like to have a training
set for autonomous insert, whatever it is, insert noun, autonomous vehicles or whatever,
when those big data sets, or for precision personalized medicine. That with it having
these big data sets is going to allow whomever, the Chinese or others, to develop actionable
insights about how cancers form, about predisposition to certain diseases, or responses to certain
treatments. And that's very powerful. And that is something that's going to help China and could
potentially help us. At the same time, China has a lot of things. It has a lot of money. It has
incredibly talented people. It has this gung-ho scientific culture. And it has very few limits.
And it has this national culture that we got screwed by the colonialists, even though China
wasn't officially colonized. And we got screwed by the unequal treaties. And the 21st century
by 2050 is going to be the Chinese century. And we're going to do what it takes to get there.
And that's translating into a lot of very, very aggressive applications of revolutionary science.
And genetics is at the forefront of that. And that's why for all of these kinds of
right at the edge or beyond the edge experiments, they are mostly happening in China. The basic
science in the United States is far superior to the basic science in China. But there are more
self-imposed and rational, in my cases, in some cases, restrictions here in the United States
than they tend to have in China. And that's why Hu Zhongkui, who was this Chinese biophysicist who
genetically engineered these babies last year, that's why it happened in China. That's why it
could happen in China. And that's why he didn't even think that he thought he was going to be
this conquering hero and bring glory to China. And what we're talking about here is the future
of life. And it's a big deal. And we should care what happens to life in China because we are all
part of one species. And so, like you said earlier, there's a race because this technology is moving
so quickly. A little bit. If China won't be restrained, then is it really prudent to hold back
in a way in which China lurches ahead because they don't have the same ethical concerns that we do?
Yeah. So the question... I mean, there's... In other words, does it become ethical to compete
because lack of competition means ceding the game to an actor you think is less ethical?
Yeah. And so that's this whole arms race mentality. And I think that's what we are
entering. And so, I believe that American values, just writ large, that the values that America
has pushed into the world, particularly over the last 70 plus years, with warts and all,
I believe all in all is a net positive set of values that has laid the foundation for this
greatest period of peace, prosperity, and stability in world history.
I also believe that the principles that the Chinese government is pushing out into the
world are, in many cases, toxic and dangerous. That doesn't mean entirely, but in many cases,
and undermining these principles that the greatest generation of Americans, people like
Dean Atchison and George Marshall, pushed out into the world that helped everybody. And so,
I feel like it's really important for the United States to maintain its position in the world.
And the foundation of that is economic competitiveness. And the foundation of that
is that we need to be the world leaders in technology. Having said that, though, and you
could say you could talk about this across technologies and whether it's aggressive
application of genetic technologies, but we could have the exact same argument about autonomous
killer weapons. Because if you are a defense minister of a country and you're not, if you are
developing autonomous killer weapons, you're laying a foundation for maybe humans being wiped out.
But if you're not, you are empowering the other country that is making those investments.
But I think that we can't sacrifice, we need to be competitive. We can't sacrifice our very
humanity in order to do it. And we need to recognize that this is a societal race.
And so, it's not necessarily so. And I don't believe it's so. The first country to have
the first genetically engineered human wins the race. Or the country with the least privacy
wins the race. The country that figures out how to use the resources of the society as a whole
to realize its objectives, whatever those are, that's the country that's going to win the race.
And so, that requires certain kinds of trade-offs. But we should be, and that's certainly I'm
doing this work in Geneva and elsewhere and trying to work with members of Congress on this,
we should be saying we need to have international standards. And we've had international standards
for things like chemical and biological weapons, for even nuclear weapons, even for climate change
imperfectly. And we have to be working in that direction.
Well, are we up for a biological non-proliferation treaty?
Yeah, I wrote, it's funny, I mentioned the article that I wrote many years ago that Brad
Sherman read. And that was what I talked about. And I talked about using the model of the nuclear
non-proliferation treaty. But the thing that changed has changed since then.
I hadn't thought about it, but just the different nucleus.
Yeah, yeah, it's true. The thing that's changed since then is this technology has become so
distributed that in the NPT, the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, you get technology
for restraint. That's kind of the trade-off for people in the world. And right now,
this technology is really accessible. But what I believe we need to do is to have,
every country needs to have reasonable national regulations, which are in those countries'
interests. I mean, the United Kingdom is probably, in my view, the best regulated country in the
world in these areas. It's also extremely advanced in its science, and those things
are connected. I mean, there's a level of confidence, there's a level of public support
and public resource for these kinds of investments that come at that intersection.
But yes, we could have and maybe even will have a genetic arms race because we have
differences within and between societies. People are willing to do all kinds of crazy
things like these dumb people who paid the soccer coach at Yale when it would just been
smarter just to build a building for the same money. So it's just like, I'm against this dumb
corruption. So people will do anything to advance their kid's interest. And if selecting embryos
with higher IQs is one of those things, I think a lot of people are going to do it.
But we are social animals, and it's not that there are no examples of norms
constraining our behaviors. We have lots of examples of that.
Well, we do, but I don't know. I mean, we could go for a Singaporean solution and decide that
we should punish certain kinds of biohacking the way you punish being found with weed
in the wrong country. Well, I'm not sure what does Singapore and Malaysia do now.
Yeah, no, and don't go if you have your weed, go to Oakland, don't go to Singapore.
Well, and then the question of course is what, you know, I know biohackers in Oakland and
they're pretty good too. But my concern is, I mean, let me just be honest about this.
I am not averse to the conclusion that we are now watching an unstoppable force and
an immovable object, and that we have no idea whether this is going to be a disaster
or the best thing that ever happened, whether we're going to be able to, whether China's
going to learn enough to scare the living crap out of themselves. And they're going to be coming
say, look, this is much more profound. We have better data than you do. So you have to listen
to us. That would be a great outcome. I don't hear something that is coherent because I hear
so much that is utopian and I'm excited about the utopian part of it and so much that's dystopian.
But it's unknown. I mean, there is lots that's potentially utopian. There's lots that's
potentially dystopian. There's a middle and it hasn't played out yet. But for me,
the way that we try to have some influence on whether we move the dial a little in the direction
of utopian or a little in the direction of dystopian is values, is how can we infuse a
conversation about values and norms into the development of these very powerful technology.
And there are examples of doing it. And there's the international concept of international law
and the concept of human rights. I mean, these aren't any kind of like inherent principles of
the world. They were created and they became norms, imperfect norms. But we will have,
this story is going to play out in utopian ways, in dystopian ways and everything in between.
It's going to happen. That is it. That is the story. And it's going to increase forever. I mean,
just we're on this J curve. But the technology is going to get more and more and more powerful
forever. And so the complexity of our biology has been roughly the same for millions of years.
The sophistication of our tools is shooting up. So we just look at that graph, at that intersection,
and we are going to be, we are increasingly understandable and hackable.
Well, I mean, this is really the message for me is that you can moralize all you want. But really,
what's going to happen is that this is going to play out relative, ironically, of course,
according to a system of selective pressures. And what we don't know is whether this constitutes a
sort of final paradigm shift, the likes of which, to be honest, we've never seen.
It could well be. And that's why it's like, we don't know the answer to that question. It's not
knowable. But what we do know is that we are beginning a process. And that we do know that
we have principles that we've fought for. I mean, these ideas of equity and diversity,
things that our ancestors probably didn't value, we value for good reasons because we've lived
through and our parents and grandparents have lived through these experiences. We talked about
Nazism of what happens when these terrible values are empowered. So I really think that this is in
some ways a conversation about science, but it's really a conversation about values. And so I think
that we either we have agency or we must believe we have agency until proven otherwise, because
what's the alternative? Well, I think that one way of looking at it is through the lens of selection.
And I've made this comment that there are really, selection is not really about human biology.
It says that anything that has three properties is going to behave in a Darwinian fashion. And that is
diversity, heritability and differential success. Now, the social interpretation, which I think
weirdly almost nobody seems to talk about our mention, is that variability constitutes the
human value of diversity. Heritability has to do with what we would call privilege and differential
success has to do with inequality. And so the really maddening thing about biology and the
reason that it ends up in the crosshairs of social justice is that you take this cherished value of
diversity, you subject it to privilege, and it produces inequality. And then you take that as
the feedback into the system and then just loop it. Now, the one thing that you're talking about
is destroying heritability. In effect, you're giving somebody who is not
blessed with the genetics that they might want, genetics that might be borrowed from somewhere
else. I wouldn't say destroying, it's morphing that you have a certain kind of heritability.
You're adding a new kind of, a new aspect of heritability. Or you could call it facultative
heritability rather than obligate heritability. And so that is the design and designer.
