them to Google glow-in-the-dark rabbits. And these transgenic rabbits that have this GFP,
green fluorescent protein, expressed in them. I guess originally came from jellyfish.
You know, that I think it's the Turks who manufactured a whole bunch of bunnies that
you can read by. Now, we could of course create transgenic humans that lit up at night,
almost certainly. And is this something that we should be kind of more playful with,
more excited by? It's hard. So...
How do you think of it? Yeah. So the basic thing is we've been able to do
gene editing for a while. But the new tools are faster, cheaper, and more precise by a long shot.
And so we have this ability to make big, big changes. And we were making in the old days,
we've made genetic changes to crops, not just by selective breeding, but we just would bombard
crops with radiation and then just see what happened. There'd be kind of a gazillion different
options. And then you'd say, oh, these grapes don't have seeds, let's make more of them. And now
we're able in a much more precise and targeted way to do that. So then your question of playfulness.
And in some ways, I mean, science, people think about science as something that's rigid and dry.
But there's a lot of creativity. I mentioned George Church. People like George Church,
these are dreamers. And they're dreamers who are saying, well, now we're dreaming. How do we turn
these dreams into reality? But when we talk about the future of human life, we need to be
really careful. As I said to you before, my father came to the United States, father and grandparents
came to the United States as refugees from Nazism. If you had asked the Nazis what they
were doing, they would have said they were implementing Darwinism. That's the essence
of Nazism. And we have all of these Nuremberg trials about human experimentation.
And so if we are, and I personally think that we will engineer our future children,
and that we must, I mean, we want to survive, our planet is going away. We can't stay on this
planet forever. But we have to do it carefully and thoughtfully and methodically and responsibly.
And so we can't just be playing around with life.
But I want to be both the devil's advocate and the angel's advocate. I'm not actually convinced
that this sobriety makes sense or is possible. I mean, your point is that this is getting cheaper
and more powerful. And what that usually means to me is that it's moving towards a garage that
sooner or later. Already, there's this DIY bio movement, bio hackers, and it's already happening.
So my point is, is that once things become cheap and powerful, they can be done quietly,
even if they're criminalized, even if we have panels on ethics. I think in some weird way,
we haven't been honest. And the only thing that's been allowing us to be so dishonest about biology
has been, in some sense, the cost, the lack of power and our clumsiness. So to get back to this
most dangerous question, so you and I both come from Jewish backgrounds, and we were on the losing
end of a eugenics experiment, writ large, gone mad. Yet the problem that I see is that we are
uncomfortable with the fact that eugenics doesn't really almost mean anything. In other words,
mate selection is a form of genetic selection. And if you decide that dinner in a movie is eugenics,
then you've drawn a line at a super early stage.
Why, you got sex for dinner in a movie? That's a good deal.
Moving right along. On the other hand, if we just decide, hey, it's a free-for-all,
and you should be able to do anything. But the word eugenics, for example, has worked
in some sense because it's not really properly defined. It's not clear where good selection
begins and ends and bad selection. I would say, and tell me if I'm wrong, that we've been lying,
that there is no way, in fact, of drawing a line much the way we have in the pro-life, pro-choice
where both of these camps make no sense. I would say that the pro-editing, pro-hacking position
and the anti-hacking position make no sense at all, and that we're really left with a permanent
struggle on my way off. I agree completely that if we say we can never do it, that's the wrong
answer. We're going to have to do it, and we're going to want to do it. Who wants to have a kid
that's going to die of a terrible genetic disease when we have the technology to change that? Who's
going to want to have their parents get dementia if we can prevent that? I just think it will be
nuts for us to say we have these powerful tools that can do unimaginable good, and we're not going
to do it because these tools also have a dangerous side effect. We wouldn't be in cars,
we wouldn't be using plows, we wouldn't use any technology if that was the case.
In some sense, this is the position of, let's say, the Amish at some level. There's a slippery
slope, and you're suggesting that we move midway onto it. You've called the Chinese guy who's doing
this a villain. We've both talked about the dangers of Nazi Germany, and yet we're both
kind of excited about the idea of freeing people from risk of breast cancer or maybe even enhancing
cognitive capacity. Maybe I don't even have a point or a position. I'm just agreeing with you.
People use this slippery slope like it's a bad thing. First, we started with curing this disease,
and then we cured that disease. Some slippery slopes are great slippery slopes. You talked
about your dinner in the movie. That was a slippery slope toward love and marriage and great for us.
Certainly, the people who say never do it are wrong, and the people who say just no restraints,
no holes barred, let's just let 100 flowers bloom, that also is wrong. What we need to do is to find
someplace in the middle, which brings me to your point about eugenics. Again, with my background,
it's very sensitive to talk about this, but right now the term eugenics is used as a cudgel.
Somebody's doing, say, oh, that's eugenics. It feels like, oh, I'm not in for eugenics.
In some ways, that's appropriate because there's so many horrible things we're done in the name
of eugenics that maybe they've just ruined that word. Let's just imagine some other word
to describe this selection. Again, even using the word selection, and again, I write about this in
the book, you say selection, you think, oh, Mengele. Mengele is selection of who's going to live and
who's going to die. I talked about these 10 embryos in a dish, in a lab, and you're going to have to
pick one. What are the criteria that you're going to use to determine which of those embryos get
implanted? If we say, well, I want one that have a child that's not going to die of a terrible
genetic disease, that's a normative choice that it's not just in some abstract objective world
that's set within the context of us because you can just move one little step closer. I talked
about Down syndrome. I do a lot of speaking and the parents of Down babies and others are saying,
like, wait a second, are you making a normative statement saying that a child with Down syndrome
has less of a right to exist than someone who doesn't? I always say, no, that's not what I'm
saying, but I am saying that if it's a choice, and we already know the answer to this because of the
abortion, if it's a choice, people aren't going to select to implant, in most cases, babies that
have Down syndrome. This goes back to a very dangerous conversation that I had with Jim Watson.
Now, you and I have both encountered Jim Watson, and I find that he somehow went down a bad path
where he got so tired of being told what he could say and what he couldn't say that he decided that
he would start saying the most offensive things possible. I'm on record as saying that the legacy
of Jim Watson is way too important to be left to Jim Watson. Now, with that said, what I learned
in part was that when Jim and his friends between 53 when the double helix structure was elucidated,
and I guess 63 when the genetic code was figured out by somebody else, Marshall Nirenberg,
that group was shocked that we pretended to care about our identity in the form of these letters,
this computer code in ourselves, if you will, but we never really accepted what they found.
And as a result, whenever they started to talk to us about identity or different characteristics,
they found that we were so attached to our pre-genetic understanding of ourselves that
we actually won't give it up, and we will fight anyone tooth and nail who tries to tell us,
you know, this is really a consequence of information technology is developed by
natural and sexual selection. Are we stuck in a culture where we can't actually update to realize
what we figured out, you know, 70 years ago? It's so hard for people because in some ways,
our ability to look under the hood of what it means to be a human being is challenging some of our
most ancient mythologies, our understanding of who and what we are. And so we love to have this
idea of, you know, I can be anything that I want if I put my heart to it. And it's this mystery of
life is unfolding. And even things like parenting is really important, that some people are now
challenging. And it's really, really difficult. I mean, it's just to give a very narrow example.
You know, I talk about this a lot to say like, I'm a runner, and I run marathons. And there is
nothing that I could do to be pretty much nothing to be a world champion, like the top world champion
marathon. Or because when you look at the fastest marathon times in history, a like freakishly
disproportionate number are people from the same valley in Kenya and Ethiopia. And then one tribe,
the Kalengins in Kenya, about 4 million people. And then one sub tribe, the non de sub tribe,
1 million people. It's genetics. And yes, it's great for people to try really hard. And we all
have a genetic range of possibility. And we should aspire to be at the top end, whatever
that means in a given context of our potential. But if I don't have the genetics to be the
world's fastest marathoner or sprinter or abstract mathematician, I'm not going to get there. And
that's really hard because we tell ourselves different different stories.
Well, so let's focus on this as a practice as a warm up and watch where it goes. So my belief
is that between 1897, where we started keeping records of the Boston Marathon and 1987,
there were no winners of the Boston Marathon, I think not one from either Kenya or Ethiopia.
After 1987, it is not exactly total domination. I think there's a Japanese, there's a Korean,
maybe there's an Italian, I've forgotten, but it is almost 100% with a few exceptions that may
happen in years where the weather is a little bit different, that it's won by this very small
group of people in Kenya and Ethiopia. How do we go from a point where this was a very
diverse, and it was up for grabs, it was really athleticism in some sense,
to a point where it just is genetics and we found the special people who are wildly well
adapted. Because the world wasn't connected enough. And so people in Kenya and Ethiopia
weren't competing and there wasn't prize money and all these infrastructure things that have
brought us together didn't exist. Would you say that that would have a negative effect
on the sport that now we don't even feel motivated to enter or we just want to watch?
People ask that question a lot, just in the sense, well, what happens if we have genetically
optimized people fulfilling certain roles in sports? Are we going to care because there's
this kind of unknown mystery? But that's what's already happening. It's just that we didn't
know. I mean, if we just were to go back and sequence people who've been our greatest athletes,
especially in the sports where you can really isolate specific functions.
Like swimming.
Well, swimming, you have to have access to a pool, you have to have great coaching,
but I think like running the 100 meters, it's just kind of this standard human thing,
all kids run. And we're going to find out that people are genetically optimized for certain
functions and we can't lie to ourselves about that. And yes, there's this fear nobody wants to live
in kind of this Plato's Republic society, but you also don't want to live in a society where the
people who are doing mission critical functions aren't the people best suited to do those things.
I mean, there's like the joke about the German chef and the Italian policemen,
if you kind of have the wrong person for the wrong job, that could also hurt a society.
Well, I have to admit that I don't have the same clarity that you do. So for example,
if I go to the next example, so I believe that it has to do in part with the ability to
radiate heat in terms of marathon running, that that's really the limiting factor.
What happens when you look at something freakish like
the number of female chess players in the top 100 chess players in the world and you find that it's
one in 100 is female and you've got a single protein, S R Y, that determines whether or not
some sort of template, the proto human being goes male or goes female. Are you prepared to say
that we should just accept if we find out that there's a genetic component for spatial reasoning,
for example, or that there are, I believe, three grandmasters of African origin. I'm not comfortable
with that conclusion. It may be that that conclusion somehow comes out of the genetics
the way your Boston Marathon example comes out of the genetics. But I don't know what kind of a
society I would be living in if I were comfortable saying, wow, there are really huge disparities.
I'll give you the most dangerous one for you and me. Ashkenazi Jews represent
one quarter of one percent of the world's population, about 25 percent of the physics
Nobel Prize. I was shocked when I spit into a tube for 23 and me that it knew my religion. Now,
I hadn't thought about the idea that Judaism is, among many other things, a breeding protocol.
Yeah. Of having the smartest people like the rabbis for hundreds of years have
as many kids as possible versus the Catholic priests.
Well, that's one story. That's one story. Another story would be that
previously unimportant skills like mathematical ability for money lending might have been
fetishized by a group that was allowed to do that and live else. And lo and behold,
that turned out to be very important in a world dominated by a computer program. I'm not sure
which story we're telling. I'm not sure what's true, but I'm trying to get at a different point.
If I accept the idea that this particular valley sub-tribe in Kenya and Ethiopia actually has
a genetic advantage at marathon running, I'm not terribly disturbed. And as soon as I kick
that over into things like chess and physics, it doesn't feel very good to even be thinking about
these. Yeah. This is really uncomfortable stuff. Yeah. And it exists in the realm of our most
taboo, difficult topics. So let me take your three examples, the women chess players,
the Africans, and the Jews. So for women chess players, it is just a fact that when you just
look at the top grandmasters in the world, it is almost entirely men. That is not because
there aren't enough women who are playing chess. That is because of the brain structure that allows
a person to be great at chess. The male brain on average, and certainly at the level of these
grandmasters, is better suited for that. There could be another game that could be just like
chess with a different rule set where the structure of women's brains could be better
suited. And I would not be at all surprised if in whatever game that was that all of the
grandmasters were women. And I just, so many people have looked at this. But what if such
a game doesn't helpfully materialize? In other words, what you said, which again, I'm not blaming
you, and I'm struggling with this issue. I don't know whether I want these things investigated,
not investigated. I don't know whether I want to tell a sort of a soft story around something
that I suspect is true. I mean, you can't actually back out exactly that this is brain
structure because it could easily be that in order to be at the very top of the chess pile,
you have to be completely obsessive about chess. And it may be that it's an obsessional trait,
rather than an ability trait that discriminates against females. Or it could be, for example,
that Africans dominate speed chess, which would be a different variant of another game.
In all of these circumstances, my claim is there is no good place to stand. And this is the thing
that I don't know how to communicate to the world, which is we now have so much information,
and we have so many social needs that the information we have and the social needs that
we have are at least at risk temporarily of clashing in a profound and destructive way
before we figure this out. Would you agree? 100% agree. And so we talked before we went
live about this kind of podcast knife fight between Sam Harris and his recline. And it was
painful for me. I enjoy both of their podcasts, but it was painful to me to watch for people who
don't know. Yeah, so Sam Harris and as recline are both very successful podcasters among other
things. And so there was Sam Harris, did a podcast in an interview with Charles Murray,
who wrote a book called The Bell Curve in a long, long time ago. And The Bell Curve was a very
challenging book, and it talked about differences between groups. And one of the ways it categorized
group was between blacks and whites. And I, as someone who's read that book, and I write about
it in my book, there are some aspects of that book where they were just trying to present data and
they were attacked for it. There were other aspects of the book I felt where it was wildly
inappropriate and borderline racist. And so I think that part of the attack, and I'm all for
free speech, and certainly when Charles Murray was physically harmed at Middlebury, I mean,
that was an outrage. But there's a need for an important debate. And so Sam Harris had Murray
on his podcast, and it was an excellent podcast interview. And then he came out and he wrote
some things. And basically his view was, let us just be honest about the data. And then Ezra Klein
