nest?
Because in the near term, the real meaningful applications of genetic technologies aren't
going to be designer babies.
It's going to be curing terrible genetic diseases and helping people.
If designer, quote-unquote designer babies ever happens, that's potentially long in
the future, even though we've begun that process.
What I say to that is let's just say that we're having this conversation and the people
who are behind the barricades on one side or another on the abortion issue will say,
hey, here's another barricade.
I better get behind the no manipulation of human sex cells.
That's a new barricade that I can build and defend.
And so there's a real danger of that.
There is a strong argument to be made.
Like let's just keep this under the radar.
We actually, scientists are by and large really responsible.
Let them do their work and let this issue emerge when it's ready.
And that's what happened with IVF.
I mean, with IVF, it just happened before there was a really big moral debate about IVF.
And so when it got to the point when the pro-life people would say it could have said, hey, wait
a second, your life begins at conception, you're killing embryos in these IVF clinics,
those people were already talking about the miracle of life of these people in their churches
who now had babies.
But I believe that these genetic technologies are so powerful.
They're so transformative.
We can't afford to make the same mistake as was made in the beginning of the era of GMOs.
Like what we're talking about is our future.
It's everybody's business and we have to respect each other enough to try to tell the story.
But we have to do it in a responsible way because I know with this book,
and I've been out on my book tour, and there are lots of people say, just do scaremongering.
I mean, that's the way to get attention.
And when I say, well, wait a second, what's the goal?
And if you do it responsibly, you get a little less attention, but I'd rather do it in the right way.
Well, since you're a storyteller and since you know far more about the subject than I do,
I want to ask you for three separate stories.
I want a responsible story that scares the bejesus out of me.
I want a story that excites me and I want a story that tells me about what would happen
if we really started to block progress out of a misplaced fear and very little happened.
Could I ask for that as a bundle so that I'm not being told one thing or the other?
Yeah, yeah. No, it's great. And that's the only way to think about it.
We're just beginning a journey and there are so many different places that this journey
can take us and we may go to all of them in one version or another.
So certainly a story that is in all these stories, there's the exciting and there's
the terrifying and they are connected. So here's an exciting story is that we have
all of these terrible bugs in humanity and that's why little kids are dying from
deadly genetic diseases and no one says, oh, that's just wonderful nature. I mean,
to hell with that, let's fight it. That's why we have healthcare.
Here's another terrible story, 90-year-old people.
Let's just pick one disease that you think might be easily put into the crosshairs of our
technology in the short term. Let me pick 5,000 diseases. It's a classification of
these single gene mutation disorders. I mean, there's tens of thousands of them,
but there are about 10,000 that have been identified, 5,000 really well characterized.
Most of our traits are complex, genetically complex, meaning that many genes have something to say,
often for a very little amount, but we have a number of diseases and disorders that are what
are called Mendelian disorders, single gene mutation disorder. It's like one letter that's
off, so sickle cell disease and Tay Sacks are Huntington's disease and many, many others.
And so we are now, because we're able to identify those diseases, many of them can be and will
increasingly be identifiable in IVF and embryo selection. So with IVF, you extract the eggs
from the mother, fertilize them with the father's sperm, grow them in the lab in vitro,
and then at around day five, you extract a few cells that otherwise would have grown into the
placenta and you sequence them. And the cost of sequencing has gone down from about a billion
dollars in 2003 to about 600 now, and it's going toward negligibility. And so you have 10
fertilized eggs, and now you know that one of them is going to be a child who, if taken to
term, is going to die of Tay Sacks. So almost everybody will not choose to implant a child
who they know is going to die of a genetic disease. And so that's what I see as a very
positive story, because right now in parts of Europe where the government pays for
non-invasive prenatal screening, NPT, 97% of people who get the diagnosis after three months of
pregnancy for Down syndrome are aborting. So you have to assume that pretty much everybody
who's choosing from among one in 10 is going to choose to not implant the future potential kid
who is going to die of a genetic disease. But there's the dangerous side about that,
is when we get into the business of selecting which of these let's call them 10 fertilized eggs,
early stage embryos to implant. And as we know more and more about genetics, we are going to have
a lot more information when making those choices. So the health choices are going to be relatively
straightforward. I want a kid who's going to not have terrible diseases, who's going to have a good
chance of a long and healthy life. But after that, we're going to have a lot of information about
things like personality style and IQ. And we talk about what are the dangers.
You can just jump in. You brought up Tasex, but you also brought up Sickle cell.
Correct.
And what's fascinating about that is that to me, and admittedly,
this is not necessarily widely shared as an opinion in the public, but I wouldn't consider
Sickle cell as an allele, as a trait to be a disease. It's an adaptation that is a disease in
an American context, given that we rid ourselves of malaria. But it was in fact, a desperate
response of evolutionary adaptation in order to modify hemoglobin so as to make it resistant.
It's a great point, and I write about that specifically in the book. And so I'll have the
broad principle and then the specific application. The broad principle is there is no good and bad
in evolution. We may think, oh, it's better to have a higher IQ. It's better to be taller.
It's better to be extroverted. It's better to not be a recessive carrier of Sickle cell disease.
And in this world, as you create this world that we live in here, that may be true. But in a different
environment, even the things that we value most could be our greatest vulnerabilities. So you're
exactly right. So Sickle cell, if you have Sickle cell disease, you're going to die.
Well, if you have two alleles for Sickle cell, right. But if you are a recessive carrier,
you have increased resistance to malaria, which is why that mutation has survived.
Because it is a small cost in terms of oxygen carrying. But that wasn't where I was going with.
No, but let me just circle back if you don't mind. Because the danger of this story, because when I
talked about a good story with a fear. So the danger is you could say, wow, we could select
our embryos. And people say, well, geez, I'd like to have certain things. I want health,
which is just the simplest one. And that's what people are going to want first. But let's just
say that it's not Sickle cell disease. We have no idea what recessive, sorry, what recessive
mutations we are carrying that could be useful to face some threat that we've never faced as a
species. Or haven't faced it recently. And so it's been driven to a very low frequency.
Yes. And just what I was trying to. Yeah, sure. Yeah. The thing that I'm trying to address here
was that I was actually trying to riff on top of your. Yeah, please. Yeah.
The point would be that just the way somebody with eyeglasses has a misshapen eye. And then
they have a second distortion in the form of a lens. But the coupling of the two distortions is
less distorted as a system. It would seem to me that what you're in some sense saying is
the reason that Sickle cell trait crops up in a U.S. context is that we've added something novel.
That we were bringing people, let's say, from Africa, where Falsiparum malaria is very deadly,
to a place where it's absent. And what we're doing here is in some sense saying the trait
that you have may have been adaptive, although at great cost, but that because of some aspect
of modernity, we actually have to double down on modernity. The first part of it was something
like air travel. And the second part of it is editing and that the two of those distortions
in some sense is less distorted than anything else in the system. And that that was sort of the
feeling that. Well, that's the thing is like once we start changing things, we can't stop. I mean,
you just think of just Columbus arriving in the new world in 1492 and just this chain reaction
that is still going. And so I think that that's right. And that's why we can't imagine that there's
just this fixed thing. There's the world. There's nature. And then we're changing. We're screwing
with nature. Nature is us. Nature is always changing. And that's why you talk about this
genetic diversity. It's been baked into our biology for a billion years. So it's natural to hack.
You know, we are hackers. That's what that's our comparative advantage. Yes. I love that.
All right. So that was the single mutation diseases was a great example of something that's
positive that might be right around the corner because that's simple enough. Yeah, that you
might be able to do it through editing or checking or what we had already in China. The world's first
gene-edited babies were born last year in October. Do you want to say a little bit more about that?
Sure. Yeah. So last November, it was announced at the World Summit on Human Genome Editing
by Chinese biophysicist named Hu Zhongkui announced that the prior month in October 2018,
the world's first gene-edited babies had been born in China to two little girls.
And he was first in China. The government and the people's daily said, this is incredible.
This shows Chinese scientific triumph. And then there was this international condemnation,
myself included. And then they said, all right, then there was a buckling down.
And there's been a huge debate. My World Health Organization Committee was created in the aftermath
that because people would have always said, this is coming. And actually, my book was already in
production then. And I'd already said, we're going to see the world's first gene-edited babies.
It's going to happen in China. And then I called the publisher, say, we have to pull out of
production. I just need to add three little sentences saying this thing that I had predicted
has already happened. But even I would have said it wasn't going to happen in 2018. I would have
guessed 2022. So that already happened. And it was very controversial for a number of reasons.
One, because he was incredibly sloppy. He didn't get approval from the hospital in which he was
operating. The consent of the parents was totally uninformed and misinformed. But on top of that,
the target mutation was a gene called CCR5. It wasn't. So in these kids, their father had HIV
and their mother didn't. And so forgetting genetics, in a case in China or here, if a father has HIV
and the mother doesn't, there are plenty of ways for them to have a child who's not going to have
HIV. But what Hu Zhongkui did was try to edit the CCR5 gene in a way that is similar to a number,
what a number of Northern Europeans have, where they have two disrupted copies,
which gives them increased resistance to HIV. Maybe more susceptibility to West Nile virus,
but increased resistance to HIV. And that's what he was trying to do. He wasn't trying to fix
an existing problem. He was trying to create in many ways an enhancement. And then a few months
later, a report came out that mice who had this same CCR5 mutation were doing better in mazes than
mice without it. So then there were all of these stories coming back to storytelling like, wow,
maybe these kids are engineered to be smarter. And then there were scientists a few months later
who did an analysis based on the UK Biobank, which is probably the world's most useful genetic
database. And they found a correlation between this disrupted CCR5 and lifespan. People were living
shorter lives. So it was premature, and certainly I've publicly called Hu Zhongkui a villain,
which I think he is. But this is a harbinger of where we're going. The age of human genetic
engineering has begun. We have two gene-edited babies that we know of. The third Chinese baby
has probably already been born. There's a Russian scientist, Dennis Rebrokov, who's announced that
he has five parents lined up. And it's going to go one, two, five. And within a decade,
we will have thousands of genetically engineered babies. So I was going to ask you, remember,
I was going to ask you for a positive story, a negative story, and a story about stagnation.
In some sense, maybe you've just given me a negative story, which is that somebody starts
editing children in a way that they're looking for one trait that's positive, but they don't
understand that something is mediating a trade-off. And evolution is a trade-off. And that's why it's
so complicated. Right. I mean, there is the issue that you could be to borrow from finance
at an interior point, so not on an efficient frontier. And you might be able to
take two things that are involved in a trade-off and optimize both of them because you weren't
already at the point where the trade-off starts to bind. It's true. But in finance,
everyone in finance, and I live in New York, is saying, well, we understand some of the variables.
We don't understand all of the variables. And the same is true in genetics, that in the old days,
people used to say, there's a gene for that, the tall gene, the short gene, the smart gene.
And now there's a polygenic hypothesis, meaning lots of genes. And there's even an
omnigenic hypothesis, which is even more complicated. And so to understand those trade-offs,
we would need a much greater knowledge of genetics than we now have, which is why,
for me, when I write about genetic engineering, which I think is a much bigger category than
gene editing, and the mechanism of genetic engineering, I think it's primarily going to be
first embryo selection, IVF and embryo selection, which is why I think we're moving toward the end
of procreative sex. And then it's going to be using stem cells to create a virtually
unlimited number of eggs. It's called in vitro gametogenesis. And so if we do that and you're
selecting from 15 pre-implanted embryos in traditional IVF and PGD, you don't have that
many options, because it's just you're starting with 15. But when you're starting with 10,000
or a million, then you have real options. And that's why I think everyone's focusing
on gene editing and CRISPR. But as I see it, for human genetic engineering, the real story
is embryo selection. Do you want to say what CRISPR is for those who don't know?
So CRISPR is a gene editing tool. I mean, the shorthand that everybody uses,
it's like a word processing. So you think of the genome as a string of letters, which is
how we understand it. You put your cursor. So putting your cursor, you have a guide RNA that
goes to a certain point in the genome, and you use a cutting enzyme. And there's many different
cutting enzymes. The most popular is called Cas9, but there are many others. And traditionally,
you make a double-stranded cut. And so it's not just very much like word processing. You cut
something, and then you can just leave it deleted, or you can add something. Now where this is
this incredible age where pretty much every day there's another story, not just about a new
application of CRISPR, but new types of gene editing tools. So we're moving very, very rapidly
toward a world where we are going to be able to edit all genomes, including our own, increasingly
at will. And so that's a world where we are able not just to read genetics, that's sequencing,
but to write and hack genetics. And that introduces this concept of biological, of induced biological
variability, which is very... Like we're going to be able to screw with nature. And that
people recognize that their information technology is variable. That's why you think your new phone
is going to be better than your old phone. But we somehow feel like we're kind of... That this
biology is our biology. I'm a Homo sapien. My parents are Homo sapiens. My kids are Homo sapiens.
And so this idea that we can rewrite life, it's counterintuitive, even though intellectually
people get that somehow we got from single cell organism state to this over almost four billion
years. And so that's this big change. And that's the kind of the core message.
We've been over... I guess this is a little bit confusing to me. I often shock people by telling
