Hello, this is Eric with the housekeeping section of this week's release before we
introduce the main section of the episode.
But first things first, we now finally have a website and a mailing list.
So please pause the audio and go to ericwinestein.org, all one word, ericwinestein.org, and sign
up so that we can make sure that you're the first to learn about all things related to
the portal.
We'll wait.
You did it?
Fantastic.
Okay, so now you're signed up and that's great.
But what did you just sign up for?
Well, many shows can brag about having a large audience and while ours may have grown rapidly,
it certainly has zero claim on being the biggest or even having the most regular release schedule.
Sorry about that one, guys.
We are, however, growing nicely as well as it being early days here at the portal.
So that's kind of a sweet spot, but I don't think that's really the main offering to you.
What we do have that is very unique is that we have an actual thriving 24 seven community
based equally around projects and discussion.
Now in a world where everyone is talking about community, why is this unique or even important?
Well, to begin with, community is one of those perfectly fine English words that gets ruined
by corporate usage like content, brand, message, social distribution.
I'm sure you know the list.
So when I say this podcast has a community, I don't mean that at all.
I mean a group of people I increasingly think of as my colleagues and friends who are trying
to actually build the resources to find the real portals for which the podcast is in fact named.
These are quite frankly people with whom I choose to spend my time and people I respect and admire.
So how did this come about?
Well, in part, it is responsive to the unique difficulties presented by the program.
For example, when I have a physicist like the great Sir Roger Penrose on the show,
I know that I am supposed to make sure that the audience can follow along.
Yet I'm convinced that if I do all the handholding required in the mythical podcasters handbook,
we will never get to what makes Roger Penrose unique or interesting.
And that's quite a conundrum.
Well, Portal Nation or whatever you want to call it is unusually project focused and has come together to help solve this problem.
What the community is now doing is reversing the logic of the old line, if you build it, they will come.
Instead, in our reversed community, if episodes come, then they will build it.
In other words, Portalers, not totally sure of the nomenclature here, Portalians, Portaloids,
are doing whatever they have to in order to help each other understand what is happening without burdening the show.
They will transcribe, annotate, make animated shorts, produce graphics, launch websites, organize reading clubs, make artwork,
you name it, whatever is needed to support the episodes in the show, people are actually building it as we speak.
To better see this, check out the portal.wiki or forum.theportal.dev.
Now, if you go to the Penrose episode on the wiki, for example, you will see the beginnings of an effort to create episode aides
to help the general public following the program understand what is being said about our discussion and Roger's work in physics.
There is a thriving 24-7 voice chat discussion around the portal as well on Discord and a separate Discord server for Portal listeners and viewers
dedicated to reading Roger's book together.
You can join us at ericweinstein.org, forum.theportal.dev or the portal.wiki.
Unfortunately, the Discord server where I visit frequently, and for which I give out the invite link periodically on Twitter,
is a little trickier to join as it already has around 7,000 members and it takes a little while for the residents to help new people
understand that it has a rare internet culture, which actually allows us to have up to, let's say, 100 people in an open voice chat room at 4 a.m.
but without chaos. It's bizarre.
It's really quite a thing to be able to do that as a community with minimal moderation.
So we're trying to figure out how to onboard people more rapidly, but it naturally takes some time to communicate culture to others.
And to this end, let me give a huge shout out to even a few of the folks that made this culture happen.
People with screen names like Phil, Tim, the Murthless Swagman, Miss Jo, JT, Ami, Tyler, Cam, Beef Sandwich, Boku,
Winter Flags, Field Theorists, Jacob, Jentrepreneur, JD, Josh, and too many more to name.
These are the people who are actually making this community really meaningful to me and what keeps me coming back day after day.
But beyond that, I want our people to know that while I have felt beyond lucky to be able to build a largeish platform in this new space,
I know that it's very difficult to get heard and I've always intended to use the portal to introduce lesser known folks who might have been looked over.
And I now fully intend to showcase our main contributors and their best work to a worldwide audience.
In short, community is too often a buzzword.
But if you are a regular listener to this program, please come join your world of fellow seekers.
The podcast is fast becoming just the first layer of a much larger community of like-minded individuals who are finding each other through the greater portal ecosystem.
OK, the other topic that I at least wanted to touch on here is this.
I have started to talk about a few different things that are quite important to me, but which I have never discussed openly on audio or video before.
In particular, I recently put up a video of my first ever talk at Oxford University from May of 2013 on Geometric Unity,
a theory which I started thinking about around 1984 or perhaps just before.
It is a bit odd having something which occupies a huge space in your very private life go from private to public with the press of a single button.
And the interested response has been very strong.
It is still too new for me to comment on how I'm reacting to having it out in the outside world or how I'm feeling, so I won't say much more now.
But I at least wanted to thank you all for your many messages of support, and I look forward to discussing this with you all in the future.
Thanks again, and stay tuned.
This week's interview with Jamie Metzel, the author of Hacking Darwin, was recorded in July of 2019 just after the portal was launched.
I was unsure when I wanted to release the episode for a variety of reasons, and so I held on to it for a while.
One of those reasons frankly surrounds US sensitivity towards China.
When Jamie and I start talking about variation in general cultural attitudes towards biohacking, China comes up as the outlier that it is.
Now, the reason that that is such a problem is that the institutions of US science have become thoroughly dependent on the People's Republic of China beginning in the time of Deng Chaoping.
And with such dependence, as you might expect, came a vigorous US culture attempting to defend this unusually high degree of intertwining between two countries with vastly different national cultures and strategic objectives.
For both better and worse, I have been involved off and on in US science policy circles for around 30 years with a peak of activity probably in the mid to late 1990s.
In those circles, at least, I am well known to have become very concerned about the security implications of the United States scientific and technological relationship with China, starting in the early to mid 1980s when I first became aware of it.
At that time, the People's Republic became eager to supply ever increasing amounts of inexpensive and pliant scientific labor to newly cash strapped advanced US STEM research and laboratory programs.
As the potential for conflict with our US scientific mandarins is always great over this issue, I generally try to discuss my deep concerns about differing Chinese and US attitudes towards STEM research as sparingly as possible, as until recently anyway, I felt that this seemed to be a niche issue to the common man rather than the top security threat as I perceive it to be.
In light of the COVID epidemic, however, I am now newly emboldened and in fact eager to fight the self censorship within myself, so I've decided to release the episode.
Let me put this in starker terms.
I believe that social justice is a killer ideology and by that I don't mean that it's frickin awesome.
Instead, I mean that supposedly progressive people who worry endlessly about the delicate feelings and sensibilities of the Chinese Communist Party are now endangering our lives.
Those who had already paid the steep social tax for questioning our elites love affair with China were far earlier to warn about the coronavirus than those who were fretting openly about anyone linking the virus to China where the outbreak appears to have first become severe.
I myself do not love the term Chinese virus as many viruses originate in China and it seems politically charged and also offensive to many people.
I cannot, however, imagine why we are worrying about calling it the Wuhan virus or Wuhan virus one, given that it may well turn out to be the first accidental release from the Wuhan Institute of Virology's biosafety level for laboratory, a first of its kind Chinese facility, which opened only five years ago.
In the event that it's simply spontaneously originated in a seafood market down the road apiece, the Roman numeral one never needs to be increased and the name of the virus will do as little harm to Wuhan as the Spanish flu, Hong Kong flu and Lyme disease did to those fine places in 1918, 1968 and 1975 respectively.
So I will leave you with this final thought.
Our discussions of social justice and the scientific discussion of biology have to be kept separate after COVID and the slow response due in part to fastidious concerns about racism and xenophobia, which were prioritized well above public safety, there can now be no two ways about it among reasonable people.
Biology, more than any other subject, humiliates shallow theories of human beings as apes, such as so-called critical theory, and it does so by revealing those theories to be the incoherent scribblings of fools by comparison with Darwinian theory.
And with lives and national security at stake, I'm done playing nice.
Our scientists and particularly our biologists need to be immunized and protected from concerns about social justice or people will die full stop.
As I have put it starkly before, the response from biology to social justice should not be indifference, but wholesale intolerance, in a phrase, get the hell out of my lab with that social engineering or I'm calling security.
And if that seems a little harsh, we can make it a little bit nicer.
We can add, and while you're at it, kid, do yourself a favor and learn something about the theory of natural and sexual selection.
If you're open to it, it could just change your life for the better and spare you a lifetime of confusion.
Hello, this is Eric Weinstein and you've found the portal today on the show, I'm talking to Jamie Metzel, who is going to describe for us some of his thoughts that come out of his book, Hacking Darwin, about the pursuit of molecular engineering and other biological hacking techniques to unlock the promise of the cell and potentially human potential at a greater scale.
So Jamie, tell me a little bit about how you came to this topic so that we can kind of bring the people at home up to speed on your trajectory and how you came to write this book.
Sure.
So more than 20 years ago, I was working on the National Security Council and my then boss and now very close friend, Richard Clark, was the guy who essentially predicted 9-11.
And unfortunately, he was like all Cassandras, he had a sense of what was going to happen, but because he was ahead of his time, nobody would listen to him.
And when 9-11 happened, Dick's memo, Prussian memo, was on George Bush's desk.
And Dick always used to say, if everyone in Washington was focusing on one thing, you could be sure there was something much more important that was being missed.
And so 20 plus years ago, I saw all these little data points that told me this story that the biotech and genetic revolutions were going to fundamentally transform life and our lives and nobody was talking about it.
So I started, I started reading, taking these little data points and putting them together.
I hadn't taken a science class since high school, started just grabbing every book I could find, every person who I wanted to talk to and just educating myself.
And then when I was ready, I started writing articles on about the national security implications of the genetics revolution.
And a congressman from where we are now, L.A. Brad Sherman, called me up one day a long time ago and said, hey, this is really important.
I read your article. No one's talking about this.
I want to organize hearings around your article.
Will you be the lead witness and help organize the hearings, which I did.
And then I was speaking and talking a lot and I just was frustrated because I felt like this is the story of the future of our species.
And we all need to be educated.
We all need to be part of the conversation about what's next, but it wasn't happening.
So then I wrote two near term sci fi novels, Genesis Code and Eternal Sonata, telling the story of the genetic genetics revolution and life extension.
But as a story, because that's how we're humans, that's how we learn.
But when I was doing book tours for those books and I describe the science the way someone who was self taught, like nobody had given me the lingo for how to talk about science.
I had to figure it out myself and I I could just see in people's eyes that they were suddenly they'd heard these little pieces of the story.
They knew about a little bit about DNA.
They knew a little bit about IVF and they'd heard these words, but they didn't have a story for how the pieces fit together or where they themselves fit into that story.
And that was when I realized that I needed to write a book for everyone, the story of the of the genetics revolution.
Are you familiar by any chance with a remarkable book by Horace Judson called The Eighth Day of Creation?
No.
Well, this so this is a very odd book where I think somebody pointed out that the story of molecular biology could be uniquely told in the present only because all of the major players were still alive.
And so Horace Judson wrote this book about the birth of molecular biology effectively.
And I think he more or less got to all of the top people and wrote the story in a very compelling fashion.
And I guess I was thinking about how profound the role of storytelling is in catalyzing human interest and imagination.
That somehow you could compare the data that we have to the sheet music of science.
But if nobody actually performs it in the form of a symphony, it really leaves most of us cold.
Do you feel that there's some aspect of storytelling which is essential to this?
Essential because every specialized field and certainly science, you have your specialists and they speak a coded language of specialists.
And that's great.
It's a it's a shorthand in a way because you don't have to explain something.
You have common terminology and that's what you use.
But we're talking about here about technologies that are going to change our lives and life itself.
And that's that has to be the interest of everybody.
And if the scientists aren't able to communicate that to the regular people, that's going to cause a huge problem.
So we are humans.
The way we learn is through stories and our ancestors, they didn't have these specialized stories that everybody was around a fire.
And if somebody had something they wanted to tell, they had to find a way to tell it in the language of everybody.
And that's that's what I feel like we've lost a little bit in our in our age of super specialization that we're able to make more progress because we have pioneers heading out in every direction.
But if those pioneers don't bring the stories back or we don't have a way of weaving everybody into these transformational stories, then the pioneers are isolated and society is isolated from the pioneers.
Well, we we frequently tell this this tale about storytelling as something that the non specialists need and that the specialists can communicate in their highly professional lingo.
But I wonder just from what you've been talking about, whether or not there's a sort of back reaction and that the storytelling actually feeds back into the expert community so that when you're talking about this stuff, do you see your gift for storytelling having an effect back on the experts?
Or is it really all one way?
Absolutely.
It's two way and it has to be two way because, like I said, a lot of the scientists have a hard time communicating.
It's not what they do best for most of them.
But when you find the small number of scientists who are able to communicate, it's like opening up this magic world.
And on one hand, I'm I certainly am a translator.
I read just massive amounts of scientific studies and they're all very technical.
And I kind of take them in and then translate that into language that that that hopefully everybody.
And certainly I have high like getting lots of messages from high schoolers and others who are reading the book and getting these these principles.
But it's also going the other way.
I do a lot of speaking alongside George Church, who's kind of the living Charles Darwin.
And what George always says is that he reads science fiction novels like mine and imagines, well, that's really cool.
How could we do that?
And what I always say is I look at papers coming out of labs like George's and say, well, that's really cool.
What does it mean?
What are the big picture implications?
Right now, I'm part of the World Health Organization International Advisory Committee on Human Genome Editing, and we have people like Robin Level Badge or the top geneticists in the world.
But we also need people who are saying, well, this is how we're going to connect this message to the rest of the world.
Because if we have, if the science is dissociated from the public discourse around the science,
it kills the science.
That's what we saw with genetically with GMOs, what we used to call recombinant DNA.
The scientists thought, oh, we understand the science.
We understand its promise and we understand its peril.
We're going to be really responsible.
We're going to go to a Silamar and we're going to establish principles.
And then those which happened in the 1970s and those principles were realized.
But because there wasn't a public engagement from the start, you could the the the science hasn't
realized its potential because there's so much fear.
So it's not that there's science and the context of the science.
Science exists within the context.
Well, I guess I'm of two minds about this.
I think for my read of this, that there are plenty of terrific reasons to be very, very afraid.
What concerns me is whether or not the storytelling leads us when we're talking
about how we manipulate our own genetics, epigenetics, the cells and our body plans.
Are we actually being led to adaptive fears, which would cause us to come up with the right
restrictions on how we do the science and how we do our engineering?
Or do we spend our time worrying about nothing where, in fact, let's say some sort
of genetic modification, which is almost certainly benign because of the way in which it's phrased,
catches the public's imagination and suddenly you've got a panic where
where there shouldn't be one.
Is there a way of figuring out which fears are adaptive, which fears are maladaptive
and getting the storytelling to help aid our intuition?
It's really an important question because both the science and the storytelling are
themselves agnostic.
I mean, you could have science like the science doesn't come with a value system.
Storytelling is a mechanism and storytelling can be used to scare people.
It can be used to excite people.
It can be used for all sorts of reasons.
There's nothing inherent to the storytelling.
But then there's the question of what types of stories do we tell?
And I think about this a lot because right now a big chunk of my life is dedicated
to trying to spark what I'm calling a species-wide dialogue on the future of human genetic
engineering.
And there are some people who say, well, why are you putting this stick in the hornet's
