had the point, which I don't know if it's your view or you were just articulating it,
that we have social norms and we have the goals of the kind of society that we want to live in.
And if we're getting scientific data that is threatening those norms, we should think
of that scientific data as itself threatening. And so that was what was so frustrating.
Well, effectively, the concept of hate data. You know, in my view, there is data.
Well, no, I'm just... Yeah, yeah. But I think that's how that's...
Nobody uses the phrase hate data. But that's how I think Ezra Klein,
that was the essence of his argument. And so the thing that I didn't like about that interview
is I felt like they each pushed each other to become caricatures of their own position.
So everybody just kept repeating their thing. Sam Harris kept saying, well, just follow the data.
And Ezra Klein said, well, this data could lead us into an ugly place and we need to remember
that the science exists within the social context. And both of them were right in some ways.
And that brings me to your second group that you talked about. So on chess,
and it's not like chess means chess is not intelligence, chess is chess. But certainly
all evidence that exists has shown that men and at this highest level, men out with this
super chess playing men, on average, outperform the super chess playing women. And it could be
motivation. There could be other factors that are woven in. But my gut instinct is there's
something about men and women are just physiologically different. And that just exists.
And there's there are certainly people who are on them. I also agree that men and women
are physiologically different. But let me tell you the cautionary tale that has occupied me.
I was a mathematics graduate student at Harvard. And I believe that the department kind of informally
always wanted more women. But there was no track record or not much of a track record of success.
And so I think they would let in one a year. And then one year, a woman deferred,
and then there ended up being two women in the same year. And rather than dropping out,
the two women formed a support group. And then there was a whole cohort that went through and had
relatively successful careers in mathematics. So you could have told the tale that said,
actually, there's an inability to do math, because we're talking about tails and at the
highest level and Larry Summers got in trouble for making that exact argument.
Well, that was the odd part about that that was in a seminar that I actually founded with Richard
Freeman at the National Bureau for Economic Research. And we can go to the details of that.
I'm concerned that we are glibly look, I don't think there's any way of staying away from the
data. And I don't think that that's what happened between Ezra and Sam. I think that what happened
is Sam was having an issue where he was being lambasted for all sorts of responsible things
that he was saying. And then he said to himself, huh, I remember lambasting Charles Murray,
I wonder if I committed the crime that I am accusing others of, I should go back. So he
was doing some kind of internal penance. Ezra came from a completely different perspective,
which is, hey, you're not part of the whole policy wonky club that I'm part of. And let
me tell you, Charles Murray is a very well-known player in this game. And he comes with prejudices
and he may in fact present real data and real stuff, but he has a well-known agenda and he is
presenting the things that fit his agenda. And so that was sort of the weird subtext that they
were in. But I think what it really does is it brings up this question that there are no
dispassionate arbiters. And this is the thing that I don't like to talk about where the sort
of social justice perspective has a point, which is we pretend very often that we are
objective and that we can make these conclusions. And yet relatively minor alterations can reveal
that maybe intelligence is much more multivariate. For example, people talk about IQ where one of
the components of IQ is processing. And lots of people who I think of as being very smart
have terrible processing scores if they have what are called learning differences.
And so my concern has to do with the sort of humility and modesty with which we approach what
may seem at first blush to be extremely disturbing interpretations of the data. So what I would
put to you is it seems to me that we both have to proceed in a scientific fashion and that we
can't afford to always be thinking of the social consequences. And we also have to be thinking
of the social consequences and we can't afford to proceed blithely with the science. And so this
is the sort of, you know, when I asked you before about the three tails, the utopian, the dystopian
and the impasse tail. This is where I see that we're blocked. And in terms of the theme of the show,
is there a portal whereby we can start using our extra power to find a really graceful exit
from what seems to me to be a very powerful conundrum? And we have that portal and we're losing it.
Because it's called conversation. It's called connection. Because there is no doubt, and I
said it before, we can't imagine that our science just exists in some separate realm of pure
objectivity. Our science, like we ourselves, live in a world of context. And so it's because
you're in a context, you see the world through your prism. That's how consciousness works.
But at the same time, we can't just become postmodernists. We can't just be like, oh, this is
your truth. This is my truth. This is your data. This is my data. And we need to have high standards
for data. But we can't just, I mean, we can't just guide our interpretation of data based on our
politics. So I would rather try to be recognizing that that knowledge and scientific knowledge
exists within a context and being aware of that. But I would try to be as honest as we can about
the data. And that was something where I felt where Ezra and Sam kind of got confused. Because
when you're making a classification like Charles Murray did, like white people versus black people,
what is a white person? What is a black person? There's more diversity in Africa than there is
in the whole rest of the world. So just that somebody just by appearance is black,
it kind of doesn't tell you anything. Well, but let me come, I mean, this is why this is so fun
and so horrible. Let's, I want to, I want to devise an experimental setup that I think would be
highly educational and would elucidate a lot. I'm not sure if it's ethical. So let me propose it.
Mm-hmm. More or less, if I understand correctly, whether we are phenotypically male or phenotypically
female comes down to this SRY complex on the white, usually found on the white chromosome,
unless it migrates somehow to the X. Yeah. And some fish can change gender. Well,
but it may have arisen multiple times to get into that. But just let's stay with humans.
Assume that I propose the following experiment. I decide that I want identical twins,
but for an SRY protein. And so I'm going to mangle the SRY protein in one,
and I'm going to preserve it in the other. And I'm going to, or maybe I'll swap out the Y
chromosome for an X chromosome. What have you. Now I've got an identical boy and girl,
which is not usually something not anymore, because you made that identical up to as
identical as is humanly possible. Nobody has ever come up with anyone this, this identical.
Now I can start to run controlled trials, but I'm also sort of in mangle a territory. Yeah.
How is this in some sense different? Is there any way of maintaining this?
You wouldn't do that on a human like that. That's so, let's just say, I mean, that is an
experiment. Let's say I do it on mice. I look at maze running.
Yeah. No, no. So we don't have that ability yet, but because, which is my thesis, that
biology is increasingly readable and writable and hackable, I have no doubt
that at some point in the not distant future, we will be able to try something like that
on mice. So basically you have two identical twin embryos, and then you use a gene editing tool,
and you're able to change gender, which again is not something that's possible now,
but it's the kind of thing it should be possible just as a thought experiment.
And so you could do that with mice. And I think that you could do comparisons,
and we could actually learn a lot. And that's why, I mean, we talked about Sydney Brenner,
who recently died. That was his great insight, is that we're all, we're genetically related to
all of these model organisms. And so we are going to be able to increasingly understand that stuff.
And if we have a story that's our mythology as people that we've developed to our benefit,
in many cases, over thousands of years, and that increasingly runs counter to what we are
learning from our science, that's going to create a lot of vulnerability because either
you have to change the mythology, or people are going to say, hey, like this is what the
science is saying, and maybe it's going to be the racists who are saying that. And so that's why
I think we have to accept this idea of genetic difference. It's not in the category of race.
Race is just a preposterous, ridiculous, stupid, yes. But if you're part of some highly isolated
tribe on an island that you've been left alone for 50,000 years, you are going to be genetically
different from some other tribe that's been on another island for 50,000 years. And so we can't
deny that. And so we can't say, well, we're just going to close our eyes to the science
to protect our politics. I think what we have to do is start from a sense of values. And what are
our core values? Right. But look, one of our core values is hypocrisy. And let me make an argument.
You're familiar with the Ginger Rogers principle in male-female relations? No.
Ginger Rogers principle says that Ginger Rogers could do everything that Fred Astaire could do,
except backwards and in high heels, right? So that's a belief that in some sense,
women are as good or better than men. Which I believe. You do? Yeah. So I'm not saying there's...
No, no, no. But let me continue. Yeah. Then there's another principle that says that men and women
are equal. There's no way to get mathematical distributions to work out so that their means
are equivalent, but one in some sense majorizes the other in every known trait.
But why? Like, I disagree with that. I mean, mathematically, I could write you a...
Well, what I'm saying is that it depends on what we mean by equal. So let's just assume that we
accept. I mean, there are men... No, no. I mean, we have a concept of equal in biology, which would be
the equivalence of Fisher, which Fisher would say that you beautifully pointed out that geographically
separated populations can have extraordinarily different traits. And there's nothing in biology
that keeps those things together, including intelligence. However, the males and the females
in each of those populations at a mathematical level represent an expected value strategy that
is equivalent by Fisher's reasoning. Now, that means that in a weird way, male-female relations
are much better off than relations between separated groups. There is something tying
males and females in a breeding population to each other, and that is common expected value.
The distributions don't have to be the same. I agree with that, but it's your use of the word
equality. So yes. Expected return. Yes. So yes, if you have a penis and the other person has a
vagina, that's like that's chocolate and peanut butter, and you're able to have a kid. And if
your goal is to have a kid, that's a pretty fair trait. Well, I think that doesn't... I mean,
the reason that I'm throwing it back is you're talking about the most interesting
stuff in the world. Arguably, what's happened, and this is an argument that I first heard actually
from my wife, where she said, you're not getting it, Eric. Fisherian equivalence works at the level
of fitness. But what really happened was that cognitive work got wildly fulfilling recently.
And we've been a long time since we've had, let's say, a war that required universal conscription
in the US. Ergo, it's gotten much, much better to be male very recently. And it has stayed about
the same in many ways to be female, that if what you're doing is raising children for which women
may be very much better adapted because maternity is certain and paternity is not, as you know,
then you have a very strange situation in which many people may say, thank you very much, but
I'm not interested in Fisherian equivalence. What I really want to know is who gets the
corner offices, and then we have to have a different discussion. So the concern that I have
is that I actually don't believe us. I think that we're actually up against an incredibly
interesting conundrum where the science that must, that must continue and our social constructs,
which we also feel must continue, have really reached a fork in the road and that very few
of us are able to actually say, you know what, this is where something interesting happens because
it's going to break and it's going to break hard. But I don't think it has to break because,
like I said, there's who knows what equivalence means, who knows what equality means. These are
things that happen in a context that's always changing and all of the pieces are in many ways
in conversation with each other. So just using what you said, so cognitive work, a certain type
of cognitive work. And let's just make it easy. Let's just assume that for the second half of
the 21st century, let's just say that everybody, that the only way to make a lot of money was to
play chess, just to connect. And so like that's the thing. And so the closer you got to being a
Grandmaster, the more wealth that you have. And so then in that model, you would say, well,
men have an advantage if what I said earlier is true, which I believe it to be.
So then you would say, all right, so the value of men at this Grandmaster level is actually
going up because the world is now entirely organized around chess. And if my thesis is
correct, men are more optimized. But in fact, the world isn't organized around chess. There are
infinite number, massive number of different stories that are happening in our complex societies.
And let's just say that we are moving and we haven't talked about AI and this fundamental
transformation in the nature of work. And let's just say we talked about this game of chess where
there's like traditional chess and there's this other chess where women are better at it than men.
And just as a hypothetical, just using a stereotype, which I again think would probably
be true. Like if there was a chess that would form a chess that was more intuition based,
and it was more interactive that you had to understand the other person's emotional state,
maybe poker, I could easily say, well, I could imagine where 99% of the Grandmasters in that
thing would be women. And in this world of AI, where AI is, again, to use the example of chess,
AI is going to play chess better than our Grandmasters, it could be that those very human traits
that whoever has them is going to be rewarded. And so I just think that the model that you
described, it requires a lot of factors being fixed. I understand that. I think what's fascinating,
of course, we do have occupations which are wildly female tilted. So for example, fashion models,
I believe at the top earn about the wage gap, I think is 90 cents in the top 10 male models versus
the top 10 female models. This is an outrage. Well, but the key point is, is that many of us
don't value that trait as men in ourselves. It's like,
yeah, but that exists within the context of society with all of our dysfunction and
superficiality and all that. I think what I've been driving is that
I quite agree with you that we're getting to this hacking point. In fact, one of the
theses behind the podcast is that in the early 50s, we unlocked two nuclei with fusion
and with the cell. And that what's been remarkable is how little these
events have affected our lives as opposed to how much they've affected our lives. We are still,
we resemble our ancestors from thousands of years ago to a remarkable extent. Now,
if I could get a pair of dragon wings and spitfire and stuff, I'm not positive after watching Game
of Thrones, I wouldn't go in for some modifications. Maybe I would, maybe I wouldn't, don't know.
But I don't see anybody who's doing that yet. Now, what you're talking about is we are on the verge
of certain very dramatic changes. And if I could just ask you to kind of, rather than just going
through the morality of it, what do you think the highest likelihood would be for the big changes
over the next 10 to 20 years? Yeah. So in the near term, certainly, we're going to see a transition
of our health care from our current model of generalized health care based on population
averages to personalized or precision health care. And the way you're going to have treatments based
on you as your doctors are going to need to know who you are. And that will require access to your
electronic health and life records, your biometric information, but most importantly, will be your
genetic information. And with the cost of genome sequencing trending towards zero,
everybody is going to be sequenced just as part of being in the health care system.
And so then, again, within this 10 to 20 year model, we are going to move toward this world of
precision medicine. And because of that, we're going to have billions of people whose genotypic
genetic information and phenotypic information, how those genes are expressed over their course
of their lives, are going to be in these same massive big data pools. And we're going to use that
to increasingly demystify biology. And that's going to very quickly move us to this world
of predictive medicine, health care, and life. And that's a really big and fundamental change.
And we talk about our mythologies and our stories. You see a little baby and you say,
oh, the world is open to you. But maybe part of the world is open to you. And maybe there are
things that you could imagine that aren't open to you, because you're not optimized for those
