And so in that system, you are effectively breaking something in a very strong way. Now,
it was always the case that we learned how to breed, let's say canines and create very exotic
breeds. But we are that. I mean, our whole species, I mean, our species... Well, that was the point
about dinner and a movie. Yes, it emerges from that thing. That is how evolution works. And that's
why the title of the book is Hacking Darwin. We're hacking that process and it just has
such profound implications. And I started talking about Dick Clark as the Cassandra.
Like I feel that it's like what I'm trying to do is say, look, again, you get it. This is the
biggest issue that we are ever going to... This is an existential issue for our species.
Big decisions are being made and most people don't even know they're being made. They don't
even know what's happening. Well, this is a great segue to one of the last two topics I really want
to get to. That is, if we are going to try to figure out how to guide and steer our own future,
do you see any prospect for tackling these very complicated issues going from geopolitics to
health to our own sense of our own identity, what have you, with the level of knowledge that our
population currently has, like if they had to pass a test, they probably couldn't pass a test
to be minimally competent on some bill that might come up. And yet we have to vote on these
things. What do we do here? Yeah, so we have a big problem. And on issues like science and
certainly foreign affairs, we used to have in this country a more representative democracy.
And that's why when I started out in my early career working in government, I was in the White
House. I had lots of friends who were Republicans and we all agreed that America, that we had these
responsibilities, which grew out of our experience of our understanding of what happened before the
Second World War and the world that was built after the Second World War. And now our decision
making process for foreign affairs, for all sorts of things, like including highly technical
trade agreements, has become democratized. So a bunch of people are making decisions about
complex trade agreements, but like, oh, I just have a feeling that this is bad or people in
Britain, I have a feeling that the EU is making my toast. This is a real thing is making my toast
unevenly toasted. It's because somebody is regulating my toaster. And so the regular people
are being making big decisions, kind of like we're Switzerland. But unlike Switzerland,
that's actually educating its public really well, we're doing a terrible decision of that.
So we have to, we're moving towards a more democratic process. We have to do a much better
job of educating our public. The good news for me is, I speak to a lot, to a lot of different
groups. And I speak to, I do keynote speaks to big groups of doctors and scientists. But a friend
of mine is chairman of the board of the Hebrew Academy and the Solomon Schechter in Bergen
County, New Jersey. And I went and I spoke to their seventh and eighth graders. And when I got to
the point of just kind of laying out the basic axioms of my argument, 50 hands went up because
these kids and granted they were, they were mini Talmudic scholars, they were human and they
understood what's at stake. So I think that there is a technical underpinning to this conversation.
But once people understand the basics, what we're talking about is something that's not technical.
It's personal. This is about what it means to be a human being. And I think that we have to,
we have to bring people into the conversation. It's connected to the point that you made earlier,
like wouldn't it be better just to fly under the radar and not agitate people? And I think people
can take it. And even an example of this is the, the, the debate about abortion in states like
Alabama. In most of these states, IVF is not being restricted. And so like there's, there's like
play and then that's, that's a cause for optimism because they're saying, oh, that's not, you know,
that's not life. That's just some stuff in, in a dish because the people in the evangelical and
other communities are saying, well, we recognize there's this thing which they're calling the
miracle of life. And so we have to find a way to engage each other. We have to be better educated.
I mean, this level of ignorance is dangerous for any democracy. And we see populism,
uninformed populism is just a massive threat because it's just the use, you don't need much
information and people can fly around to different views. So we have to engage people.
I quite agree. Although I would come back at you in a way that you may not like, which is that
having spent a lot of time with leading biologists, I would say that I find that they suffer from a
different problem, which is that this is so cool. This is so unbelievable, unbelievably exciting
that the, the selective pressure there is let's just goddamn try this. And I'm not positive.
And then there's the geopolitical. I actually don't think there's a solution. I think this is
going to develop somewhat haphazardly. And if we, even if we think we can control it and come up
with good protocols around it, my sense of it is, is that it mostly has been very hard to get to
work at a deep level. But when it starts to really work, we're not going to be able to control it.
We're not going to be able to control, but I think we have to start building the infrastructure that
is better than it otherwise might be. I talked about the United Kingdom. Like there are models
that every country can have. We have to start building an international framework, climate
change. You could say, well, it's a bad example because we haven't succeeded. It's a good example
because we've at least built some infrastructure that if, that if and when, probably when things
get a lot worse, we'll at least have done that work. And we haven't even, we haven't even laid
that foundation in this area. We need near-death experiences in order to animate us unless our
storytellers. Yes. And that's the essence of everything is if we wait till the near-death
experience, so many big decisions will have already been made that it's going to be really
impossible to go backwards. And so now when nobody's paying attention,
is when the hard work needs to be done. That's what I'm trying to.
I would love it if you would write two stories which had a fork and one of them went to some
unbelievable place and the other went to some horrible place so that people could see that maybe
how this would play out. Let me ask you my last set of questions.
Sometimes people call cancer a disease and I'm very reluctant to call cancer a disease. And it
has to do with the fact that cancer is strangely sort of a problem of immortality where a cell
line decides it wants to live forever. Exactly. I know. That's the bad live forever.
Yeah. It's the bad, well, but there's sort of two ways to die as an organism. One way to die is
through a memory leak. That is a runaway process that keeps consuming more and more of the resources
and, you know, it's like somebody tells you to divide one by three until you come to the end
of the decimal. You'll take up all of the resources of the computer if you don't set a recursion
limit. And if the recursion limit is the hay flick limit, let's say with the number of times a cell
can divide, then you have a situation where do you wish to die from your recursion limit,
which will introduce imprecision into a floating point calculation, or do you wish to die from
trying to compute it perfectly? And it's a fool's errand. In such a circumstance,
if these are fundamental trade-offs, that nature has never been able to really
figure out, we don't have truly immortal species that can live forever with any kind of state
or structure, which is what our minds are. All of our memories are a buildup of state.
Is there any prospect in the story, no matter how positive, in which we really get
to evade these fundamental trade-offs between the death from resource leaks versus the death from,
how do I have it, a recursion limit? Yeah, so I'll start at the end and then I'll go backwards.
We're all going to die of something. And even if it's just insult.
Let's just say we cracked the code and you can live forever, then the law of probabilities
is going to get you like some wayward pigeon is going to smash through your head.
That's what I meant by insult. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, and again, it's all about perspective. You talked about cancer cells being immortal.
We have immortality. It's just the we is the cancer cells and we don't identify as the cancer
cells. We identify as the host organism in which the- Well, our lineage is immortal.
Yes, yes. So, the question of, I have a chapter in the book on the science of human life extension.
I absolutely believe that we are going to continue to be able to push the limits of not just average
health span, but extreme health span. The longest, you know, the longest lived person on record is
Matuzola. It's 122 Jean-Calmon in Arles and Friends. And so, I think we're going to be able to go
beyond average health span and that's in the blue zones that Dan Butner and others talk about
and individual lifespan. And the reason why I believe that is just we look at the variability
of biology. We have these some closely related animals like mice and naked mole rats or hard
clams and co-hog clams and there are lots of examples where one lives a short time and one
much longer time. And there are there we will find and are find that there are these knobs
that can in some ways be turned and we're starting to explore that through either lifestyle things
like calorie restrictions or drugs like metformin and rapamycin and the NAD plus boosters that are
kind of mimicking that experience. So, I think that we will, it's not going to be one magic thing,
but we're never going to get to immortality just because hearts wear out. The only kind of,
I was about two months ago, I was in Kyoto and I went to the visited Hiroshi Ishiguro,
who's this incredible humanoid roboticist and he was saying that he thought the future of humanity
is non-biological. And you could say, well, if we have immortality, we'll just download our
brains into some kind of immortal beings. Yeah. You know, I said, I don't believe that because I
think that when that happens, let's just say, which let's just hypothetically say, you could
download your brain, your brain goes into this robot. Let's just say that at that moment where
you're perfectly paired, that robot is you. But the next second, because you aren't just your brain,
your brain is connected to everything. It's connected to your gut and your body. Like,
it's just that's a different thing. It's like a derivative of you. So, you know, we're not going
to live forever, but the science of human life extension is real. And they're all, it's coming
back to this point of biohacks and whether it's these blood transfusions, the peribiosis,
and there's something there, whether it's embryo selection, because we're going to understand
that we are increasingly understand the genetics of longer health span, whether it's mimicking
the proteins that the people who have the genetics of health span, what their cells,
what their genes would be doing. I mean, there are a lot of things. So, we've been doing it for a
long time. We're going to continue to push the bounds of our mortality.
Well, I've always found it funny that in our tradition, the Jewish tradition, that we ask
that people should live to the age of Moses, which is 100 and Svansik, 120. And it's more or less
the hard stuff for human beings. You know, it's so funny. In the Bible, and again, I write about
this in the book, they write about Methuselah, and he lives to like 969. And then he has a kid
who's in the 900s, and all these guys live in the 900. And then it's like a few chapters later,
it says, but then I decided that the longest that anyone can live is 120. Just don't get any ideas.
Well, the funny part that I was going to bring this up is that I think Hydra have immortal and
non-immortal as a model species with immortal and non-immortal. And I write my last novel,
Eternal Sonata, that's the spirit of immortality. One of them is sexual and one of them is
asexually reproducing. And the immortal one is the asexual. So I always go back to Gershwin's
line, which is, Methuselah lived 900 years, but who calls that living when no gal would give into
no man what 900 years? In essence, an asexual life is not a life worth living. You know, who knows?
Like we are hacking life. Like we have this world that we have known. And we just, it's hard for us
to imagine our evolutionary journey because our personal experience is so stuck in this form.
But we have been asexual in our past. Like when we were bacteria, our sexual reproduction
is only hundreds of millions. Well, our mitochondria are effectively the part of us that's asexually
reproducing for the most part. But sexual reproduction is only about 600 million years old.
So we've been around for 3.2 billion years. So we've been a lot of different things.
We could be a lot of different things. We are not at the end point of our evolutionary journey.
And there are these, these, these quote unquote, traditional evolutionary drivers. And now we're
introducing a whole new set as we've been discussing of evolutionary drivers that are, we don't
understand where it's heading. Do you think there's a portal to a Cambrian explosion of
different successors to humans? Yes, it must be. Right. Yeah. But I mean, it has to be. Well,
I just wanted you to tease it out. That's really what you're talking about. Yes. No, no, this is
like, this is like, and you're getting me all agitated now. No, no, no. This is like, and it's
a turning point. It's 3.8 billion years of evolving by random mutation and natural selection. We are
turning a corner. This is like, yeah, when cells went eukaryotic. It's a huge discontinued thing.
I mean, this is it. And so we cannot, I mean, I'm a science fiction writer. And so I, I spent a
lot of my time trying to, but we cannot accurately imagine where this is going over hundreds and
thousands of years. But what we can say, and what I'm so committed to is saying, we have over at
least many thousands of years, tens of thousands of years, we've developed ethical codes and values
that we have found help us live better lives, help, help us work together with each other.
And at very least, we need to be fighting to make sure that our best values individually and
collectively are woven into our decision-making. Or you could also take a different perspective,
which is that those values were actually protocols that allowed one group to
handily outcompete another that lacked such values. And that, in fact, values, which we've,
we've forgotten this, are a cudgel with which to beat rival groups.
It could be, and it could be that values themselves are evolving. And yet we can't become so
relativistic that even our most cherished principles, we just, we just jettison. I think
we need to look at them. We need to look at them critically. We talked about that in the context
of Sam Harris. So we need to, we need to do that. But we can't just say, oh, now we're in,
I mean, that's what the futurists did 100 years ago in Italy. And it led to fascism. We're coming
from somewhere. We're coming from a culture. We're coming from thousands of years of struggling for
values. And we need to think about them. We need to challenge them. But we need to recognize that
these technological challenges are new. But we've fought hard for these value systems. And we need
to fight for them. Jamie, this is absolutely fascinating. I can't wait to dig into the book.
And I hope that everybody out there in the portal audience will take a look at this book,
Hacking Darwin by Jamie Metzl. And Jamie, it's been a fantastic conversation.
Thanks for coming through the portal. Really my great pleasure. Thank you, Eric.
