but appear in reversed order.
And we currently don't know of a canonical rule
that could, or a canonical, I don't know,
our name modification rule that could lead to this,
lead to having parts of the same RNA strand swapped.
And this is just one example of a hit,
but if I plot the distribution of all the sequences
that I found, all the identified pairs ordered by
the sum length of the swap sequences,
I get this histogram over here.
And I'm only showing you the far right end
of this distribution on the left side is hidden
because there's a really huge peak,
which is where all the noise is.
And then there's this distinguished clump of hits.
And I think this is one of the reasons why I think
this is not just noise and something systematic
is happening is you can see this set of all these hits
that are very distinguished from the noise cluster.
Okay, and another direction that I intend to pursue
is I wanna look at learning and memory assays
in behaving organisms and try to find correlates
of memory in RNA sequences.
So most of my postdoctoral work is working
on fly path integration.
And ultimately I want to find RNA correlates of memory
of the spatial location, not just in the expression levels
of known transcripts, but in the actual primary sequences
of the RNA reads.
I'm hoping that we can find unique reads
that might represent cognitive memories
within these organisms.
And I don't wanna limit this just to flies.
I wanna look at other tasks and other organisms
and collaborate with other people to try to find
RNA correlates of learning and memory in other species.
So an obvious question,
if RNA is underlying cognition and memory,
an obvious question is where is the interface?
And how can, where's the interface between this RNA system
and like, I don't know, neural spiking?
And you can imagine the different possible input
and output mediums to this RNA computation system
and there's a recent paper that proposes
that the same way that we have the nanopore sequencing
that convert RNA sequences to memory and potentials,
you can imagine maybe something similar
like this is happening inside cells
where you can convert the precise primary sequence
into a sequence of voltage signals.
So I want to end with a quote from an underappreciated
cell biologist that I believe was far ahead of her time,
Beatrice Gelber was studying adaptive learning
in the Paramesian, a single cell organism back in the 1960s.
And in one of her papers,
she characterized her work as a new approach
to behavioral problems,
which might be called molecular biophysics.
Simply stated is the hypothesis
that the memory and grant must be encoded
in macromolecules, possibly the biochemical
and cellular physiological processes,
which encode new responses are continuous
across the phylo as genetic codes are,
and therefore would be reasonably similar
for a protozoa and a mammal.
And I really like this quote because one of the recurring
themes in the history of science is realizing
that phenomena that look very different
and appear to be dissimilar are actually governed
by the same principles, like the falling of an apple
and the orbiting of the moon.
And I think that would be a very exciting prospect
for the future of biology.
And with that, I'd like to thank all the people
who have helped and inspired me in this work.
Gabby Maiman, my advisor here at Rockefeller,
Jeremy Ditman, Abbas Brizvy, Randy Galistel, and John Matt.
And thank you all for listening.
Super, thanks so much.
Any questions?
Anybody else?
I did have another question.
Could you explain a little bit more
how the address referencing works?
Because in computers, addresses have a sort of convention
and implicit convention.
And the other sort of concern is that, at least coming
from the internet, is that there's
that at least coming from something like C programming,
the address variables are explicitly
defined in a way that's different from other variables.
So they see the star of conventions.
The star of the variable means it's a referencing variable.
So when it comes to RNA strands, are there
like specific differences between strands
that enable or facilitate this sort of distinction
between memory variables and ordinary variables?
Yeah, that's an excellent question.
And that is a detail that I kind of glossed over.
So whatever the representation scheme is,
it cannot interfere with how the combinators are represented.
So ideally, there wouldn't be an ambiguity
when you're looking at a sequence whether this
is like referring to another strand
or whether it's representing like, I don't know,
B apply to C apply to K.
And you could do that by coming up
with unambiguous representation schemes for like in the way
the same way that RNA strands represent amino acids,
they also need to represent operations like start and stop
for the ribosome to know when to stop transcribing,
sorry, when to stop translating and when to start.
And it uses the same scheme of representation.
It uses codons.
So you need some, but it doesn't like, what is it called?
It's not ambiguous.
So it's not like sometimes it's not clear whether this is
a stop code on or a certain amino acid.
So you just have to come up with a representation scheme
where the differentiates between motifs that
are used for address sequences or the combinators.
Does that make sense?
Like for example, I don't know, it's
going to sound very arbitrary.
That's why I didn't really give an example.
But let's say if it starts with GC,
then the following 10 terms are going to be,
the following 10 nucleotides are going to be an address.
But if it starts with AC, sorry, yeah,
if it starts with AC, then it's going
to be one of the three combinators, something like that.
Yeah, that makes sense.
How about the address convention?
So for example, if you have a single dimensional grid,
then you can say that the leftmost location is one.
And then as you go on the right, it's two, three, four.
And it's like a two dimensional grid.
Then we can assign some sort of convention.
But it sort of suggests that there must
be an agreed upon convention at Strolls somewhere.
How does that convention work here?
Is there sort of an implicit convention or some sort?
Yeah, so the space of variables is not really it does it.
There's no way to spatially organize it necessarily.
There's no single way to spatially organize it.
It would just be every sequence would correspond to a variable.
So it's kind of like the space of all strings,
as if every string would represent a different variable.
And you can refer to that string.
And these RNA strands are kind of floating around in the cell.
So an RNA with a certain address could be anywhere in the cell.
I don't know, those are details which are kind of like even
more speculative than what I've speculated already.
I have a question about something that I mentioned before.
You mentioned that I truly understand that some devices,
for example, vacuum cleaner, don't really need a universal machine
to operate.
They can do whatever they need to do with some analog computation.
Maybe we don't need also the universal computers
in order to describe consciousness or whatever
we would like to describe.
Maybe we created a machine that have more complex theoretical,
complexity mathematical, more than us,
but that not necessarily needed to be in order to describe us.
That's make any sense.
So maybe I'm saying that the whole search
for universal Turing machine in nature
is maybe not the right question.
Yeah, that absolutely makes sense.
And that's how I used to think about it.
But my thinking has kind of changed for several reasons.
One is that I might be repeating myself,
but if I am, feel free to interrupt and say
what you're concerned about these arguments.
So first of all, biology could come up
with very complex systems through evolution
that abide to the principles of optics.
Like our eye has an aperture.
It has a lens, adjustable lens, adjustable aperture.
And it looks really much like a camera.
And it's not just a coincidence.
They're following principles of optics.
If you want to project a 2D image of your environment,
you kind of have to follow these rules.
And then for universal computation,
I feel like it's even less complex.
It's even easier to accidentally stumble
upon a universal computation system.
Like my intuition is that you need Darwinian evolution
to evolve an eye, but you don't necessarily
need Darwinian evolution to evolve a universal computer.
You might not just accidentally create it by chance
without a Darwinian evolution or a selection.
So these two things kind of make me think
that it's very likely for it to already exist
and then be used for domains that don't necessarily need it.
But it's also possible, and I have to acknowledge this,
it's possible that maybe it just doesn't exist in biology.
Maybe as you said, universal computation
