So yeah, definitely simulating and running simulation studies can be super helpful
both to understand what's happening in the background
also to get a feeling for programming and to get better at programming as well.
And then the second advice would be to essentially find a balance
between these hands on, getting your hands dirty, type of things like
implement a model in white horse or carers or solve some Kaggle tasks,
just some machine learning tasks.
But then at the same time also finding this balance to reading books
and finding new information to make sure that you actually know what you're doing
and also know what you don't know and what the next steps are to get better from the theoretical part.
And there are two books that I can really recommend.
The first one is Deep Learning by Ian Goodfellow.
It's also available for free online.
You can also link to this in the show notes.
It's a great book and it covers so much.
And then if you come from this Bayesian or statistics background
you see a lot of conditional probabilities in there
because a lot of deep learning is just conditional generative modeling.
And then the second book would in fact be Statistically Rethinking by Richard McElrath.
It's a great book and it's not only limited to Bayesian inference but more.
Also a lot of causal inference of course.
Also just thinking about probability and the philosophy behind this whole probabilistic modeling topic more broadly.
So earlier today I had a chat with one of the student assistants that I'm supervising
and he said, hey Marvin, I read Statistically Rethinking a few weeks ago
and today I read something about score-based diffusion models.
So these like state-of-the-art deep learning models that are used to generate images.
Because I read Statistically Rethinking it all made sense.
There's so much probability going on in these score-based diffusion models
and Statistically Rethinking really helped me understand that.
And at first I couldn't believe it but it totally makes sense.
Because Statistically Rethinking is not just a book about Bayesian workflow and Bayesian modeling
but more about reasoning about probabilities and uncertainty in a more general way
and it's a beautiful book so I'd recommend those.
Nice, yeah, so definitely let's put those two in the show notes.
Marvin, so of course I've read Statistically Rethinking several times so I definitely agree.
The first one about deep learning I haven't yet but I will definitely read it
because that sounds really fascinating so when I get that book.
Fantastic, well thanks a lot Marvin, that was really awesome.
I really learned a lot, pretty sure listeners did too so that's super fun.
You definitely need to come back to do a modeling webinar with us
and show us in action what we talked about today with the baseball package.
It's also I guess going to inspire people to use it and maybe contribute to it.
But before that of course I'm going to ask you the last two questions I ask every guest at the end of the show.
First one, if you had unlimited time and resources which problem do you try to solve?
That's a very loaded question because there's so many very very important problems to solve
like big picture problems like peace, world hunger, global warming, all those.
With my background I don't really know how to contribute significantly with a huge impact on those problems.
My consideration is essentially a trade-off between how important is the problem
and what impact is it on solving the problem or addressing the problem.
And what impact could I have on solving the problem.
And so I think what would be very nice is to make probabilistic inference
or Bayesian inference more particular like accessible, usable, easy and fast for everyone.
And that doesn't just mean methods, machine learning researchers
but essentially means anyone who works with data in any way.
And there's so much to do like the actual Bayesian model in the background.
It could be huge, it could be like a base GPT, like trade GPT but just for base.
Just with the sheer scope of amortization and different models and different settings and so on.
So that's a huge, huge challenge like on the back-end side.
But then on the front-end and API side I think it also has many different sub-problems there
because it would mean people could just write down a description of their model in plain text language
like a large language model and don't actually specify everything via programming.
Maybe also just sketch out some data like expert elicitation
and all those different topics I think there's this bigger picture
that thousands of researchers worldwide are working on so many niche topics there
but having this overarching base GPT kind of thing would be really cool.
So I probably choose that to work on.
It's a very risky thing so that's why I'm not currently working on it.
Yeah, I love that.
Yeah, that sounds awesome. Feel free to collaborate with me on that.
I would definitely be there on that. Absolutely amazing.
Send me an email when you start working.
We'll be happy to join the team.
Second question, if you could have dinner with any great scientific mind, dead, alive or fictional, who would it be?
Again, very loaded question, super interesting question.
There are two huge choices.
I could either go with someone who's currently alive
and feel like I want their take on the current state of the art and future directions and so on.
Then the second huge option what I guess many people would go with is someone who's been dead for two to three centuries.
And I think I'd go with the second choice.
So really take someone from way from the past and that's because of two reasons.
Of course, speaking to today's scientists is super interesting and I would love to do that.
They have access to all the state of the art technology and they know about all the latest advancements.
So if they have some groundbreaking creative idea to share and do that they come up with, they could just implement it and make them actionable.
And the second reason is that today's scientists have a huge platform because they're on the internet.
So if they really want to express an idea they could just do it on Twitter or wherever.
So there's other ways to engage with them apart from having a magical dinner.
So I would choose someone from the past and in particular I think Ada Loveless would be super interesting for me to talk to.
Essentially because she's widely considered the first programmer.
The craziest thing about this is she's never had access to a modern computer.
So she wrote the first program but the machine wasn't there yet.
So that's such a huge leap of creativity and genius.
And so I'd really be interested in if Ada Loveless saw what's happening today,
all the technology that we have with generative AI, GPU clusters and all these possibilities.
What's the next leap forward?
What's today's equivalent of writing the first program without having the computer?
I'd really love to know this answer and there's currently no other way except for your magical dinner invitation to get this answer.
That's why I go with this option.
Yeah, awesome. I love it.
That definitely sounds like a marvelous dinner.
Awesome. Thanks a lot, Marvin. That was really a blast.
I'm going to let you go now because you've been talking for a long time.
I'm guessing you need a break.
But that was really amazing.
Thanks a lot for taking the time.
Thanks again to Matt Rossinski for this awesome recommendation.
I hope you loved it, Marvin.
And also Matt, me, I did.
So that was really awesome.
As usual, I'll put resources and a link to your website.
And also Marvin is going to add stuff to the show notes for those who want to dig deeper.
Thank you again, Marvin, for taking the time and being on this show.
Thank you very much for having me, Alex. I appreciate it.
This has been another episode of Learning Basions Statistics.
Be sure to rate, review and follow the show on your favorite podcatcher
and visit LearnBasedStats.com for more resources about today's topics
as well as access to more episodes to help you reach true patient state of mind.
That's LearnBasedStats.com.
Our theme music is Good Bayesian by Bababringtman,
fit MC Lance and Megaram.
Check out his awesome work at Bababringtman.com.
I'm your host, Alex Andorra.
You can follow me on Twitter at alexunderscoreandorra, like the country.
You can support the show and unlock exclusive benefits by visiting patreon.com.
Thank you so much for listening and for your support.
You're truly a Good Bayesian.
Change your predictions after taking information.
And if you're thinking, I'll be less than amazing.
Let's adjust those expectations.
Let me show you how to be a Good Bayesian.
Change calculations after taking fresh data.
Those predictions that your brain is making.
Let's get them on a solid foundation.
