Well yeah I mean if you I mean it for rational fiction if you want to have someone undone by the seeds of their own destruction.
Right.
They contain the seeds of their own destruction.
That's what undoes them in the end.
You just need to make sure that your your characters are behaving how actual people behave.
And I think that's maybe there's a cynical of me but I think that's fairly common for to actually happen to people right as for how actual tragedies happen.
You get some of the recurring themes in fiction are like the sins of the father being visited upon the son.
I think that's very true to life in how you have like cycles of poverty cycles of abuse cycles of like substance abuse.
Where a lot of people will take things like that and they'll sort of transplant them into a setting that doesn't make sense or into a story that doesn't make sense but like thematically works on that level I guess.
That's that's what I view as one of the big distinctions between rational fiction and other fiction.
And yet they started right the if if this were a branding meeting and we were sitting down like five or seven years ago or something like that to decide on the label rational fiction probably not what we did we would decide it on.
No, but it sounds kind of pretentious.
I like I always go with aspiring rationalist too and one of my friends once asked me when when I mentioned oh that guy sounds like totally like a aspiring aspiring rationalist.
They're like the hell's an aspiring rationalist.
It's like it's basically just a rationalist and they're like well why the hell are you saying aspiring what is he not good enough to join you.
I was like no no no it's because we're not really all that full of ourselves you know we know there's an ideal we cannot achieve and she was like that sounds even more pretentious.
Well you know it's either that or we like it's kind of a catch 22 because you can only you can only say you can only you can only like admire something that you actually admire as as like aspirational.
Right like you can't we can't pretend that like when not so like there's there's a big online argument which are always fun.
Like people who write rational fiction and people who enjoy rational fiction on some other form.
And one of the things that like seemed to really like you're recurring theme and the critics was that like you guys are assuming that like oh if you're writing rational fiction it must be like good or like it's the best way to do it or something like that.
Like look I'm only telling you what I enjoy in fiction and to be honest with you a lot of the really popular things that you can see some these days like your movie sucks dot com or cinema sins even though they actually have gotten pretty bad recently for a while now.
Like they basically are really popular because they point out inconsistencies and illogical things and like idiotic things in fiction.
This isn't a niche like sentiment you know like it's not only rationalist and aspiring nationalists that and like really like appreciate having these things pointed out.
But it is something that you have to basically make a choice of like OK.
Do I think that this is a better way to write.
I kind of do.
But I don't I don't want that to at the same time make other people feel like if they don't read rational fiction that that non-national fiction is bad because I enjoy a lot of non-national fiction too.
Oh hell yeah.
So it's so it's like I don't know if I'm trying to like necessarily put one on a hierarchy over another but I definitely don't want to also pretend to myself that like I don't think the things that makes rational fiction good are not inherently good.
So I want to ask all three of you guys kind of a leading question so that I can so that I can preach about what I think rational fiction is.
But both worm and unsong and more people are probably familiar with worms that's just insanely popular very big in rational circles and have often been described as rational fiction.
I believe I mean I know Alexander or Scott Alexander specifically said unsong is not rational fiction even though I think it is and lots of other people do and pretty much the consensus seems to have come down that worm probably isn't either.
And yet they're still they both still feel very rational fiction ask and I want to know what you guys think about those two and why they do or don't count as rational fiction.
I can jump in first.
So with worm.
So like I guess we can take the word of God on unsong if he says it's not rational thick than if he says so but like to me.
Definitely author he could be wrong.
Right so let's let's let's go with that like the character you know they find the whatever the word of power that in souls or something and he's like his first thought isn't like oh my God I accidentally made this computer sent to it now I've got this problem he's like oh shit.
Sold things are the ones that can do this like so he does that he does immediately the rational thing you know if if.
If Professor Quirrell was the university in the exact same fucking thing right so I think if you can say if Professor Quirrell would have done this that's the rational thing.
So similar to worm I mean the main character is a 14 year old girl who can control bugs and she lives in the world with like you know people like Superman and.
You know people who can transform into dragons and you know basically little dragons and you know world ending behemoths and so like what is this bug girl going to do she's going to get super fucking creative and do a lot of cool things and.
If it can be so I think in those sense they're at least rational if they're rationalist if you have to be teaching to do that.
I mean or at least if you have to be able to learn stuff I don't know what you could learn from my song I'm sure some people can but like worm.
I mean there's you know the whole one of the main lessons to it would might be like.
Know what your limitations are and then figure out what your strengths are and exploit the hell out of those.
So you know she is aware that she has great you know battlefield awareness because she's aware of everything of every bug in the vicinity so like she could put a ladybug in everything and she's aware of everybody around you know that's.
You know it's easy to imagine somebody in the in that universe getting the bug power and being like man I drew the short straw here sucks what am I going to you know I'm going to clear all spiders out of my house great but.
I think the exploitation in a way that especially with worm to just like.
So many times so did I you know jaw drop and be like no way that is awesome.
There's a part where she's fighting an intelligence way right not necessarily like like flashy powers you mean to know it's the intelligence way exactly the example I was going to give was.
She's fighting this this guy who the longer he fights the stronger he gets and he transforms into like I don't think you ever see his final form but he looks more and more like a dragon the more the fight goes on he gets like 15 feet tall or something and he can.
You know houses apart and you know she can't put him down so there's like this other guy that's like a mutant and his blood is like super toxic so when she's got the big dragon guy distracted.
She dips she has like cockroaches dip a caterpillar or some toilet paper or something in that that mutant guys blood and then.
Pushes it into the dragon guys eyeballs like to get into into a system like that is outside the box thinking and you know I would never thought of that the only thing I thought of.
Was like okay I guess it comes down to it I would shove a bunch of bugs down someone's throat and you know suffocate them and and yeah she does that but it is like among the creative things that she does.
I'll answer next I think Alexander would probably be doing like a really great job of rounding out this discussion.
There's an element that we haven't discussed so far that is very prevalent in rational fiction that would call like munchkinery.
And munchkinery is absolutely in worm and it's absolutely in in song and what munchkinery basically is is this term from tabletop gaming where you are essentially like you kind of said like taking the things available to you.
And exploiting the hell out of them like and until you basically can min max your your advantages in a way that like catapults you into like success like that seems way out of proportion to what you would normally.
People might normally be able to consider escape your capable of and munchkinery is a very strong theme in rational fiction particularly rationalist fiction.
It's kind of where a lot of the fantasy of rational fiction comes from like the self insert gratification of a lot of rational fiction comes from is like seeing the character like exploit the hell out of their environment and their power is and stuff like that.
In that sense, I think worm is absolutely very rationalist ask rational adjacent.
And I would say that Taylor the main character, like you could totally write a rationalist explicitly rationalist version of worm and it would probably go more or less exactly the same way.
Like there was very few situations I can think of where I think the rationalist Taylor would do something better than the Taylor in the story did. So in that sense, I think that's why it's so popular amongst rational readers.
And same with unsung like you were saying we're like, you know, the main character like has this opportunity drop in the lab, and their immediate thought is how to best exploit it.
And that I think is very rational thing to do. But the caveat here is that the world itself in both of these cases are I think they're very close to rational, but are not necessarily so.
Part of that comes I think from, I don't think the, I mean the explicit direction that while though was going for worm obviously it wasn't because he's, I don't think he was aware of the national fiction in general and he started it out.
But you don't need to be right you can still write a rational fiction without that. But my point is more that like he he was writing a world that was as realistic as possible given the situation that he wrote it in.
And I think that I think he did a great job of making it what I would consider a rational world, but there was still some things that kind of didn't really work out that way.
And unsung is kind of the same way like unsung is hilarious and very brilliant and witty, but the world itself is not exactly rational.
I think if assuming Alexander agrees with me, I'll be happy to let him expand on that, but not I'd have to hear why.
Yeah, I would describe both worm and unsung as as rational adjacent. A lot of the stuff that worm does, like if you watch like Saturday morning cartoons with like superheroes and super villains.
You'll see a lot of the stuff that you see in worm where people will do they'll do a hit and like people will just get up from it.
There's very little intent to kill going on. But in worm, there are actual reasons behind that.
I don't I don't think the world of worm fully holds up in a number of ways, and it's held together in three or four places by
more wishy-washy stuff. There's no comp pumps in terms of like, why do people not use their powers for mundane utility?
Well, I mean, giant spoilers for worm would come from that because it's but there's some setting conceits behind that that just sort of have to exist and don't necessarily exist for all that solid of reasons.
But more generally, like if people it's partly it's there's a lack of intent to kill because of the sort of established cops and robbers situation where people are sort of playing to satisfy their urges to some extent.
It was beneficial to people in control to create things this way. And then there are also mantin limits in effect to answer the question of well, if you can create these force fields that slice through solid steel, why are you not just
doing that to kill people who are trying to kill you, which you never see in like Saturday morning cartoons because they're too horrific.
Which by the way, the real world, which are good mechanics to put in the world building like you want to explain these things in some way. It's not that it's bad that he included those.
I think that those are part of what makes the world of worms so rational is that you think he has these explicit explanations for it.
But yeah, yeah, and I mean that I disagree with warm as rational mostly in the broader background. This is all the stuff that needs to be true to make this world as it is there I think there's some some fuzziness there and some
scotch tape that shows a little bit. It's not like a problem for the work, necessarily, but just I think how how the world of worm was created was that while though, had read a lot of comic books, and had a lot of interest in superheroes, and
wanted to keep that.
Keep the genre as intact as possible, and then went looking for ways to work backwards and make it so that that was the case, which is why you get things like the man limit and some explanations for
like why do people even go out and costume right that's one of the big if you're going to write superhero fiction, and you want to do it in a rational way you need to answer that question like why why are these people with these powers going out in capes to like fight or do crime
Why would a criminal attract attention?
Yeah, the heroes the heroes make sense. The villains is the problem.
The heroes could totally work out that way. And that's you also want to talk about super competent heroes that don't care about fame and like law and I just basically, you know, just doing the best thing they can secretly so that they're not trying to negative
attention, but even putting that aside, the villains is the main question like why are the villains so explicitly villains.
Why are they where they're in costume and all why did they go through the effort to be more recognizable and we're does have some answers to that as well.
But I mean, you will you do also have to take into account well go saying like this is not rational fiction, which I think definitely the author does apply but without that statement, maybe lend a little more lenience to it, or
although had said this is rational fiction, I would take that more as I don't know, like an aspirational label, I guess.
I like that. Yeah, the reason I wanted to go first was I suspected correctly that both of your answers be better than mine.
Well, I mean, you guys are the experts at this it was.
Yeah, the
they like the whole cops and robbers thing so you know she didn't even read all of worm but like basically the question is like, you know, why are they wearing kid gloves the whole time, you know, some people you know they might not be able to split each other in half with their
powers.
I think you guys both talked about the the manton effect which is like powers that can destroy things often don't destroy people or their caster or user whatever.
Like, for example, well, that's not a good example.
On what you can do with your power that intelligent, lethal intent people would really quickly exploit. So really, really easy example of this that you see actually in some other fiction.
Anyone here read Ergon series. Yes. Oh, yeah, the words of death. Yeah, so there's like, there's like this ability. It's fairly common in all sorts of fiction called telekinesis.
The way telekinesis works is you can move an object with your mind. And you often don't actually need to even see the object directly. You just kind of apply force to things.
Right. And so anyone who uses telekinesis to pick a carp and throw it at someone is an idiot, because what you can actually do with telekinesis to kill someone is just kind of twist their neck a little bit.
And they die. That's the thing that all humans basically die from and you can do it like really easily with telekinesis you need to apply that much force at all.
So the why can't people in Worm do that if they have something like telekinesis because the Manton effect says so.
Yeah. And then the Manton effect itself has an explanation within the text, right? You could actually just stop at saying well, Manton effect and then the buck stops there and you don't explain why the Manton effect exists.
Worm goes a step further for that.
Which is why I totally think it's okay for people. I never really correct anyone if they say rational fiction like Worm. I'm happy to include it under the umbrella.
I think almost everyone who enjoys rational fiction would enjoy Worm. I think many people who might not even enjoy rational fiction would enjoy Worm.
Like Worm is just a great fiction and I think it can be applied the label either way. So I don't think it's a flag worth sticking on a hill and dying over.
Yeah.
But technically speaking, yeah.
I personally consider both of Worm and Unsung to be rational fiction, despite their author's protests.
And the reason I have for this is like, like I said, I've been for probably good two years, been trying to figure out what rational fiction is.
And a few months ago, I was going through some of my fan mail because I did the Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality podcast and it wasn't like often, but every now and then I would get fan mail.
And it was like always really cool. It kept me going. It made me like, you know, happy that I was doing this thing.
And I went through some of it and I noticed like a big theme in at least half of them was people saying things along the lines of, I've always felt kind of like an outcast and that there was no one like me.
And then I read this and for like the first time ever, I saw myself represented in fiction and it was amazing.
And I kind of hate to use the word representation because I feel like it's almost been co-opted into the culture wars, which I do not like and do not want to get into.
But I do think a lot of rational fiction does just come down to it's representational of our like my people and the way our minds work.
And it's not really seen very often. We are a bit of a minority, but there is a certain way that our brains tend to to interpret the world and it isn't seen often.
And when you do see it, especially when you haven't seen it for your whole life, suddenly it's it's this great and amazing thing that there's other people like you out there.
And so to me, rational fiction is rational fiction that represents the life experience of someone with our sort of neuro architecture, which is which is why I think both of those count.
So kind of the, yeah, so kind of the sensation of like, if this if reading this makes me feel like part of the in group, then it's rational fiction to the rational fiction in group, which I think makes sense to a certain extent,
because we are, we are a a subculture that is culturally like it's not strictly about always rationality to think you guys have both mentioned on this podcast a few times, like there's a culture to rationality, not just a thinking process or like set of axioms.
Yeah.
Yeah, I forgot the author on this, but someone said that the the they're comparing rationalism to different schools of fiction and mentioned social realism as a artistic movement and said that people involved in the socialist movement and that were heavily skilled
and schooled in socialist theory, they, they would create their own art, of course, but they also went out after they had this this genre, and went out into the world to look for good examples of it.
And maybe not like explicitly in those terms, but things that their community got excited by.
And I think you said just a little earlier that you don't have to necessarily be trying to write rationalist fiction to write rational fiction, or um, well rational, rational, sorry about the endings on those, but
Yeah, yeah, do you do you guys, I'm, I assume you agree with that so what what are some of the like earlier pre rational fiction works out there that you guys are big fans of and you think are you know, would be nice to co-op with or without people's permission.
Okay, so I have, I'm gonna say three.
First is a lot of Charles Strauss's stuff. There is a he writes laundry file series is his big one and then the merchant princess series is another one. And the merchant princess is sort of his take on
portal fantasy and sort of like travel to an alternate world, except it's this like 33 year old tech reporter.
And she gets put into this world of growing market, which has all of these like, it's fallen into this, this development trap that she explicitly recognizes as such and most of the series is her
trying to sort of like pull it, pull their culture. It is this way for very specific reasons up out of it, which is like really, it's really neat to see there's there's that same like focus on processes of thought and how systems are sort of constructed and put together.
In his laundry file series, I think the most that I was ever like, this is rational fiction.
There was a, one of his books was the Reese's chart, and this scrum team become programmers for high frequency trading algorithms, they become vampires.
And they hold, they have these like pertinent charts for like how they're going to deal with their vampirism, and they do all this like research and stuff and they have like a burn down for it.
It's, it's amazing, but it's like, exactly how you would approach that problem if you were those people with those like sets of skills and outlooks on the world.
And so like, he does a ton of research as well as authors that chose it a lot.
So Charles Stross, mostly not all of his works. And he has his own outlook on the world, which is reflected in his writing, obviously, as most authors do.
The jumpers series by Stephen Gould, not the movie, which is kind of does its own thing, but jumper is very focused on like what a person with these specific well defined powers would do in that situation.
And it's kind of a focus on cycles of use and stuff like that, but then the, the like applications of powers are all very well thought out in terms of how you would grapple with the limits.
And then later books in the series include like go into space and stuff like that and like the orbiting satellites, which is super cool and super like in the ways of thinking that I would expect of rational fiction.
And then the last one was World War Z, or not World War Z, but the precursor to that, which was the zombie survival guide by Max Brooks, which is a, it sets up its own very specific rules about zombies and how they work, and then goes through
exactly how you would go about defeating those zombies, given the tools and training available to you. What are the outcomes of zombies being this way, this like specifically defined way, and then how do people deal with the outcomes and it goes through first order and second order effects of like
zombies and how to fight them and responses to them in a way that I think is very typical of rational fiction. And then World War Z, the book, not the movie, which was its own thing.
Again, just so bad.
The book World War Z is sort of following that on a more like global scale and telling personal stories. It's a little less so than the first book, which is just, it's not even a narrative, it's just, these are zombies and here how you, how you fight them.
I did all this thinking on the matter in book form. So those are my three that I'm going to co-opt.
So I don't know if these would necessarily be co-opted, but I would definitely feel like I was remiss not to mention Ender's Game.
Ender's Game, I don't think is a, it's definitely not a rationalist fiction, but at the same time, I feel like I learned a hell of a lot reading it when I was 13, 14, something like that.
Look, so like all fiction, I think this is something that has been kind of an axiom of mine since I was old enough to really get into reading. All fiction teaches things.
It's not that rationalist fiction is the specific only thing that like is written, not only is written specifically to teach, but it's not the only thing that you can learn things from.
You should learn something from any fiction that you read, or rather you could learn something from any fiction that you read.
So I think that rationalist fiction specifically just tries to teach things about cognition, thinking, winning, whatever that means in terms of like utility, utility rationality, no.
Instrumental rationality.
Instrumental, thank you. Instrumental rationality, that kind of thing. So Ender's Game just did a really good job of expressing to me what a child in this situation,
and the part that he was should actually do to overcome the challenges he was facing.
And, you know, the world was fairly well put together. I don't think there are any plot holes in it as far as I can. I can remember I can read it at least six or seven times.
Like it's a really solid like book that leads to a couple fairly solid series that split off from it.
But the first book itself for sure, at least, is I think very well put together and does a good job of teaching what a thinky main character looks like, shows what a thinky main character looks like.
And again, like in terms of heroes that are prized for their intelligence over their might or prized for their intelligence over their like ability to love or whatever it is that like most fiction uses to save the day.
Ender Wigan is, you know, he's got to be up there in terms of traditional fiction.
So Ender's Game is the first one.
I was going to say World Wizzy also actually because World Wizzy is one of the first books I ever read that was just really did felt felt like it did such a good job of describing what a worldwide phenomenon would look like from a worldwide perspective.
There's a few things in it that's like a little bit like, I don't know if that's exactly how the military would react to this like it feels like the military in this particular circumstance was made a bit less confident than it should be just to get the plot going.
But it was an example of how the military reacted, whereas other militaries for other countries reacted in different ways that were more effective.
So it's like this is a failure mode that this particular military reacted to because of its culture.
I don't want to spoil anything but like, it's really good book if anyone has a World Wizzy, by the way, World Wizzy is amazing.
Even I would probably say it's my favorite piece of zombie fiction and I think it is.
And so yeah, seeing that in a story was really well like really well constructed world with characters acting as they actually really would.
I'd like to co-op that then, if possible.
Third one, I don't know if I really have a third one.
There's a bunch of other things like a bunch of other books I could I could name but I don't think I'd be really feel like they deserve the title.
But there would be there would be parts of other books I should say that I think did really good job like things like Dragon Riders of Pern.
A lot of parts from, oh, Aragon actually the Aragon series had a lot of really good world building and solid like explanations for why the world worked the way it did and all these things.
And in particular, anyone who enjoyed, I'm not going to say it's a spoiler.
Anyway, I will just say that there's there's a specific part of Aragon series that I think it was really shows kind of the best in terms of like what an intelligent character does when faced with a seemingly insurmountable problem.
Yeah.
If we cut this, can you tell me what part that was because I really enjoyed those books too.
Yeah, so while I was reading HPMOR, the solution to how to deal with a Voldemort came to my mind because I'd already read the Aragon series.
The solution was if you can't kill the person, attack the mind, because the mind is something that they didn't necessarily think to protect as well as the if they're so focused on invincibility.
So the way Aragon beats, sorry, the spoiler for that's too late now.
So the way the way Aragon beats Galvatorex, who has spent like over 100 years layering magic upon magic upon magic upon Ward upon Ward upon Ward on himself, who has like the combined might of like hundreds of dragons to draw upon and all this bullshit like evil final boss stuff
You spent four books basically thinking like, how is he going to beat this guy? There's no way he's going to beat this guy. And he keeps getting stronger, but also he just never gets strong enough.
It's literally like Luke Skywalker running at the Death Star with a lightsaber. Like it's not going to work, Luke. This isn't going to happen for you.
And that's the sentiment basically throughout the fight. It's like, yeah, he's really strong, but Galvatorex is way stronger. There's no way he's going to win this.
And the way he wins essentially is by projecting like all the suffering that like Galvatorex has caused him like into his mind, so that he basically just has to like experience that.
And Galvatorex never expected an attack from that perspective because like he didn't consider himself to be causing suffering in that way.
Like he didn't really care. He wasn't something that he predicted would be used against him. So it's a way to like skirt around the security fence or over the security fence or whatever you want to call it in the same way that Harry uses against Voldemort.
Awesome, love it.
Yeah.
There, there's been a few times in the past where people who were big fans of a budding genre, like put together an anthology. I'm thinking specifically of mirror shades when cyberpunk was first getting big, the first cyberpunk anthology.
Do you think there would be at all any value in like creating an anthology of the best like short rational fiction that's out there, whether the people, you know, are admitted rational writers or not.
I'm thinking specifically Peter Watts, maybe some of his stuff, definitely some of the Cheng stuff. Do you think there's any value in trying to go finding doing that sort of thing? Would anyone buy that?
