Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Eneash Brotsky.
I'm Stephen Zuber, and today we have two exciting guests. Eneash wants to introduce them.
Yeah, we have two authors and podcasters as well. Daystar Eld.
Hey, I'm Daystar.
And Alexander Wales.
Hey.
I wanted to pull you guys together to talk about rationalist fiction a bit, because now, okay.
First of all, before I get into my welcome spiel, is it rationalist fiction or rational fiction?
That's a great question.
Yeah, okay. So you want to, yeah.
I'll take, there are two separate categories, I guess, where rational is the definition I use. It's like thinky fiction that's focused on thought and how people think and has a lot of thought put into it and is meant to evoke thought as opposed to emotion in some way or in complement to emotion.
Whereas rationalist is more fiction that teaches rationality or hits on rationality concepts in some way.
So would you say a good example of the first category of rational fiction is like the Martian?
Yeah, yeah, that would be a good example of the first category. And then the second category is much rarer.
Daystar's Pokemon origin of species and Harry Potter and the methods of rationality.
I think one of the Ur examples was Flatland, maybe.
Yeah, I see that come up on the sub too.
My definition tends to fall towards more like if you are writing a rationalist fiction, your main character is much more likely to be explicitly or implicitly rationalist themselves.
And so like, from whatever perspective it's being written from, you're going to kind of like pick up on rationalist ideas and like techniques and psychology and like all that kind of stuff like from their perspective as they go about their life and like address challenges and all that stuff.
Whereas rational fiction is more just like a top down approach of this world is going to try to be constructed in a rational manner.
These characters are going to try to act rationally, which does not mean unemotionally, right, or inhumanly.
It just means not like no idiot ball holding for people who know that trope.
And all that sort of thing that like we kind of sort of mostly assume is just like quote unquote part of good fiction.
But kind of is really not like there's like a whole bunch of great fiction that does not obey some of these rules or any of these rules sometimes.
So it's not the same thing as good fiction, but it tends to be similar in many ways.
And a lot of a lot of really great like stories that Alexander writes, for example, like there's no specific rationalist character, but all the characters and the world itself are really well constructed and like you can kind of see that like a lot of thought was put into them.
And like the characters themselves can still be smart in and of itself, but they might not necessarily be considered rationalist by some people.
Okay, right, like the characters in Metropolitan Man.
There's no one there who goes off on a spiel about the methods of rationality, but there's, but everyone there is thoughtful in a way that the way that I kind of think about it from the non very fluent in this perspective is that when I'm reading rational or rationalist fiction.
I never kind of shake the book and be like, why are you doing this.
Where you might instead you might actually go, why is he doing this like because it's something that you can predict if you think about it. Yes, something that you should be able to actually like piece together.
No, that's a really good point. Yeah. And the idiot ball trope I always chuckle because I think of the the orb of confusion from SpongeBob.
But that's basically where characters act either typically stupidly for the character or uncharacteristically stupidly for the character.
I think that's the idiot balls when they do something stupid really to the point of moving the plot along.
Right.
Because like, oh, yeah, they need to, I don't know, go run upstairs, you know, from the from the invading monster or whatever, rather than run outside because reasons, you know, because the yeah, so that that sort of thing.
And a lot of it is just if you're writing fiction and you just want to get some emotion or resonance across and you don't care that much.
I mean, moving the plot along is part of it. And I think a lot of people just screw up writing when they need to move the plot along and they don't know how to do it.
And so they just have stuff that doesn't make sense happen to do that.
But I think I don't know it's one it's a weird kind of thing like why do these faults happen and whether or not they are faults in their respective media.
I do like that rationalist fiction has that as a ideal because lots of times it is just kind of laziness that that makes that makes an author do that to use use some kind of stupid trope or or idiot ball thing to simply move the plot along for the sake of the plot.
And like the right with rational fiction, you the author has to sit down and actually come up with a really good reason, which means they get more into their characters personality and mind and they get more into the world.
And it just makes the fiction better when you're forced to not use shortcuts like that, in my opinion.
I like the thing so too. Yeah.
Oh, I want to quickly give bona fide since I jumped in with the question about the definition before I did that part.
Daystar Eld is a writer of the big one is Pokemon original species, right?
Yep.
Excellent.
And Alexander Wales is probably best known for Metropolitan man, but has written a bunch of other shorter works.
And right now you are working on worth the candle.
Yep. Under the solo rage ups and pseudonym.
And both of you guys together have a podcast called rationally writing, which is about writing rational fiction, which is why you are here today.
Yeah, we try to cover like writing tips in general, but also just from the perspective of rationally writing as best we can.
So the reason I had you guys on specifically is because I've been reading rational fiction since, I mean, since Ellie has her invented the genre, basically.
And I've been trying to write for a while and they found that I can write fiction sometimes.
But like, not only can I not write rational fiction, I still don't entirely know what it is.
There seems to be this debate a lot.
And I like that definition of like thinking fiction.
But is there there's a lot of fiction out there that's thinking right?
Yeah, so one thing I want to point out again quickly is that like, not all fiction that's good as rational and not all obviously not all rational fiction is good.
I've happened to read some of your work so I like I enjoyed it a lot.
I don't think it's necessary to always try to write rational fiction necessarily but the principles that you might be trying to like reach towards.
I think that like everyone maybe in our subculture like in our community that would probably enjoy are generally the ones that we try to have characters that you know act intelligently as early as or put it like level three intelligent
characters are the ideal right but level two intelligent at the very least probably qualifies for rational fiction and absolutely don't want to dip below level one intelligent and these are kind of like guidelines I can I can describe if you want to
but it really comes down to just like how well you're putting your mind in the character's mind to decide what they're going to do next.
And then also in terms of world building like for a rational world the world building is consistent enough to the point where like there are no obvious plot holes there are no obvious like inconsistencies and things like that that you see all the time in movies or TV shows or many books.
And I think the harder part is not just getting in your character's head but getting the head of everyone else who interacts with him especially the antagonists because that's where a lot of people fall down where the antagonists are just you know foils for the main character
and evil for the sake of evil and getting into their minds and like oftentimes just writing an entire scene from their point of view first as if they were the hero and a real person.
It's a lot of fucking work but God it makes things better.
Yeah.
Can you can you summarize the levels level one two and three intelligence characters.
Off the top of my head if I remember correctly and we can always do edit magic for this level one intelligence was basically the character doesn't do anything that's obviously stupid like idiot ball holding level two intelligence is where they act to the full capacity of pursuing
their goals the way you would expect them to so they're not like stating oh you know I really want to be a great like firefighter or something and then just like missing very obvious like things that they should be doing to become a great firefighter.
An example of this actually in Pokemon that I see in like fiction for Pokemon all the time is this concept of like Pokemon as intelligent creatures and people write about them as intelligent creatures and fan fiction all the time but they really don't act like intelligent
creatures they act like intelligent creatures that have no agency I should say like in the sense of like they can speak English or whatever language they're speaking at them and they can like respond to those commands but they don't have any goals of their
personality they tend to pursue their personality really just boils down to their wild they just boil down to like you know fight until captured and if they're captured they're just like do the best I can for my trainer or like win this fight or whatever it is like they
don't have agency they don't have sapiens despite being treated as character or described as features that do and if they did have agency and you know that goals they would act like the whole world would be structured completely differently based off of like the idea that they're
literally enslaving sapien creatures to fight with and like even if you use the excuse of well they're fighting because they need to protect themselves from our Pokemon where they're fighting for like the you know because they like fighting
like the Pokemon themselves enjoy fighting a level three intelligent character then would be like okay well if that's actually what their goal is like their goal is they like fighting so they join trainers to get the best fights they can to get stronger and that's
whatever that's just what Pokemon's like goals are then you'd still have to imagine then a character intelligent enough to intelligently pursue that goal to all the options available to them kind of in a like like retroactive not
like a meadow way so the way I would imagine that going to be something like a level three intelligent Pokemon would be one who like had a deal with trainers to actually switch to another trainer if they're stronger than them like there's no reason to stay with one trainer after they caught them just because they want to win fights with that trainer
like if the actual goal is to become strongest and another trainer beat the trainer they would should be allowed to just go the other trainer if they were free will creatures like that agency so this reminds me of a because I've been fascinated by this whole question of what the hell is rational
fiction I've been kind of following people to talk about it for a while and back like a couple years ago I think Eliezer wrote a quick sword art online piece and someone asked him what part of that was rational and he said that a brief answer would be that it's a it's looking at a fictional world and seeing another way of interpreting the characters observations as corresponding to different simple generators
so more pragmatically if you read a lot of rational thick you'd recognize it as being of a particular tradition where there isn't like a single point of departure but lots of little reinterpretations that are all in the standard rational thick directions like people are smarter they see the answer sooner they have additional motivations
and everything ties together a little bit you know differently under these new assumptions and that got me to wondering almost all the rational thick I see is fanfic is that like a requirement or what what is it that is that makes it so that is such a big fanfic genre
did you say rational or rationalist I still probably both I will rationalist I guess I think my understanding just like the takeaway is that rationalist is like the characters employ the methods of rationality whether explicitly or like articulate them to each other and rational thick can just be the Martian or Wild Bo's worm that sort of thing right one thing that
might help clarify this also is that I made a little bit I think I made a little mistake in how I described level three intelligence it's it almost as explicitly that you were teaching your characters are so intelligent in general that you act intelligently and so like completely that they are reading about their actions and thought processes will actually teach you how to be smarter
like they are copyable skills they're not just having strokes of genius like that you can't follow like they're actually trackable what like what they're what the reasons for the smart thinking is what the reasons for their achieving their goals is in a way that you as a reader can learn from and that's I think that's the bar that separates not just level two intelligence level two intelligence
level three intelligence level two intelligence that's the bar that separates rationalist protagonists from smart and tell smart characters that might just be in a rational world and I think also honestly that's why things like Metropolitan Man actually could be described as rationalist because like Lex Luthor is doing a lot of really smart shit that like you can actually like follow along with and realize oh yeah that makes like a lot of sense why don't they do that in the Superman world.
Yeah it's not like it's not meant to be like a phony intelligence that's just like oh this just happened like he's smart and he can do it it's meant to be shown as much as possible as actual insights that are to some extent copyable.
You get that I think a lot more in rationalist because that's more what it's trying to do is it's trying to be copyable intelligence rather than just displayed intelligence I guess so giving back the fanfic question I think part of it is just different ways of looking at the world.
And for me I write fanfic a lot of the time because I read something and I have a question and I have that there's no answer within the text to what my question is.
I just watched a movie last night where the there's like this shadowy government agency and they do this thing it's not really important but I was thinking why in the world would that be like standard operating procedure for them right.
And this isn't answered in the in the text it's not like there's no answer in the movie or probably not in supplemental material or anything but that gets my mind going and I think well OK this is kind of dumb of them.
So you know maybe this is a coordination problem happening at some point or there is some simple generator working in the background that has caused the world to be this way as presented and actual answer is probably just that the author or writer or director didn't think about it or they thought about it and they said you know it's not important we're not going to spend our valuable 90 minutes of screen time.
Explaining operational procedures for this agency even if we have an actual idea for it yourself it's just a show sit back and relax.
Yeah.
But.
I write fanfic a lot because I see I see those things and it gets my mind going and I start thinking about how I would make small tweaks to either the background or to the reality as presented that will make it make.
More sense or to conform to my understanding of the world because as presented it doesn't it doesn't conform to my understanding of the world because someone maybe got lazy or.
They weren't necessarily lazy but in terms of economy of storytelling they just didn't want to include some certain thing.
Do you think that's one of the reasons some people don't like rational thick they they look at it and they say that oh this author is highlighting and making fun of all the things that weren't entirely you know 100% accurate about my fandom screw them.
When really the author is going through the laborious process of making a universe where those seemingly crazy things actually can make good sense for a reason.
Cough quidditch cough.
I mean yeah I would describe most rational fiction particularly rational fan fiction.
But like as some kind of labor of love like no matter how idiotic or or thought less parts of the canon might be it's because you really enjoyed the thing and you wanted the thing to be better.
And your interpretation of better might obviously be different from someone else's but like there's there's kind of this highest form of like you can rewrite.
Hey Potter the message of rationality and like right what I would consider a worse version of it where you just kind of remove anything that's irrational from the Harry Potter world and that would just be you know that would be a different kind of story.
When one example of this that was kind of done was Felix Felicis was kind of just written out because it's too overpowered if you try to take it seriously and really consider what its inclusion in the world would be.
But Eliezer actually did more than that like he didn't just remove all the rational things he kept in things that were rational and then re describe fit like re describe them in ways that made them totally make sense.
And the best example of this in my opinion was the chamber leading to the philosopher stone the the the obstacle is like why would Dumbledore put these obviously this obvious place with you know the people that people aren't supposed to go tell everyone about it fill it with these
straps that first year students could clearly pass like not even extraordinary first year students I guess her mind her mind is pretty extraordinary but the other two not so much like I guess like you know they needed wrong for the chest and Harry for the keys sort of not really.
But anyway like clearly first year students can get through this it was a troll too but that's you know they beat the troll by themselves earlier in the bathroom anyway.
The point is he described it in a way that made like oh Dumbledore obviously knew that kids would try to find this place.
He made it specifically so that first year students even could get through it safely.
All these traps are there to make you think that you're getting through something that Dumbledore wants you to get through as just like oh it's just crazy old Dumbledore making this fundamental you know challenge for students.
But in point of fact the actual challenge was just the last chamber and the reason that that was.
There like all the previous chambers were there is because there are various like wards and like tricks involved that would identify if someone stronger than a first year student was stronger than a Hogwarts student in general tried to make its way through them in.
In particular ways and then of course Dumbledore expected Voldemort to maybe go through them and when Voldemort goes through them with you know fiend fire.
The point is that like well he's not afraid of Dumbledore anymore because he's already he's got like a charm card at his sleeve but it basically served like two purposes one that satisfied the canon explanation and one that satisfied a rationalist explanation.
Yeah and I think that the reason that a lot of people don't like that other than the fact that like sometimes does come across as bashing.
I think when some people write it is bashing because I sometimes feel that too when I see something that just makes it makes no sense.
Yeah as it's like canon form I just it frustrates me and I just want it to go away.
I want it to not be part of that canon anymore.
That can sometimes come out in the writing.
The other part of it is people have different relationships with and reactions to deconstruction and reconstruction like.
Okay so people will ship Hermione and Draco a lot in the Harry Potter fan fiction community.
They'll write about you know the otter and the snake and on the base level it's just Draco is kind of a bad boy and Hermione is like super smart and agent and a bunch of stuff and they just want to mash these.
Two people together that don't really make that much sense right and so you can deconstruct that and you could write a fic where it's just about how.
Like Draco is legitimately a racist from this racist family and he's not like a good person he's not.
You know he's like bad boy stuff is actually horrible and toxic and there's no way that they would work together and if they tried to be together it would just be this horrible thing right.
It would be the deconstruction of it and if you show that to people who like Hermione and Draco as a couple and they like imagining that without the messy complicated things they're not going to like that and they'll find that as like an assault on their fandom.
Right not just an assault on the canon but an assault on their preferred fan and.
Yeah which you actually get I mean you get that even for people who have different preferred pairings for couples within a fandom or people who have different fandoms like Star Wars and Star Trek right famously do not get along because of the different ethos of their respective canons.
But if you do a reconstruction a lot of like if you write a love story between Hermione and Draco that deals with all of the issues of actual legitimate racism and the fact that Draco's father like killed and tortured people and he sort of grew up in that household and.
Hermione is basically disadvantaged within the wizarding world because of her birth and you deal with all that stuff people will still see it as sort of an assault on.
The simplicity and purity that they like in their original love story so you can do a reconstruction and people would still get.
They still get up in arms about it because it's still an assault on the the simpler version of the story I guess which I think it comes into play a lot for people because you if you write something like that a labor of love that sort of takes all the things that you find super interesting and troublesome and tries to reconcile them.
A lot of people don't want that reconciliation because that reconciliation is a.
It is a tacit admission that there is something that needs reconciling I guess or it deletes it deletes the fun like like the Pokemon thing I was describing earlier like too many people the inherent fantasy of Pokemon is going on adventures with their intelligent superpowered best friend animal companions and if you just say like look that fantasy doesn't work at all.
If the animal companions are safe and like you can have you can have a fanfic about this where the entire purpose of the of the story is to like establish Pokemon liberation and like give them equal rights equal to Pokemon to humans and all that stuff.
If you want to go that route but most people don't want to go that route the fantasy requires essentially humans to be above Pokemon and yet also be intelligent and all that stuff.
So like any kind of fiction that tries to mess with that messes with the inherent fantasy of the setting.
Yeah, Superman is a big one.
The new DC movies a lot of people the problem they have with it.
They really like Superman but they like him as this like pure character who doesn't actually have to grapple with difficult moral decisions.
Right as soon as you introduce Superman to the trolley problem that that's kind of destroys what Superman what they find appealing about Superman I guess right even if you intend for Superman to remain noble and pure and morally correct.
And this obviously only applies to some people like the question was why some people maybe don't like or rub the wrong way by national fiction.
Clearly like this is a matter of taste that a lot of different people are going to have different responses to.
But I think that's something that's kind of in a stable in fan fiction in general but also just turned up to 11 for rational fiction because of the aforementioned reasons.
And also obviously there's the element of there's a sense of arrogance that comes off from writing characters that are like supposedly more intelligent than the characters around them or potentially more intelligent than the reader.
That's like pointing out things that the reader didn't follow up follow like recognize when they read the cannon and you know some people really relish that and enjoy it I know I certainly do.
But some people obviously also don't and that's totally fine if they don't want to read it but that's just a segment of the popular list that will not enjoy rational fiction probably.
I sort of felt that way when reading methods of rationality because I loved those books growing up but I was in a lot of category where I relished seeing all the ways it could be done better.
You know like realizing that in hindsight you know Quidditch was just like this you know fun game that that rolling thought up and it was you know the seeker earned so many points so that Harry could be the most important player right like not because it made any sense as a sport.
And you know so Harry's flippant dismissal of it in methods of rationality like who was the first seeker the king's idiot.
So you know it I've shown it to people who you know read the first few chapters and basically got to where like Harry is like oh Ron super boring fuck this like this is for me they're too good a friend so I'm not going to have this this destroy their friendship.
But I could see how it could go that way.
It's I think that you're right depending on your approach to things or maybe just how much you are attached to things that you like or liked as a kid or something having it even very artfully deconstructed reconstructed can still just be like but that's not what I liked.
You said much earlier day star that the rational fiction often shows the like the thought process of a or the rationalist fiction shows the thought process of a rationalist person like going through the world and how they react to things.
So I often feel like a fake rationalist because I don't think in the ways that are portrayed in rationalist fiction very often.
Oh believe me imposter syndrome all around.
So like is this is this just impossible for me like I try to incorporate some of these things and they like help my general life attitude but when it actually comes down to to being like that on a day to day level I cannot pull it off and I just I get the feeling I'm never going to be able to.
Oh I mean I would be very surprised if anyone could pick up a few rationalist stories and just immediately like jam like the you know the real phrase I think that is more like because a lot of people don't like the rationalist label.
I chase under it occasionally to I think aspiring rationalist is the better one it's just longer right so we don't use it that often and there's a lot of talk about how rationalist fiction itself can be like presumptuous but like I guess a title you know.
But like the idea also is that like as a writer you have the you have magic powers that you can use to make your characters more intelligent than you like you have time that you can use to think through things that your character cannot think through in the time that they actually have available to them in that circumstance.
Right there's like cheats that you can use as a writer to make your access to way more information and other resources and like feedback and stuff like that from other people.
That makes your characters more intelligent so it's not necessarily that you're writing characters that are always realistically as intelligent as the person would be in that circumstance.
But when you read other fiction like the hero is is way stronger or better at fighting than any realistic person could ever expect to be and that's just kind of and it's just kind of OK like you just like I mean that's just you know that's how it works.
I think I heard it called a competence porn before.
Right like a competence porn is so enjoyable for a lot of people because it's not necessarily that you can do that in that circumstance.
But the very least you enjoy watching someone be competent in a particularly intelligent fashion.
And if it's rational if it's level three if it's if it's explicit even if you can't be that smart in your real life you can still learn things from it.
I try very hard in my story to put in whatever little tidbits of psychology and therapy that I have observed being useful to other people has been useful to me.
I've had people respond that like reading those things in my story.
They've tried applying them to their life.
They found it really useful.
They found it really like helpful to them.
Like that's what I really care about.
I don't really care if someone I've actually told someone explicitly who private message me about it.
Like don't I don't want anyone to read my story and then be like can I ever be as smart as as the main character because that's not as interesting to me.
What's interesting to me is like can you at least be in any way.
Can you at least in any way feel like you got something useful out of the story that you can apply to your own life.
I think that may be partly my problem.
Like it feels like when you're saying a lot of rational fiction is very forward looking like that.
Like can you get something useful out of it.
And lots of times when I'm right when I write what I'm doing is like reliving traumas in my own past.
And that does not that is not a forward looking thing.
You know that is not something where we're thinking through problems was was the goal of the story and so much as wallowing in my own misery was.
And some people really enjoy those kinds of stories.
Yeah.
It's like tragedy is a is a is a famous genre of story for a reason.
Right.
Right.
It's just not very rational.
Like yeah.
I mean you can probably make a rational tragedy story.
I would just be depressing as hell.
He did everything right and was really smart and lost anyway.
Because that's the way reality works.
