Probably. I can't, I can't imagine it would, it would be unpopular, like in the sense of people being upset about I think the major hurdle might just be getting all the people's like consent to put this label on their work, maybe.
Since we're talking about like other authors outside the rational sphere.
But like, I'm not even sure I would buy something like that necessarily, especially with all the other good rational thick that's out there all the time. So would either of you, do you think you would buy something like that if someone had put it out?
Like, I'm seriously trying to gauge whether this is an interesting project. And as much as I like the idea of it, I don't think I would buy that copy myself necessarily.
I think anthologies are always a tough sell for me. I also think, like, if you look at the subreddit, most of it is dominated by long form. And in a lot of cases, extreme long form fiction that's like doorstopper length, if not longer.
That's the main thing that stops me from reading it. I just don't have the time to read that much.
Yeah, no, I feel the same way. I have so little time to read. But yeah, I've thought about, I'm a mod there and I run the weekly challenge. I've thought about getting some of those stories together as like a compiled, I don't know, like 200 page.
This is the best of the short fiction that's been published there, which I in theory have the social poll to do, at least.
Oh, yeah.
It's a time investment for one thing.
But yeah, and to clarify, would you be thinking of marketing this towards like people who already read rational stories for the general public? Because that's what I was thinking of in the first place.
I mean, I would prefer for it to be the general public so people would get an idea of what it is.
Right. Yeah, I mean, yeah, that's, that's, that is definitely going to be hard to do, I think, because it's, you've got, first of all, people who are not familiar with why they should read this anthology in the first place.
And you'd have to do something like put a fairly famous, you know, like fairly famous author, like if you like stories like this from this person, Martian's probably a good one to use.
You would like these other stories from these people, right? And that might work. But yeah, it would be a tough sell to the general public, I think.
For the record, that's what I was going to say.
Oh, well.
Just a last part about the Martian, everything else was too thoughtful for me to come up with.
But you know, if it's, if it's something that you want to try in small form, what might be worth doing is, like Alexander was saying, like find the sorts of flash fiction that people can easily put together in like one work and be like, if you enjoy this kind of thing, try these out.
And if enough people like it in like a downloadable $1 EPUB or whatever, you know, you can use that data to then decide if a more ambitious project is worthwhile.
Yeah, it's sort of a marketing question, which I'm not super well versed in.
Yeah, I mean, part of the reason I write online is because I can't market for my life.
Yeah, I do. I do it partly because the thought of like going through all the effort of traditional publishing is just so draining.
Oh, my God.
It is a fucking nightmare. Let me tell you that it is constant rejection. And the worst part is having written a novel, I cannot like get anyone to read it because I guess I'm just not good at writing query letters.
You send off this three paragraph little, you know, summary teaser thing. And then people are like, not interested in seeing any of that.
I'm like, God damn it. It's only three paragraphs.
Yeah, I've written three novels. I tried shopping around one of them and it was just so frustrating that I just stopped.
I was like, this is this is clearly a failure on my part that I need to readdress at some point in the future.
But then I found the whole wonderful world of publishing Street to the Internet, which, you know, may not be the thing I want to do always.
But for now, yeah, I'm considering that more and more.
My strategy is just I'll become so popular that the publishers will come to me.
Yeah, I think I'm getting close.
Yeah, you know, it's worked for a few people. Hugh Howie, the Andy Weir.
Yeah.
Oh, and now you've got the Bayesian conspiracy bump. I think that'll push over the top.
I really hope you meet new audiences.
I mean, but yeah, Wild Bo's fucking amazing in many ways.
And this is one of the ways that he is that he's managed to actually, I think, really hit a big time would not be suffice at all.
Like five to 10 years from now, there's an HBO series on like worm or something.
Oh, and his productivity is insane.
Yeah, that's part of it. That's part of it for sure.
The ability to write that much, but I think Alexander could actually get really close to that if not match it.
Yeah, I'm a hundred words per day behind him.
Oh, wow. Nice.
That's my running average of worth the candle behind worm.
I mean, that's like saying that you're, you know, five seconds behind you saying bolt. I think that's the best thing.
Yeah, I do. I do write a lot.
I do not write nearly that much. My chapters are long, but they can only come out once a month.
And, you know, one day it would be great if I could try writing full time and see how that goes.
But in the meantime, I got to pay some bills.
We are going to direct link to both of your guys' stuff and the podcast on our post for this.
But would you also like to say into the microphones what they are so people can hear it on the podcast?
Sure. I'm Daystar Eld online.
So if you put Daystar Eld into pretty much any, like, discord scale, I should, I don't know if it's advertising.
Daystar Eld is what I am online.
So if you go to DaystarEld.com, you can find my website and anything you might want to find from me would be there most of the time.
Yeah, I'm working on that. Consultating it all there.
Yeah. And I'm Alexander Wales online.
It's all the hits for that. I mean, I feel bad for the people whose real name is that.
Completely have dominated search, but Alexander Wales.com is my website.
I mean, at least not like a famous cannibal or something.
So if you're going to get a wrong result for the Google and Googling your own name, then how do that be some author than, you know, some bad news?
Yeah. And both of them have patreons for their stuff.
And they are also doing the rationally writing podcast about writing rationally.
You guys have time to indulge me. I mean, now I've got, you know, three rationalist writers on the line.
You know, I really enjoyed the conclusion to methods of rationality.
And if you haven't read it, skip this part. This will ruin the story.
So this isn't just like, you know, a minor spoiler.
So that's your, this is the end of the episode for you unless you are ready to have that.
Anyway, is there a good consensus in the, in the rationalist writing community?
Or maybe, you know, I didn't see it on the method rationality subreddit, which I, I, you know, I'm on, it's on my homepage and stuff.
What is there a good kind of explanation for why the graveyard scene went down the way it did?
Why did the super intelligent Coralmore very keep his wall?
What the hell was he thinking?
I, I personally have never held that against him.
He did need Harry to keep the wand to do the, the, the unbreakable vow.
And at that point, Harry was already naked and paralyzed and surrounded by 12 death eaters that would avatacadavra him in a half second if he spoke in a non-parcel tongue language.
So, I mean, if I, if I was like a chief of police and I had a perp paralyzed naked and surrounded by 12 of my guys pointing their guns at him,
I would also feel pretty safe at that point.
I think it is a reasonable oversight.
And I don't know, maybe he would have wanted Harry to demonstrate any spells that he was going to teach him.
I, I just don't think it's that much of an oversight, honestly.
Okay, yeah, the spell demonstration actually makes sense for not like destroying the wand.
But yeah, I mean, you're not just staring down at perp, you're a super intelligent, you're a really smart guy staring down a world ending threat, right?
But no, I think you're right.
Like, maybe that is, then I'll, I'm looking for the other, your other two responses, but the, it could just be, hey, look, this is what happens.
You don't cover literally all of your bases.
And when you think you got them all covered, think again.
Yeah, there's this thing that I like to say a lot, which is anything's possible.
The rationality is based on what's probable, like rational decisions are based on probability.
There's always some chance that there's some crazy rabbit that Henry can pull out of their hat.
If you can, if you, if you have actual, like if you have actual infinite time and resources to, to plan for every eventuality, then sure, plan for every eventuality.
But if not, you kind of just have to make a decision after a certain point that you've made enough effort to, to adjust all the probable and even a few of the only merely possible outcomes.
And Voldemort wanted him to show magic and he needed his wand to show magic.
So that's basically why he let him keep his wand.
I think if I was rewriting it, I might make it a little bit less obvious.
Like, I don't know, I might, I might do something like Voldemort.
Have him drop it and it touches his toe or something.
Right.
Like if there's some, if there's some kind.
So the thing that, remember that Harry didn't do it.
The thing that Harry used to defeat him was something that as far as Voldemort knew was literally impossible.
Like it wasn't just like, oh, you know, he's too young to do that or something like that.
Right.
So, so to that extent, like he did something that from Voldemort's perspective was literally impossible.
And he, he had done a few of those before.
So all the, what shouldn't have been completely, you know, unprepared for something, him doing something literally impossible.
But yeah,
Voldemort's only like completely rational, absolutely safe action would be just to immediately kill Harry.
Like the second fact that he was no longer bound by the, we can't kill each other curse to murder him on the spot.
But he didn't want to do that.
He still wanted to integrate him a little bit.
And given that he took all the, like you said, all the reasonable precautions at this point, you know,
he couldn't know for sure that even without the wand that Harry could do wandless, wordless, you know,
insane magic.
Partial, partial transfiguration.
Right.
Right.
At that point, why, why couldn't he, if he could do it with the wand, why can't he do it without a wand?
They're both equally impossible.
So, yeah.
To give my own answer.
This was pointed out during the final exam, which was a wonderful time on the subreddit.
Yes, that was so classic.
I helped coordinate some of it, especially on the subreddit because I'm mod there.
Hell yes, you did.
It was awesome.
I remember the whole thing.
It's great.
This was pointed out at the time where some people were like, okay, like, I think the problem, the reason that that comes up every once in a while is
you have Voldemort going to such extreme measures in other ways that it somehow seems more realistic if he's less cautious,
if there aren't like 20 layers of precaution.
Right.
And strange credulity after a certain point.
Well, yeah, like, like if you, if you have, if he is going to the extent of, you know, there's diminishing marginal utility on
precautions that he's taking, right?
And so if he's going to such an extent, then it becomes slightly less believable that he would not continue to go if he's going that far into the
diminishing marginal utility of precaution.
Like taking the wand is one of the lower hanging fruits.
Yeah.
I think that is, that is my, like, if I were rewriting it, I'd make Voldemort less cautious.
Because each thing that he does increases the amount of time that Harry's left alive and increases the room for prophecy to do something.
Right.
And if you read prophetic stories, it's always the people who go to those, those extreme lengths that the extreme lengths are what backfire on them.
I guess.
Yeah.
It is one of the things that I think about that scene is that it becomes less believable to me because it's low hanging fruit.
Yeah.
I was going to say also, there is the sense to me of like, I really enjoyed that whole period of time and that the, you know, the, I think the ending was
great and all that stuff.
I did feel a little bit not cheated exactly.
Maybe disappointed is too strong to.
There was a little bit of something that the answer turned out to be a essentially a method of violence that won him it.
What I, what I thought would work.
What I thought would turn out to be the answer was some form of persuasion with some form of like applied thinking to the problem in a way that like would make Voldemort realize that what he was doing was actually a mistake.
And what I have been more satisfied if that was how he won, that he didn't have the wand in his hand, like he wasn't given the wand.
Voldemort basically said, look, you need to just describe how you did the magic.
I'll figure it out myself.
I've got time.
Just describe how you did the magic.
No one for you.
You don't have to show it to me.
And I'll save, you know, I'll spare someone for everything that you, every secret you give me.
And he figured out a way to win without using his wand.
I probably would have enjoyed that ending better.
Maybe.
Probably like it was a really neat trick.
So maybe not.
But at the same time, there's like a dozen other ways that Voldemort actually could have been defeated that he didn't plan for.
Depending on how thorough like Harry's, you know, like pre-planning was or Dumbledore pre-planning was.
Well, like Booty's pre-planning was like a carrier jet could have fired a rocket at them from far away or something like that.
Like he didn't have, as far as we know, right?
We don't actually know, but like he didn't have some kind of ward up to stop like explosions.
That was, I think, one of the threats Harry made about anti-matter or something.
Like he didn't have sentries posted like for, as far as we know, again, but didn't seem like it because always Harry wouldn't have known about them and then he wouldn't have won.
Like he didn't have sentries posted for like all these outside the realm of probability outcomes.
And so the low hanging fruit was what got him in the end, but it could have just have easily been something else.
Yeah. No, that's great. I think, you know, the main reason I was asking was, well, hey, because I, I sort of just always talks about like, well, I guess he didn't think of that.
But I'm also, I've got a coworker reading this right now and I'm anticipating him asking me, you know, what the hell happened there.
And now I've got three great answers to get them. So awesome. That was very satisfying.
No problem. This has been fun.
Awesome. You got anything else, Stephen?
No, this was a lot of fun. I really appreciate it.
I thought I'd kind of fall behind and I, you know, I'm sure that there's, you know, stuff I didn't get because I'm not, I'm the only one here.
He doesn't write. I did write one thing that got like 11 upvotes on the rationality separate at once.
Congrats.
Yeah. I think it was the one of the weekly challenges. It was the like Disney rationalist, Disney or something.
Oh, okay.
I did a smart Aladdin. Well, I might my staff at a smart Aladdin.
And basically the trick was that rather than just wish for more wishes, because that's against the rules, he wished away the rule that there was a rule against wishing for more wishes.
Two of his first wishes on more wishes and then had infinite wishes at the end.
Yeah. I mean, you know, much can raise, you know, the only thing that's gone for there.
But yeah, I, you know, like I said earlier with, you know, your foot with your job, but it's the same thing with writing.
Like I don't have the ability to like to just come up with things. I don't have like this story in me that's trying to get out.
So I really love hearing people talk about the process. And this is a lot of fun for me. So thanks, guys.
Thanks for having us.
Yeah. Thank you all.
