Yeah.
We're going to thank a patron?
All right. Yes, of course. We're never too tired to thank a patron whose turn is it?
I'm looking at the list.
Is the person who, who started the CMO chain with you a patron?
We could.
I was looking at that on our list.
I don't think them anyway.
And not on our doc here.
Well, we can't thank a patron if he's not a patron.
Uh, well, no, no, I was going to, I mean, I, you guys jump, you already beat me to the punch
and take some of the oomph out of it makes it sound like it wasn't planned from the start.
Sure.
I didn't want to thank Matt for writing this and even while, you know, having some,
I guess, I don't know, whatever misgivings or, or concerns about some of the,
the claims or something in the community to still listen.
And he's been listening patiently waiting for us to get around to the subject since April 18th, 2018.
So thank you so much for sticking with us this long.
And I hope you at least got some clarity out of our answer, even though we couldn't cite,
oh no, check out these three awesome studies.
But I hope you did find this valuable and do let me know what you thought.
So thanks again.
And thanks also to Mark.
I'm going to butcher this.
Sorry.
Go be a your support keeps this podcast alive, keeps the lights on.
Let's chase by a headset so that we can record at a distance during the plague.
And it's, it means a lot.
So thank you so much.
And if it's go via or jovia, sorry if I butchered one of those as well.
At least one of those as well.
You're great.
Thank you.
I'm making, I'm making confetti hens and I'm aiming them at my computer screen.
But anyway, and, and you, you aren't just making us happy.
You are also making everyone else who listens to this podcast happy because we can keep
bringing it to them because of your support.
So a lot of people are thankful for your support right now.
That's a really good point.
Oh, I like that.
Yeah.
And I'm Matt, the original question asker.
I also wanted to kind of shout out to you for having those doubts.
I mean, even though it seemed like at points, I was probably like arguing against your
concerns.
It's a concern that I share too.
It's important for me to know whether or not I, you know, I'm doing the right things with
my life or have the right beliefs.
And I think that that's a really, like I said, a virtue of the rationalist community is always
questioning yourself.
Well put.
And I forgot to mention that actually that the question, I thought of that when I first
read his most recent emails, like you realize that questioning things is a rationalist virtue.
And yes, that's a really good point.
Thanks, Jason.
Yeah.
Let's call it a night.
All right.
Thank you, everybody.
It's not good to me.
Thanks, everybody.
We'll see you next fortnight.
Good night, everybody.
And one quick reminder.
Don't forget to nominate Woodlice Dreaming and the DragonCon Fan Awards,
if that is a thing you would like to do.
Thanks.
