sort of thing too. I wish I had the stomach to go on Christian forums at all. Yeah, I mean,
like just the fact that you're there and able to find these people out of all the other stuff
you're probably looking at. And the main reason I did this, I like wouldn't have done it if it was
just a tweet because, you know, fuck Twitter, I'm not getting on Twitter for anything. But
apparently there was a lot of backlash from a bunch of people, even within the rashless community,
being like, Oh, that's bad. Don't do that. And so I have to go on and say you, you to bomb,
keep doing what you're doing, because I don't know why people would be upset that someone would do
this. I might be wrong, but I was under the impression that a lot of people actually just
misunderstood the way she worded her post. Maybe it has something to do with Twitter and it's like
one sentence post. But I think they thought that she was encouraging them to stick with the faith.
No, I believe it's the exact opposite. No, I know that's I know she was doing the opposite. I think
some people misunderstood what direction she said that she was arguing in.
I think that she said like affirm their doubts. I don't think that that was the
misunderstanding. I think those understanding that people had because I have to believe because
you sent us the tweet. And so I read that and a handful of replies and I saw yours and Elias
Yudkowski, and he wasn't supportive, he had said, I can't support you on this.
So what I'm assuming that he thought, unless I'm totally failing to model him correctly,
which is entirely possible, like, I'm thinking that he thought, Oh, you go around and like
try and de-convert people or something, which is, to some extent, to some communities, maybe
admirable, if that's your thing. I don't I've never like, in the last, I don't know, decade,
I haven't really gotten up on doing that. That said, if someone confessed to me privately that
they are having doubts about their religion and like struggling to deal with the fact like,
what do I do if there's an afterlife or something? I feel like the nicest thing I could do would
be to reach out to them and say, Yeah, man, I went through the same thing. Here's how you,
here's how I got over it. Like, I'd love to help. That's how I read her tweet.
Yeah, exactly. That's how I read it. I just was under the impression again,
from the way some people were replying that it was literally just a misunderstanding of the
wording. That's probably not so important, though, because I think that the people who did seem to
have understood have read the wording correctly and still disagreed. I don't know what their beef
is, like maybe just this isn't a good use of your time or
From what I think they mostly were pattern matching to the fact that religious people will
often prey on people who are at their lowest point in their life. They just had a loved one die or
something terrible happened to them. And they pounce on them and say, you know, Jesus or Muhammad
or whoever can help you through this time and save you forever and you'll get to see your family
member again. Absolutely. Brown can talk to them right now. Yeah, exactly. And yes, yes, the psychic.
I hope not. The kid's dead. Luckily, I only ever learned about her from James Randi's.
My mom has her books. She was. Oh, she also has a deep pack troper books, some other bullshit.
Anyway, yeah, but this is this is absolutely not that because first of all, she's in Christian
forums where Christians are there to talk about religion. And these are people who are saying,
you know, hey, I have some doubts. And so she tells them, yeah, you know, I see that other
people in your forums are not addressing these doubts, you're right to have these doubts like
these are people here explicitly to talk about their faith with others. And she also mentioned
how did she phrase it? I have the tweet. And when someone posts about doubting their faith or
being in pain over what their faith requires them to do, I PM them sympathy and affirm their deaths.
I mean, PMing them sympathy is very much not the praying on someone, I think, unless like,
I don't know, since I haven't seen like, it would be interesting actually to see if she
has any screenshots of those posts, but that would probably also just be to be too privacy
violating indeed. But still, like, I just don't get the impression that this is somebody trying
to be like, haha, I can convert this person to my side. And if somebody is posting that they're
having feeling pain over doing something their religion requires them to do, it's probably
because their religion is acquiring them to cut off ties with their child because their child came
out as gay or something. This is a good thing that she's doing saying people, yes, I feel your pain.
This is because your religion is asking you to do bad things, like she's making people's lives
better. And by reducing religiosity in society, she's making society better overall. Like this is
how we get to the transhumanist future, right? We help people see things that are false. I think
generally, like you're doing a public service, if you expose someone to different viewpoints
than their own. I was raised Catholic and I was just totally like I never I didn't know what an
atheist was. I had I was just of the opinion as a child like sheltered and whatnot that everyone
believes in God and everyone does these things and it never occurred to me like even when I tried to
test God's existence by like jumping off a desk repeatedly and being like praying for God to like
let me fly for a second even if no one's watching just to prove that he existed. And then when it
didn't happen, I was like, God exists, but he's a dick. Not that God doesn't exist. That just wasn't
an idea that I could have yet. And then like, more of my deconversion actually came from
studying other faiths. I bought like a book about it was just a bunch of different religions
that interviewed people. Like, I think it was specifically a book for kids who were interested
in like religion and maybe wanting to change faith to I don't know. But I remember there was
interviews with a bunch of kids where they talked about like here's what my practice looks like
day to day and here's what I believe and why I think it's important. And that was another
realization of Oh, like, all these people feel the same way just as strongly about their faith,
which is incompatible with this other one. And then finally, actually, like my deconversion
came from just reading the Bible cover to cover. But like, yeah, I think that's a popular
deconversion tool. I don't know. That was something that occurred to me earlier, too,
that was just like, why don't you just tell them, like, have you read this cover to cover?
And really thought about it. But uh, I mean, there's a lot more foreskin talk than you would
guess, you know, having ever never opened the book so much bullshit that the Bible talks about
like, I remember slogging through the parts of the Old Testament that was just like, talking
about animal sacrifice, how to build alters, sacrifice, sacrifice, exactly how to build
alters, sacrifice an animal. And it was like the most like, boring detail about like,
it can't have one black hair on it, it must be pure, like, can't have had any brothers and it
needed to have the, you know, then you have to hold the head in this particular way and face this
direction spin around three times and hop on one foot and spit behind your left shoulder. And then
that's just like on and on and on and on. I was like, there's no way God or like any, any, like,
immortal being or whatever wrote this. Like this is so specific to that like
bronze age desert society that cared about things like goats.
And if you had been in a Christian forum at the time and said, Hey, you know, I'm having some
doubt about my faith, like with all this weird goat talk, would you have felt preyed upon and
violated if someone PM'd you like, Hey, yeah, you're, I think you're right to have those doubts.
I think even if like, I'm trying to imagine like from, from the other side,
because I would have felt like I'd finally found a kindred soul, someone who was actually willing
to talk about the thing that everyone else in my community is saying, shut up, you must not talk
about this. And, you know, it'd be nice to have someone there to be like, Oh, thank God, there's
another sane person here. Even if I didn't like, even if I wasn't convinced by their arguments,
it would be nice to have someone who acknowledges that these are issues and just be able to finally
speak my mind without feeling like I was about to get destroyed by my community. Yeah, like that,
even the whole like PMing them sympathy over their pain is the important part of that. Like,
I think that if I'm trying to like put myself back in my head that I'm, of course, like,
forums didn't exist. But when I was thinking about all this, if someone who was Muslim had
PMed me sympathy about my pain and then also said like, and here's like what I believe and why I
believe it, I, and like, you know, with epistemic honesty, I would have been like, thank you for
telling me that, like, maybe that doesn't change my opinion. But like, yeah, I don't know. I just,
I got to say as if you are when you're deep in a Christian community, and that is your identity,
and that is everyone you know, it is incredibly lonely to be like the only person in the universe
that has doubts. Yeah. And it really sucks. And like, one of the best things about getting online
when I was a kid was that I finally discovered there were other people like me out there. And
that was fucking huge. And so this, you know, this is this is just an unvarnished good in every
way. It's good for the person. It's good for society. I mean, this is it was doing God's work.
It's kind of funny coming on the tail end of us sort of, I felt a little bit bad
when we were talking, we weren't really talking shit on like the skeptic community. But I kind of
cringed a little bit after I said it's a stepping stone, because I don't want to I don't want to
say that the skeptic community or the atheist community is not as important as the rationalist
community or that they're like less enlightened or something like that. It's right. It is very
important we were talking about being able to falsify hypotheses. Like, a lot of the important
work that science has done is falsifying a lot of hypotheses. Even if like the answer ends up being,
I don't know, there's still a lot of things the answers, I don't know. And it's important to know
that to not just have a fake. Yeah, don't get me wrong. My, I think, I think skepticism does a
lot of the work for laying or at least for me did a lot of the work in laying the foundation for
me to be primed to be into rationality. And like my longest running monthly donation has been to
Skeptoid Media. We had Brian Dunning the host on twice. I think it's a fantastic endeavor. I have
nothing, like I said, nothing but good things to say about it. I mainly said it was it was a
rationality in easy mode, because I don't feel like there's a lot of positive work
like if you want to just be like in the loop on skepticism, like it's at least
maybe it was just really easy for me because there's you know, I was already super primed for it or
something. I but I could be completely untratable there. Like there's a lot of positive work that
they do as well. I mean, look at any big figures. I mean, Brian Dunning again, you know, he's without
fail, except I think he missed one Tuesday. In the last 13 or 14 years, he's put out a podcast
on random subjects that are lightning to random people are on on various things. And some of them
are for fun. Some of them are like super profound. But it's just about, hey, let's let's point our
Skeptical Eye at this at this little thing here. He also produces educational material for schools,
for teachers, movies. And that's just one guy. Like it's, it's, it's, yeah, don't if I if I was
heard earlier as dissing the skeptic community, I, I retract what I said and further issue that
clarification. Yeah, I love the skeptic community. It was really important for me, like especially
during the time period, when I got really into it, it was right after my two best friends died. And
I was like, working almost full time and also commuting to college and living at my parents'
house and pretty isolated. And it was just like, for a while, I just was really like only sort of
listening to skeptic podcasts, like watching Christopher Hitchens do debates on YouTube and
reading Richard Dawkins books. And it felt like, Oh, at least like, here's something that I can feel
pretty solid about in my life. Being able to like, I'm glad I found this one thing. Or like,
yeah, I don't know. We're going pretty late. Yeah, should we, can I do my one last thing?
No, please. Before we end up before we have updates out.
Go for it, man. All right. So this last thing is going to be sort of a follow up to last week.
I don't want to get into any of that conversation again, for the most part. But in the other podcast
that I'm on, The Mindkiller, we often talk about it's COVID-19 and how the CDC really fucked up
that result, or that whole thing. One of the things that I have come to learn over the past
several months is that, you know, how the lot of people specifically are president, but a lot of
people are saying, Well, you know, COVID is it's basically like just a bad flu season. It's like
two bad flu seasons, right? Because the CDC obviously like a flu season will kill 40 to 60
thousand people. So it's not that big a deal. And I mean, intuitively, that seems right ish,
if it is projected that COVID-19 would kill about twice as many people as a bad flu season.
That's not that big a deal. Like we have bad flu seasons all the time. Yeah, it sucks that people
die. But this is not a society shattering event. And it turns out that the CDC doesn't have exact
numbers on how many people die during the flu season. But it's almost certainly an order
magnitude less than what they're saying. What what the CDC does is like a lot of deaths of old
people and sick people that are possibly helped along by flu like symptoms, get attributed to
death from flu, specifically because if everybody got the flu shot every year,
that would really make a big deal for society. It would help with pretty much every metric.
Our GDP would go up because people would miss less work, people would be healthier in general,
there would be less deaths. And so they've been pushing for a long time, this many people die
every year from the flu, everybody get your flu shot. And like their intentions are good,
they are trying to save lives, they are trying to get people to get the flu vaccine, which everyone
should be doing anyway. But they use misinformation to make that point. And for decades, it didn't
matter that they used misinformation as long as it was pushing people to do the right thing.
But then a pandemic that is similar to COVID-19 appears, and all of a sudden people start using
their misleading numbers to say, look, it's not that much worse than the flu, and we get this
shit show. So that is one of the reasons I am so dedicated to epistemic rigor, because you don't know
when your little misrepresentations and bendings of the truth in order to get a really good result
is going to come around and bite you in the ass. And I just, I think it's important to
not be misleading even for a great cause, like preventing thousands of people per year of dying
of the flu. Or do you have a source for that you can share? You know, not offhand, but I will look
it up. Yeah, I must say, because the order of magnitude disparity between the reported number
to get people to go get flu shots, I mean, you know, the concept of like a noble lie
seems appropriate there. And if it gets the job done, it's hard to argue against it,
unless you're going to point out things like what just happened. And I think that's extremely
important. And I'm really surprised to hear that they might have been pushing false numbers.
I mean, I'm open to being proven wrong, but I'm sort of questioning how much of a lie
this was, if you're saying, for example, someone had like, yeah, a lot of elderly people or young
sick children that have a bunch of other maybe like, I mean, as oppressive disorders or whatever,
and then end up dying of flu, like symptoms are attributed to the flu. I mean, everybody dies
for multiple causes. So I wouldn't say that that's not a death that was caused by the flu. I mean,
maybe not that specific strain of the flu, but most people don't know all the science about the
different mutations and about herd immunity anyway. Yeah, I've heard, I've heard that argument against
like COVID deaths, too, like, oh, you know, that person also had some underlying lung condition.
And like, yeah, but COVID killed them. Right? Yeah, like they had an underlying, they had an
underlying lung condition, and they were living with it until they contracted COVID. And then
they got sick and died. I mean, so like, if I think we have to include all the deaths that come from
people who have this and die while they have it, right? It's not like, I don't know. I mean,
it's, yeah, I have another friend who died of cancer, but she actually died from an infection.
A lot of people who have cancer die of something else, because when you're treating cancer, you
have to wipe out their natural immune system with chemotherapy. And then they have to be in a sterile
environment and often something benign kills them. Same thing with people that are immunosuppressed
for other reasons, or already struggling with other conditions. If that flu risk hadn't been there,
because people had gotten the flu shot, then they might have survived.
Right. And that's the problem. Like the whole, they might have survived if they didn't get the
flu, but they don't really know for sure. And so they take the highest end number of that.
Like everyone who had the flu and died gets counted, even if the, you don't know how many of them
would have actually died. They aren't like direct flu deaths as unlike the COVID people,
which generally they would not have died if it was not for COVID.
I like want to talk about this more, but if coming right on the end of the episode,
maybe I'll record on a, yeah, we can table it for now. I also insisted that we record on a
weeknight so that I can get the stuff ahead of time for editing purposes and all this and that.
So we're all wipes from work stuff too. Are we good to call it here then?
