I mean, it would give a lot of people.
Yeah, I think things are ratcheting in that direction.
I think I don't know how much money there is in that, but, you know, there are like our
attempts at journals that, like, I will publish the results no matter my findings, and then
they'll accept the grant money, do the experiment, because there's also like publication
bias, we only publish positive results.
And at least, you know, there are, there are moves in the last decade or so to better
that situation.
Yeah, it became like it was the scientific community was well aware of the fact that it
had this issue.
And I'm really happy to have in my lifetime seen them taking a lot of really positive
strides towards dealing with it.
But the whole system had been stacked against actually figuring out the truth previously.
It was like, if you're in academia, then you have to publish.
If you're someone that has to publish, then you want to publish positive results because
you won't get published if it's something negative.
So you got to screw your data or find like a new thing that no one's ever done before,
which good luck with that.
All the low hanging fruit has been picked already.
Yeah, most of the easy to find answers have been found.
$20 bill on the street, et cetera.
I want to say that, like, it's no, it's nothing to be ashamed of to spend 30 years
working on something just to end up proving that this one potential avenue
turned out to be incorrect.
You've still, like you said, ratcheted science forward and improved knowledge.
And that is very much the way I felt about things up until maybe a year ago.
But now, you know, I also realize that there is time pressure to get this stuff done.
If we want to secure aging or whatever it is, our goal is before our death.
We kind of want to avoid wasting 30 years of anyone's life because there's a limited
amount of people that have the ability and the inclination to do this sort of thing.
And they have a limited amount of time to do it in.
So not wasting time as much as possible is a huge benefit.
God, there was some other Slayster Codex article and I can't remember the name of this one.
Maybe one of you will, or I'm sure one of our listeners will.
Where was it now?
And I'm like sort of doubting myself about whether this was Slayster Codex or
somewhere on the strong, but the sounds like a scat ism talking about how many
years go into the training of every scientist, how each field becomes more
and more and more and more specialized as we gain more knowledge.
And then the amount of time it takes you to absorb all the knowledge of all the
previous generations working on it, like, yeah, like you've only got however many
productive years, like if you're, you know, getting your doctorate by the time
you're in your forties or whatever.
Yeah, we we got to fix this aging thing, man, so we can keep doing more better stuff.
For real?
It's it's such a waste every time someone dies.
Yeah. Fuck death.
But exactly.
Anyways, we should continue on to failing to learn from history.
I was just going to say that that was the second post that we sort of already
summarized, but didn't really mention the name of it's basically just a
continuation of the previous post.
And like, honestly, I pulled so many quotes from here and it's such a short
post that I think I pulled like 40% of it.
But I guess I'll all right, I'll jump forward.
He says that my younger self did not realize that solving a mystery should
make it feel less confusing.
I was trying to explain the mysterious phenomenon, not render it into a mundane
phenomenon.
Yeah, I when I read that, I was reminded of my own idiot child self
reading a bunch of Madeline the Engel books, which by the way, Madeline
the Engel is a great writer.
But one of the things she did was trying to reconcile Einstein's theories
with religion and that was a trap for little me.
So I also I remember I was actually telling Phoenix about like, remember
when you had to like cover your textbooks, or like you'd have to pay the
damage, so I would cover all my textbooks with just brown paper bags
because my family was poor.
And then I would write all over them.
And I had all these like books that had equations trying to prove various
stupid things using Einstein's theories.
And I didn't even know any math like I knew, you know, up until like a
middle school age math and probably a little bit like advanced knowledge of
like physics and biology, but I was just making a bunch of shit up, throwing
numbers around.
And I was like, look, I've proved, I don't know, telekinesis.
I keep some reason defaulting to telekinesis because it's a funny word.
But I was like showing my other fellow classmates and they're like, wow,
you're smart.
I was just like, yeah, I'm genius now.
But yeah, they're like, I actually really like that line where if you notice
you're still confused about something like that, the idea of noticing your
confusion, I think is a huge important concept that the rationalist community
or Eleazar in particular has really sort of crystallized.
Yeah, I like the idea of, you know, making something mundane.
If it still feels mysterious, you haven't really answered it.
And like he points out that that is, that's a reason some people don't
think science can solve things because they're taught about, I don't have the
exact quote here, but as children, they're taught about stars and biology and how
the planets work, and it all just seems so mundane because you really have the
answers, right?
Like, oh, okay, it's gravity.
The things traveling circles because they're both towards each other.
All right.
And he like, he says, these were all incredibly mysterious, wondrous things.
And now they feel mundane, but nobody lived through that conversion.
So when they find new, mysterious, wondrous things, they don't think of the
correct way to get it into science is to make it feel that mundane way.
I think, go ahead.
I don't know, like, I think our generation, the one after as well, are just like, I
know I always feel incredibly lucky to have been born when I was because I got
to watch the birth of the internet, cell phones, microprocessors, like getting
more and more complex and just the birth of like, really simple AI to like GPT
three, like, oh my God, we got to do an episode on that at some point.
Yeah.
Oh, I have, hmm, I have a couple of people in mind who would be good hosts if
they'd be willing to record their voices.
Excellent.
Then let us reach out to one.
Yes.
Yeah, I think the, the mundanity of science or like the explanation of the
universe, you know, you flip on a light and you're not amazed that the room is
illuminated.
Like that all just comes from, it's not that the average person knows how that
works, you know, the average person knows that they're closing a circuit and that
makes electricity go or something, right?
And that's about all I know.
But like the, even, even though it's unknown to me, it doesn't seem like a
compelling mystery because I know in my head that it is understood and that
makes it like somehow less interesting.
It's, and I think this is a common thing for, you know, people who have no
interest in science at all.
And they, they just get the sense of blandness about it.
And that's why, like, I really like the poetic writings of science from like
Carl Sagan and Richard Dawkins, as well as, I don't know, I've plugged this book
before, but a short history of nearly everything.
I'm forgetting the author's name right now.
Bryson.
It's, it, yes, Bill Bryson.
Is that it?
Yep.
I also recommend that one.
And it really, it really digs into the history of us learning stuff as a
species.
And it gives you some scope of, like, I think it'd be, you know, a better
scope might be like a long history of chemistry or something.
If there's a book like that, that would do a better job of doing this feeling.
But this does it in a lighter dose of trying to imagine what it was like not
knowing this stuff.
It's like, like, you know, where the hell do mountains come from?
It's so entertaining to read.
It sounds like such a stupid question to ask.
And yet it's a, how that sort of, how that very mundane phenomena was
understood, took a long time.
Tectonic theory is, you know, was, was not popular when your parents were in
school.
Um, it's, I think I mentioned a few episodes ago, I think it was this podcast
that, you know, the extinction of the dinosaurs by meteorite wasn't accepted
until the late eighties.
Did I tell you guys, I probably said this on the podcast before, but, uh, I
found a, I found a book of my dad's that had these illustrations of dinosaurs
that just looked incredibly derpy.
Like they were like inflatable, uh, and it like just had this one chapter about
dinosaurs and said that they like lived however many years ago.
Um, they were giant reptiles.
They, they grew to enormous proportions due to like a brief abundance of resources
on the earth after the flourishing of plants or something like that.
But then they quickly grew too large to be able to sustain themselves and died
out.
And I remember being a child, I was a dinosaur nut.
When I was a kid, I was one of those kids that had like one of every dinosaur toy.
And I could like ramble all the facts about like, do you know about
parasora loaf of snow windows with horn in the back of its head?
It's for, it might actually just be like for a mate display, but it might
be for amplifying the sound of their calls.
I don't care kid, who are you?
Go away, but like I read that and I was just in tears.
Like I was rolling on the floor laughing.
I was like, I tried to explain my dad why that was funny.
He's just like, oh, whatever.
My dad, by the way, who like still doesn't believe in global warming or science
based medicine.
So.
Well, that sucks.
One of the best things about living in this time is that my dad can grumble
about science all he wants.
But like every few months, there's some other cool technology that can be like,
hey dad, hey dad, look, my phone can talk back to me now.
Like whatever.
Science still doesn't exist.
Ghosts in the phone.
Can I read like sort of a longer poll?
Please.
All right, good.
You can read us out read out the rest of the rest of your polls.
If you want it.
So he goes, I thought the list of history was that astrologists and alchemists
and vitalists had an innate character flaw, a tendency towards
mysterianism, which led them to come up with mysterious explanations for
non-mysterious subjects.
But surely if a phenomenon really was very weird, a weird explanation might be in order.
It was only afterward when I began to see the mundane structure inside the mystery
that I realized whose shoes I was standing in.
Only then did I realize how reasonable vitalism had seemed at the time, how
surprising and embarrassing had been the universe's reply of, life is mundane
and does not need a weird explanation.
We read history, but we don't live it.
We don't experience it.
If only I had personally postulated astrological mysteries and then discovered
Newtonian mechanics, postulated alchemical mysteries and then discovered chemistry,
