25 who didn't come and the 25 who did. And the 25 who came to the workshop, it's a one week workshop
that costs like $3,900 back in the day. I'm not sure what they cost now. Did I say it was a five day
workshop? That's what I meant to say. And the study showed that there's a statistically significant
decrease in what psychologists referred to as neuroticism in the attendees. And they were,
there was also a less significant but still market increase in self efficacy, or the belief
in one's ability to accomplish goals. And so like, because the study was done four years ago,
means that they can't do longitudinal 40 year studies on these participants,
and they only had 25. So like, if you're, if you're starting from the point of there's no
reason to believe this, a, a, a trial of 50 participants won't really change your mind,
right? Like what we need is a 2000 person study where, or a 4,000 person study where 2000 actually
go to see if our workshops get rationality training and we follow their career trajectories
over the next 30 years. And the other 2000 go to fake workshops, and they don't actually learn
anything. And then we see other studies or see other life trajectories turn out. And then maybe
another 2000 people who don't go to any workshops so that, you know, we can get a base rate. But
like, it's, there's also like the, the sampling bias, like the kind of people who are willing to
volunteer or willing to volunteer. Yeah, their time and money to go. Actually, you know what,
I think that randomized trial that CIFAR did, I'll link to the thing where I'm reading a snippet
about it. It's in a vice article. I think that that was actually a randomized trial where they
like messaged people again, how do you find 50 random people? Well, I can say to you guys once
to come to a, come to a workshop. I mean, I thought people asked me that at the train station.
Yeah, they have to be part of the same demographic too, in order for it to have any, I mean,
you could very easily, you know, take 25 people who applied to CIFAR themselves versus 25 people
who are going to community college, but they're going to be different people already. That's
right. And so, and so part of the issue there is that like, you're already selecting for people
who are willing to spend $4,000 on bettering themselves. And so people who are willing to
do that may or may not even like, yeah, and able to. And so those, those people may have
done better in any case. What I'm trying to see here is whether or not they actually didn't charge
these 25 participants who attended, but I'm not sure. But like, an allegory for that is like,
when I went and saw my most recent, well, I guess, yeah, my second therapist ever,
I made an appointment to see this guy and like, I don't know, it was right before the world ended,
so it would have been like January. A few days before my first appointment, he called and said,
hey, are you still planning on attending your, your scheduled appointment? And I was like,
yes, that's why I made it. And I thought about it for the couple of days until I got there and
I asked him, I was like, so I imagine actually you called because you get a lot of people who
don't show up. And he's like, yeah. And I was like, do you think that's because like, the impetus
that they've made to say, I'm going to actually make steps to better myself, like is kind of all
the nudge they needed. And he says, I think that's exactly it. I'm paraphrasing, but that's, that's
the short version. And so like, people who are already like invested enough to try to better
themselves will probably find some way to get there. So like, I guess I'm getting at is that
proving this to statistical satisfaction sounds really, really hard. If anyone has any ideas,
or $100,000 and wants to let me pay somebody to figure this out, that'd be great.
I have like two, two thoughts on this subject.
Sorry, I've been rambling. No, no, it's okay. Like, the one of them is that,
yeah, this sort of data is just really hard to get in part, like, you can never completely trust
self reporting. And it's more complicated by the fact that people who stay around in the community
are people who find value and are helped by this sort of thing. So the people that it doesn't work
for just aren't going to be around to answer the survey and nearly the same numbers. You really
need something like a natural experiment sort of randomization event. Like I not too long ago,
I remember reading about a study about if school discipline actually helps life outcomes. And
like, it's just really freaking hard to tell because where there's more school discipline,
it's also usually the case that more school discipline is needed because it's just
a rougher neighborhood with more chaos. And so there's all these other kind of founding factors.
And like one time in the early 2000s, a school district's got redrawn in the middle of the school
year. And without anybody like moving, all of a sudden just some people that were in one neighborhood
started going to a different school, which happened to be a lot stricter. And people just
across the street from them went to this other school that was much more lax and due to this,
like, fluke of redistricting that happened when it wasn't supposed to, they were able to follow
life outcomes for people over like 10 years to see what difference it made for people who
had been in the same school previously, and we're still living in the same neighborhood and all
that. And that kind of thing is like really rare and requires a pretty large population to occasionally
get those rare hits, which I don't think we're going to get anytime soon. But I also kind of think,
like in one way, this is besides the point, because a lot of this is people doing what
what helps them in life. But in another way, I've been saying this a lot, and it's just been
dominating more and more of my thoughts over the past few years, that again, it comes down to culture.
And I think this this first got kicked off to me when the Secret to our Success book came out,
and we started reviewing that. And I've been building moral on along those lines. But I think
culture is incredibly important to life outcomes. And culture takes a long time to propagate to
the point where it's noticeable, like when Christianity first came out in the in the Roman
Empire. It was not, I mean, there were first of all a whole lot of different flavors of it. But
it was not at all clear that this was a better way to live life and do things than the Romans
currently had going. And yet several hundred years later, it had spread to the point where it
basically took over the empire. And yes, there were other extenuating circumstances, but culture
takes a whole lot of people over many generations to the point where like, you don't know that
border culture being taken out of the border warfare zone and brought into the American
colonial zone is going to result in the terrible culture of crime and honor several hundred years
down the line, whereas Puritan culture actually ends up with a relatively stable prosperous culture.
And I think like, in the end, that's what is is it's going to happen. Several generations from now
100 200 years, people will be like, huh, that rationality culture thing actually worked out
pretty darn well. Look at how good they're doing overall, how low their crime rates are and how
they tend to be tend to be satisfied with their lives. And it, it would work the same way as
Christianity, where just people in neighboring areas being like, those people apparently got
something going for them, let's let's convert over to their way of doing things, because it seems to
be working. And that's, that's kind of squishy. And there's no numbers and that sucks. But I don't
know how else culture can propagate. We don't have the benefit that previous cultures had of being
able to colonialize, colonize Christianity, took over the world, like by literally sending people
and ships and forcibly conquering peoples and forcibly converting them. There's other religions
that just really, I mean, you know, any ash, really aggressively proselytize. We don't do
either of those things. We sort of anti do that thing. We send really strong signals. We have
our ridiculous jargon. I was scared to join the community for a while, because I was like,
everyone's going to think I'm an idiot, and I don't belong here. And they're all going to be
so much smarter than me. And I think a lot of people had that sort of had or have that kind of
mindset. Even people in the community are still afraid of other people in the community who are
like more elite. Maybe we should have some kind of outreach. I mean, I was going to say, you did a
good job proselytizing a minute ago, Inya. I sure welcome to leave that. Have you heard of our lord
and savior, Thomas Bayes? Yeah. But like, yeah, I mean, it's, I want to make sure that I address
Matt's point and to be completely clear, like if I did a, if you feel like I'm dodging any points
you made, I'll, you know, write you back and we'll, we'll try and hit it better. And actually cover
what you're trying to say. But like, it seemed like in your initial email, you drew like a distinction
between like persistence and like, yeah, rationalism or persistence. And I don't think those are oars.
Persistence. I think that, yeah, so like he had said, consider what would work better in a random
world, rationalism or persistence. And so, I think, right. And I think that like, it definitely
takes both. And like, you can be persistent and you can persistently chase your stupid idea.
Like, what was Eliza's in the post you covered something about gravity influences neurons,
right? Exactly. So I mean, you could dumbly persist that, or, you know, you can dumbly and
persistently chase that for 30 years and be wrong. Or you can smartly chase that down for as long as
it takes to realize, Oh, this is a dumb question. Or like a dumb hypothesis, I'm not going to waste
the 30 years. Like, I guess, do we have anything to say about like, how one exercises rationality
in a random, in a world with admitted randomness and luck? Like, you know, I, and Matt pointed
that too, I credited in my joining the community and even hearing about it from being at a stoplight,
and hearing Julia Galef, also one of the founders and former president of the Center for Applied
Rationality, point out, or pick, what was it Harry Potter and Mother of Rationality as her
rationally speaking pick for that week. And like, I could so easily have not been on a stoplight and
just like miss the memo on that. You know, if I didn't pause when I got out of the car and played
through that episode or something, then like, who knows, right? I might not, I might never have
gotten here. So like, there's a level of, there's a huge level of luck involved in things. But I
think that's, that's going to be true, whether you're a rationalist or not. So then I guess the
question is, how do you account for the role of luck? My own intuition, as I'm saying that is
like, you try to constrain luck as much as possible. Like, you try to continually pursue sources
that have been fruitful in the past until they no longer bear fruit. Or, you know, like, if I
happened to hear about this one cool thing, because I was in a conversation with this person, well,
maybe I'll try to have more conversations with that person to hear about more cool things, right?
I wanted to say, I couldn't escape rationality. It's probably just due to, you know,
identify as an optimizer. I think a lot of people in this community can relate to that. But, you
know, as a kid, I was like, really serious about my beliefs or about what things I wanted. And I
find that some people aren't very serious about that. Like, there's so many people that believe in
ghosts because they think it's cool that ghosts exist. And they'll misidentify, like, a shadow,
or, oh, I felt a weird chill. And then this other coincidental thing happened. It's a ghost. And
that's cool and satisfying for them. For me, I was like, if there's a ghost, I'm going to go find
them. I'm going to get all the books, you know, like, I'll buy a multimeter. I don't know. No,
I didn't go that far. But that's because you concluded before that that ghosts weren't real.
Like, I was rationality adjacent before. I think what I was getting at as far as the luck
factor is that I might never have heard about the specific community. I think, you know, this was
what, 10 years ago? So like, Slate Star Codex would have come across my plate at some point,
I imagine, because I was already, like, in the, like, skeptic community, which is, I think,
maybe broader, but to me, like, way easier and less interesting. Still super, super valuable.
Don't get me wrong. It's just like, yeah, like, so if rationality is about helping you achieve
your goals, I would like, if that's the one, like, you know, bumper sticker for it, I would say
skepticism is about, like, maybe protecting your money against hucksters, or, like, yeah, consumer
protection, maybe is the best quick sell for it. Like, how to keep, you know, you how to keep
yourself safe from from people trying to separate you from your money for bad reasons.
And also just like consumer protection for most basic bullshit beliefs.
Yeah, epistemic protection, or something like that.
Right. And exactly. Yeah, that's, that would be my selling point. I think if I was,
if I was going to proselytize it with a bumper sticker, I would, I would use it or like on the,
you know, quote on the front of my book, I would say how to keep people from taking your money or
something, because that would be like a very sellable message. And is the only way you can do
that is by having a base, you know, the basic framework of the understanding of the world that
comes from the past few centuries of science that is ingrained in the skeptic community,
or in the skeptic mindset, you know, if you need a basic understanding of medicine and physics,
just so like you can avoid every bullshit treatment that everyone's trying to throw at you.
Just be a materialist, even if you don't dig real deep into physics or medicine, but you
know kind of, I think they even like somebody who was really busy or doesn't like have the,
you know, drive to study all this stuff, can also learn enough about materialism that they can
Oh yeah, I meant it like at the very rudimentary level. Like I was a friend who was messaging me
the other day because he's trying to figure out how to talk with his anti-facts friend. And
you know, his, I'll paraphrase and just say like, you know, it's okay to like just point to the
established authority of medical science. And it's, it's when you get so it's like, if you,
as, as a consumer are coming across something and it's perfectly consistent with your
understanding of medical science, then you don't, I don't really feel like I'm compelled to do a lot
of research to figure out if that works. Like if someone says, Hey, I like, I never heard of aspirin
and they're like, Hey, here's some aspirin, it'll help your headache because it's an anti-inflammatory.
I'd be like, Oh, great. If they said, Hey, here's some aspirin, it'll make your dick bigger.
Like I would, I would be surprised and I would investigate, right? Especially before I gave
them $200 for a pill. But I'd also say, Oh, great. Well, I would say no, thank you. Which might help.
Right. It's too easy not to make dick jokes. But that was, that was the conversation I was having
with my friend a couple of days ago. I didn't mean to cut anyone off. I just, it put me in
mind of that. That actually just put me off guard enough that I forgot what I was going to say.
That's hilarious though. Yay, I did it. Sorry.
Gosh, what was I going to say? I don't know. I do have. Yeah. Actually, I was just going to say,
like, I feel like we've kind of, we can talk about this as much as we want. We don't have numbers,
which like, is unfortunate. But I do think that we, what do we have?
No, sorry. Go on.
Well, yeah, we have basically the anecdotes of like everybody that I've met in the community,
at least saying that they feel that their quality of life was improved by being here.
And whether or not that's because they, I know, like you could track on people's careers. I think
Stephen or Annie, I just want to, you mentioned longitudinal studies that track people's careers,
how much money they've made. Like, but maybe someone's life goal is to be a housewife,
or like they just get a lot of fulfillment out of that or to volunteer. Or to, I know a guy who's
in the nationalist community who is a nomad, and he just like does odd jobs and makes enough money
to get by, but otherwise just travels and advises people. And he's this awesome, like, monk person.
And I think he's just living his best life. But um,
I mean, and if success is money, I mean, like my, what annual take home income has like tripled
since I got into the community. Granted, that's because I was delivering pizzas part-time when
I first heard about it. But when I decided to like, actually, you know, we, you know,
I talked a little bit about like, some of our random rationality techniques and one of my
main ones that was poorly articulated was like kind of just do the thing or at least
figure out how hard the thing is to do if you want to try something. So when I finally took
that advice to heart and got into and changed fields, I doubled my income. I did the opposite
though. I like was in a high paying career and I left it because I realized it wasn't fulfilling,
like, uh, the whole kind of learning what your values are thing. I'm still not making it.
Don't give it wrong. I'm also, I'm also happier in this field. But like that, that just illustrates
the point that like some people have different goals. And so like the goal isn't necessarily to
make seven figures. The goal might be to like, I want to be happier. I want to forge better
relationships. I want to, uh, commit to an exercise regimen or something, right? I don't mean to cut
you off. I'm enthusiastic. No, I, yeah, I'm totally like with you on that. That's sort of what I was
about to say where I was working for Disney as a video game designer for a while and I was miserable.
I was making great money, uh, working 11 hour days, sitting in front of a computer all day,
not interacting with anyone. And the career changes I made after that were things that
actually pushed me out of my comfort zone. Uh, they were all directed at just self-improvement
and exploration and curiosity generally, like working at the library taught me how to do social
