postulated vitalistic mysteries, and then discovered biology.
I would have thought of my mysterious answer and said to myself, no way.
Am I falling for that again?
Goodful.
That is, it's also worth disappointing everybody that, like he has that fine
tendency towards mysterianism with a lower case M that is in some small circles, a capital M.
I know that one of my first introductions to philosophy was a course of lectures by Colin McGinn.
And that's his like explanation for consciousness that it's so complicated that
there's no reason to assume that our weak monkey brains will ever understand it.
Oh dude, there's a lot of people like that around.
I run into them.
Yeah.
Fair bit.
Oh, I know, but he calls it mysterianism with a capital M.
Oh, oh, okay.
Interesting.
Yeah, like he just, he wholeheartedly embraces the mysterious answer.
I mean, it's, it's not a mysterious answer as in like, well, it's magic.
But it's a pointless answer and as in, well, it's impossible for us to get it.
But it's, it's like he doesn't understand that people thought that about all kinds of things.
And now we get them, right?
Did somebody say that about like, what was it?
You're thinking of life and, you know, being able to move your hand and stuff.
What was his name?
Kelvin.
Yeah, I'm thinking of probably Lord Kelvin, who just really liked to jerk off to how
fucking mysterious everything was.
Hey, man, that's everybody.
Mom was to everybody.
Yeah, no, I like, I don't know.
I think the thing that makes rationalist weird is, or I don't know.
I think when I was a kid, like in the single digits, I really liked the X-Files
because of the whole like, I want to believe in the mysteriousness of mysteries everywhere,
you know?
Oh, I was super into paranormal shit too, but like, I like bought all these books
and then I needed to find out if it was really true.
I mean, I did the same thing with religion.
And there was your downfall.
Yeah, but I mean, like, it was just, if something's like, everybody's talking
up how mysterious it is and how no one can know.
And I'm just like, but what do we know?
And then I better weigh all the evidence.
Yeah, that's probably why rationalists are weird.
You were too inclined to question things too early.
Well, I wanted to believe in all this stuff.
And now-
Yeah, your mistake was looking into it, right?
Assuming that what you wanted was to actually believe this, what it seems like
your brain ended up really wanting was to understand what was going on.
Yeah, so I could manipulate it.
Like if psychic powers existed, then like, why the fuck didn't I have them yet?
And how do I initiate that?
You know, if there's ghosts, then I need to find out where to find them and
how I can like harness their powers to have a ghost ray or something.
I think most people just aren't ambitious enough.
I agree.
Well, this actually ties us in neatly to what I wanted to talk about.
And this is to get around to occasional back and forth with a chain of emails I've had with,
or I think I've been answering all of them, but he's been emailing the
Bayesian Conspiracy account.
But that has been emailing-
What is the email address there?
Oh, the Bayesian, wait, what is the email address?
Bayesian Conspiracy podcast at gmail.com.
Excellent.
If you want a quick reply from anyone, that's not the best way to get a hold of us.
The best way to get a hold of us is probably to join our discord and ping us.
Or maybe ping us on Reddit, but all the emails are read and eventually responded to.
Even if it takes us two years to get around to doing your episode.
Yeah.
So anyway, I think we touched on it probably in some episodes here and there,
but I wanted to just dedicate some actual time to answering this because I felt like
it was a worthwhile topic.
Like the emails are too long to easily summarize.
So if I don't think I'm doing a misjustice to say that the thrust of it is,
it doesn't seem like there's empirical evidence to substantiate the claim that
being a proficient rationalist will equate with you winning quote unquote.
Like it seems like, you know, we aren't the apex of industry across the planet.
We aren't running nations.
We aren't all billionaires.
So like, why are we failing if we all think we understand stuff?
Part of the possible explanation that Matt throws out is that,
or rather that Matt delivers, he doesn't throw this out.
He suggests that the world might just be too random to incorporate into a model that works,
that you can whatever make predictions and manipulate.
Like if the world is just too unpredictable, you can't predict that.
So I mean, we could take it piece by piece, but part of my answer to that is that,
that is not a fact that's not known.
So, well, I don't know.
I'll throw out that and let you guys respond before that there is randomness and blank spots on our map.
Some things are unpredictable.
No one would have predicted three years ago that the stock market would have taken a huge dump
in April of 2020, right?
No one in 2017 was accounting for some global pandemic that would hit the economy in such a way
the first quarter of the 2020, right?
Well, I don't know.
Actually, can I stop you?
Yeah, three years ago, absolutely.
But for many years now, people have been saying,
it's only a matter of time before some sort of pandemic hits.
And specifically, the rationalist community was really good about being ahead of the ball
on the COVID thing and saying, hey, this COVID thing looks like it might be a serious issue
to the point where I know several rationalists actually started selling stock before it tanked,
including Eliezer, because it just looked like the market with this actually was a big thing.
The market should be a lot lower than it is, and they think it is going to be a big thing.
So let's get out ahead of this.
And we talked last episode about how The New York Times is doxing Scott Alexander.
The specific reason that the journalist was researching the rationalist community and Scott
Alexander is because the rationalist community was so good about the COVID thing as compared
to the rest of the population.
That was going to be a major focus of the article.
And so I think they actually have had, at least in the recent past, quite a bit of success.
Yeah. So I was putting out an example of the kind of thing I thought that Matt might be talking
about. Another example he uses was you might be able to find an internet group of dumb gamblers
that stumbled backwards into Bitcoin, but they aren't rationalists in the least.
Like they've got lucky.
But then that raises the question of why aren't there a lot of rationalist billionaires who
made a bunch of money on Bitcoin?
But I'm not sure if this came out after 2018 or not, but rationalists did do surprisingly well
in the Bitcoin market. That's surprisingly well.
I know. So I think this might have been in response to that SSC post about how well we did.
Or maybe this was right before that and it was perfectly timely.
Actually, there was an SSC post about why we didn't do better at communicating.
There was a Quern post from right before Bitcoin took off or was it Quern?
Somebody who's real mathy was like, hey guys, look at this Bitcoin thing.
This looks like it could be huge for all these reasons.
You should buy some stocks.
And I think a few people did, but word didn't get out to the general community.
And I think that post was Scott sort of saying like, why not?
If it could have all been billionaires instead of just the people that put a lot of funding
into Merian Seafar.
I know a lot of those organizations did get a big boost of money from
the people who made a lot of money in Bitcoin.
I met a couple people who made a lot of money in Bitcoin.
At one of the solstice events I went to and they were kind of talking about like,
yeah, so now I don't have to work for the rest of my life.
And I'm trying to figure out what to do with all this money.
And I'm just like, I wish I had your problems.
I'm so happy.
I mean, you know, it's possible to be like so happy for somebody and so jealous of them, right?
No, I was like, that's like an awesome.
I believe the post that you linked about basketballism does say that 3% of less wrong users
made over $100,000 on Bitcoin.
And that is a far, far greater percentage than the general population.
Yeah.
And so like, maybe I'll jump to one of his more recent emails just because this one, like,
well, there's one other thing in it.
I don't like, part of it is I'm just picking it apart and like nailing down the exam or like
ripping apart the examples.
That's not quite what I want to do.
I want to hit the broader subject of like,
why aren't rationalists winning?
Or if they are, why is it not obvious?
But like another example was, you know,
if I'm trying to paraphrase an email,
like you go to a job interview and, you know, rationally calculate a resume and interview
and your interview answers perfectly.
Unfortunately, some other guy for the job wasn't the same fraternity as the interviewer
and maybe just subconscious or maybe they just didn't like your haircut or something.
Rationality can't fix that.
So asserts Matt in 2018.
I sort of disagree.
Like if your goal is to get this job or if your goal is to get a specific job or something
like networking is a big part of that.
That's not a lost fact on the rest of us.
Like if you're taught, you know, if your frat bros are taught to network,
it's it's not a skill that is ignored in the community.
So like, I'll put it to you guys broadly.
Why aren't rationalists ruling the world?
Or is that like the wrong question to ask?
I think it's sort of in the middle there.
I do wonder or like I am a bit frustrated that we are not more accelerated than we currently are.
I do think that some of that has to do with the fact that like the communication thing
with Bitcoin, we are still small or still disparate.
I know that there's people gathering on in SF Bay.
But unfortunately, that was kind of due to founder effects and the fact that the tech
industry is there, but it's just like a suboptimal place to live.
No offense to my friends in the Bay.
I think they'll all agree actually.
But I don't know, like you still kind of have to almost be initiated into a secret society
to be part of the rationality community.
Like you have to find the right posts or you have to have the right friend.
Yeah, I want to go ahead.
I want to say part of it is that it is a very small movement still in terms of just
total numbers in America.
But and on top of that, it's a very young movement still.
I think most rationalists are in their 20s or 30s.
And a lot of this is like the question is why haven't they taken over the world?
Rationalism is a lot of it is about being able to meet your goals.
And not a lot of people have take over the world as one of their goals.
I mean, I wouldn't mind ruling the world, but it's not something I'm pursuing.
And I am unfortunately getting to an older age right now, which I am being reminded more and
more of every day.
But the fact is like I make only a little bit more than the national median.
And I am very content with my life.
I have more money than I know what to do with to the point where I'm probably going to retire
next year and just live off and just live off what I got and do what I want with my life.
And in the metrics that looks like Guy in his late 30s or early 40s now has almost no income
sucks to be him.
But on the other hand, I'm living my optimal life.
