to localize that to to just a limited area. And how is this all relevant for maybe yeah.
Sorry, I have a question about the likelihood of the survival of the population associated with
the firing frequency. Is this like neuron also grown on the electrodes, on the Maxwell plates,
or on a normal dish? Exactly, it's exactly that same system that they're using. Okay, thank you.
Yeah, and yeah, then finally, the relevance for morphogenetic self-organization. I'm not an expert
in this and yet I feel like there's something to be said about this. So yeah, first of all,
also mainly through like a majorly through through Mike's work as well. It really has become clear
that electric gradients do guide pattern formation. If you look at plenarians and all these other
examples that you are pretty familiar with, they do guide the morphogenetic growth of various beings.
And also, what are some other like relevant examples? So the bidirectional synchrony could be
relevant for, as an example, the successful balancing of wind and the bone morphogenetic protein
during neural relation in order to close the neural tube successfully. If that is
disrupted in some kind of way, as we see it on the right hand side, the neural tube doesn't close
properly. And on the very right, you see just the example of the clock and wavefront model
of somitogenesis, which is really crucial also during embryogenesis to have proper segmentation
of the somites, where we have also a slow signal and a fast signal basically interacting
to yield morphogenetic outcomes. And that brings us now finally to the open questions and like
challenges and all this like to what extent do we find like similar mechanisms like basically
a one source sending out a slower and a faster signal simultaneously that interact with other
sources like around of them, which rely on the same kind of mechanisms to potentially terminate
morphogenetic growth, for example, or are in other ways relevant for developmental biology?
How can we transcend that to non neural cells that be really curious also to hear your group's
inputs there on this? And then another challenge is like the inhomogeneity of neurons that I
kind of alluded to earlier bit before. So what role does this like inhomogeneism,
morphology of neurons play in signal transmission? They here showed like in this paper by Ram
Anadel, which have this little illustration there, that in particular the apical dendrites were
polarized more than than the soma, which is something that you know, if we don't treat
like the in the writing work, the embryogenesis paper there, if we don't treat neurons just as
like point like, yeah, bodies, but actually take into account their complex extension and
aberration. That could significantly kind of like alter our outcomes and that is really something
to be taken into account, something to think about and discuss, I think. And then also the
simulation regime, like what would be kind of the optimal simulation regime that we could apply to
induce these like lasting network changes, and also how to avoid excitotoxicity. Yeah, these are
just like practical questions how to go about the experimental implementation of this. So as a summary,
we started out with the connectionist models, which neglect this like spatial temporal dimension,
and which actual neural networks and core information. We looked at if-aptic coupling and
the very subtle role that it plays, which really seems to be under-investigated, in my opinion,
and was even more so, and investing it as the interaction between synaptic and if-aptic
signals, which should bias according to our predictions then neuroplasticity towards
these hexagonal patterns. And yeah, maybe these, hopefully this proposed in-vitro experiment could
also be relevant in like shining some light on, yeah, sufficiently similar processes. Yeah,
where signal synergy is basically relevant, coinciding signals are relevant for more for
genesis. So, so references, and I first want to thank to my collaborators, Katharine Herez,
Franz, and also Ernst Koster, with whom we kind of like worked on these ideas together.
And yeah, thank you a lot for your attention.
