We have arrived at episode five in the series with my friend and colleague Daniel Schmockenberger called Bend Not Break.
In this final episode of the series we do an overview of short term, intermediate term, long term and
Culture, Political Economy, Infrastructure, a 3x3 grid and how do we think about responding to the upcoming
metacrisis, to the upcoming great simplification?
At the end Daniel and I invite
viewers to put
questions in the comment section on YouTube for what we might do a follow-up episode on.
This was quite a journey. We
Wended our way through the fifth episode and I hope you enjoy it. Without any further ado, here is Daniel.
Greetings my friend.
Good to see you my friend. Happy to be back. You too. You look especially wise today.
Yeah, that happens when I don't trim the beard for a while. It's a nice effect. You had some wisdom
30 years ago or whenever that was you chose to move from Iowa to San Diego.
It's gonna be zero Fahrenheit here tomorrow night. It's freaking ridiculous man.
I don't know why I've chosen to live here because you can't exercise.
You're like, yeah, I'm gonna go for a snowshoe and you go outside and I know I'm gonna go watch a podcast.
So I am it's very cool. I might say this is the grass is always greener thing, but I miss it. I
Actually love snow. I love
particularly my body is happiest in the mountains and the snow and
the
Feeling of the cold air and the lungs and everything. Yeah, I love it. So I hope you enjoy it some in between the yeah
I do enjoy it some but my body is happiest in like 60 degree misty old-growth redwoods
Your round I would take it. All right, you're obviously there and investing in a long-term climate change resilience strategy. Oh
Yeah, well that would be a full episode on itself
the the the medium-term models show this Minnesota, Wisconsin area that I'm I live in not too bad, but
You know that that's a huge huge topic
So my friend we have arrived at
What I expect will be the conclusion of our series that we initially titled Bend versus break
based on the logic that
We have unpacked these last four episodes
Between humans how we use energy materials and monetary markers to create technology
and
There is an embedded exponential growth in our current system combining these things
That is heading us towards an inflection point
The inflection point is if we are able to continue to grow that has a bigger environmental impacts more material energy use
CO2 and other things if we're not able to continue to grow
There is a wily coyote
biophysical moment that we have to prepare for and
your work with
Consilience project and my work with the great simplification and the Institute for the Study of Energy in our future are
to
Change the initial conditions of these future moments
And kind of meet the future halfway
So that we bend the civilization trajectory instead of break and break would be bad
So I think we've
you know done a horizontal and vertical
treatment of the risks and the
the drivers and the generator functions of
humans for thousands of years arriving at this point at the end of the last episode
You preferred a three by three grid on how we could think about
Responses interventions mitigations what to do and it was superstructure social structure
infrastructure and
triage
transition and long-term and this podcast we're gonna we're gonna unpack that first of all if I say
Superstructure social structure infrastructure. We're gonna have the word structure and like 270 sentences
Is there a shorthand for those three that we could use?
Yeah, so those terms come originally as far as I know from Marvin Harris's work and
the
what's called cultural materialism and
But that draws from previous work of Marx and other people
Superstructure basically means culture means the
coordinating values the identity the
Aesthetics ethics axiology that a civilization is oriented towards so we'll just say culture. It's simplifying but we get it just
social structure basically means the
codified processes by which
Agreement across the population occurs. So this is both. This is a political economy
Basically go to the intersection of economics governance and the institutions that mediated
judicial system law
The scientific institutions that are needed, etc. So we'll just call that political economy and then infrastructure means the
totality of the physical technical stack
that the civilization uses to support itself and meet all of its physical needs that's
Energy transportation
Manufacturing materials waste management blah blah blah all those things
Food water. So we'll call that tech
So by tech here, we don't mean software or social media
We mean the totality of the human technology and sometimes we use the term infrastructure because it's common
but if we just say technology
Political economy and culture that roughly maps to this thing now
We already did this thing in episode two or four or whatever it was so people can have that reference and
Yeah, I'm very happy to have arrived at the
Point in the podcast that many people have been looking for where they're asking
So what are solutions?
And we will get to share some things that are hopefully inspiring while simultaneously
Probably disappointing people that we're not going to offer something that looks like one easily tractable simple thing that they can
Go do something about that solves everything
Something I wanted to say is just in recap
This episode will really be much more useful people have watched the previous four if you've got the time to watch this one
And you haven't watched the previous ones. I would encourage that number one
we largely unpack a
core of Nate's work regarding the relationship between energy the environment the materials economy and finance and
Really a fundamentally critical thing to understand what break will mean and what bin requires
Bin not break is obviously a term you have used for a long time and then we're kind of going back and forth on models here
number two and number four are unpacking
Additional frames for what we call the metacrisis and we had a little break with number three where unintentionally we ended up talking about
Psychologically, how do we hold being aware of the intersection of all the possible catastrophic risks and having any sense of human agency and
So there's like a psychological interlude number three and
So given that we have framed the problem set in a particular way
We'll be talking about solutions in light of that or if someone doesn't have that framing some of what we're talking about
We'll seem like it doesn't make that much sense. I'm just offering that as preface for everybody
Excellent and
Those will make available and I'd like to have Lizzie
The podcast curator maybe do a summary of all five of these in one place
So at the risk of delaying the punchline even further, I do have a couple other things to add
When we talk about this three by three grid culture political economy
tech stack and then
Short-term intermediate term long-term
It also is relevant
two other frames number one
What do people care about? There may be people listening who just want to protect themselves and their family to what's coming
There may be other people that deeply care about dolphins and cetaceans and other species
There may be people listening that work for governments or
institutions
And I think what someone cares about is relevant to
What we should do?
number one number two is there's the the scale of
World government national government local regional
Community neighborhood individual family and I think the what to do in your three by three grid
Will be different for those different scales. So I don't know how we want to treat that in this conversation
Yeah, I mean all there's a lot of things that need done, right? There's a lot of things that are not
in eminent catastrophic risk, but that are maintaining the
not the quality of life for existing life and also maintaining
Things that would become a catastrophic risk to at least that local area if they weren't attended we want
the nurses and the people that work at the animal shelter and the police officers and the firefighters and the educators to
Actually become increasingly passionate about what they do
Even though what they're doing isn't at the scale of how does it solve all of climate change or AI risk or nuclear risk?
The idea that people would in the face of those things become less passionate about the thing
they're doing would just start the cascade of everything getting worse faster and
so
if
What you have in the scope of agency that you can do something about is not the totality of the metacrisis
But it is something real your connection to something real and paying attention to and focusing on the part
You can do something about
Recognizing that the metacrisis is caused by the activity of all all people cumulatively
It also has to be addressed by the activity of lots of people
Yeah, that's very important. I want to make sure that we say and we mentioned this in number three that we want
These conversations to help contextualize where you are in the world help you think about how to do a more effective job
Even at a local scale or even in a narrow vertical
But ultimately to enhance your sense of the meaningfulness of everybody's actions rather than otherwise
The brief aside from what you just said
You mentioned people working at animal shelters every week my girlfriend and I buy five powerball tickets and we've agreed if we win
We're giving all the 10% of the money to
Animal shelters to protect dogs, especially
That are also going to go through the great simplification. You know, there's
100 million dogs, etc
in this country, so
That's something I think about a lot
But that's just a tiny tiny thing out of everything that we're going to discuss
So so let's get into it. So we we know the problem set roughly
And the problem set is huge and it goes beyond what we've discussed
We didn't talk much about climate or insect loss or some of these things
We know the problem set. We've got the framing short-term long-term
intermediate term and the and the different
lenses so
Before we get into that, how does one even begin to think about what to do like what would be the intellectual
Structure for how to think about this and what not to think about maybe
Um, there's a few things I want to share that
might seem like non sequiturs, but I think they're valuable frames
One is um
I remember a long time ago reading
books on leadership and psychology and business and
um
Then looking at the psychology of typology whether you're looking at Myers-Briggs or other systems of typology
And it was clear how
Someone had succeeded in a particular business with a particular typology and then said these are the principles of success
That would totally not apply to someone of a different type in maybe a different sector
So like Warren Buffett would not do a good job at Steve Jobs's job or vice versa
And so if Steve read Warren Buffett or Rockefeller's principles on how to be effective
They just he'd just be like I have to give up like I have no chance. I'm not an accountant mindset. I'm and so
what I'm going to share
The immediate application of that is we have tens of thousands of people listening to this that are going to have wildly different
temperaments and value systems and
at skill sets everything else
So pay attention to of all the things you hear anywhere the ones that feel
Like they make sense to you and actually empower you and pay more attention to those because
You know, I might share principles that have been useful to me
That might not be that useful to you. You have different dharma different passions different typology different mind
Things Nate finds useful. So take these as hopeful offerings
But ultimately if they don't feel empowering then leave them and find other things
Hopefully though we can share some things that can be adapted to any typology that are general principles
That's one thing I wanted to say preface
The next thing I wanted to say actually goes back to animal shelters
um
I I grew up
Spending a lot of time working and volunteering in animal shelters and then animal rescues whether there was animals that come from
circuses, you know various places um and
in
Homeless shelters and just you know, the I had parents that were into activism and and taking us to be socially engaged and
And so I grew up like just not being able to walk by a dog
That was in bad shape or a cat that was in bad shape or a person on the sidewalk
It was in bad shape and like feel like it was okay to walk by and
It was actually that work that got me into the macro systemic work
Because working in the shelter and seeing how many of the dogs are being put down while people are still buying new
bread puppies and like then
feeling the
Great success of working my ass off to get a couple dogs adopted
But then seeing the scale of it right and then seeing that's just dogs, right?
That's not cows in factory farms
I started thinking at scale but motivated by the high touch this dog, right this cow
There's a lot of people who think about existential risk like the ea community or rationalist community
They think about existential risk in a very abstract way not having actually touched
