Or do you want to break the triage down between culture political economy and tech stack?
Yeah, yeah, so I'll give a transition example
so
having something like
a state department
Or and I'm giving one example. There's obviously groups other than the state department that would also care
But in the same way that I said
earlier about
Who are you politically polarizing against you and how could you get them on your side rather than not? How do you get?
Groups that don't currently care to care either that are larger or with a cumulative effect of how they care stacks functions enough, right? That's just
straightforward principle of kind of political thinking
Um, this is not changing the overall economic incentives in those countries or the mindsets of the people or anything
So it's not a systemic effect this way called triage. So transitional would be
working with
those in the institutions of those countries, right their
uh department of the interior or its equivalent their
Academy their academies and universities that are focused on these things their
Government security bodies their financial bodies. How could we make those smarter?
How could we make the logics of them better so they do a better job with these types of things?
so
An example there could be something like
Uh, I learned this kind of thinking from a guy named nelson del rio
prosperity of the commons really smart lawyer who
Did a lot of the work on making the public private partnership
and then
Legal structure and then saw how that got weaponized and made a different structure
But let's say
Let's say that we focused on Ecuador
Because it's the headwaters of the amazon. So even though it's not the most total square meters. It's the most critical square meters
uh, because you messed the headwaters up obviously the entire basin gets messed up and
We see that
And I might have some of my stats wrongs. I looked at this a couple years ago
But so I'm just using this as a random example, but
Ecuador owed a lot of money to
both the world bank and
Chinese bank and
Some of that debt is collateralized with resource access
And was not in the position to be able to pay that debt off well. So what happens, right? Does that threaten?
Uh resource acquisition near the head order of the amazon that could mess up the amazon basin
If you start thinking about
the relationship between the state department that might want to prevent the
Hydrological pump breaking for food security and the world bank obviously
Uh, the u.s and the world bank are very related institutions, right?
And so could the state department get the world bank to
Change its debt structure debt forgiveness or things like that. Yeah, totally could
Could the world bank work with the chinese bank to get it to do it as well based on if it was motivated enough
International financial agreements. Yeah, it probably could do that as well
If somebody could negotiate
How to set that whole thing up of the state department support with
The forgiveness of the debt, which is like 32 billion
dollars like a lot of debt and then that would mean a lot to the government of ecuador
And it might not be know how to do that on their own
Now the country needs an economic development plan that doesn't involve running its rainforest assets
So they probably need to an education process to do a lot more skilled labor
And they probably need tech
So let's say we somebody put together an economic development plan that involved bringing more tech
Jobs and tech capacity to the area and more education for more skilled labor
So that you could still have economic development without as much environmental exploitation
And let's say that to the degree there were some
resources that needed to
Be extracted or exploited we
Helped to make have that country develop its own national capability
To do its mining or extraction that employed people there as opposed to say a chinese contractor that was employing chinese people to do it or
And that because of that had much stricter environmental regulation did a better version of it and private and held more of the wealth for ecuador rather than
More of it going to a multinational
But they can't do that because they don't have that capacity on their own economically or whatever
But they could be supported to so again, I'm saying if there is some group that is really caring about the amazon
They want to do a transitional thing could someone say all right. Here's a
10 20 30 year economic development plan
That involves some of those resources being extracted in a viable way that doesn't ruin the
Environment and provide jobs or whatever but also provides a lot of economic development not in the resource extraction category
And get you both a lot less environmental harm per extraction and more of the money from that extraction
And
We will help set that up and open the capital markets help negotiate the capital markets being able to
Fund this thing and you'll bond back it so we can make sure that the capital markets can come into it
We'll also help negotiate the release of your debt
But here's the deal
We're going to offer this deal to you as a package that includes
Excluding the mining rights of all these other companies and the logging and the in the ranching and like that
So you either get this deal in whole or not, but you can't take this other thing that's happening in this
Why this is unique is because most people who focus on
For benefit capitalism
They're like, okay
Well, I can make money doing this good thing, but it doesn't bind other people from doing the bad thing
If I want to bind other people from doing the bad thing
I either have to create law that doesn't do it like
You know make it illegal or contract law where those who would say allow the person allow the other kind
You know multinational to come in
And do the thing are not going to because there's an exclusive contract
And so if I think about how to use
Markets more effectively. I don't just want to incentivize some positive thing
I also want to bind the negative thing from not happening, right? So
We all know that
Politically people bundle shit in ways that are really messed up. There's some clean water act that everybody's going to want
with some like
privatized prison or fucked up thing that's attached to it in the same thing
You're like, how why did those things get together? They don't belong together
But can that same tool be utilized for positive purposes where you
provide an actual healthy economic development plan and a
A
Protection plan for that country you factor which choice makers are going to have to make the choice
And what do they need in terms of public opinion and whatever to be able to do the thing
And put something together if it's a deal they will take that also
Is exclusive to the other thing now?
This is helping their entire institutional complex to be better structured, right?
Less perverse incentive in the whole thing long-term development of new economic areas
This would be an example of a transitional strategy where you're helping the overall set of institutions get healthier longer term
And again, I gave an example here, but we could we could give an example in
A coral reef or in the Congo or in, you know, whatever gazillion things where you're thinking about
Principles like that how what things would we want to bundle together to ensure that they all happen together?
Which ones would we want to force exclusion of who would have to make which choices?
What are the incentives that they need things like that?
And what about long-term
Long term is things like you don't have
Global capitalism
Uh in the global financial system in the same way anymore
You don't have you like long term is things like real cost valuation on everything
so that the
actual market cost of a thing included
The cost to make all of the raw ingredients renewably and the environmental cost long term in which case you just don't have perverse
incentive environmentally as a whole
Um long term means uh education system where everyone is educated in this type of way so that you actually have
culture where people are
Uh oriented about what is actual value fundamentally differently, right? So um
long term is food systems
and
Uh manufacturing systems and whatever that are closed loop that don't need to keep exploiting new virgin areas forever
And do these things happen sequentially triage transition long term or do you start all three of them now on parallel tracks?
Not only do they have to have all three start now they have to be in conversation and in turn form each other
because the what will long term viable be
If the people who are doing the transition aren't thinking about it. They might be transitioning more
Sideways than forward, right? Like they might be missing critical insights about what would long term sufficiency look like
And if the people who are thinking about long term solutions aren't paying attention to the details of the reality on the ground
They might not have enough
Detail to think about it, right? They're thinking about it too abstractly. So
Those are horizons of focus, but that doesn't mean sequential and they do need to be in dialogue
Okay, and then
vertically
How do we think about culture political economy and tech stack infrastructure on the bottom?
With respect to what you were just saying
When you think about triage, it's hard to separate them because you're looking at an eminent issue happening in which they're all kind of
Happening together, right? And so your triage
Might have to might have to affect cultural things because the mindsets of the populist matter
it might not like
Regulation of synthetic bio probably does not need everybody to agree. It probably needs a very small number of people to agree
so
How important culture is or not depends
Most people don't really have a say in do we go to nuclear war or not over a certain thing?
What is the point of nuclear escalation is so?
Um, and yet those who would do it still have to pay attention to political will to some degree
um
so
I would say
That you want to use frameworks like this to think about
Am I factoring what the cultural elements are what the political economy elements with the tech elements are?
but your triage solutions are gonna in
Are going to be focused on just
immediate efficacy
and
They'll all three be very connected
When you're thinking longer term transition I can think about culture in terms of like
There are versions of all the religions that are more compatible with each other and less compatible
right, there are there are versions that are more kind of
non-violent forgiveness oriented universalists and other ones that are more
fundamentalist religious or oriented being able to support
The more compatible versions of the religions flourishing more than the other ones
Is kind of a culture play long term that I don't have to think about
The political economy and the tech to think about that though. They are very very connected right if if I
think about
How do I support the proliferation of a particular version?
Well, if I can help it develop more tech and more financial capacities
It becomes a lot easier for that version to proliferate if it also has more economic power behind it, right?
So I think we did a good job of giving a couple examples of triage
On transition I'd like to give a different example
so like
transition
And then the difference between transition and long term
Let's say we're taking the united states government
federal government
long term
The underlying structure of representative democracy is just insufficient
The the u.s. Structure made in 1776 when the world was
radically more simple
Is there is no way to retrofit it adequately
specifically things like
Markets just get advanced new tech and only after
It has caused health or environmental problems long enough for
Long-term studies to be done and watch dog groups to lobby enough and fight against the vested interest lobbying
does regulation happen post facto
And so, you know 80 years
after
Led to gasoline was causing problems you finally out
outlawed or cigarettes or dbt
You don't get to keep having a post facto regulatory system with problems that cause
harm at
exponentially faster scale and more speed and live so
A new situation where when new tech emerges you actually have to go through this externality
process that we talked about to get regulatory
Okay for it to move forward
And of course i'm aware
