assemblages and interactions, what considerations are
relevant for thinking about assemblages and interactions
among different entities in cognitive ecosystems?
Here, we'll turn to the work of Friston et al et al, 2022,
designing ecosystems of intelligence from first principles.
And how does active inference accommodate collective behavior
within and across generations? And here, we'll look at a
variational synthesis of evolutionary and developmental dynamics
by Friston et al in 2023. So, when it comes to applications and
implications of active inference in social sitting,
sittings and settings, again, there's so much to do, there's
so much to learn. So, we welcome everybody who's curious.
This is the time to write your live chats, submit your questions,
prepare yourself to explore and to be an active forager in this
space. And if you're listening, you know that you already are.
So, in the work active inference in modeling conflict,
Scott David, RJ Corday and myself asked, what kinds of
insights can active inference offer about the role of learning
adaptation, conflict and cooperation in collective behavior?
Now, as with all these other papers, there's always so many
things that can be said. What we did is we tried to connect
beyond the very classical Markov blanket and
agent environment partition, which we've seen many, many, many
times, we tried to connect this to the specific kind of
generative models that we use in modeling. So, here we led early
by clarifying, this is what we're talking about with active
inference generative models. It's not like something I'm
hiding in my pocket and maybe I'll show you if you say the
shibboleth, this is what we're talking about when we're
talking about applying active inference models to social
settings. It's a discrete time generative model here, just a
motif. We applied that kind of generative model
architecture to one of the most well-known models of sense
making and decision making, which is the UDA loop, Observe
Orient Decide Act by John Boyd. Now, this may seem to some
like a quite sparse framework, like, yeah, you get the
observation, you figure it out, you make a decision, you take
the action. It doesn't do that much work by itself either.
However, UDA is used in tactical and strategic settings
every single day. And so, we wanted to connect UDA loop to the
generative models that we use in active inference. And so, we
highlighted on the generative model where different stages of
the UDA loop occur. Perception happens in the sensory
states. Cognition or the orientation happens in the
perceptual inference, the downstairs of that part of the
figure. And then decision making happens in the upstairs,
with the expected free energy calculation in this case. And
finally, action is selected and enacted. And that results in
impact and the cycle begins again. Now, in active inference,
it's more like an unfolding flow, but to a first pass
approximation, it does the trick. What does that really
matter that we understand the mechanics of decision making?
Well, we're talking about active inference in the social
setting. That means we're talking about two sophisticated
cognitive entities, maybe two businesses, maybe two
individual humans, maybe a person and a business, maybe
different kinds of systems that we don't even know about or
we haven't even seen yet. And that generative model is the
internal states that is then participating in this minimal
dyadic collective behavioral encounter. We can expand that to
thinking about comments, resource comments, attention
comments, open source ecosystems. And for this, we
utilized one of Scott David's favorite acronyms, of which he
has so so many, which is bolts, business, operation, legal,
technical and social. Bolts is not an exhaustive acronym,
otherwise we would need everything. But it's a heuristic
that encourages us to think holistically about different
systems. Let's just say that we were a business or a person and
we wanted to see if a given policy was a good way to go to
complete our mission. And it looks good, except it can't be
done operationally. Well, then that has to be taken into
account or everything works out, but it's illegal. That's not
the way to go. Everything works out, but the business doesn't
check out. It's not going to be sustainable financially. Or
technically, it can't be done. Or socially, it's not palatable.
All these features of socio-technical systems, which
again, we just make a little mnemonic of with bolts, need to
be taken into account for comprehensive and high integrity,
high reliability systems design. In this setting, we have
entity A and entity B interacting through the bolts
niche. They each have their own blanket states, sense and
action. And the niche, where those nest mates were laying
their pheromones, the niche is bolts. And so you could make a
restricted model where it's just two entities engaged in a
financial dealing, just a business only engaging on B. Or
you could think of this multi domain full spectrum
situation in terms of bolts. Then you would have a larger and
a more complex interface between these two entities. But we
also wanted to think about the case where there might be
cooperation between these entities, or there might be
conflict. And so here we have entity A and B. The dyad is in
the spotlight. Entity C is a non belligerent state, or it's a
bystander, or it's a witness, or it's a referee, or it's a
friend, or it's a colleague. But entity C is also engaging
only through their blanket states on bolts. And lastly, we
connected to the abiotic niche, which they may not care how
much you're buying or selling a gallon of oil for the abiotic
niche may have its own dynamics, we may use active inference to
model that or we might use some other approach to model it. And
so this sets a really, really general state space for us to
understand conflict and cooperation. And where we
situated that work, lastly here, was in relationship to other
work, exploring strategic and tactical decision making. And
so on the lower end of this image are tactical and
operational frameworks that are used in decision making. On
the top are strategic or scholarly frameworks that are
used for more of like geopolitical considerations. And
then from left to right, we have more qualitative approaches
going to more formal and quantitative approaches. And we
believe that the application of active inference through this
type of model, the active inference conflict model, helps
us touch the qualitative natural language and graphical
composable aspects, and the quantitative and formal aspects
as well. And similarly, through nested decision making
cycles, we can talk about tactical operational
activities, and the broader nested strategy, just like we
looked at the nested cones from Professor Levin's work.
Next, what implications does active inference have on the
study of human collective behavior, particularly in
social, economic, and digital contexts? Well, there's a lot
to say about this, but Tissonne and Poirier wrote in 2021,
the paper, communication as socially extended active
inference, an ecological approach to communicative
behavior. And this was in the live stream 48 series. Here's
Remy raising his hand so that we knew that he wanted to
speak. They introduced an ecological account of
communication, according to which acts of communication are
active inference, achieved by affecting the behavior of a
target organism via the modification of its field of
affordances. Constraining a target organism's behavior
constitutes a mechanism of socially extended active
inference, allowing organisms to proactively regulate their
interstates through the behavior of other organisms. In this
general conception of communication, the type of
cooperative communication characteristic of human
communicative interaction is a way of constraining
interaction dynamics towards the goals of a given joint
action by constructing and altering shared fields of
affordances. This account embraces a pragmatist view
according to which communication is a form of action aiming to
influence the behavior of a target and stands against the
traditional transmission view according to which communication
fundamentally serves to convey information. Understanding
acts of communication as active inference under an
ecological interpretation allows us to link communicative
and ultimately linguistic behavior to the biological
imperative of minimizing free energy and to emphasize the
action-oriented nature of communicative interaction.
This is really a rich and excellent work that Remy and
Pierre produced and there are several pieces that I think
add a lot of meaning and value to the ways that we think
about communication but most broadly what is communication
for? Who do we talk to and why? What do we like to talk about
and why? Why would anyone say that and why? How does
technique consider broadly technology and technique,
whether it's digital or social or cultural technique,
mediate and influence communication? The media is the
message. The medium is the message and think about
everything in that area too and how can active inference
beyond just giving these incredible composable formal
tools, how can we think about joint action and
co-modification of fields of affordances? Hey could you
could you pick that up from from that shelf? Okay I'll open it for
you. Now let's hand it to our friend who's going to make the
food. All of these ways in which individuals shape each
other's field of affordances is something that we can talk
about really fluidly with an active inference.
Penultimate view. What considerations are relevant
for thinking about assemblages and interactions among different
entities in cognitive ecosystems? So here was a
large multi-authored paper from Carl Friston et al
and the versus colleagues designing ecosystems of
intelligence from first principles from December 2022.
And the big picture as I see it here is what is the role of the
social sciences after all the course that we're in now
in ecosystems of diverse heterogeneous synthetic
intelligences. By synthetic intelligences I refer to
assemblages with intelligence whether it's natural or
artificial leave that debate for another day
because in their application we're talking about synthetic
intelligence. Synthetic intelligence needs cognitive
security, cognitive security needs cognitive science.
And they began this paper with the following. This white paper
presents active inference as an approach to research and
development in the field of artificial intelligence, AI.
Artificial. With the aim of developing ecosystems of natural and
artificial intelligences. The path forward in
AI is often presented as progressing from systems that
are able to solve problems within one narrow domain,
artificial narrow intelligence, A-N-I, to systems that are able to
solve problems in a domain general manner at or beyond human
levels. What are known as artificial general
intelligence, A-G-I, and artificial superintelligence,
A-S-I. We believe that approaching A-S-I or for
reasons outlined below even A-G-I likely requires an
understanding of networked or collective intelligence.
Now, intelligence in action is behavior. So we're talking about
collective behavior. And they laid out their timeline and the
stages that they see in terms of sentient, sophisticated,
sympathetic, and finally shared intelligences. But I think
