it when we see it, and then we'll turn around. Very different
perspective. And then one other point that I had to make for the
context, was that we used a modification of a previous active
inference computational implementation. What was the the
paper that we drew from? In fact, it was the acquisition of
culturally patterned attention styles under active
inference, with Axel and Alex at all. And what this paper did
was they looked at the situation of visual foraging on a
vase, a piece of pottery, where the eye was only able to
perceive a three by three matrix of pixels. And then the eye
scanned around, looking to recognize broader patterns that
were then culturally acquired. So maybe one culture or one
subculture likes the checkerboard pattern. And
another one likes vertical lines, another one likes horizontal
lines, or these other kinds of repetitive structures. What's
so interesting is that the eye, when it is foraging, does not
leave a trace, though it can feel like it doesn't. But the eye
forages around, in order to get the bigger picture, based on
local information. What we did is we said, well, instead of
imagining that as the gaze location of an eye, let's imagine
that as the skin in the game, exoskeleton on the ground of a
forager. So let's think about that movement as something that
an embodied forager does with its real body. And then
conditional in this setting upon it touching the seed or the
food, it can lay down a pheromone trail, which the eyes can't do,
per se. And so just really interesting, because it's not
like, this was an ant paper, and now we're going to try to
cram it into social sciences, it's actually like, computational
work in the social sciences, was able to translate to mere
macology into ants research. And so it's a very fruitful and
bidirectional relationship between studying ants and
studying people. Now we're going to move into the openness of
questions in this second half of the lecture. So how do the
concepts of generalized synchrony and homeostasis, which are
core to active inference relate to collective behavior? And here,
we can draw upon the work by Ralph Kaufman, Pranav Gupta and
Jacob Taylor, from 2021, called inactive inference model of
collective intelligence. And this was also unpacked in
guest stream nine. And so here's a little collective over here.
And that was about two years ago, way back when what they did
in this paper was they considered a setting with two trolley
cars, moving around a wheel. And so here's how they contextualize
that work. Formal models of collective intelligence have
lacked a plausible mathematical description of the
relationship between local scale interactions between autonomous
subsystem components, individuals, and global scale
behavior of the composite system, the collective. So they do a
really great job faking out what they mean by individual and
collective. In this paper, we use the active inference
formulation, AIF, a framework for explaining the behavior of any
non-equilibrium steady state system at any scale to posit a
minimal agent based model that simulates the relationship between
local individual level interaction and collective
intelligence. Then they had a really creative approach to
disentangling how different capacities translated to different
collective outcomes. And here's what they did. We explore the
effects of providing baseline active inference agents, model one
with specific cognitive capabilities. Model two added
in a theory of mind. Model three added in goal alignment. And
model four added both theory of mind and goal alignment. What
does that look like? Again, we're not going to go into all the
technical details here. But broadly, this is what it looked
like. Here was their simplest baseline active inference
formulation case. And then in the subsequent experiments, they
added in either one or the other or both of the cognitive
capacities that they described. They studied the single dyad case,
and they very cleverly expanded that into a large scale
multi dyad case. They utilized their own representation of the
active inference partition in order to facilitate the
construction of this model. And so in this case, we see the
blanket with the sensory states coming in, the active states
going out, Markov blanket. Here we see the environment, and then
internal belief states or cognitive states. So very cool
work that helps us get a vocabulary around not shut the
book on the focus on how how do different agents come to
synchronize? What is generalized synchrony? Well, it
doesn't mean lockstep. Turn taking is generalized synchrony.
Because these two agents, the time that they're talking has
very high mutual information on the other, even though the
correlation with their speaking might be negative. Agent A is
speaking when B is not and vice versa. So from a linear
regression perspective, there's a negative correlation. But
from a mutual information perspective, where you can't
ever have below zero information, at worst, it's just noise.
You always have zero or positive amount of information of
systems about other systems. And so that opens the door to
understanding generalized synchrony, which is a broader
conception of how individuals in collectives are interacting.
And homeostasis, maybe we could even imagine that these are
multiples cells in the pancreas, and they're trying to
coordinate on insulin sensitivity. Or maybe this is
multiple people who are securing the defense of a
community. And they also need to coordinate synchronously and
asynchronously. And so there's a lot of ways in which this very,
very lightweight apparatus of the active inference partition
helps us bring together and compose all these cool what ifs.
Well, what if it had theory of mind? What if it had goal
alignment? What if agents had theory of mind and goal
alignment? And what if we put them in a in a five by seven
grid? And then we did this and and and and. That's what we get
to do with active inference. And lastly here. How can active
inference be used to explore the balance between individual and
collective behavior and the bi-directional influence of
collectives on individuals? And so here, I draw upon the
amazing and singular work of Professor Mike Levin, who wrote
the computational boundary of a self, developmental bio
electricity drives multicellularity and scale
free cognition into 2019. This was also explored in live
stream 25 series. So just to pull out a few of the great
pieces of this article, and there's a stigmatic trail of
many other papers for those who follow. Professor Levin
writes, I propose a definition of an individual based on its
information processing structure. The scale and types of
goals that a system can pursue defines or determines the
boundaries and the content of the putative agent. On this view,
what defines a coherent unified self out of its constituents
components and the surrounding environment is the set of parts
that operate towards reaching specific goal states. So this is
a teleological or a functional or anticipatory or sentient or
adaptive or informational concept on individuality, which we can
add to the earlier consideration raised by Gilbert at all. Here
they discuss some of the more mechanistic biological
considerations like genetics, immunology, evolution,
development, anatomy and physiology. What Levin has done
here, and consistent with this is the informational theory of
individuality by David Krakauer at all is connect this more
generally to system capacity. And so there is what is here
represented as like a time diamond, where the scope or the
scale of the system in the now is like the radius or the
circumference on this diamond. And then the part of the diamond
that recedes off into the past that's retained from the past
is memory and history. And the part that advances or protends
into the future is the anticipatory or the planning
capacity. This opens the door to describing diverse
intelligences, including possible alien, artificial
intelligence or synthetic intelligences, as well as nested
or compound intelligences. So here, the example is the colony.
So here we have cells, these little pinkish diamonds nested
within a nest mate, which is the green diamond nested within
the colony, which is the blue diamond. Now, notice that the
nest mate is called an organism. I couldn't help but to
connect this to Wheeler 1911, whose work is the ant colony as
an organism, super organism came later, the super organizational
framing on the ant colony, reifies the concept that the
nest mate is the individual or the organism. Because why else
would you need to call the colony a super organism? I mean, I
think colonies are super. I think it's great to call them
whatever you want to call them. And they probably don't mind
either. But the idea that a super organism is composed of
other organisms means that the nest mate is an organism,
whereas this diagram, in my perspective, would be as accurate
or more to say nest mate here, because under different concepts
of organismality, which is to say individuality, if we want to
connect it there, the colony can be considered as the organism.
And of the so many other pieces of this work that are fun to
bring out, the way that Levin clarifies his assumptions gives
us, first off, some planks that we can jump off of for good and
helps us come to terms with maybe like, how do we, what do we
assume about behavior, about collective behavior? How do we
want to show up when we're studying collective behavior in
general, and when we're studying social behavior after all,
wearing active inference for the social sciences? And so Levin
writes, the ideas are explored here from the perspective of
the following three core assumptions. First is a commitment
evolution. Every capacity has a natural history and emerged
from simpler variants. Second, it is assumed that all metaphors
are to be judged by their utility in driving scientific
progress. There is not a binary categorization of scientific
pictures, which should be taken literally or not, which can be
decided a priori upfront. Third, much of the discussion
centers around goals related to teleology, a hotly debated
topic. Here, goal directness is taken in a non magical cybernetic
engineering and control theory sense of a feedback system that
operates to maximize some specific state of affairs, which
can be modeled as a dynamical system with attractors in its
state space, and later work by Levin and Fields and others
expanded this concept of intelligence just to phenomenal
heights and flavors. So, active inference helps us understand
that cognitive glue, maybe it's mechanistically enacted by
bioelectricity in a given system or at a given scale, but
active inference gives us the analytical glue to approach
those systems with an open mind and an open scaffold.
And so, those are some of the insights and fundamentals of
active inference as applied to collective behavioral systems.
Now, on to the last third of this lecture, applications and
implications of active inference for the social sciences
regarding collective behavior. This is really
where it is wide, wide, wide, open.
What kinds of insights can active inference offer about the
role of learning, adaptation, conflict, and cooperation in
collective behavior? And how can we approach that from a
cognitive security perspective? Here, we'll draw on the work
of Scott David and colleagues, active inference in modeling
conflict. What implications does active inference have on the
study of human collective behavior, particularly in
social, economic, and digital contexts? Here, we'll draw on
the work by Poirier et al. Communication as socially
extended active inference, an ecological approach to
communicative behavior, Livestream 4.0 series.
What considerations that are relevant for thinking about
