it's worth to dwell a moment on the one figure of this paper.
Figure one, belief updating on a statistical manifold.
And so here we have some curve in an information geometric
space. It's a parameter space of a probability distribution.
And on this manifold, on this line on a plane, lower dimensional
manifold projection, there's a temporal process, belief at time
t, t plus one, t plus two, where initially this
Gaussian that's very distributed becomes updated
to a sharper peak distribution that's going to be resting
basically at some special point on this curve.
Whether you're very familiar with accelerated optimization
on information geometric manifolds or not,
it's really interesting to consider why they went with this image.
And for those again who are familiar or just coming to be familiar
with some of the formalisms of active inference,
this is what this very talented and transdisciplinary team
went with when seeking to provide some of the only
non-textual descriptions of their work. So I think it's really
interesting. And the big question is, well, what is the social?
Reassembling the social, Bruno Latour. What is the social? What is social?
Does social mean only adult humans talking with each other?
Does social include non-human species? Does social include
non-biological intelligences? These are all things that are not just
questions of theory. And so connecting flexible, extensible frameworks like
active inference and all that comes along with it
to this bigger question about applications and implications
of applied active inference in the social setting.
That's what I hope we can explore in the questions at the end of this live
stream and in the discussions that we have in a couple of weeks
and ongoing. And lastly, how does active inference
accommodate collective behavior within and across generations?
And so here I'll draw on the recent work of variational synthesis of
evolutionary and developmental dynamics with Carl Friston, myself,
and others. And we had two images in this work which
otherwise had a lot of prose and formalism. On the left,
we see that active inference, particular partition,
external states, internal states, blanket states.
Here at the organismal level, one worm, and in an nested
deeper system, the population, which gives rise to the starting
positionality of the organisms. Think about drawing an organism
from a gene pool, from a birth pool, and the impact that those organisms
have on the bigger picture. Maybe it's a bacteria
that is fermenting. So it changes the pH or the ethanol
concentration of the kombucha. That is this kind of multi-scale
interaction that we believe provides an approach to
understanding eco-evo-devo ecology, evolution, and developmental
interactions. And the other visualization that we use here
is of nested systems. So contrast that with the kind of time
diamond that we saw from Mike Levin. Now here,
imagine that we're going to cut across the center of this diamond.
And now it's going to look like a muscle fiber, fibers of fibers.
Because we have, let's just say, this outer blue
line, maybe the colony. And then each of these
smaller entities is an estimate. And they're composed of cells. And cells
have constituents too. And here we utilized the apparatus of
the renormalization group, which draws upon physics,
to articulate the separation of scales so that we can be clear. When are we
talking about multi-scale systems, which we can articulate and
renormalize across vertically to use an encultured metaphor?
And then within a given scale of analysis,
what is the lateral or collective behavior?
So how do we get those interactions amongst nestmates
that are both constrained by the colony, top down,
again using a spatial and encultured metaphor,
top down, scaffolded or enabled or constrained by the colony. But then
what nestmates do matters? And that influences the colony.
And we used a few new pieces of formalism,
primarily developed by Carl, to help express that setting. And again, we think
it's going to be really useful for describing otherwise
quite challenging scenarios in ecology, evolution and development.
And so we come right back to that, what is a self? What about nested
selves? And with that, I turn to some open questions.
What can be said other than there are so many open questions to discuss?
There's many things we can explore in the discussion that I'll be
facilitating in a couple weeks and of course beyond.
We have a COTA interface for you to submit questions
that all the course teachers will take a look at and give their best attempt on.
And conversation is collective behavior. Now, sure, keeping it inside of your
head is also collective behavior, no matter how you think about it.
But when we enact in the social, then we're really making it happen.
So with that, I will just show my citations
and the slides will be shared too. Also, there's some extra readings that
various individuals along the way suggested to me.
So that includes social ecologies and abductive logic,
enacting like a state. These are not the titles. The titles are
inactive dynamic social cognition, inactive inference, that was live stream 47.
Thinking like a state embodied intelligence in the deep history of our
collective minds, that was live stream 33. Active inference, applicability to
different kinds of social organizations, explained through reference to industrial
engineering and quality management, that was live stream 27.
Resonating minds, emergent collaboration through hierarchical active inference.
Jelle Broombergs and Eric Rietveld's work on self-organization, free energy
minimization and optimal grip on a field of affordances.
And the well-known thinking through other minds work by Vestierre
at all, thinking through other minds, a variational approach to cognition and
culture. Well, I hope this has been an interesting
and relevant lecture for you. It was fun to prepare.
There are so many perspectives and so much territory that
there's a lot in collective behavior. But again, I'm just really looking forward
to the discussion that we can have in a couple of weeks.
I encourage you whether you're listening on your timeline
at a moment that enables you to join that live conversation,
I would encourage you to join or to join the live stream so you can
participate through chat or whether you want to find some other
way to get involved. It's been a great time and with
that, I will close. Thank you very much. Until next time.
