Hello, everyone. It is August 2nd, 2023. We're in the active
inference for the social sciences course. I'm Daniel
Friedman. And this is going to be a lecture on collective
behavior. Now, of course, disclaimers could abound. And
there's so many ways to go about this topic of collective
behavior that in actuality, in enactment, I really hope it
is multi scale and collective. I'm really looking forward to
your comments and your engagement with this area with this
lecture with this course. So if you're watching live, you can
add comments into the live chat or questions and I'll check them
out at the end. Also in the YouTube live chat. And in the
video description, there is a link to where you can submit
questions for all of the teachers of this course. That's
going to be a code of form. And just more generally, let's have
fun enacting ecosystems of shared intelligence together. And I
hope that this lecture can be something like one attempt to
make that happen epistemically. We're gonna have many fun
things to talk about collective behavior. What
differentiates it from simply behavior? I mean, aren't all
behaving systems assemblages is not the brain composed of
multiple parts brain and body, multiple people. What are we
really talking about with individual behavior? Why do we
need adjectives at all for behavior? What is a collective?
And how would we even know it except through its behavior? So
they're going to be all kinds of fun topics.
Avell provided me with this image and suggested that it would
be a great place to head towards. And so we can think of this
as where we're going. And where we're going is understanding
the agents or the human in a social relationship through
social action and the recipient of social constraints and
observations. Through that interface, or blanket or
holographic screen, the agent or the human is engaging on this
socio cultural landscape. And so we can think about that
agent of engagement with a social world and the dynamic of
socio cultural constraints. Now that's where we're going. And
that's how someone else has framed where we're going. What
I'll tell you here is how we're getting there, how we're
getting there. It's going to be a lot of fun. There's going to
be a lot of ants, and doors going to be wide open. So
everyone is an estimate on this slide. And we're going to be
with our regimes of attention, and our Stygmurgic trails just
absolutely up, down, left, right, all over this socio
cultural landscape. All right. So here's the plan for the
collective behavior lecture. It's going to be presented as a
sequence of views. Each view or perspective is going to consist
of at very least a central citation, and then one or more
reflections on that citation. Four views on collective
behavior taken as a bundle will constitute a main section of this
lecture. And there are going to be three main sections of this
lecture split on one hand into three groups of four. And on the
other hand, into two groups of six. Splitting into force, the
main three sections are going to be background in context, which
is going to provide some views and insights that are from
outside of active inference, because surprise, surprise, what
was true before active inference or outside of active
inference is also true within and after. Then we're going to turn
to active inference, specifically, we're going to talk
about active inference insights and fundamentals for collective
behavior, and applications and implications of utilizing or of
conceptualizing of a social system as an active inference
system. So those second two sections are each going to
center around also specific recent work in the field. To
split it into two groups of six, the first six views that are
presented, so all of background and context, and then half of
the insights and fundamentals are going to be in support
linguistically or rhetorically of a declarative statement. Whereas
the latter six views are going to support or open up to a
question. And that'll lead us to the final section, the fourth
section, which is some open questions. At that time, I will
look at the live chat and review any questions or thoughts that
people have. And I'll also just open the door and leave it open
with asking questions, because that's something that we're
going to be engaged in for so so long. So let's go right into
the first section, background and context. Here are the four
views and the four declarative statements. Big picture, many,
if not all of the concepts, discussions, questions and views
on collective behavior from before or outside of active
inference, also apply after or inside active inference, or in
the active inference ecosystem. And so to support and to build
out that point, I'm going to talk about four different works
and some takeaways. First, watching behavior is complex.
Here we'll look at Deborah Gordon's 1992 paper, Vickenstein
and Antwatching. Second, all intelligence is collective
intelligence, which was a presentation of the same name
by JF Cloutier earlier this year, referencing a paper of the
same name. Third, we have never been individuals, a work by
Gilbert et al from 2012, a symbiotic view of life, we have
never been individuals, little bit of a play on we have never
been modern. And the metaphors and frameworks and language that
we use to talk about behavior to talk about collective behavior,
what adjectives we put in front of what nouns, that matters. And
a great work that Ali shared with me that I think makes this
point super well is by Navarro and Gabriella Edis from 23. And
that work is the morphology of collective intelligence, network,
swarm, multitude or assemblage. So let's head straight to
Professor Gordon's 1992 work on Vickenstein and Antwatching. And
so just also for context, Professor Gordon was my PhD
advisor. And so I was able to engage with this material and
perspective through asynchronous means, such as this paper, but
also seeing it actually play out on a sociocultural landscape in
the desert in Southeast Arizona. That's where the complexity
really flowered. And so research in animal behavior begins by
identifying what animals are doing. In the course of
observation, the observer comes to see animals as performing a
particular activity. How does this process work? How can we be
certain that behavior is identified correctly? Vickenstein
offers an approach to these questions, looking at the uses
of certainty, rather than attempting to find rules that
guarantee it. Here, two stages in research are distinguished.
First, watching animals. And second, reporting the results to
other scientists. Certainty about what animals are doing has
different uses at each stage. And this is really a beautiful and
subtle point. By distinguishing stages of the
Ethological Encounter, the Behavioral Scientific Encounter,
whether we're talking about ants on the ground, or people in the
cities, separating out the observational moments and the
uncertainties that are always at play there, from this secondary
communication about behavior, at which point, having really
clear, defined articulations of behavior becomes so important
for scientific reproducibility, integrity, accessibility, and
so on. Personally, I find that this paper anticipates a lot of
the specifications that today, we would consider part of the
metabasian perspective, which is to say, we're making
inferences, as cognitive systems, about other cognitive
systems. She wrote, my questions about ant watching do not arise
when I'm watching ants. Most of the time, I do not think much
about certainty when ant watching, replace that for the social
human setting with people watching. Sometimes we're just
watching people and that's okay. That's part of the moment. I
do not think much about certainty when ant watching. I
enact it. The questions do not come from doubts about the
certainty of my seeing, but from the ways that doubts about the
certainty of seeing have shaped scientific practice. The
resolution of the problem would come from changes that would
allow observers to talk about what they are actually doing when
watching animals. Truthful accounts of scientific animal
watching don't yet exist. This truth is not yet formed because
we have not yet learned to talk about it. What a wonderful
expression. And delightfully, I came to see the confused
foragers as patrollers searching for new food. I saw the other
foragers as already decided about their destination, not
available to be distracted by a new source of food. And so we
have this really fascinating dialectic where in the moments
we're observing in this pre definitional space, not
questioning, though maybe we went to the field site to ask and
answer a question, get data about a question. But in the
moment, we're in the flow of observation, and not asking
questions, though the uncertainty may be the highest.
Afterwards, when we're communicating to our scientific
colleagues, I defined an outgoing forager as a forager with
as an estimate with no object in the mandibles, and heading off
in a straight line, passing a demarcated point three meters
from the colony entrance. Then people will why three meters,
why not two meters? Or why can't it be carrying something on
the way out? Those questions arise in that precise space of
communication. And I wanted to open the lecture with this view,
because it puts a space between, I see that person putting out a
fire. They're a firefighter. In that space between is the
interpretive moment and possibility, and reimagining
the social has so much to do with this process of, let's just
say, ant watching. Second view in this background and context
section. And here I wanted to draw from a wonderful
presentation that JF Cloutier, facilitator and participant at
the Active Inference Institute, presented as part of his Robotics
and embodied project, where yes, he's building Lego robots that
do symbolic active inference, but also opening up some great
philosophical directions, and ones that have a lot of
implications for how we think about natural, artificial and
synthetic intelligence. This presentation is called All
Intelligence is collective intelligence. And it was based
upon the title and drawing upon a recent 2022 citation by
Fallon days at all. And some of these maxims or expressions that
JF provided, I thought were so provocative, and also brought us
back to that initial question. Why collective behavior? I mean,
what system isn't a collective? So why do we need the adjective?
If we're talking about behaving systems? What is individual
behavior? Individual, what? Oh, just one bird. Oh, just one
person. Okay, made up of what? And so JF wrote some expressions
and you can see from the link and look a little more with some
images and more of what he wrote. But a few of these, I
thought were just excellent. Intelligence is a process enacted
by interacting parts, not a property of individuals. Again,
whatever that would even mean. Inaction is death. Being by
doing action without prediction is reckless. No prediction without
sensemaking. No sense made without a self versus the world. Or
self in the world. A collective is differently intelligent than
its members. Maybe trivially different, maybe better in every
way, maybe another direction in every way. Why do individuals
participate in collectives? Why are people in groups? Because
sacrificing the autonomy to the collective provides benefit,
survival or even thrival benefits. That's that I to we. No
making of sense without the self acting in or on the world. It's
not just some essence that's disembodied. This is what
embodiment is all about. An autonomous agent is a self
organizing collective of parts. Parts of a collective can
themselves be autonomous agents. Collectives form to improve the
chance of survival of their members and an agent in a
collective benefits from the intelligence of the collective.
So to me, this presentation and line of research pursued by JF
and others absolutely puts a bow on the what is an individual?
