out what method to use. Okay, but you know, more or less, how
to room or cold to room or just use a linear regression. So
that's the conversation that we're having a lot with active
inference. A lot of times people are talking about whether a
given situation can or cannot be modeled active inference or just
in the abstract, what does active inference say about this
situation? And again, the framework itself is general to the
point of doing little work. And we love it that way. It enables
us to move into systems of interest and deploy generative
models. So what they did in this paper was leverage the active
inference framework to provide an in silico model on the
computer chip model of confirmation bias and its
effect on echo chamber formation. They had a system of
interest, people's social engagement on so called social
media, and they had even a phenomena of interest, which was
echo chamber formation. They built a model based on active
inference, where agents tend to sample information in order to
justify their own view of reality, something we call self
evidencing. We show that once agents have reached a certain
level of certainty about their beliefs, it becomes very
difficult to get them to change their views. The system of
self confirming beliefs is upheld and reinforced by the
evolving relationship between an agent's beliefs and
observations, which will over time, will continue to provide
evidence for their ingrained ideas about the world. Well,
where I'm from, we drive on the right side of the road. And so
you drive on the right side of the road, I drive on the right
side of the road, we're not going to have an issue.
Everywhere I look, I see cars moving around, I see people
passing on the right on the sidewalk. It's all making sense.
We're bounding surprise, we're doing active inference,
surprise minimization, goals, reward, never need to come into
play to give an account of how those systems could arise and be
stabilized. These epistemic communities are consolidated by
those shared beliefs, and in turn tend to produce perceptions of
reality that reinforce those shared beliefs. And on the top
right, is just a little teaser of what a Bayesian graphical
model looks like of the kind that they deployed in this paper.
And here, we see some of the results from their parameter
sweeping, exploring different combinations of parameters, and
looking at topics like polarization index, and
re attendance rate. And so all kinds of statistics that can be
drawn upon connected to the generative model, and also all
kinds of opportunities and interfaces to relate this to
empirical data, as well as suggest experiments. So Mao is
going to talk more about this and it's awesome work. And then
late breaking news, only several days ago, five or so days
ago, an amazing new preprint was put up by Connor Heinz and
colleagues. And it was just too cool not to include here and
reflects the very rapid pace of collaborative development in
the active inference ecosystem. And this is their work collective
behavior from surprise minimization. And they made
every point I wanted to make here and now. collective motion is
ubiquitous in nature. Typically, such macroscopic patterns
arise from decentralized local interactions among constituent
components, e.g. individual fish in a school. There's that word
individual again. Preeminent models of this process describe
individuals as self propelled particles subject to self
generated motion and social forces, such as short range
repulsion and long range attraction or alignment. Hmm.
However, organisms are not particles. They are probabilistic
decision makers. They're cognitive particles. We
introduce an approach to modeling collective behavior based on
active inference. This cognitive framework cast behavior as the
consequence of a single imperative to minimize surprise.
Again, if you want to, you can contrast that with reward
learning where the imperative is to maximize reward. Inactive
inference and the free energy principle, we're taking a path
of least action, not the laziest path or the most passive
one, but a little bit more technically a path of least
action. And we're minimizing surprise. We're bounding
surprise with variational free energy. And it turns out that
that helps us minimize surprise and maximize model evidence. And
it can include things like novelty and curiosity seeking
very naturally. So this doesn't mean we're squeezing the juice
out of life at all. We demonstrate that many empirically
observed collective phenomena, including cohesion, milling and
directed motion emerge naturally when considering behavior as
driven by active Bayesian inference, without explicitly
building behavioral rules or goals into individual agents. No
reward, no goal, no master of the collective. Furthermore, we
show that active inference can recover and generalize the
classical notion of social forces, as agents attempt to
suppress prediction errors that conflict with their
expectations. By exploring the parameter space of the belief
space model, we reveal non trivial relationships between the
individual beliefs and group properties like polarization, and
the tendency to visit different collective states. We also
explore how individual beliefs about uncertainty, metacognition
beliefs about beliefs, determine collective decision making
accuracy. What if when you voted or shared your perspective on
what we were going to have for dinner, you also conveyed an
uncertainty estimate? How confident are you about that being
the case?
Finally, we show how agents can update their generative model
over time, resulting in groups that are collectively more
sensitive to external fluctuations and encode
information more robustly. From a distributed systems
perspective, you can imagine two different kinds of distributed
systems or networks. One of them has a dampening like quality. So
something that enters on one side, if dampens as it diffuses,
we can also contrast that with another kind of distributed
system or another kind of input or stimulus or context that
amplifies and the goal or one nice property to have a systems
would be like, we want to dampen what we don't want to pay
attention to, and up signal or increase the cascading
availability of what we do want to attend to. Now, that's a
little circular since in some ways that's the definition of
attention. However, making unified models like they do here
gives us integrated approaches to explore a broad range of
collective phenomena here in spatial movement, but also
involving the cognitive states of the particles. And they make a
really nice representation here to connect to other approaches. A
traditional approach to classical self propelled particles
is agent environment agents take rules, and they make decisions
based upon those rules that are either given or learned. You
know, when you're this close to the bird next to you do that.
And when you're this close, do this. And then social forces of
these kind of as if or actual constraints that then modify the
agent's perspective. And what we see in the active inference
setting is that the agent and the environment are mediated by
an interface, the Markov blanket. This is the sensorium. This
is on the inbound side perception, and on the outbound side
action. And they give some more details. It's a really exciting
paper. And it just cool to see again, that even in the
preparatory days of a lecture like this, like, there's always
new collective activity in the ecosystem. And that's what makes
it fun. Last of the declarative sections of this lecture,
colonies here, but more generally, collectives can be
understood as consisting of action perception loops, which
subsume, entail or supervene upon individual level action
perception loops. Niche modifications or stigmergy can also
be modeled this way. What we did in this paper was bring
something new to active inference in at least two
different ways. First, it was the it was the first model of an
ant system of interest. Now for some of us mere macologists in
the audience, all of our broader entomology colleagues, that
may be enough. But what was also really interesting about this
work and the opportunity to collaborate on it was it was the
first active inference model presented with explicit stigmergy,
not just the philosophical consideration of the traces that
agents leaving in the environment might then have them change
their behavior in the future, but but explicitly engaging with
this process of multi agent, stigmatic behavior. Active
inference may be informative in the study of ant colonies at
three distinct temporal scales, nest mate behavior, which is to
say emergent among tissues of a nest mate. You could keep on
going collectively down and interactions with the biotic or
abiotic environment. So first level at the level of a nest mate,
one of those things with six legs that looks like an insect at the
level of the colony, colony development is emergent among
nest mates and their interactions with the niche. That is where
many people would traditionally assign collective
behavior. It's a well, well, one nest mate walking around is
individual behavior, that's the individual ants. And then the
colony is where collective behavior comes into play, right?
And we're going to see that reified very soon. But lastly,
we point to the evolution of populations, which is an emergent
outcome amongst colonies within an ecology. In this work, we
focused on the connection between the first two levels of
analysis, focusing on the case of stigmatic colony foraging,
using a modification of previous active inference
computational implementations. We didn't use the word
individual. And there's a reason why. Because we're saying what
we mean more clearly when talking about ants, when we talk
about nest mates, colonies and populations of colonies, that
sidesteps or transcends the discussion of what is an
individual and what is a collective because with respect
to the colony as an individual, if you want to use that word, the
population is a collective with respect to the nest mate, the
colony is a collective with respect to the tissue, like the
brain or the mid gut, the nest mate is a collective. So we don't
need to play the adjective game, we can just articulate what
we're interested in about these systems of interest and complex
adaptive system phenomena. And so what we did was we explored a
kind of classical behavioral setting, which is food being
placed between the arms of a teammates. And in this case, rather
than a rat, I'm just pausing for a second while I believe that
my internet is reconnecting and we should be back. Each ant was
described by an action perception loop, an active
inference action perception loop. And they were able to move
within a three by three grid, as well as perceive pheromone
density within a three by three grid. And then they laid down
pheromone, they added stigmatic trace on the way home, if they
had found a seed. And so this does a few interesting things and
and live stream 29 is where we unpack this a lot more, but I
just wanted to make two more points here. The first is that in
a reward centric perspective on ant behavior, the pheromone is
seen as a semi audit queue. And the seed or the food is seen as
the reward. And so then we got to use the cues, we got to use the
pheromone density to like figure out where the good stuff is
that's that paradigm. We flipped that with active inference. Now
the preference, we don't need to say reward, but the preference
that which is sought after, proximally, but teleologically
that which is sought after preferred over is the pheromone.
The seed becomes the semi audit queue, that it's time to turn
on your pheromone depositing and come home. And so that flips are
approached understanding what foraging is about from we're
lost in the sauce, trying to figure out where the good thing
is out there to we're surfing the 100 foot wave, and we'll know
