What is a collective? Why do we even talk about quote
individuals or quote collectives when we recognize the
multi scale nature of complex adaptive systems? Third
perspective, a symbiotic view of life, we have never been
individuals. This is a 2012 paper by Gilbert sap and tower. And
just to read a few aspects of what they wrote in the abstract,
the notion of the biological individual is crucial to studies
of genetics, immunology, evolution, develop anatomy and
physiology. Each of these biological sub disciplines has a
specific conception of individuality, which has
historically provided conceptual context for integrating
newly acquired data. Few descriptions. Animals cannot be
considered individuals by anatomical or physiological
criteria, because a diversity of symbiotes are both present and
functional in completing metabolic pathways and serving
other physiological functions. Similarly, these new studies
have shown that animal development is incomplete without
symbiotes. Symbiotes also constitute a second mode of
genetic inheritance, providing selectable genetic variation
for natural selection, which connects it to the evolutionary
concept of an individual. So if we pursue the metabolic Oh, it's
it's all the the metabolic networks and how they're all
connected. That's the individual. All right, well,
that includes the microbiome and symbiotes. Well, no, it's the
physiology and the decision making and the neurophysiology.
Those are also in play with the symbiotes. Well, at least
evolution only selects upon the germline, right? Well, no,
actually, there are these multiple mechanisms of
inheritance, whether they're relevant in a given situation or
not, is situational. But in principle, they exist, and they're
increasingly coming to be recognized. Additionally, for
the immune system, commonly described as quote, self versus
non self, or self identification, or self other
discrimination. After all, we talk about auto grafting and
allografting. But of course, there are aspects of quote,
self or self under some definitions, like an epitope
from a protein in cartilage, then auto immune disorder might
target. So the immune system is mobilized against self under
some definitions sometime, and is not mobilized against other
under some definitions, sometimes, like we're not
constantly mounting a massive immune response to our gut
microbiome or skin microbiome. Recognizing the halobiant, the
multicellular eukaryote plus its colonies of persistent
symbiotes, as a critically important unit of anatomy,
development, physiology, immunology and evolution, and
cognition opens up a new investigative avenue and
conceptually challenges the ways in which the biological
sub disciplines have here to four characterized living
entities. Here we have the cover of the famous work Leviathan.
It's a large person constituted of other people, really making
the point clear. But if we zoomed in on quote, an individual
person, wouldn't we find something like societies of
cells? What is an individual? When is an individual what? And
what's on the line? I thought, those are such big questions.
Maybe could we connect it to a little bit of more of a bibliographic
piece of data just to show a snapshot and to open up this
discussion to you all about what's on the line with what's an
individual. And so what I did is I searched for some literature
trends on PubMed. And here is the results per 100,000 citations
for collective behavior. And so we see collective behavior first
being mentioned in the 1950s, at least in this literature
database, and rising up on through around 500, or 400 or
500 per 100,000. So 1000 out of 100,000 would be 1%. So half of
percent of all the citations on a major bio little literature
database have collective behavior in them. So that's that's a
huge amount of work. And it looks like it goes down. But when
you actually look at how many citations there are, it's been
about four to 5000 publications per year. It's just that the
rest of the literature database may be expanding at a faster
rate. So 1000s of paper per year, and an appreciable fraction
of work has to do with collective behavior. And so I thought,
wow, that that's, that's exciting. That's great. Well, how are
we doing compared to behavior? Now collective behavior is this
lower line in red. And yeah, there's a blip. But behavior is up
between 15 and 20% of citations in PubMed. Now, maybe behavior is
also referring to the behavior of a given material that may or
may not be a superconductor, or might be using different
understandings of behavior. But what what what can we say? And
what can we know about the difference between individual
and collective behavior? Now, interestingly, here, I searched
for individual behavior as as a specific term. So we see a lot
lower. But individual behavior, I mean, can the tide have
already turned? Can it really be the case that after 2020, this
is a real meaningful decline? I don't know. It's too early to
say, we can't do technical analysis just like that, but
very provocative, and gives us some ways to look at the
broader scale, or collective scientific cognitive process
associated with these incredibly important, philosophical, and
biological questions about individuality, because of course,
to distinguish collective behavior from individual
behavior, or why will you why would you even need an adjective
at all? It's going to come down to what is an individual and
what's on the line so much. And the last view here, drawing
upon the work morphology of collective intelligence, network
swarm, multitude, or assemblage, and Tony DeVaro and Alejandra
Lopez Gabrales wrote, Network swarm and multitude are some of
the different metaphors that have been used to understand the
concept of collective intelligence. All of them have
reflected our relationship with the internet and its
development. With the advent of artificial intelligence AI, we
wonder about other metaphors that might offer a new
understanding of collective intelligence to address today's
environmental and socio technical challenges. They bring up
network swarm and multitude to advocate for the fourth option,
assemblage, understanding collective intelligence as an
assemblage allows for the inclusion of different human and
technological agents and overcomes the anthropocentrism,
human centrism, human exclusionism of other models based on
human will, whether extended as in the multitude or suppressed as
in the swarm, connotations here. In this way, ethical decision
making and responsibility are distributed among different
cognitive actors with a capacity to choose and interpret. And to
the extent that they make decisions, albeit algorithmic
ones, they're also accountable. And I love this and I think it
foreshadows where we're going to be going with active inference,
which is different cognitive actors have the capacity to
choose and interpret. We might connect that to sensory and
internal states of an active inference agent, but perception,
sensemaking, signal processing, inbound information, and
decision making and responsibility and accountability. And the
accountability that we associate with human socio technical
systems, that's the action selection, control theory,
outgoing dependencies in the Markov blanket. So right there,
coming from outside of active inference, we see the
identification of the need to have flexible frameworks,
including linguistic and metaphorical, that allow us to
talk about heterogeneous, diverse, cyber physical systems,
where different entities are engaged in different practices
and ways of incoming sensemaking and outgoing
decision making. And it's going to turn out that active
inference is an incredible and flexible expressive framework
that's going to allow us to talk about those kinds of systems
pointed to here. And it really matters, they point to some of
the most important aspects of issues today. On to active
inference, insights and fundamentals. Well, here, as
in all the other areas, there are so many pieces of literature
that could have been drawn on. That's why I restricted myself
to just for views. Also, this section is going to mark the
midway point, we're not there yet, don't worry. But the midway
point of the lecture, where we move from the six declarative
expressions on to the questions, because it's more open than
not. And there's more space for you to respond than you may
imagine. But what are the views going to be here? And what are
the literature that support that point? So first, active
inference and the free energy principle, which is a principle
that provides a lot of theoretical grounding and physics based
perspective on active inference, but we're not going to go too
much into it today. Active inference and the free energy
principle are scale free formalisms for cognitive
systems. With collectives, as with individuals, the general
framing in itself does very little. However, with properly
constructed generative models, we can get explanation,
prediction, design, influence and implementation tools. And here
I'm going to draw on two pieces of work, epistemic
communities under active inference by Mao and colleagues in
2022. And just from a several days ago, the work by Connor
Heinz and colleagues collected behavior from surprise
minimization. We'll unpack the point more when we get there.
Second, collectives can be understood of consisting as
consisting of action perception loops, which subsume, entail or
supervene upon individual level action perception loops.
Niche modification, Stigmergy can also be modeled this way. We'll
draw upon the paper Active Inference, an active inference
framework for colony behavior by myself and colleagues in 2021.
And then we'll move into the questions and things will start
to open up. So if it feels like we've been climbing uphill,
we're two thirds of the way with the uphill climb feels like
we've been going downhill, we're two thirds of the way with a
downhill. How do the concepts of generalized synchrony and
homeostasis, which are so core to active inference relate to
collective behavior? Here we'll discuss the work by Raph
Kaufman at all from 2021, an active inference model of
collective intelligence. And lastly, in this section, how can
active inference be used to explore the balance between
individual and collective behaviors and the bi-directional
influence of collectives on individuals and of course vice
versa. Here we'll draw upon the computational boundary of a
self, developmental bioelectricity drives
multicellularity and scale free cognition by Mike Levin in 2019.
So let's get right into the work by Mao and Connor and
colleagues. First, I'm just going to bring this paper up.
However, first, you can watch more about it in guest stream
17.1 from March 2022. Here's two two collectives right here.
And also now we'll be covering this work in a lot more detail
later on in the course. I just wanted to bring it up because I
think it's one of the exceptional examples that can be
deployed to show like, hey, just thinking about the social as
an active inference system is awesome. It's an intuition pump.
It brings us into the active inference ecosystem. But then
what do we do when we're there? And what we do when we're there
is we develop generative models that actually take us towards
where we want to be. Again, framing a situation as being
related to active inference, or you could do an active inference
model of that does very, very little work by itself. However,
making generative models of situations, even if they're
speculative generative models or qualitative or hypothetical, that
can start getting towards doing work. But if someone said, well,
that health condition, you could do a linear regression. Okay,
but which treatment do we do? Well, it could be done with a
linear regression, we could use a linear regression to figure
