I had a thought that followed on from conversation last time that I wrote down in the following way, and it was something like, we often asked the question what is it like to be x or is extra sort of thing that that can, that it can be like to be it.
And I wondered about a slight variant on that question, which cutely is what is it like to have been x rather than to be x.
And my intention of asking it that way is to place emphasis on the history of experience that X has had.
What is it like to have been the kind of thing that has had the history of experience that X has had.
And that takes the question a little bit away from the tendency to say, what is X made of or how does X work, and instead to think of how has X been changed by the history that X has had.
And if, if putting a question that way, did any useful work for us. That was something I could say more about, well not a lot more but that was something that was left hanging from last time for me.
Maybe I'm getting the cat by the balls as they say, but when you first phrased it as you did now.
In other words, what was it like to be X.
I thought X therefore no longer exists.
So, would it not be what has it been like to be X, which implies X.
X still exists.
Yes, I didn't mean to imply that X doesn't exist anymore. I'm asking a question is, what is it like to have been the kind of thing that has had the experiences that X has had.
Because I prefer that because the way that you formulated it in the abbreviated version.
It was too cute to miss the proper question, yes.
Well, it doesn't imply that X no longer exists. And you're asking it from the grave. Well, what was it like.
But also, it removes the, the quality or no longer necessarily there. What was it like. If it just is a read out of what it was like.
Well, I think that's a lesser point, scratch that one. Anyway,
that's a really interesting nuance. What do you think Mike.
I love it. And I immediately went in the other direction, because now I'm thinking a lot about, you know, sort of the what's it like to do right I think we talked about this last time.
Now I'm wondering. So, so putting it in your way Richard I'm wondering if there's another question which is, what is it like to be something that anticipates things happening to it right that something that must act and is not indifferent to what happens next so
that's exactly what you're saying but sort of looking looking forward so what's it like to be something that has that level of investment in what happens next something like that you know I of course two sides of the same coin I guess but,
I like it a lot. And it also seems to take the emphasis off of right so so a lot of ways to think about this are, you know, there's only the present now and it's sort of what you are now and all that and this sort of aims it outwards and says, you know,
it felt to me like it takes that it that it immediately takes the pressure off its current structure its current material being its current material forms like what is it like to be X is like, it's just too easy to jump in and say what X is made of and how X is constructed
and how X works and that kind of stuff and when you think when you pose it more historically, or as to generalize it in the way that you suggest more temporarily extended way.
And if you can say it both ways at once.
So what is it like to
I keep reaching for have been, what is it like to be a system that has had that kind of experience that it is carrying forward with some sort of expectation about the future and try and try to do trying to do both at once but make it temporarily extended instead of just in the moment.
What's occurring to me now, as I think further about this is, firstly, to choose to be a system that has temporal depth, in other words to be a system that that has learned from from its experiences that has been affected by its experiences.
Is, is a system which is updating itself on it's changing its mind as it were.
It's changing its, its, its mental structure it's changing its, its control system for whatever you want to call it on the basis of past events to it that that affected it.
Unless the events mattered to it, they would not have. There's no reason to believe they would have been recorded in the way that that's implicit in the question.
Yeah.
And there would be no any system that has such a history would have such a future, because it's that kind of system.
I would think, Mike, that a system has to know that it is changing its mind in order to anticipate the future.
It might, it's, it's, it's perfectly, I would think it's sufficient that it changes its mind.
In other words, it changes its actions, which policies based on past events.
In other words, it is going to change its policies in relation to future events, whether it knows it or not.
So I think that the linguistic gymnastics that you get stuck in that you were just getting stuck in Richard, I think they can be avoided, just by saying you can ask the question in either direction.
I think that the simplest one is to ask it in the, in the past tense what in the, I don't know what that's called past past participle or something at the, the, the one where you say what has it been like to be X.
So we could even go more minimal than that and say, what's it like to be something to which things can happen. Right. It's you don't even have to you can go super minimal and not even know, you know, not know that you're changing your mind not be able to predict awfully much.
But, but you know, yeah, to be the subject of possible future happenings to but that was you just changed it to object though.
Yeah, what was it like to what is it like to be a sort of not you took out that what is it like to be part. Yeah, what kind of a system can can be acted on.
Yeah.
Yeah, you're right.
I had a few months ago, a brief conversation with a colleague with a humanities background, I think she's some sort of literary scholar, and she was getting very exercised about this way of speaking this.
I suppose it is a Nagel come Tom as way of speaking this what is it like.
She objected to what to do it on the grounds that it implies some sort of some sort of as ifness.
It's not what is it to be but rather what is it like to be in other words, what that was the way that she was reading it as a as a literary person, and she said why don't you just say what is it to be.
But that takes away the first person perspective.
Yeah, because we mean what does it feel like to be right.
I suppose it would be how, how does it feel to be.
How does it feel to be excellent or how has it felt to be X.
So I noticed that there's, there's, when I think about how a system has been changed by its experience.
I
noticed that you reach into the machine learning sort of territory or learning theory territory. And notice that, you know, so what is it, what is it like to be a neural network that's been trained on X or right what is it like to have, what's it like to have been a thing that's had that past
experience right.
And there's something that you can say, or what's it like to have been changed by that past experience, what, what kind of what.
Yeah, I don't want to get too hung up on the words, but I noticed that the way in which it behaves in the future is interesting from a machine learning point of view, exactly because of the ways in which it behaves which are not determined by its past
experience. In other words, the ways in which it generalizes.
So, there can be many networks that have had the same past experience that you could have given them exactly the same training data. And because they generalize differently.
That's exactly the way in which they generalize differently is exactly what they brought to the table that wasn't in their past experience.
And that undermines the validity of the question that I started with that it's not just, it's, it perhaps it isn't just what's it like to be a system that has had that kind of past experience.
But what is it like to be a system. What is it like to be that system in a way that isn't described exactly by the past experience that it's had.
You know that has a really interesting flavor which you and I have been talking about anyway in other contexts of getting more out than you put in sort of right that that it's, it's, it's this.
I put this it's, it's, it's not that it wasn't the past experience but it wouldn't have been able to unlock whatever this is that it now brings to the table if it weren't for that past experience right it's sort of a two part thing it's
your experience that allows you to sort of now even stuff that wasn't directly I mean I'm not saying anything that's not obvious but but that's what I feel like there's a two parter.
Because your inductive bias was there before you started but your ability to generalize wasn't the ability to generalize on this problem wasn't right you needed to, you needed to transform your in a model with that inductive bias to that experience.
And that transformation is it can be deterministic given where you started from, including your inductive bias and the experience that you've had, but it's not determined by the experience that you've had.
And neither was it apparent before you had that experience right you know it's just like, well you know it was the data plus it was a pass money pressure it's like so the pass money pressure predicted what I should do in this case like, no.
No, you still needed the experience and you know it's doesn't, it doesn't.
It's not like you can, you can take the set of all networks that have been trained on the same data and say.
Okay, but the way that this one generalizes is different from that one because it, you can, you can't just read that directly from its inductive bias you have to.
So this this it's amazing that this this actually gets exactly into something that I was going to ask and I think I think Mark could give a slant on this that probably I haven't heard before which is, it's related to this this thing that keeps coming up, which
is which is the kind of the free will question, right and people ask me this all the time and you know there are many ways to butcher it but I'm interested in how what you guys would say about it.
So I typically then just press for a definition like are you trying to be free from your own psychological drives are free from physics or what are you trying to be you know what free free from what exactly, but I just wonder you know like like so so for example,
Mark, what would you say, you know, maybe maybe to a client and psychoanalysis or to anybody like what's your, you know what's what is there a useful definition of that and what what do you think about these issues of control because I think it gets to exactly
what you were talking about Richard right you got this past history, then there's some other stuff you bring to the table. And so, what's the, what's the useful version of I could have done otherwise in this in this scenario.
Well, let me tell you the first thing that that comes to my mind in relation to this question.
The way that I look on the question of free will, which I don't think is anything particularly profound my my way of looking on it is that.
First of all, it's the it's probabilistic. In other words, there are greater or lesser chances that one will do a or B or C.
Then the those degrees of probability are determined for a system of the kind that that I'm interested in in other words a conscious system.
It's determined by its feelings feelings.
The government have negative affect means you're moving away from your preferred states in other words from your viable bounds positive affects mean you're moving back into your preferred states back towards your viable bounds.
So, the chances of you doing something are increased if they if what you're doing feels pleasurable, and they are decreased if what you're doing feels unpleasurable.
It doesn't mean you won't do it is the point that I'm making. It just means you're less likely to do it so to use the biblical example of Daniel in the lion's den.
Daniel chooses to enter the lion's den which is a very unlikely thing to do.
So, Daniel did it that's evidence of free will.
He did it anyway, but, but they're very few Daniels. So, you know this sort of behavior, you can indulge in it, but you're very unlikely to and in that sense that I understand free will and and and it's and it's relationship to feeling.
And I think that the only reason why they would be such individuals is because we, we have a multiplicity of feelings in other words we have a multiplicity of competing needs.
So, what satisfies one homeostatic drive may have the opposite effect on other homeostatic drives. And so it's a matter of prioritizing them, and that will be context sensitive.
And so, you know, here's how you how this sort of thing arises. That's something at one point in time, which may be very unlikely is not so unlikely for this particular system, given its history, and given the context that it's in, and given the
current relationship between its various homeostatic needs.
Does that begin to address the question that you asked him.
Yeah, I mean, there are there are kind of two aspects right so so some people are really into the science of it and they say yeah but you know physics I mean.
In the end it's all, you know, particles zooming around right so what do we really have. And then and then there are the people that are more interested on the personal side.
Given all the stories right the physics stories, the sort of story that you just told and all that. What does it mean for us as individuals and you know we just this is sort of some kind of an inevitable story being worked out or should I be in some
I mean I point out you don't have a choice about it but but should I be worried about actually, you know doing things or back it's all it's all sort of pre written that that kind of thing right people, people come at as I just wonder like in particular
I mean do you know when you deal with with patients and so on. Do you come across people who are who really buy into the sort of determine the hard determinist story and what effect does that have in their life and how do you, you know what what do you do then.
Well, so, let me say two things, and you're making it easier for me when you asked me to speak as a clinician because clinicians can speak very loosely.
But before I do that. Let me just remind you that the explanation or the account that I just gave of pre will simple as it was, and mechanistic as it was in nevertheless feelings play a central role in it.
So, it's not excluding the subject of the mind.
When I put it the way that I did I place the emphasis on feelings for very good reason, you know when I speak of homeostat, there are many homeostats that I do not think that have have these this extended functionality which gives rise to feeling.
There's a special kind of homeostasis that we're talking about where there is palpating of uncertainties.
In other words, modulating of of of precisions in the in the different policies relating to the different on your steps and then the relationship between them.
So that said, let me speak now as a clinician.
The thought that comes to mind immediately when you put it to me that way is that many. And I'm speaking now, both from the point of view of individual experience, and from the point of view of having to give expert testimony about whether or
it is responsible for their actions. And, and, and sometimes it's not just a matter of a binary question of yes or no, which is a sort of forensic psychiatric question of a quite simple kind it's got to do with the defined criteria.
But, but also in terms of mitigation of sentence that becomes a more a more gray question, it's not yes or no, it's a matter of to what degree and why is this person.
You take mercy on this person. And, and so what what it boils down to that the position that I've found myself coming to is, first of all, they're two factors first of all, I think that it's undoubtedly so that our individual histories,
for which we are not responsible, those aspects of it for which we are not responsible which are huge like what, what family we are born into, what what personalities and socio economic status, and so on our parents have
these are, we can't possibly be held responsible for that, and things that are perpetrated upon us by those families and, and the environments that we find ourselves in. It's undoubtedly obviously true that that these influences exist that we can't be held responsible
and that they will have a powerful determining effect on the likelihood that we will, for example, indulge in criminal behavior. So you are much more likely to indulge in criminal behavior.
If it's been the norm in the, in this social setting that you grew up in and where there's a imperative, for example to steal or to behave violently, because otherwise you're not going to, you're not going to get by, you know, so you can't be held responsible for all of that.
And that's the one factor. The second factor is that, yes, indeed. So it's, it's more difficult for person a to resist criminal action than person B, but ultimately in the end it is their responsibility.
So it's not, it's not a matter of, you know, do we or do we not take sympathy on on person a, because of their history, we do we say it's been much harder for you to do what is right.
In other words, to obey the law to keep that matter simple. It's much harder for you, but still it is your responsibility to do so. And so, ultimately, it is a matter of choice.
And a little bit like what I was saying earlier about free will that there are probabilistic factors which, which weight the likelihood, much more in case a then in case be that they're going to follow a certain course of action, but ultimately, it's up to them to decide whether or not they will
follow that course of action. So, so, so that's the thought that, and that's based on my experience with these things, you know, when you're, when you're dealing with the patient, you really do you realize, oh my God, the cards were really stacked against this person what a, what a tragic history.
But, you know, there are many such people with such histories, and some choose one route out of it and others choose another. And that isn't due to the history entirely it's got something, it's something that you do hold the patient responsible for the perpetrator responsible for.
So what do you think Richard I mean it's got both of these things right they've got this case of this this flavor of there's the part that's determined by your past history of inputs and then there's the other part that is brought to the table somehow right so what do you think about that we have some kind of
to me it felt like there was a, there was a little slippage in the middle there about.
We appreciate the history stacks the cards one way or the other, but the law requires us to determine that you don't do this or you do do that, and therefore it was a choice.
But that but was it though, right, you know it's like, you know, the law assumes that that it must have been a choice otherwise you can't hold anybody guilty, right.
You can't hold anybody responsible for their actions unless there was a choice unless there was free will but maybe that whole edifice doesn't make sense.
And if we, if, if we would imagine that the edifice of law was built on a folk psychology of a free will that doesn't exist. We can't use that as an as reason to believe that they had a choice.
That's why I agree with you that there's slippage there. And I think that that slippage is the interesting part of it because remember what I said at the outset I said, I'm glad to be allowed to speak as a clinician because clinicians can speak.
And you notice that I moved from being a clinician to being an expert witness clinician, because I have, I have found that's a terribly interesting experience, you know that a clinician, all you have to do is understand how did the patient come to be who they are now.
And, and if it's your patient, your job is to help them, you know, it's, it's not to to judge them, but rather to help them to live a life that is more satisfactory for them.
What is satisfactory for them does include the impact they have on other people which rebounds upon them so it's not, you know, an entire is so existing thing that.
And even in a court of law, I've always found it really interesting that the judge has to decide, you know, this was or was not the person was or was not responsible for this.
They have these quaint notions like what is reasonable, you know, what would a reasonable person do, and they have to decide this is or it is not reasonable.
And it's, it has a kind of sobering effects on the clinician when you realize they can't get away with just saying, well, you know, this, we can understand why this person did that that's not the point the point is are they to be held responsible and there has to be a binary answer.
Yeah.
And so the, the, the, the, I think the very, I mean, on the one hand, we can throw stones at the folk psychology that that the law rests upon.
On the other hand, you know, if you take seriously what the law is there to do what what it's task is, you know, then it has, it can't afford to not have some sort of simple criteria.
But I think that there is, you know, it's a very easy way of addressing the very question that we're talking about. I mean, can we really have a situation in which, because you can trace more or less deterministically I mean including
probabilistic causes you can trace more or less why the person came to be who they are.
And so the problem of any responsibility does it mean that there is no such thing as one being responsible for one's actions. I find it hard to imagine how we can live in a society in which we believe that
everybody is who they are because of their history. But I find it very interesting.
Evidently, you're drawing on earlier conversations and remember all the time, I'm not in your field, you know, so that they're things that you just take for granted that I don't even know about.
But I found it very interesting what the two of you were saying earlier, the way you were conceptualizing it that it's not just a matter of what the history is of the system.
It's a matter of what the system brings to that history, based on its own, its own priorities or its own tasks.
I think that's a very interesting way.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's there's a notion.
There's a couple of things come to mind there. I've been playing with this phrase the history of the system the whole system and nothing but the system, which, which resonates quite nicely with our imagining being in court for a moment.
But you can take a really simple example, like, like a neural network learning XOR, and there are basically two ways in which a simple one hidden layer neural network can can learn XOR.
It puts two decision boundaries like this and the other is that it puts two decision boundaries like that but so long as you've cut off two of the corners, you can do XOR okay.
But the difference between this and that is, what do you what answer did they give in the middle they give an opposite answers for what they give in the middle the way they generalize differently beyond the training data.
And if you initialize such a network and train it from initially small random weights.
Can you explain why whether it's going to be whether it's going to generalize this way or that way, right. Well you can't explain it with the data, because the data says that they're equally good.
You can't explain it with the sort of architecture of the network because it was the same architecture in both cases.
You could say well, but if you had initialized them exactly the same, then they would have, they would have generalized they would have necessarily become out exactly the same so the initial conditions of the weights does seem to be playing a part.
You can also see that the, when you look at why is this hidden you're on doing this decision boundary, and not that decision boundary. Well, that's that decision boundary only makes sense if the other one is doing this one.
And this one only makes sense if the other one is doing that one.
You can't explain it because there are a symmetry of each other.
There isn't any way to explain why hidden node one is doing this boundary this boundary this boundary or this boundary they're all equally likely.
But there's a symmetry breaking involved, which is about being complimentary to the other hidden node. And that's something which is happening inside the network. It's something which is
that that sensitive dependence on initial conditions and the symmetry breaking dynamics which happen inside it are.
Well at the very least, it becomes less and less a function of its own initial conditions and more and more a function of its own internal state.
And after it's become a little bit like this it becomes much easier, much more likely that it comes out like that and that it suddenly flips to generalizing the other way.
So the reason that the network says that the point in the middle of feature space is or isn't in X or I think if opposite answers for that point in the middle is a function of the history of the system, like what what training has it had.
And that's of the whole system because the reason that it has this decision boundary can't be separated from the presence that the other neuron has that decision boundary, it can't you can't separate it into parts.
There isn't a system in the sense that there isn't there isn't anything.
You're exactly interested in the part which is not explained by the history of the history of external inputs to the system.
So that's why I remember the history of the system the whole system and nothing but the system. And that's, that's, you need that you need that thing.
It's a short way of saying it now the history system the whole system nothing but the system to explain why they did that. Why did they do that behavior why did they say yes for this answer and not know for that answer.
I feel like you, you know if you have, if you have that in something as simple as one hidden layer neural network learning X or right it's, you know it's no wonder.
No wonder we find it difficult to ascertain whether or not it was history or something intrinsic to the system, which takes responsibility for what happened, right.
Like if it couldn't if it couldn't have been otherwise, then you say you're not responsible right.
Well, could it have been otherwise with like what everything that happened was deterministic so in that sense it couldn't have been otherwise but, but the reason that it came out this way and not some other way was not really a function of its experience at all.
The other ingredient there is the nature of the, the X orness of the problem right it's the sort of the nature of the problem space. And, and what I was thinking about, you know, you know people in terms of the, the will question people often try to imagine okay what
could there be a universe with you know with with no free will and then could what would a universe with actual like free will look like I'm wondering.
Could we have a universe in which that kind of generalization doesn't work. What would we have to break for for that not to work anymore.
What would we have to break for what not to work with the generalization right so so Richard started out with this really good example of the fact that when the network learns to generalize what it's doing is bringing something new to the table that
literally wasn't in the training data does an extra, you know something that you're getting out of it because now we can work on novel novel the inputs that it hasn't seen before.
So I'm wondering is there a way to break that is there a world in which I mean imagine the world in which that does not work that all you ever get is the inputs you've seen before where that extra bit doesn't happen.
Yeah, good. So it depends on whether you care about what outputs it gives to things you hadn't been trained on.
Right, so a simple place to stop is well I trained my network to do X or it correctly gives the truth table for X or job done.
And you never ask the question of what is it do if I give it an input that wasn't in the corners of the hypercube.
Right, I just don't I just don't ask that question. And then I just wouldn't care about what it brought to the table that wasn't in the history of the system.
So, and there's something there about.
There's something there's something observe a dependent in it.
Because why do I care what answer it gives what what, you know, is there a right answer or a wrong answer for rows of a table that wasn't in the training data is like, where you didn't, you know it wasn't.
They're just like these two networks are really are equivalent, even though they generalized differently. They really are equivalent because the only ways in which they're different are ways which weren't determined by the data.
Right.
So if I think that no but wait but this one is generalizing correctly this one has a true model of the world and this one doesn't. Right, if there's something, if there's something that matters to me about the way that this one generalized versus the way that that one generalized this one broke the law and this one didn't.
Then that suggests that I know something about the real world from which the data was drawn.
The wasn't in the training regime. And I want to know whether this system sees the world the same way I do.
Like if I was given that training data I would have said that the middle point was in the class, but they said the middle point wasn't in the class and that means they are not like me.
And therefore I can hold them responsible for their actions right the way the way in which they behaved wasn't the way I would have done it or something like that.
So maybe hold somebody responsible or guilty for something if you really believe that in the same situation you would have done it.
Maybe you can.
Well, if you're willing to hold yourself.
Yeah.
That's, that's categorically imperative.
No, I know I completely agree if I've been in that situation, I would have totally done that, but thank goodness I wasn't so, but you're here and not me so off you go.
Yeah, but there's so there is something there I think about the way when if we acknowledge that a system can bring something to the table that isn't in the history.
Then there's something about does, do I, does the way in which they generalize makes sense to me.
