Right because then there's the, there's the two of us involved in the system the observer and the system. It's not, there isn't a way of saying this system was bringing something meaningful to the table and that system wasn't just because they generalize differently.
I can only say that, but I can say something like this system generalized in the way that I would have generalized right on this system didn't generalize in the way that I would have generalized and that makes it somehow.
I know more about what it's like to be them than I do about the one that generalized differently from me.
I keep, I keep being pulled to this issue of the structure of the space right it's like, if you if you learn to generalize the rule that derives prime numbers let's say that once you've done that.
There's a whole, you know, sort of infinitude of these things that you can keep on generating beyond what you've seen so far.
And the structure of the explanation for why you say the things you say, in part in part it's your history or structure but in part it's just it's the pattern of prime numbers such as it is.
Right, it's just not that that's neither your structure, nor your inputs, it's just the sort of external, nor the observer.
No, so that's that's an interesting so that that's a different server those numbers are not special.
Yeah, right. That's the crux of your point. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Do you know, there was a I wish I could remember the exact.
I don't remember the exact book but you know, there was this, there was this case of a savant syndrome I don't know mark you may have, you may have know what this they were these two these two brothers who they were, you know, sort of severely disabled
and they never went to school or anything like that. But what they would do is they would sit there with each other and they would just say prime numbers back and forth to each other. That's just what they would do.
And, and the guy investigating them went and got a book a table of of and they wouldn't really they weren't really into talking to anybody else and, but he got this he got this this book that was just like a list of prime numbers.
And he said some and they included him in the circle so they would go like, you know, three way right, and then his book ran out he got to the end of the book and he couldn't do it anymore.
And then they were like, that that was it and they wouldn't talk to him after after that, after he couldn't do it, but you know but but it's such an it's such an interesting thing because somewhere in there I mean so they hadn't been to school to learn what the significance of that is but there was something
that was sort of generating these things. And they were pulling it out and they could they could do it better than the than the almanac he had so I don't know how there's, I mean yes there's definitely needs to be an observer but
but it's yeah it's it still feels like it's not any old list of numbers right even if you have an observer it's it's there's a specific structure to it.
So there's there's something there that I've said, I've said before about.
How is it possible that that anything can can generalize right. So, how is it possible that anything has an appropriate inductive bias for generalizing without having already tested that inductive bias to see how good it was at generalizing right
cross validation method. And it's like what if you if you've already tested it to see how good it is a generalizing you're not doing generalization anymore right you're just you're just, you know, trying a different bunch of sets and seeing which one work best.
So how is it possible, how can it ever be possible that an an inductive bias works in a way that hasn't been proved by the data is sort of by definition it can't be proved by the data.
But so how does so how does learning work then how do organisms ever survive in the in in the natural world how do I ever learn anything how do brains ever work and the rest of it.
How does machine learning work on data sets you haven't seen before.
And I think there's so that what I've been saying about that is because they're, they're built from stuff of the same universe.
They don't have to be built from literally the same stuff, but they built from stuff of the same universe that brain might be causal network that happens to be built out of neurons and synapses.
But it's still a sort of network of pairwise interactions that's like the network of pairwise interactions out there in the world that it's trying to understand, whether that's interactions between people or between objects or between
environments of the selective environment or whatever whatever environment that is that the organism is in. And if they weren't built from the same kind of stuff induction would be impossible.
For me there's something there about
being able to intuit what it is to be you
based on
whether I think
you and I come from the same universe. I think what I was reaching for there was that, although
there aren't aren't arbitrary, because they're, they're from the same universe of possibilities that you know but in in this universe at least factors are meaningful things and the absence of factors is a meaningful thing.
So I lost it.
It's really interesting and and again that makes me ask it makes me think about. So what does it take to break that right in in what universe, like what's the alternative to the universe right where that doesn't work, because you I think
we change all the, you know, struck with all the constants of the physics and everything I think faculty I think the number stuff would still be exactly what it is right.
I mean does that
So you first raised that question in the context of what would a universe be like that didn't have where free will wasn't possible in a universe where free will was possible right.
I mean that's another right that's that's that's another way that people ask this is like, I mean one.
So, so so then it in his, in his early early book on on on free will just points out that look in terms of physics we know two things we know determinism and we know random, you know quantum randomness and that's it and neither of those things look like free will to
us so voila, right it doesn't exist. That's his argument and so, so I think it's important to sort of ask, do we have a coherent version of like what what a universe be where, where everyone could say oh yeah boy in that world you know you really do have have proper free
understanding of what that even look like. So that's what that's why I asked these questions about you know these counterfactual worlds.
So just, this is going to be one of those. This is going to be like our last conversation I'm going to spend a lot of time off to this meeting.
Thinking is extremely, extremely interesting questions that you're raising.
Yeah, because, because right because you know also so so Richard brings up this point that we're sort of we're from the same universe. So how far does that go right does that mean that every possible being in this universe so all of our synthetic
agents the aliens the whatever, you know, crazy architectures are out there that right so so we're all good we're all part of that same set we can all sort of sympathize with each other and all that.
And so now the question is, is there some other universe somewhere where that wouldn't be the case right and if, and if you know where's the border where if something showed up from that universe you go like ah there's no way you know we just can't.
Yeah.
So that would be a universe where things that were not from the same universe could meet each other.
And in that universe, there would just be deterministic stuff and random stuff and nothing in between.
Because the way in which you did something that wasn't obviously determined by your history when you did something that was obviously determined by history there was nothing to explain and when you didn't it was just random, because there was just no structure in it that I could possibly understand.
And what what you do that's that's not determined by your history has no structure in it at all that I can see with my history.
Something like that.
Yeah.
And then it would be purely my my ability to induce what induction you're doing would be zero.
Because I mean, because you also you also asked how far does this go right that, you know, life from other parts of the unit of this universe are still from the same universe so we would get that right we would get them.
But you don't have to go that far right because the kind of induction that rocks do doesn't make any sense to me.
They appear to either be deterministic or random to me.
They don't have enough shared history with me for me to understand what sort of what what kind of induction is this rock doing just doesn't just can't see it.
That's super interesting random numbers instead of prime numbers right I just can't see.
And they're interesting because that's that sounds exactly the way that some some of the people in my field will think about cells to like that's the right that's not at all the kind of thing that I do they just I don't get it I don't see I don't see how you could
possibly see this as a cognitive anything like just, you know, they would they would group cells tissue they would they would group all of that with with with the rocks on this on this scenario.
In fact that's exactly what they say when I start talking about, you know, cells making decisions and whatever and they say well how about rocks you you know what you know that's a question number one is more about rocks.
I mean, it literally is in the same in the same bin.
Yeah, but because you spend a lot of time in cell world thinking about things that cells care about you there, their generalizations make more sense to you.
Like they're not just saying random numbers to you they're saying prime numbers.
That's very interesting too because, because a lot of the people who feel this way. It's not that they've spent less time staring at cells than I have right they do the same stuff.
But they get something else and something different out of it they they've reached that they've seen the same data, and they've, they've reached the right it's kind of like, yeah, exactly right.
Wow, yeah, never thought of that before.
Amazing, amazing.
What was next on your list, Mike.
Well, the next thing is, I was going to ask you, I was going to ask you mark whether do you know, and this is this is, well, maybe I think completely shifting topics but I guess we'll see.
Do you know the Lorber cases of the hydrocephaly Lorber cases.
Hydrocephaly, you mean hydrantencephaly.
Well, so I could be getting this wrong you can you can tell me so there's a couple of papers from the 1980s where this guy named Lorber.
And one of the papers is called is your brain really necessary. And so what he was studying was the rare, the very rare cases of adults with drastically reduced brain volume that had normal or above normal IQ.
So, so right so so there was one and I believe I even saw this guy interviewed on TV when I was a teenager in the 80s where they said I think they said he had less than a third of the of the cortex matter of a chimp or something like this and the guy was in the master's
program for math I mean you wouldn't know right so totally normal, but but but you know actual brain volume radically read and it's because of the water you know the water pressure and all that.
What do you what do you make of cases like that because you know people will say well redundancy but if that was all it is, you know I don't think we'd have such huge heads and right if you could get away with less.
I don't I don't see why why we would buy most people would have such he admits a problem right it's it's a huge price it's a problem that big heads and all that.
So, was what do you make of that what's what's with these, these cases.
Yeah, so that is hydrocephaly rather than hydrant and separately.
And the standard answer to question I'm not going to contribute very much I'm afraid Mike the standard answers are two fold.
And one has to do with with the, the, the mode of onset of the pathology. So, the, the, what we're talking about there in terms of the hydrocephaly.
It's, it's not unique to hydrocephaly, you know that there are many other pathologies, like for example, men in geomas, which grow very slowly and take up.
There's ultimately an enormous amount of cranial volume there by compressing.
What else is there, just as in the case of hydrocephaly the CSF the cerebrospinal fluid compresses the parenchymal tissue.
So to can a rampant men in geoma.
If it says if it's a sufficiently slow or constant factor in the organisms development.
Then it does it simply organizes itself in relation to that.
And so that's the one the one standard answer is it has to do with the natural history of the pathology.
And the other which is which is fairly closely related but not quite the same thing is it depends on how early in the development, the taking something away is very different from from having to adjust to something that's there from the beginning.
And I've had many cases, I had a case of a patient who came to me who had a bicycle accident, minor bicycle accident.
And because he went to a private hospital, they did all sorts of investigations on him that were totally unnecessary, because they could charge for them.
And he was a very successful business person.
And the investigations that were done and him included the MRI scan, which revealed that he had no left hemisphere, never had had a left hemisphere.
And there he was as very successful person and he just needed reassurance from me that he really is normal I mean how can it be possible I have almost literally half a brain.
And the answer is, well, it's because you've always had only half a brain, you know, so your brain developed around the fact that there's no left hemisphere and so every their hemisperectomies performed in very young children, and everything that was going to go to the left hemisphere
I mean, everything, including, you know, motor control of the right side of the body, including the rep, you know, occipital representation of the retina, it all just shipped over to the other side.
So, as I said, I'm not giving you a very deep answer but but those are, it's not entirely surprising that you have a person who's got a chronic hydrocephaly, whose cortex is very compressed, which is not ideal.
But they've been able to compensate because it's always been like that it's a constant factor in that.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, maybe this is, you know, we're almost out of time so I'd love to pick this up next time because I understand the plasticity and all of that.
You know, certainly I think in on the in on the computer side, we're told that there's a certain density of work you're going to get out of a certain amount of medium right and oh we're going to need more, you know, GPUs we're going to need more memory like it takes an amount
of medium to fit a certain performance. And if I say, Well, don't worry, you know, I'll give you a half of that but but but we can start that way from the beginning.
You know, that's not going to work on the on the engineering side right so so this question of, I mean, clearly it's not infinite you can't have infinite density of capacities per whatever cubic millimeter.
So, so I'm really interested in that aspect of it out. If you really can fit everything if this guy is a successful businessman and he's writing a bicycle and he's going all this stuff, you can really fit all that into one hemisphere.
I just, I find it. I don't know how you know what's the minimum you can, what's the density of competencies per unit volume I don't, I don't get it.
So, anyway, maybe we can we can talk about that next time.
Well, as always you ask questions that that that I don't normally get asked and so it's really, it's really useful to be asked such questions because otherwise I, you know, I truly have never thought about what you've just said now.
The, the, just two things I know as you say we almost out of time but just to further put notes really to to this question is that it's not.
The one is it's not infinite this. It's, it's, it's a matter also of, you know, you have to have something of the stuff.
And without all of it so for example, you can you can have, you can have no left hemisphere or no right hemisphere the other one will take over but if you have no hemispheres, the brain stem can't take over what hemispheres do.
So, there's there's a limit to to the to the principle that we're discussing.
And the other which is again really just a small footnote is that the differences in size of the brain individual differences and if I may say so, because it's such a delicate topic, they also gender differences in terms of the size of the brain.
And it's reliably demonstrated that the size makes no difference in terms of it's so male brains are not any better than female brains despite the fact that they are considerably bigger.
And individual variation in terms of our intellectual capacities doesn't correlate with the size of our individual brains which vary enormously.
Those are just two little quick notes.
Yeah, no super super relevant and people often say, you know, I'll talk about some kind of example, you know this tree frog that remembers where all the babies aren't just all with that tiny little brain and can do that.
I said, did you have an expectation for what the size should be for that because I don't have a clue. I don't have any clue what the size should be for a given set of competencies right.
