itself to help us.
We just have to give it a little more help.
And I can, there's youth getting involved, you know, protect our winners.
It's all about athletes that are outside that love the earth and they are
getting, they're going to be coming relatively kick ass in terms of their
political advocacy.
And there's a, there's a new youth initiative out of Maine that's spread
like wildfire all over the country.
That's all about getting kids, including urban kids out on the land.
And from that, doing their political advocacy and work.
So I feel kind of excited about this dimension.
And it's a no regrets place to put your life energy, because even if we
don't get all the carbon mitigation by planting, you know, by, by restoring
ecosystems and protecting ecosystems, it makes them safer and us safer.
It creates habitat for other animals, birds, pollinators, reptiles, just in a
couple of weeks and I'll, I'll be quiet, but I'm helping lead a conference
of cities from around the country that are looking at the ways that urban
tree canopies reduce heat.
So they sequester carbon, but they actually literally can reduce the
heat in that city by up to three degrees Fahrenheit.
That's, that's a make or break amount of heat in a lot of places.
And in particularly in low income communities of colors in those cities,
they have less green, they have less canopies.
How do we address that?
So there's lots of pushback.
I can see the challenges, but I see tremendous momentum and regenerative
ag, agroecology, not just in the U S, but in Europe, they're doing trials
in Finland and the Netherlands and Germany and France in India.
You know, they're, they're, they're doing some amazing stuff going with
regenerative organic, chemical free agriculture to sequester carbon, but to
boost food security.
So I mean, it's, it's, it's all kind of really fun and incredibly positive.
So I think 2.4 is so much better than 2.5.
And I think nature itself can help us pull back even if, even if we get
up to 2.5, I think if we keep working with the natural world itself, we can pull back.
So that's where I'm putting my time.
Yeah, I think that's awesome that you've gone from voter rights and nuclear
to climate to changing consumption profiles.
And you've kind of landed in this agroecology, a regenerative agriculture,
which I recognize as being super important, but I don't know a lot about it.
So can you just tell me, because a lot of people have told me this, that it's too
late to, well, unless something radical happens, we're not going to massively
reduce the economic emissions in time to avoid some of these scenarios.
So what would be like one of the most exciting CO2 reducing strategies
using agriculture that you've heard of or are working with, just planting
trees as much as we can, or are there things more creative?
Well, one of the most game changing things we could do all over the world.
And, you know, it's not a surprise that the World Bank and the IMF and the
Export-Import Commodities groups and Bill Gates Foundation are in the way.
But if we simply captured our food waste and our animal waste and created
compost and took a small amount of that compost then to rebuild soils for every
kind of agriculture, for vineyards, for food production, for, of course,
there are ways of managing cows so that they move across the land and fertilize
it rather than destroy it.
You have to have smaller herds, but you can, you can manage cows to
regenerate the earth.
If we just captured our waste and repurposed it to build a soil, which is
in fact what indigenous communities and many communities prior to Industrial
Ag did, we could sequester so much carbon and we could boost food security.
So just a small one-fourth of an inch of compost on grasslands or drylands,
massively boost sequestration.
There have been field trials at the University of California for 10 years
that demonstrate this, but there are all kinds of incentives that discourage
the capturing of waste.
How does that happen?
What are the, what are the mechanisms of that?
So you, San Francisco is a model city.
They have a food waste capturing system.
They've created a huge composting system and you can take compost spray from
that and spray it on fields in a very small amount, less than a fourth of an
inch.
This was done by Wendy Silver at the University of California, Berkeley.
Her paper is out.
It's a peer reviewed paper demonstrating that by spraying this compost on these
fields and she did it in two different types of fields in California, which
were dry, there was tremendous sequestration per hectare, much more than
she anticipated.
B, water was held in the soil.
So whether you have fire and drought or floods, if you are feeding this
soil with compost, with, with things that regenerate the soil, that soil is
like a sponge and it can manage for floods or droughts.
It's holding water and that boosts productivity.
It allows you to grow even under dry or very wet conditions.
So that's how that works.
There, there are about 34 practices, but the basic practices are don't disrupt
the soil, don't till too much, minimize tilling.
And the Rodale Institute has created this, what they call crimper, where you
can get weeds controlled without tilling.
You don't have to.
And so there's no till, there's cover crops, which put nitrogen in back naturally
rather than through synthetic fossil fuel-based nitrogen fertilizer.
You can plant legumes, which is what, of course, First Nations and Native
American groups have done forever to put nitrogen back in the soil.
You can do crop rotation.
You can look at your crops and, and, and grow deep seeded, deep-rooted crops
where the sequestration is huge with some of these deep-rooted crops.
The Land Institute is doing some really interesting demonstration projects
in this.
So I could go on and on, but the bottom line is, you know, the USDA and much
of the European Union and now parts of China, I'm thinking of other countries,
Malawi, Columbia, South Africa, there are many countries now actually trying
to demonstrate through a variety of agricultural practices that are all
about healthy soil, that by building healthy soil, you get so many great
outcomes and healthy soil, food grown in healthy soil is way more nutritious.
The Grantham Foundation is leading a lot of the research on this.
There's a group called Soil Heroes in the Netherlands doing the work.
Rodale's doing work demonstrating that when you take care of soil, which we have
not been doing, but when you take care of soil, get rid of the chemicals, care
for the soil, rotate the crops, cover the soil, not disrupt the soil and feed it
with waste, the soil becomes this amazing sponge for carbon, for water, and for
productivity of food security.
And it's the opposite of what the IMF, the World Bank and the Bill Gates
Foundation are doing, and it's deeply distressing.
You know, and of course, there's the agro-industrial complex, which is fossil
fuel-based, which pushes those fossil fuel-based fertilizers all over the world.
So it's a fight, it's a political battle.
I could go on and on about regenerative agriculture, and that's just one piece.
I know you could, and that's why I invited you on this.
I wanted you to talk.
Here's my thought there, because I have looked into this.
Jason Bradford was on this show.
He's a good friend of mine working on these issues, and we puzzled out that we
could grow a lot of food without fossil inputs, and it would be healthier, and it
would be good for climate, like you say.
But what that would require is more labor, more human labor added to the fields,
because it's kind of labor-intensive, and the mechanization, we're optimizing
profits, we're not optimizing healthy soils or carbon.
So this again gets back to the root is this runaway exponential growth-dependent
system, and if we were to change either the incentives and or the values, because
if you change the values, then individual humans can choose to devote 10% or 15% of
their time to regenerating the soil and their land and their community and their
area, but right now time is money, except what ends up happening is all the time
saving devices in the world.
Then we end up spending 57 minutes more at the end of the day on Instagram or
Twitter or Facebook, when we should be in the garden.
I mean, theoretically, you can integrate technology and labor-saving tools with
regenerative agriculture, and there are a lot of places doing that.
Four to 500 million, or I think it's about 400 million, and I was just looking at
a recent study that nobody really knows exactly how many farms there are, but
about at least 400 million of them are a hectare or less, they're small.
These are not farmers that will have the capacity to integrate drones and
technology platforms to manage, but what, you know, this is something that's
desperately needed right now.
There's something called the Agroecology Fund out of Boston that's working on
this, we need to muster the science, and I recently was reviewing some of the
science and I was struck, going back to maybe your first question of this
interview, how many of the young scientists looking at diversified,
small and medium-sized farms, and what they can do to feed the world, how
many of those scientists are women, and there is this whole group of young
scientists, predominantly women, not exclusively, who are wanting to
demonstrate that by shifting to regenerative agroecological practices,
we can, we can feed the world not only more, but more nutritionally, that the
nature of what comes out of those soils will make people so much healthier.
And yes, there is more labor required, and I think that's not bad, helping
some people get back on the land might remind us of really who we are.
I think if I was to say something to a young person, it would be think about
one thing that you might do is just get off of technology in very explicit
and conscious ways for part of the week and get outside.
Because when you're out in that land, when you're out in that forest, it
changes your values, it changes what you think matters.
So anyway, that was a digression, but maybe not such a bad one.
No, not such a bad one.
Yes, just a point that I think it was the grant them research that showed
that as CO2 increases, yes, we have higher plant growth, but it's
carbohydrate plant growth and the products of the plants that we eat,
the grains are lacking certain micronutrients versus 50 years ago.
So that's one of the things that I think you're suggesting could be improved.
My question is, given the constraints that you just talked about, is the
regenerative agriculture movement progressing differently in other countries
relative to the United States and Europe?
Is the global South or Asia doing things at a faster pace than we are?
Or do you have any evidence or thoughts on that?
There's a large movement for agroecology in Latin America, parts of Africa
and Southeast Asia, and that is rooted in not just a concern for climate,
but control over food.
You know, having food was often termed food sovereignty, having control
of seeds, which have been, of course, since 1980, having control of seeds.
Since 1980, there's been patenting of seeds, geo, you know, geoengineering
of seeds and control of seeds.
So there's a big movement.
So the answer to your question is agriculture and regenerative agriculture
looks different in different parts of the world.
But the principles tend to be the same in terms of the soil.
That is, it's about caring for the soil.
It's about nourishing the soil.
In the US, we are, we, the incentives are all for commodity ag.
They're all for the big, you know, wheat, corn, soybean, sugar, rice, cotton.
And so a lot of the regenerative rewards that have just come out of a big,
you know, $20 billion or, I'm sorry, do I have that right?
There's a lot of money.
I should have the numbers right and I, I don't have them to my tongue,
but it was billions moved out of USDA to promote regenerative ag.
Overwhelmingly going to the big corporate commodity farms, but not
exclusively funds did go to some wonderful regenerative projects, including
projects led by indigenous leaders and communities of color.
It is different in different parts of the world because farming looks
different in different parts of the world.
And the fights are similar though.
You've got big fossil fuel backed chemical and fertilizer companies wrapping
themselves up in the language of regenerative ag.
