So a key part of it is simply reaching out to help people know you see them,
you appreciate them, you're listening to them.
And you might be very different, but just that act, I think helps calm
everything down, helps people not feel they have to grasp and get.
More is not always better.
So as individuals, then we can play a role in rehumanizing our, our culture
and our interactions.
Yeah.
I mean, that's a one by one thing.
Obviously education helps, community helps.
All the opportunities to be out in nature helps.
I think getting off technology helps because so much of the technology now is
about the focus on me, you know, selfies.
Um, just like it's all about everything about it is reinforcing a focus on the
self and actually a heavy focus on the self is problematic because it's based
on the false notion that we're actually separate selves.
And I think in reality, there's some deeper reality where we're much more
deeply connected than we can grasp.
And so if we can find those connections, it helps us move in a different direction.
But in terms of like of a huge system change, if we could have education
in our school systems, in our communities, not just education, but opportunities
for, for serving together, for being together in a way that's fun and mutually
supportive, all of that would help.
And it, it would, you know, require massive changes.
I remember under Jimmy Carter, this dates me, Tina Hobson was the head of
consumer affairs and there was a massive education and outreach all over the
country about just the simple thing of saving energy of consuming thoughtfully
of being conscious of how your actions affect the earth.
And it was, you know, from through the government, which is the only time I've
actually, I don't think we've done it since then.
It was helpful.
So I have so many thoughts in, in response to that.
First, it's my kind of theory.
I don't really know that it's a theory, just an observation that the focus on
the self generally relative to prior cultures and relative to less wealthy,
materially wealthy countries today is a product of this vast amount of energy
surplus and goods and services that we didn't need human connection the way
we did for most of our ancestral past.
And that is going to change relatively quickly.
So to start to build social networks now is not only healthier for the people
listening to this podcast as individual humans, but that acts as a web of social
capital in our culture more broadly.
And, and so I do think that some of our focus on the self is correlated with
this carbon pulse of, of material riches that we've been through the last century
or so.
Absolutely.
Great.
And, and absolutely agree that everybody listening to this, you know, we do
have the excess carbon and energy that lets us do all sorts of amazing things.
And we will eventually run short of that.
But before we get to that total collapse point, I think one of the most important
things any individual can do is get into a network of mutual support, whatever you
want to call that, it can just be a few people in your community can be in your
family, but it is really important to have that both in terms of what matters in
life, like feeling fulfilled, but also being safe because we're going to be
having a lot of disruption.
And I think more than anything else in terms of being resilient and safe, it's
being in one of these interconnected networks of other people.
And when you do that, you then do discover, Hey, you know, going to the mall or
getting on my, my smart watch or maybe that's not what I want to do.
Maybe I, maybe I want to have a potluck meal with people or maybe we want to walk
in the woods or maybe we want to create a alternative gift fair for the holiday
season to, you know, support local charities and get involved and figure out
what those are.
There's just a thousand possibilities and it ends up being kind of fun.
So let me ask you a tangent to that, that I'm always curious about because I
don't understand it.
What is the role or the different role or the different incentive in what you
just described between women and men?
You and I were just at a conference and I've been to several conferences this
year that we talk about the poly crisis and collapse.
And there seems to after a couple of days be these, this self-organization of
groups of women talking and groups of men talking.
And I don't know if it's dopamine trying to figure out the climate scenarios or
the financial depletion and energy versus the embodied response of community
and security and belonging.
But do you have any thoughts on that?
And how can women especially engage with what's ahead in this cultural kind
of transition to a less material focused culture?
That's a great question too.
First of all, I do think all men and women have the potential to be protective
of the earth, be supportive of other humans and life on the earth that all of
us have that possibility.
But I do see differences sometimes.
I do think, you know, there are men feeling great grief and great sadness.
And from that, having know the capacity to be incredibly empathetic and
compassionate, but I see women doing it more.
I do see women at the meeting we were at.
And since I have been struck by the number of women actually all over the
planet right now, women leaving sort of legal professions, economic and engineering
jobs to go focus on protection of life, like in a very tangible way, protection
of places of particular peoples.
And there's kind of a deep fierce love about it.
And there's a kind of a courage about it.
And I see that in men too, but I see there's something and it may have to do
with the role of mother.
I feel that on myself sometimes.
You know, I feel, what would you do?
How far would you go to lay your life down for the young?
Not only your young, but the young, not only human young, but the young of other species.
There is something, I think, almost biological.
Now, maybe that's also in men.
I'm not a man, but I do see I'm part of this network of women we call ourselves
the lionesses and there's a lot of ferocity that's love based.
I've just joined and became an advisor to something called Daughters of the Earth.
It's a new program and it's about supporting women leaders all over the world
that are working to protect places and species of animals, working to protect
the mountain grills, working to protect, liberate animals from industrial farming
situations, working to change the way we farm.
And it's all women led and it's all women advised.
So there's something happening.
I think it's always been there, but there's definitely, I see really
high level negotiators and high level people kind of walking away from that
world to be in community and place to say, well, at least in this place,
I'm laying my life energy down for the beauty and the health of this place for the young.
So yeah, I can't say entirely why that's happening, but my guess would be
it is partly biological.
Well, I guess we don't have to know why as long as it's happening.
And I for one, I'm very glad that you are not a man given that you're working
on all these very important things.
So getting back to what you mentioned before, you were the executive director
for the Center for a New American Dream.
And like you said, you focused on trying to get away from consumption as our goal.
And how can we live happier with less?
Is it possible that all the work you did there, and I was aware of your work
there before we ever met and followed the work, you know, 10 years ago or something.
Is it possible that what you did was educate and plant a seed in lots of people
but that the dominant culture was so strong with all the media and advertising
and algorithms and social media and polarization that people couldn't
swim against that current, but the seed was planted.
And isn't that our role now to plant as many seeds as possible to change
the initial conditions of when events start to accelerate so that people
have kind of a recognition and understanding.
Oh, yeah, I've heard about this.
Actually, in my own life, I do feel better when I have more social capital
and less technological gadgets.
Do you have any thoughts on that?
Yeah, I think that the work, you know, the Center for an American Dream
was focused on helping individuals, but also institutions shift patterns of consumption.
So for individuals, it was really about looking at what matters.
How can you live so that your your choices and how you use your money
and time are aligned with your deepest values?
And we had about 200,000 people, you know, after, I don't know,
I think I was there for eight.
I was the first was the second executive director, but pretty much the first.
And we had a really strong response.
We also worked with institutions because we felt like, you know,
we needed to not just have individuals, but we needed to be looking
at the larger economic system, which is rooted in consumption and growth.
As you know, you've you've written and talked a lot about that.
And so we did mobilize actually billions of dollars in purchasing power
and created a purchasing network of mainly state agencies
and cities around the country, some federal agencies and corporations.
And we we did drive things like the first real demand for hybrid vehicles
and things like recycled paper.
And at that time, there was a lot of talk about it.
It was post Rio Summit, 1992 Rio Summit, where really consumption
and growth were talked about.
I was part of President Clinton's task force on consumption and population.
There was conversation and there were a lot of books.
Paul Hawkins books, Schumacher.
So, yes, I think we planted seeds.
I do think we're inside of I don't know what you would call it.
It's very advanced.
Yes, state supported capitalism out of control.
Greed is being reinforced.
Technology is reinforcing kind of a meism.
And the values are really tough to break through.
Having said that, I think a lot of people feel an alienation
from the system that we're in, especially young people.
If you look at the number of young people who just think our current system
really is not working and we know, you know, people of color, lower income people.
I mean, there's just there's been a longstanding critique
of the economic paradigm we're operating in.
I think our work was some of the work that said, you know, for the sake of the planet,
for the sake of all people and all non people that are living, animals and plants,
we need to share.
We need to use less.
We need to watch our our ecological footprint.
And I think we did plan a lot of seeds.
I think there's a lot of things happening out there
and in trying to create new economies, new local systems of of economic activity
and cultural values, and it's hard.
And sometimes I feel we we need to capture the reins of some of those technologies.
Like sometimes I feel like we just need to have a global conversation.
Let's use some of these platforms to have a conversation with one billion people.
Let's just shut everything down for a day.
Let's just have a conversation about what really matters.
And let's hear some people's stories.
And I think one of the most radical things we can do is be in deep relationship
with someone who's on the margins of this economy, someone who's doing everything
they possibly can to protect their young, to be in community, to do everything right.
And they're on the margin.
They're barely making it.
And there's others of us.
And I put myself in that place that are privileged, that have had opportunity.
And if we can stay in real relationship with that person on the margin,
it changes everything.
It changes the way you see what you want.
And so anyway, but yes, I think we planted seeds.
