You're listening to The Great Simplification with Nate Hagins, that's me.
On this show, we try to explore and simplify what's happening with energy, the economy,
the environment and our society.
Together with scientists, experts and leaders, this show is about understanding the bird's
eye view of how everything fits together, where we go from here and what we can do about
it as a society and as individuals.
Betsy Taylor has long been an icon in the environmental and social change fields.
Betsy founded the Climate Network One Sky, which eventually became 350.org.
She ran the Center for a New American Dream, as well as Breakthrough, Strategies and Solutions.
Recently, Betsy has shifted to supporting the field of regenerative agriculture, promoting
the potential of our lands to sequester carbon pollution while boosting food security and
habitat protection.
Betsy and I had a wide-ranging conversation about climate, consumption, culture, nuclear
war, agriculture and the future.
I'm happy to welcome Betsy Taylor to The Great Simplification.
Hello Betsy.
Hey Nate.
How are you?
I'm looking forward to this.
I am doing well.
I'm in Vermont.
It's a beautiful day.
Yeah, I imagine there's lots of tourists coming up from New York City for the peak.
What are those called?
The Peepers.
Yeah.
With all the fall color.
The sugar maples are turning red.
It's gorgeous.
We have the same thing here right now.
It's stunning.
I just got back from a bike ride, but I miss.
I got my PhD in Burlington and I lived close to Mount Mansfield and it's just so gorgeous
there.
It is.
It is.
So, I'm jealous.
Great to see you this summer and I'm glad we had some time to talk.
And now we're going to take a deep dive with the microphone on.
So for people that don't know of you, you have worn many professional hats.
One might say you are a progressive leadership polymath.
You have been involved in issues ranging from responsible nuclear management, freedom
of speech and voters rights.
You built a movement to mitigate climate change and now you are working on regenerative agriculture.
So let me just start by asking you, how were you drawn to these quite different fields?
Yeah.
Yeah, I have seemed to be drawn to the dire threats and I think part of it, and we've
talked about this, part of it stems from my childhood.
I only recently figured this out where I grew up in a country setting with a country
doctor nurse team as parents and our house was connected to the office and there were
just always rescue operations underway.
It was a huge medical practice and so I was in the middle of a lot of these rescue operations
and I actually think that really helped for me.
And I think if you look at the issues of the nuclear threats of consumption and growth,
of climate change, of industrial agriculture, of voter suppression, all of those are kind
of linked by a value system of domination, of sometimes violence, of I would call extractive,
kind of extractive taking values and I think the opposite of that are the values of connection
interdependence.
So I think there's a value system and a whole way of thinking that just sort of for me and
I think it's probably the same for you, Nate.
You start working on one thing and there's a seamless connection to these others because
they're in the framework of a different way of being and trying to see the world and trying
to work for that kind of world.
So I think that's it.
Otherwise I have some sort of deep, deep kind of psychological tendency to go to the darkest
issues.
Well, let's go there briefly.
Do you think that because as a young human growing up with everyday kind of stress and
trauma because of your parents' vocation that you became acclimated to accepting things
that normally would be cognitively pushed back, pushed away by most people so those
things seemed less threatening to you or not threatening but you were more able to embrace
them?
You know, I'll share a story that you've heard me share in the past which I've really only
recently realized was formative but of all the various kind of emergencies that landed
in our living room of our home from people's stomachs being pumped out to people having
heart attacks to people having babies.
There was one night when some teenagers were out on the road in my town.
I was a young teen.
They were seniors in high school.
They were bored and they decided to play chicken which is, you know, when two cars race towards
each other at high speed and the one that pulls out first is the chicken.
So this was a huge event in our town.
These kids race towards each other.
They didn't pull away.
Three of them died immediately and one of them was so broken, you know, lost half her
blood, both lungs collapsed, brain damage broken back.
Just on and on.
They couldn't move her to Johns Hopkins Hospital so she went to the local hospital.
My father was attending her.
She was his patient.
And this case affected I think my life because twice she was pronounced dead by the two other
doctors working with my father.
But my father saw that she had brain activity and that she was someone he knew and knew
her family and he was gonna go for it.
That particular case affected me I think because he reached out to a network of his medical
peers to get help.
He went to the National Institute of Health to say, you know, if I treat her the way your
books tell me I should, she will die because the chemistry of it wasn't gonna work.
There was just so much going wrong that the interactions of her collapsing systems would
fail if he did the conventional approaches.
So, you know, the whole town was praying.
There was a whole group of doctors working on it.
He didn't sleep.
He basically didn't eat.
He dropped everything.
And she did live and it was such a celebration for the community.
She went on to have children and grandchildren.
She had no memory of the event and she wasn't the same exactly.
You know, she did have some permanent damage but she lived a life of gratitude.
She was mentally there.
I knew her.
She's still with us.
She's in Florida.
So all of that is to say, I think I did grow up in sort of a situation where my parents
had this, do everything you can for life.
Don't do everything you can if it's hopeless.
Like if she didn't have brain activity, he wouldn't have tried to save her.
But she did.
And so I think that's how I'm looking at things.
We have multiple collapsing systems.
We have a sense of many people pronouncing the system as dead, like it's too late.
And yet there's so much life.
There's so much brain activity.
There's so much beauty.
And so I think for myself, working on these different threats is just what you do.
Yeah, that's powerful.
When I heard you say that this summer, I was thinking about how that affected your own
personal psychology.
But hearing it again now, it really is a metaphor for our environmental and social situation.
And things, I'm sure, one question I'd like to ask you is you've been working on these
issues your entire career.
Do you ever feel like giving up or are you ever exhausted?
Because things often do seem quite grim.
So I'll just pause there and ask you that.
Yeah.
That's a great question.
And yes, of course, I think all of us have those moments when it's just sort of overwhelming.
I think there's probably very few people working on some of these big threats, nuclear climate,
biodiversity collapse, food security, who don't sometimes just feel like throwing the
towel in.
And in 2014, I really came to that moment and I really just thought, why don't I just
go garden and spend time with my family?
And I took a 10-day silent retreat and I decided in advance that I would really hone
in on death.
And I really, it was interesting because when I got to the silent retreat, there's always
a teacher or a leader who speaks twice a week.
But otherwise, you're in silence.
But when she spoke and she ended up speaking three times while I was there, she says, I
just want you to know we'll be talking about death.
So that was interesting.
But I really kind of went into mass death, went into collapse and it was sort of liberating
because I think death is not to be feared as much as we fear it for one thing.
I think we're meant for life.
I think we are at our deepest core as humans, all of us.
We all have this light in us and we all, I think, are really meant for love, for connection.
And so not trying to be of some help for me would feel like a separation.
So I do think for all of us, we have to find some kind of equanimity, some kind of a way
to hold these unbelievable challenges we're faced with while hugging our dogs and cats
and lovers and trees, finding those things that keep us in balance while really still
getting out there, working for life.
I love that answer.
And as you know, that's pretty much how I feel.
And the thing that boosts me as my listeners would know is conversations, interactions
with people like you, because there's this cathartic reduction of stress and kind of
emotional boost that we are fighting for the things that matter.
And even though it looks like a David and Goliath sort of odds, what else can there be
other than to keep trying?
And so that is how I feel.
By the way, I don't think I could do a 10-day silent retreat that I just don't know if
that would be physically possible for me, but that does sound interesting.
So getting back to what you said earlier, that all these issues are connected by a shift
in values, how could we shift values?
Does that have to do with education or media and advertising?
Or does it have to bubble up from within an individual human's consciousness?
Or what have you found?
That's a wonderful question.
I'd love to ask you the same question.
I don't know that I have the answer to that question.
I worked on that for many years when I was leading the Center for New
American Dream and we were trying to encourage people to have more fun with less
stuff and to focus on what really matters.
And we had a great response to those messages.
So I do think in terms of the value shift at the core of it, I think is this
notion of love and connection.
And so I think to help people make that shift, they need to feel connected.
They need to feel that they're in empathetic relationship with someone.
They live in this world, which is so right now pretty dehumanizing.
I think one of the best things that we can do to promote a value, a system of
sharing and interdependence and kindness is actually to like really listen to people,
really see them and lock into their eyes and don't go onto your phone or your
smartwatch, actually connect with that person and really try to get their story,
really try to find out what's going on with you.
So how's, you know, how's your day?
Tell me more about where you've come from.
It's actually what you're doing with this podcast, Nate.
You're, you're helping people tell their stories and you're helping them feel seen.
And I think, you know, for all of us, every single person needs that.
So I think that's, I think that's like one of the first things because right
now with technology and with this deluge of back bad news, I think people are
hunkered down, feeling quite separated, the pandemic's adding to that.
