Where you live in Vermont 150 years ago, look out your door.
Everything was clear cut there and then we found coal.
So we didn't need wood, but now we're actually using more wood as a global
culture than we did 150 years ago on top of all the fossil fuels and renewables.
So we're just getting back to your metaphor earlier.
We are shoveling fuel into a runaway train and the runaway train is powered
by this, this growth imperative that no billionaires, no philanthropists,
no NGOs, no institutions can damage or dent.
It's going to keep chugging on until it runs out of fuel is my view.
Yeah.
Because your first point was about how we're going to run out and with
that will come an economic collapse that will precede the ecological collapse.
Well, we're not going to run out.
We're going to run out of the scale and the affordability to continue growth.
We're not going to run out for a long time.
Yeah.
So we should come back to that at some point, maybe not in this call, but I think,
I think this interesting question about on the one hand, we're assuming this
abundant capacity to do all these magical things we do to fly, to jump, you know,
to jumping cars, to, to have half the products that we have, to have the kind
of food that we have just on and on all the plastics, but we're assuming that.
Yeah, I know.
I've been learning, I've been learning a lot about that.
There was a guy with us in Denmark, a Martin Scheringer who just did a podcast
with me and it's really scary stuff, which I didn't know a lot about.
It is scary stuff.
Well, the microplastics in our bodies and in the oceans and in everything.
Yeah.
There's this, you know, crisscrossing thing on the one hand.
We're not facing the fact that we will eventually deplete that and our
fundamental economy will have to fall apart and we need to be having, you know,
we need to be anticipating and preparing.
On the other hand, that's not going to happen for a while and the missions are
going up and we're continuing to expand through forestry, fracking and a number
of technologies now, you know, liquefied gas exports, you know, so that infrastructure
for fossil fuels is expanding in some ways, even as we're working as a movement
to contract it, to stop it, to penalize it, to penalize banks that
underwrite it, to encourage investors to shift away from it.
With all of that, it continues.
Well, I'm just wondering in the movement that they're trying to curtail that,
they're trying to limit the expansion of fossil fuels.
Do the people working on that important issue understand that if they're
successful, that will probably crash the economy?
Some are thinking about that and some are not.
Yeah.
I think most of the people working on it are really looking through the lens
of crashing the planet and so they're looking at the IPCC reports, they're
looking at, you know, Jim Hansen and Michael Mann and all the reports that
are indicating sea level rise, you know, temperature rise, severe climate
impacts, which we're already seeing.
And I think they're trying to constrain the fossil fuel economy out of a deep
sense that we're heading towards an ecological collapse that's going to
potentially eliminate homo sapiens on the planet.
I think that's how most people are saying it.
They're not thinking about, well, if we're wildly successful, if we're
wildly successful, the economy will collapse and everybody will have
similar levels of death and loss.
Yeah.
I don't think most people are thinking about it that way.
Right.
Yeah.
Neither you nor I are climate scientists, but both of us know a lot of
climate scientists and people working in that field.
Even at our meeting, I find it striking, although to be fair, even within the
climate community, there's a vast range of opinions.
But why do you think there seems to be such a wide range of opinions in the
climate activist movement that there is a certain demographic there that
thinks we're ready too late and we're headed for runaway Venus effect and near
term human extinction.
And then there's a lot that still believe in the RCP 8.5 or RCP six scenarios
of continued use of growth of fossil fuels throughout this century.
And then there's a lot more people that think two degrees is plus or minus a
likely resting point.
But even then some people say that two degrees itself is sufficient to trigger
all the runaway feedbacks.
And it's it's eventually, I don't know, death might be too strong a word, but a
very large crimping of the human and other enterprises.
So yeah, what do you think about that?
Maybe in the probability distribution of your mind, what is built in and what
is your sense of the range of possible outcomes that that exists right now?
Well, I think I think people's response to the science in some ways is is heavily
determined by their their psychology and by their by their organizational
identity, identity in some cases.
But for myself, I don't spend a lot of time focusing on which number is it going
to be, you know, the IPCC has conservatively underestimated where we would be forever.
And in their latest report, at least earlier this year, as I recall, they said,
well, we will definitely hit 1.6.
And if we do absolutely everything right in terms of sequestering carbon, you know,
stopping fossil fuels, getting to net zero, moving renewable energy, reforestation
and everything, we might be able to get back down to 1.3.
But right now, if we, you know, if you look at what's actually happening,
we're not meeting that we're not living up to our commitments from the Paris Accord.
Emissions are going way up.
We would have to bring emissions down incredibly dramatically by 2030.
I think it's like 48 percent if we were going to stay at two degrees.
And that's not going to happen, you know, in my mind.
If history is any indicator, we are simply unable to make these changes.
And I was looking probably controversial in a digression, but I was listening today
to a program on NPR about long COVID and how there's just growing evidence
that something like a third of people who've gotten COVID have some symptom
of long COVID and they're now unpacking that like, what is long COVID?
It's different things for different people, but it's affecting brains.
It's affecting hearts.
It's affecting inflammation in the body.
It's, it's reigniting other viruses in the body.
So there's like real threats from long COVID.
But is anybody masking right now?
Hardly anybody, hardly anybody is.
They just don't want to.
And so that's like, like, that's interesting kind of metaphor for change around climate.
I think people don't want to give up the magic of the fossil fuels.
I don't, you know, I'm the chair of Jim Hanson's board.
I, I get a lot of, Jim is interesting because he sees how bad it is.
I did not know that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm in chair of his board.
And so we have our meetings and he shares.
And of course, just to, just in the last month, he came out and said, we're going
to hit 1.5 in the next couple of years.
And it breaks his heart.
It breaks his heart that he's been telling us this since, you know, before the 80s,
but testified before Congress in the 80s.
And it just goes on.
And it just goes on.
I disagree with some of his, um, solutions, but I have a great deal of respect for him.
I've, I've met him.
We've spoken together at conferences and I empathize with the continual heartbreak
that he must face after spending 40 some years telling this story, largely to, to
deaf ears.
Yeah.
And I mean, he was trying, you know, Trump tried to eliminate his entire agency.
All right, right.
But to build on what you said, actually, I also have researched long COVID.
And if that is right, and if the percentage of the population that has long COVID accelerates
over time, month by month, quarter by quarter, year by year.
And I have no idea whether that's going to happen.
But I'm just saying, if that were to happen, that itself would be a big climate
limiter, because what would happen is there would be a cognitive labor loss of
productivity in our economies.
And then if it got worse, there would have to be caretakers for those people who
wouldn't be productive.
And that itself would cause an economic, a large economic contraction, which would
mean less fossil carbon, just to show one way that this stuff is connected.
Well, look at 2020, look at the emission drop in 2020, just as an example.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
So there are always our ways of looking at things.
Which we, which the train came roaring back in 21.
Yes, it did.
It came roaring back.
Well, I was just going to say, I, I, I agree with you, we can't know.
I think we don't have remotely the amount of fossil carbon left to reach some of the
disastrous scenarios.
I think the biological feedbacks are probably much worse than the IPCC has forecast.
I don't spend too much time trying to nail down what the ultimate ending point
will be, because it's a fool's errand.
We can't know the best climate scientists in the world can't know.
But I will say this, I will say that after we're dead and buried and a couple
hundred years go by, if the ending point is 2.4 degrees Celsius, that is infinitely
better than 2.5, which is infinitely better than 2.6 in the impacts on the world.
So not all futures are equivalent.
And I think we have to do the best we can to midwife and chaperone as much life as
we can, human and non-human, through the bottlenecks of the 21st century.
I 100% agree.
I 100% agree.
Every little bit matters.
And I never think we should underestimate what we could do.
If we could find our way to our best selves, I think we could do amazing things.
And, you know, I shifted into nature-based solutions to climate after I confronted my
darkness and it became clear, you know, we had to remove carbon from the atmosphere
and that the long held belief that CCS, you know, the carbon capture and storage was
the way to go, which I had challenged, you know, back a decade before, you know, in 2006.
But all the IPC scenarios assumed it, it's not working.
And so anyway, I jumped into nature-based solutions.
And I have to say, there's all kinds of problems and challenges with the nature-based
solutions, great dangers of greenwashing and, you know, payments to industrial
commodity farmers for just a little nitrogen reduction.
But there's also the possibility of something getting awakened and it's all
happening at the same time that we're getting science from all over the world
that's showing us the potential of plants, of trees to do amazing things.
We're learning more and more about them.
And if you want to take a really conservative approach, you know, through
forestry and agriculture and wetland restoration and bog protection and
seeding of our mangrove forests and our seagrasses, there's a whole range of
estimates from about one gigaton a year all the way up to 200 and some gigatons
by the end of the century that we could pull out.
And I don't know what those numbers are.
And I actually think it's kind of not helpful to be overly exaggerating about
them because they're all sorts of challenges like warming soils makes it
harder. Capitalism can make it easier or harder, depending on how we harness those
markets. But the bottom line is the earth, if you just give it a little help, it
can really do a lot.
And so even on, you know, I relocated to Vermont in 2021 in part to try it out
myself, you know, to see what, what, what can be done on 20 acres of land and where
we're working with the local county forester, local land trust, everybody, we
can get permaculture experts to figure out, what do we plant?
How do we monitor it?
How do we feed the soil?
And this is happening all over the world.
So I'm, I'm putting a lot of my life energy into the potential of the planet
