You have a whole green revolution theory of change led by Bill Gates, that
the only way we'll feed the world is with more fertilizer produced from
fossil fuels, more export commodity structures versus a very large growing
movement of farmers and nations saying, no, we don't think so.
We think actually as things begin to unravel, having diversified food systems
in our backyard will make us much safer and healthier.
So there is a big push towards care for the soil all over the world right now
in part because the science is showing that we're depleting our soils.
You know, we may only have 60 years left of productive soil if we don't
start taking care of it.
And I was just talking with mutual friend, Ayon, about how do we do more
to restore soils in the Horn of Africa where there's famine and where a
lot of the soils are decertified.
And there's a lot of growing evidence that by bringing animal and human waste,
by planting cover crops, by bringing nitrogen fixing crops to that area,
that land can come back.
So let's do that.
Betsy, do you think there is any chance for a broad swath of our culture to
sufficiently understand and value soil, nature, the sacredness of life and the
ecosystems of this, this one planet and incorporate those things into our prices
and our behaviors?
And how might this come about or have at least higher odds of coming about?
I think it's possible.
I think there is something happening right now with so many young people
actually going to the land.
Lots and lots of young people wanting to go into farming and gardening.
I think here and where I live, there was just a meeting this morning that
involved people of all ages trying to create pollinator pathways all over Vermont.
Kind of like the wildlands of the West, wildlife corridors, but pathways.
So I think there's all sorts of things going on with people getting back into
the natural world and loving it, including in cities where urban gardens
are flourishing, many, many people coming into them.
There's more demand than supply.
So I think it's a big question and whether we can incorporate the sacredness
of life and ecosystems into our prices, I don't know, but all of us have
experienced what happens when we have the loss of a loved one.
And at least for a little while, when you are faced either with your own
mortality or the mortality of someone you've deeply been connected to, you
pause in this rush of life and you say, good God, what is really going on?
And what really matters?
And I think if we could create those pauses for people inside of us, there
is so much potential, so much courage, so much desire to be called to our
best selves.
And I think that is there in us.
And so the question is, how do we unleash that?
I feel like there's a great deal of churning going on behind the scenes and
also a lot of despair.
And it's almost like finding the way to open the door to say, wait, you're
needed, you matter.
Every single one of you is needed.
And I feel like if we could find the way to do that, my God, we
could do some stuff, we could reconnect to this incredible world.
I agree with you and talking with people like you and Ion and others, it gives
me more hope that this isn't a top-down solution, though we will need help
from institutions and governments down the road.
But it almost seems like there is a nation emergent pause of mourning for
what we're losing and an emergent response to that.
And maybe it's our little bubble that these are the people we're talking to,
but boy, I've sure heard a lot of examples from you and others lately
speaking to this movement.
Yeah, there's a lot of love and hope to be tapped.
It's not found in the mainstream media.
We are deluged with the bad news.
Probably on purpose.
Maybe so.
You're a good antidote to that date, Nate.
So given your lifetime of both personal and community experience, do you have
any personal advice to the listeners of this podcast who are quite aware of the
global poly crisis?
Do you have any personal advice to people listening?
Well, I suspect the people listening to this are already doing these things.
But I mean, for myself, and this is just so, I suppose, predictable, but I do
find that having a contemplative life, however you wanted to find that is helpful
right now.
We're being bombarded with too much information, too many negative things
going on.
And I would just say, whether you meditate or whether you just go into
silence, I would say, I strongly recommend having a period of quiet each day
where you're, you're reflecting on who you most want to be and what your
intention is for the day.
For me, it's 20 minutes of silent meditation.
It can be different things, but I find it, it's very easy to be buffeted and I
have long to do lists and I always have way more to do than I can possibly do.
And I do find that with this massive crisis, there is, there is the sense
sometimes when you go into this silence and I do have a bit of a Quaker background
that there's a benevolent, there's, there's, there's something that can be tapped
and I'm not a religious person, but I am a person who believes there is
something quite extraordinary that is mysterious and impossible to define
and ineffable.
So yeah, I would say go to the silence, give yourself a shot at it, even
if you're deeply skeptical, give yourself, give yourself a chance to, um,
to be receptive to not knowing and see what happens.
Thank you.
I need to try that more myself.
We all do.
So you mentioned earlier, well, you had the experience of a 10 day silent retreat.
I just cannot imagine that, but, um, one of my future guests, Patrick Ophuls,
he went on a three month silent retreat.
My God, don't speak for three months.
So you mentioned earlier, some advice to young people is to a couple of times
a week, uh, set down your phones and your technology and be in nature this morning.
Yet again, I got an email from a 17 year old.
I had no idea that there were 17 year olds listening to my podcast, but she
said, I love your podcast.
I'm learning so much.
My absolute favorite part is when you ask your guests at the end, what
recommendations do they have for young people?
So do you have any other things to add, uh, to the young people listening to
this facing climate, energy, depletion, plastics, all these things that they're
becoming aware of, in addition to being out in nature, any advice?
Yeah.
I would say know that you are not alone.
And there's so many expectations on young people today.
There's, you know, what you have to do, what you have to be, what you have to
get, all that you have to pull together at a time when things seem so tough.
So I would say a couple of things.
One, don't hesitate to reach out to, to somebody that you admire or that you
think, gosh, I wonder if I could do that and ask for a mentorship or ask for a
conversation, even if it's a limited conversation to say, look, I'm thinking
about this, would you be willing to talk to me?
So seek out a mentor, your deepest call.
And by that, I would say try to keep a journal, try to be quiet, maybe talk to
a coach or a friend, but don't feel buffeted by school and classes and, you
know, majors and careers.
Yes, yes, to all of that.
But I just encourage you to try to listen to your inner voice and to be quiet.
That's the only way you can listen to it and not to feel afraid.
It's so easy to just hunker down in fear right now.
And I encourage you to listen to your deepest call and go for it.
Jump off cliffs.
If you want to be a cook and just like serve food to enjoy this moment, if you
want to be out farming on the land, if you want to go overseas and work in some
of the refugee camps to try to change how they function, anything, what it is, I
guess my, my encouragement to you is given the crazy world we're in, listen to
what you most feel called to and seek help from others, but go for it.
Go for what you really feel pulled towards because we need you to do that.
The world will be better for it.
So that's, I guess that would be my advice.
No, you're not alone.
Definitely don't be afraid to ask for help, whether it's a friend, a professor,
a teacher, a parent, a mentor that you don't know, but would like to.
Go for it.
Thank you.
I actually fully endorse what you just said.
And I do think that the feeling of loneliness and I understand and feel this,
but the mainstream media and our culture is saying something different that juxtaposition
and feeling of not being part of the right team of meaning.
And that is almost more tough to bear than the facts sometimes.
So I think that's a great answer.
So I suspect I might know how you would answer this, but what do you care most
about in the world, Betsy?
I actually don't know how to answer that.
I care that all living beings have the opportunity to be safe and protected,
peaceful and happy, strong and healthy.
I really, really care about that.
That life is revered that we see that we are interconnected.
We are not separate.
We are interconnected, I think, in biological and physical ways that we don't yet grasp.
So I care about the pursuit of that, that realm and the protection of life.
And yes, it includes my grandson.
So of all the issues we've talked about or any other issue on your mind,
what specifically are you most concerned about?
What issue are you most worried about in the next decade or so?
I think right now, the nuclear threat is, is to me, rising rapidly as a threat to our lives.
And we need to revive the conversations about the fact that nuclear weapons can never be
used. So we've lost that whole peace movement work that happened in the 1980s where we came
to understand that even one nuclear weapon could have an effect on everyone in the world.
And right now, we have people threatening the use of those weapons out of Korea, Russia,
even China.
And of course, our own government has a huge military industrial complex modernizing
our nuclear arsenal, which makes no sense.
So yes, I think the nuclear threats, the greatest imminent threat.
I fully agree.
In contrast, what are you most hopeful about in the coming decade or so?
You have already offered a few suggestions, but I'll give you another chance to highlight
what issue or what growing thing that you're witnessing, are you most hopeful about?
Well, I do think that there is the potential to use technology.
And even though I'm critical of technology and feel that in some ways, technology is undermining
our society, I think there's the possibility of using communications and technology to help
people find each other and to be part of a huge social movement to restore life on the
planet, to restore forests, to restore wetlands, to create the habitat for all that we love,
the birds, the pollinators, the turtles, the elephants.
And I feel like we could actually do this within the next decade.
If we could find the right people to call others to action.
So I'm excited about the fact that there are just a lot of people wanting to help.
And there are ways of helping.
So can we find ways to find each other and begin to tell the stories of, hey, you know what,
there's some incredible good stuff happening.
Let's do more of it.
So I'm hopeful about that.
I think there's so much goodness in people and they just need to find each other.
Well, I found you and we should talk more often because I'm agreeing with almost everything
you're saying, but I know you're we're both very busy.
Last question, maybe tapping into the benevolence that you find when you meditate.
If you were benevolent dictator and there was no personal recourse to your decision,
what is one thing that you could implement that would improve human and planetary futures?
Oh, God.
I guess inconsistent, perhaps with my earlier comment, I would eliminate all nuclear weapons.
But I was drawn to say I would eliminate, I don't know, I would require all children
and adults to spend a minimum of three hours a day off technology and outside.
