I'd love to figure out how to use bio fertilizer to really make them
sprout big time right now.
So on another track in your past, you were the co-founder
and the president of One Sky, which eventually became 350.org, a climate movement.
What do you know now that might have informed your activism on that issue
15 years ago when you founded that with respect to climate change?
Or what are your thoughts on that issue?
Kind of looking back, working on it for so long.
Yeah, good question.
So One Sky was an effort when we were trying to pass federal legislation
on climate, I convened kind of a lot of the climate leadership in the country
to look at how do we, how do we do what scientifically required?
And so we created a platform that was really calling for deep
productions and emissions for the end to coal plants and for a huge
mobilization on clean energy.
And we had, we had tremendous, you know, effort on that and we did not prevail.
And I think in retrospect, the couple of things, I think we knew at the time
that this climate is not changing on a linear basis.
So we knew we had a big scientific advisory group that I took the lead
in putting together and we knew we needed like a 40% cut in emissions.
We had a route, you know, we had, we had what the, what the science
was saying we had to do.
But even with that, I don't think we fully grasp how fast things were
changing climatically.
So there's that.
I think we didn't know just how lost our democracy was.
There was, there were deals being cut with all big, heavy industry by
the big environmental groups that had created their own network.
The climate, climate action plan was that it was led by environmental
defense and Fred Krupp and some of the big environs along with the
heavy auto industry, concrete, steel, oil and gas were all at the table
and they had their own climate legislation and agenda.
In the end, we didn't get anything.
You know, we passed maxi, Markey Waxman or Waxman Markey.
And I think I took away from that.
Hey, you either need, if you're going to play in the system, you need
a lot of money because ultimately the members of our elected officials
overwhelmingly need money.
And if you can provide that to them, they will listen to you.
So on a corrupted basis, you either need to be able to play that game
and not just mobilize people power, but actually get in there and.
Figure out how you elect people that will be accountable to you.
And there, there are great efforts to do that right now, or you need
to have so much power rooted in love and courage that you move into the system.
You know, there's this thing on the left where we tend to be outside
and I've been arrested, you know, I've been, I've gone to jail over these issues.
I've been at the White House, chained myself to the White House and it all
matters, it all matters, but I actually think what takes more courage, and I
didn't fully grasp that, is actually going into those halls of power, which
are pretty deeply corrupted and sitting down and really creating dissonance
for those members of Congress by bringing your children, by bringing the
pictures of what's happening with the climate impacts, by actually engaging
with them on a human level, not just in a kind of a political level, but on
a human level, to say, really, are you, are you going to be on the watch
that lets us go down?
You have kids, you have grandchildren, you, you, you love these places you've been.
They're going.
So I think we knew all of that then, but I think we either need to like outplay
the game by raising, you know, which I hate the thought of, and there are people
doing this and I admire them for doing it.
They are, you know, did mansion changes vote just because of ideas?
Was there money?
You know, I hate to say it, but the system really is greased by campaign
contributions and all of that, and it's all dark money.
I mean, we're not, we're not a democracy anymore.
So we either have to do that and play that game, or we have to overwhelm this
system with cognitive dissonance and with a, with a confrontation that's rooted
in love.
And I think, I think civil disobedience is really important and has played a
role, but I actually think so in a way it's easy, it's easy compared to sitting
down with some of these people that are literally taking us into the fires to
say, is this, is this really, is this really what you want?
Is this, is this really who you are?
I think I learned that we need more direct relationship with those in power.
If we're going to try to fight on the federal, federal level.
I mean, the other thing I probably learned is that you can get a lot more done
at the local and state level.
So, you know, there's just, it's a, it's a better function in democracy
and you can get a lot done.
The government is corrupt and it's based on money and power, but money and power
is tethered in our system to profits, profits are tethered to energy and
energy is tethered to fossil carbon and hydrocarbons.
So what 15 years ago, one sky in 350.org versus today, how many of the core
people in those movements grasp that climate change isn't the problem, but
it is a symptom of a much larger biophysical metabolism of a species,
a culture living off the principle of an ancient sunlight bank account and
treating it as if it were interest or worse, that it's irrelevant.
And we can just wave our technology wand and, and replace it.
Yeah.
I don't, I don't know how many people know that.
I, I certainly, when I talk to people in the leadership of the movement, many
of them know that climate change is a symptom of a deeper set of causes and
problems.
I think where it can be overwhelming is you might know that.
And then still, what do you do differently?
How do you challenge the power and domination of the petrochemical, oil,
gas, coal industry?
And there's a lot of awesome work going on right now to put them on defense, to
make them pay to litigate against them, to deal with their stranded assets, all of
that.
And that is great work.
But as far as how you operate in the political system, I mean, I, I spent
many years advising Phillips Stern, who wrote the best Congress money can buy
back in the eighties.
And he was a philanthropist who did everything he could to expose the
corruption and to change campaign finance law.
And instead of making things better, it has progressively gotten worse.
And it's been tied, of course, to globalization and the consolidation of
wealth at the top so that you can have someone spend billions of dollars on,
you know, getting somebody elected.
That is not a democracy.
And so then you've got the Supreme Court, you know, ruling in the wrong direction.
So I find myself thinking, given the timing of everything, we're probably not
going to reform that.
So then how do you, how do you operate?
And yes, you know, the fossil fuels sectors, and I would include big ag
petrochemicals have massive influence on our government, massive and influence
and how we push back.
Well, not to be an apologist for those.
Well, I mean, this gets back to your center for the new American dream
work on what sort of consumption is aligned with your values.
And aren't the fossil fuel companies, again, not in their defense, but I
think all companies are following the rules of corporations that our culture
has, aren't the fossil fuel companies the dealers and we're the users.
And if we chose to not drive or not do all these things that require
fossil fuels, then there wouldn't be the demand for the products.
Yeah, absolutely.
And I think a lot of that is happening and it's happening so successfully
that you have these Republican secretary of states, you know, trying to
penalize the banks that won't loan to fossil fuel companies or change
tax systems to in any way they can support and subsidize fossil fuels.
But yes, as consumers, as institutions, as cities, as states, we can
withdraw our investments.
We can withdraw our consumer dollars.
We can.
And, you know, that's been happening for the last two decades to some extent.
And I think it's part of why we see, I'm not actually sure.
Now, you probably would know if the global renewable electricity, I think
it's 30% of it's now from renewables globally.
Pretty sure that's right.
I think we're shifting and a lot of it is because we are choosing to
consume differently, to buy differently, to invest differently.
And we see corruption, you know, with ESG funds and with, so it's just
this continuous effort to put pressure on those fossil fuel companies.
And you should speak because I think you probably have a lot to stay here.
Yeah.
I think you have a lot to say.
You should say it.
I'm looking at you here, Nate.
I do have a lot to say, Betsy, but this is my chance to listen to you.
But I also like to listen to you.
I do disagree with you slightly on that.
I think it would be interesting for people to hear how you disagree.
Yeah.
Well, I think that our entire system is based on fossil fuels.
And as they deplete or as ESG and the environmental movement makes them
less socially acceptable to be funded and invested in, which is the upstream
investments for more capacity, that there is approaching a 6% decline rate
on global oil.
So all the oil fields in the world that exist, if you stopped drilling
everything tomorrow, they would decline at around, in aggregate at around 6% a year.
And that 6% decline is the equivalent of billions and billions of human labor
equivalents being subtracted from the global economy, which means the goods
and services and benefits that we give to poor people, middle class people,
all people, our infrastructure, our bridges, our food, everything becomes
more difficult.
So I think the blaming of the fossil fuel companies misses the core issue here,
which is we are a social species that has based our entire system over
something unbelievably powerful that we only pay for the cost of extraction.
And it really is frustrating for me, because I've been telling this story
for almost 20 years, that I deeply, deeply care about climate and biodiversity
and other species and ecosystems, and not only that, but future generations
of same and yet the people that are most, their hearts and their minds
and their spirits are so aligned with that goal, but they're energy blind.
They don't see that without this energy, we're going to have to face an
economic collapse in tandem or even before an environmental collapse.
And I don't know how to fit all this together, but it just seems to me
that the climate movement still is unaware of that part of it.
And the second part is that renewable energy is not going to plug and play
and replace fossil fuels.
I don't think 30% is the right number.
I'll look and post it in the show notes, but in some way it doesn't matter
because renewables are growing faster than fossil fuels.
That is for sure.
But the total amount of fossil fuels on an absolute basis is growing
larger than renewables.
In other words, the emissions are continuing a straight line accelerated
upward trend, irrespective of all of the renewable energy of all of the
convening of parties since Kyoto and before.
So we have not made a dent in the emissions.
We have made a dent in, yeah, so that's kind of my angle on that.
But I'm curious, I'm curious.
I mean, just to tease out this debate for a second, on the one hand,
you're saying consumption of oil, of fossil fuel has risen, continues to rise.
And with that emissions are rising.
Did I capture that part right?
I'm saying consumption of energy by humans because we optimize growth
as our cultural goal and growth requires energy at a 99% tether and most
of our energy is fossil.
We're now adding more things into that.
