Okay, so it's a great pleasure today for me to introduce Professor Michael Levin.
He's a distinguished professor at Tufts University, as well as the Vannevar Bush professor.
And he's also director of the Allen Discovery Center and the Tufts Center for Regenerative
and Developmental Biology.
And I'm sure everyone here have heard about his work on Xenobots, which I've been told
there'll be some of that at the end of his talks.
So Michael has requested that we refrain from asking deep questions until the end.
So just clarification questions throughout the talk so that we can get to the really
exciting parts.
Okay, so take it away.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
And thank you for having me and giving me the opportunity to share some ideas with you.
All of the details and if you would like to contact me, which would be great, you can
find me at these two websites.
So what I want to talk about today is our sort of perspective on collective intelligence
and in particular cellular behavior as a kind of collective intelligence.
So I often start by thinking about Alan Turing, who of course needs no introduction, was very
interested in intelligence, in cognition and various embodiments, and in particular in
problem-solving machines, this idea that intelligence can be manifest through plasticity or reprogrammability.
And so we all know that.
Some people may or may not know that he was also interested in morphogenesis, the generation
of biological shape.
And it's often, one might wonder, why would the same person who was interested in intelligence
be interested in the kinds of questions that biologists tend to, developmental biologists
in particular tend to deal with.
And I think he saw a very deep symmetry between these two fields, which is, I think, very
important and still not really appreciated sufficiently.
So this is what we work on.
In particular, the idea of problem-solving living machines.
And one thing that we have to think about as we drill down in the biology and we look
to see what we are all made of is this idea that this traditional distinction between,
we look at things like termite mounds and bee colonies and blard flocks and we say, okay,
that's perhaps a kind of collective intelligence, but we are true sort of centralized intelligences.
And of course, the idea is that actually all intelligence, certainly in biology as well
as collective intelligence, because we are all made of parts and components.
And in fact, the Ambricard Sole calls this kind of thing a liquid brain in the sense
that the components are not fixed with respect to their spatial relationships.
So this is the sort of thing of which we are made.
This is a single cell.
This is called a lacrimaria.
Of course, this is a free-living organism.
It's one cell.
It has no brain.
It has no nervous system.
It is extremely competent in its local sort of environment with its local goals.
So it's physiological.
It's anatomical.
It's behavioral goals.
It's very competent without the typical things that we associate with intelligence.
And the really critical part is to realize is that all of us make this amazing journey
from what people call just physics to cognition.
So we were all at one point a quiescent oocyte, so a little pile of chemicals doing something
like this where specific molecules interact with other molecules.
But eventually, through this process of embryonic development, we become something like this
or maybe even something like that.
And so the thing about this process is that it's extremely slow and gradual.
There is no special point at which a magic lightning flash sort of says, okay, now you
are cognitive.
Before that, you were just physics.
In chemistry, now you are a true cognitive individual.
That doesn't happen.
So we need to understand this scale up.
We need to understand what happens from the time that we are this to the time that we
are that.
So the main points today that I would like to talk about is this idea of biology's multi-scale
competency architecture, which is a set of nested problem solvers in different spaces.
And one kind of invariant to all of this is navigation.
I want to spend the most of my time on this example, although there are many other examples,
of anatomical control and specifically this idea of navigating morpho space.
And I will talk a lot about bioelectrical networks as not only the mediator of kind
of the coagum, the glue that binds the neurons together into a coherent emergent intelligence,
but also of a much more ancient roles for that same mechanism.
And this has many applications, for example, on biomedicine.
And at the end, I want to talk a little bit about synthetic bioengineering.
I want to show you some novel creatures that have never existed before and talk a little
bit about what this means for evolution and for many other fields.
So single cells come in all shapes and sizes.
This is a single cell.
So this is a diatom.
They are very tiny.
So this is a single cell.
This is also a single cell.
This thing, which looks like a plant, it has a nice cap and a stalk and some roots here.
It's actually an alga, the whole thing could be up to 10 centimeters in size.
It's also a single cell.
So if you're interested in morphogenesis by differentiating cells into different types,
we already start to see that there's structure well below that.
This thing has one nucleus and it manages to make this amazing shape without any differentiation.
Cells are also competent in behavioral spaces.
So what you're looking at here, this is a slime mold called physarum polycephalum.
It has many nuclei, but it's still one cell.
The whole thing is one cell.
And what you can do is you can do this.
You can put some objects in its vicinity.
These white things are glass discs.
They have no chemical on them, no food, nothing.
They're completely inert.
And if you put three on one side and one on the other, it will consistently choose to
travel towards the three.
What it's actually doing as we showed in this paper is it's actually sensing strain angle
in the medium.
It is incredibly sensitive to it.
And it's pulsing, which you can't see here, but it's pulsing as a kind of sonar to build
a map of its surroundings and migrate towards the heavier object.
And what's kind of cool is that at this point here, for the first four hours, it sort of
grows in all directions.
And this is the point at which it's got enough information and now, boom, now it knows where
to go at that point.
But right here, you still can't really, you don't really know.
But at this point, bang, it starts to.
So there are all sorts of, so this is kind of the field of basal cognition and trying
to understand how biology was solving various problems long before brains and neurons appeared.
So I want to talk about three or four things today.
The first thing I want to do is I want to twist some knobs on traditional cognitive
science and talk about some unconventional agents that we can start thinking about.
So this kind of picture, this is the classic painting of Adam naming the animals in the
Garden of Eden.
This kind of picture is really pretty prevalent in a lot of discussions, in the sense that
people really think about finished adult organisms as the subjects of their study.
So intelligence, they say the human brain or the rat or something like this.
And what I want to do is stretch this in a number of dimensions, both in terms of the
time evolution, the fact that everything comes from one cell at one point, and also the fact
that drawing boundaries between different types of creatures is actually very difficult
because of the interoperability of life and the ability to make chimeras.
So the first thing we can think about is this.
This is a caterpillar.
This is a kind of soft-bodied robot that crawls around and it chews plants and it lives in
a two-dimensional world.
It has to turn into this.
This is a completely different hard-bodied kind of creature which has to fly in a three-dimensional
world.
It doesn't care about leaves anymore, but it does want nectar.
And so the behavioral and all of these repertoires are completely different.
So during this time, what happens is the brain basically liquefies.
Most of the connections are broken.
Most of the neurons die.
It gets reassembled and rebuilt into a brand new brain suitable for driving, this kind
of creature.
And one of the most amazing things is, and there are many examples that you can read
about here, is that if you train this animal to have particular memories, those memories
are recovered in the moth or butterfly that comes out.
So despite the complete rewiring of the brain here, those memories remain.
So as computer scientists, we can start thinking about, okay, what kind of medium could we
have that is able to store information that survives radical remodeling of the structure
of the medium.
But this metamorphosis is very interesting because this is not just evolutionary timescales.
This is a single individual.
So if you're into philosophy of mind and you wonder what's it like to be a caterpillar
or a butterfly, here's kind of the next level question.
What's it like to be a caterpillar turning into a butterfly?
What is the experience of this process as your cognitive medium is being completely reshaped?
Biology goes even further.
These are plenaria.
These are flatworms.
You'll hear lots more about them later.
Interesting thing about them, well, several interesting things.
One is that you can cut them into pieces and every piece regenerates and becomes a completely
normal worm.
But what you could, and so they have a true brain, all the same neurotransmitters that
you and I have centralized nervous system.
What you can do is you can train them to expect food on these little laser-etched kind of
a bumpy surfaces, cut off their heads.
The tail sits there doing nothing for about 10 days and then they regrow a brand new brain
and then you find out that the animal actually remembers where to find the food.
So the memory survives complete decapitation.
So the interesting thing about that is, okay, somehow it's stored in the rest of the tissue,
maybe neural, maybe not neural, we don't know, fine.
But also that information has to be imprinted onto the new brain that is constructed from
scratch.
So this idea of moving information around and what happens to cognitive information as
anatomical information is being processed is really interesting, right?
That's the nexus at which we do most of our work.
And so now, finally, I want to show you an example.
This bears on some of the evolutionary topics where this is a tadpole of a frog.
So here are the nostrils, here's the mouth, here's the brain, here's the gut, here's the
tail.
Now you'll notice something very strange is that here with the eyes should be here, but
they're missing.
Instead, there's one on the tail.
And we engineered it this way and I can talk later about how that's done.
But the interesting thing is that when you make a tadpole with an eye on its tail, despite
the fact that for millions of years, everything was perfectly set up to expect visual input
from two regions right here into the optic tectum, these animals can see quite well.
So we can do a tadpole, we made a machine that tests their learning and visual assays.
This eye, in fact, makes an optic nerve.
It synapses on the spinal cord, not on the brain.
And that apparently is sufficient for the brain to recognize this.
So you can imagine this weird sort of information bus onto which this organ is putting some
sort of data and the brain says, oh yes, I know what that is.
That's visual data, even though it's coming in from a completely bizarre location.
No problem, right?
So that kind of plasticity is going to be a major, major theme today because one of
the things that I think is a constant theme in biology is that it does not over-train
on priors, meaning that it plays the hands that it's dealt at any given moment.
What evolution is making is hardware that is very good at dealing with a novelty because
it doesn't actually have exact expectations and we'll get to some of that later.
So the interesting thing, what I think makes all of that work, which of course is very
challenging, we're still struggling to make technology like that, what makes all of this
work is this multi-scale competency architecture where not only is biology nested dolls kind
