of at the structural level, that's obvious, everybody knows that.
But actually, not only functionally but computationally, every level is solving different problems
in their own space.
And so I've been working on a framework, which I don't have time to really get into the details,
but if anybody's interested, I can give you a link, that is going to enable us to think
about very diverse intelligences, not only the kinds of things that people typically
think about, but also to weird creatures, colonial swarms and bacterial mats and engineered
new life forms and AIs and maybe alien life forms, whatever.
And it's based in part on this kind of approach where, and this is from an old paper in the
40s about setting up a scale of cognitive sophistication all the way from very simple
to quite advanced, with the idea being that there's nothing here about nerves and brains
and whatnot, it's a cybernetic approach that's very substrate independent and I think that's
really important as we start to come up with frameworks that are really enable us to, for
example, recognize alien intelligences.
So what we think about is competency in diverse spaces.
Now, the thing that human beings are very good at is recognizing intelligence of medium
sized objects moving at medium speeds through three dimensional space, all our sense organs
are sort of pointed that way, we're good at recognizing that.
So we know when crows and things are doing intelligent navigation of three dimensional
space, but actually life is navigating all kinds of really interesting spaces.
So there's the space of possible gene expressions, and there's the space of possible physiological
states.
And then there's this, which we'll spend the most time talking about, which is morphospace.
This is the space of possible anatomical configurations.
So what I want to do next is talk about morphogenesis, the generation of body structure as the behavior
of a collective intelligence of cells in this morphospace.
So we want to think a little bit differently here.
Let's ask a fundamental question.
This is a cross section through a human torso.
Look at this amazing order, all of this, the tissues, the organs, everything is in exactly
the right place, the right orientation, relative to the right size.
Where does this structure come from?
You would think that it would take an incredible amount of information to specify all this.
And by the way, what would that information even look like?
What would the encoding and decoding be?
Because we all start life like this as a collection of embryonic plastomeres.
So I ask where is this information?
And people intuitively nowadays will say, well, it's in the DNA, it's in the genome.
But we can read genomes now, and we know what's in the genome.
What's in the genome are protein sequences, the specification of a micro-level hardware
that every cell gets to have.
There's nothing in the genome directly about any of this.
And so there's really a very deep set of questions about how does the cellular collective know
what to make?
How does it know when to stop?
If a piece is missing as regenerative medicine workers, we would like to know how to convince
the cells to build it again.
And as engineers, and we'll get to this in the last part of the talk, we might ask, well,
what else is possible given those exact same cells?
What else can we get them to build with the same hardware?
And so the reason that this kind of question is important is this.
In addition to all the basic stuff, for the biology audiences, I always point out that
pretty much every aspect of medicine with the exception of infectious disease, everything
else, birth defects, traumatic injury, cancer, aging, degenerative disease, all of this would
be completely solved if we knew how to tell collections of cells what to build.
If we could specify what three-dimensional structure we wanted the cells to build, all
of this would go away.
And so we can think about the future where this is kind of the end game for this whole
field is what we really want as a kind of anatomical compiler.
We want to sit down and draw the animal or plant that we want, not at the level of gene
pathways or anything like that.
You want to be able to draw the final goal here.
I want a three-headed platform like this and with this kind of nervous system.
This is what I want.
And if we knew what we were doing, this compiler would take that description and convert it
to a set of stimuli that would have to be given to cells to get them to build exactly
that.
Now, we don't have anything remotely like this, despite all the incredible progress in
genetics and biology.
Why not?
Well, here's one simple example.
This is a baby axolotl.
So axolotls are kind of salamander.
This is a baby axolotl.
Baby axolotls have legs.
This is the tadpole of a frog.
Frogs don't have legs.
Now, one of the things you can make is you can make a chimeric embryo.
We call it a frog-a-lottel.
We're making these in our lab.
And so I would pose this challenge.
We have the genome for the axolotl.
We have the genome for the frog.
We have all the genetic information.
Now, I ask a simple question.
Will frog-a-lottels have legs or not?
And there are no models in the field that will help you answer that question, none.
Because even though we know a lot about the molecular pathways that are involved at the
cellular level, we really don't understand very well how large-scale decisions are made.
And in particular, not only can't we tell what the chimer is going to do, to be honest,
we can't even tell what the individual is going to do.
If you didn't already know what an axolotl was or you were able to compare that genome
to other genomes, you would have no idea what the shape or the other properties of the animal
were by looking at the genome.
So where we are is this in biology.
We're very good at this kind of thing.
We're very good at manipulating cells and molecules and getting this kind of information.
What we really want is something like this.
We would like to be able to control large-scale anatomy.
And to me, it reminds me of where computer science was a long time ago, where really
one of the things you had to do was you always had to interact at the hardware level.
So you would rewire the thing to get it to do something different.
And this is where modern molecular medicine is.
All of the exciting approaches are CRISPR genome editing.
It's basically this.
It's trying to manipulate the absolute lowest level.
And I think we can do way better than that because evolution doesn't do this.
Evolution exploits these amazing higher-level interfaces that we can now exploit as well.
That give you access to all kinds of computation, modularity, and all kinds of other interesting
things.
So one of the things that we're interested in is a degree of intelligence.
And by intelligence, I don't mean, of course, human-level intelligence.
I mean something along the lines of that cybernetic kind of scale that Weiner gave us.
And William James agreed.
He said that intelligence is the ability to reach the same goal by different means.
So this is, again, a very substrate-independent kind of functional definition.
And so what I want to talk about in terms of this anatomy is this idea of an anatomical
morphospace.
So it's a virtual space of possible anatomical configurations.
This is a simple example.
These are snail shells.
And every kind of a shell can be generated by an equation with three parameters.
So you can build a three-dimensional kind of space.
And every existing snail shell is somewhere in this space.
And then there are lots of regions.
And we can sort of argue about why those regions aren't populated by real organisms and so on.
And so let's think about how much, if any, intelligence does a collection of cells have
in navigating this morphospace.
Well, here's the very kind of simplest thing you can do is you can take an early embryo.
You can cut it in half.
And what you don't get are two half bodies.
What you actually get are two perfectly normal monosygotic twins.
So you start to get this idea that development is reliable, but it isn't hardwired because
if you introduce changes, it can still get to where it's going.
So there are a variety of starting states.
Maybe there are some local minima.
But what it knows how to do is get around and get to a correct final state.
This is being cut in half is not the normal state of affairs for embryos, but no problem.
They can still get there even when half the cells are missing.
Now this is a regeneration which works in a similar fashion.
There's our axolotl.
Axolotl's regenerate their eyes, their limbs, their jaws, which is absolutely amazing.
And so what you can do is you can cut this limb anywhere along the length.
It will build exactly what's missing, no more, no less, and then it stops.
That's maybe the most amazing part of this process is this idea that it actually knows
when to stop.
When does it stop?
Well, it stops when a correct salamander arm has been produced.
So this is some kind of means and thing going on here where when the error is low enough,
that's when it stops.
And by the way, humans of course are not like axolotl's, but we can regenerate something.
So the liver is highly regenerative.
Human children regenerate their fingertips below a certain age, and deer regenerate huge
amounts of bone and vasculature and innervation every year.
So you can think about some of these examples.
Now the other kind of competency that these cells have is really amazing, which is that
I've shown you that as an embryo, you can't count on how many cells you have.
So you have to be able to produce embryogenesis even when behalf of your cells are missing.
But it turns out you can't even count on how much DNA you have or how big your cells are.
So one thing you can do, this is kind of one of my favorite examples, this is a cross-section
through a kidney tubule in a nuke, and normally it's 8 to 10 cells and they sort of work together
to build this kind of tube, and here's a cross-section through that.
What you can do, you can do this trick where early on in development you can prevent the
cells from dividing for a bit, the DNA accumulates, every cell ends up with multiple copies of
the genome, and then you let it go, and then development proceeds, but the cells are now
much larger.
They're huge.
So no problem, despite the fact that you have too many copies of all your instructions
in every cell, and the cells are huge, what will happen is a smaller number of those cells
will work together to give you exactly the same structure, so they adjust to the cell
size.
But even better than that, if you make the cells truly gigantic by having eight times
the amount of DNA in the original egg, what will happen is one cell will bend around itself,
leaving a hole in the middle and give you the exact same tubule.
Now what's cool about this is that this is top-down causation.
This is the idea that cells will choose different molecular mechanisms to get the same job done
at the anatomical level.
So in service of getting the same large-scale structure, here what the cells are harnessing
are cell-to-cell communication, here what the harnessing is cytoskeletal bending, completely
different molecular mechanisms to get to the same step.
So the idea is that this hardware that evolution has given us is able to make up for drastic
changes of its component parts.
And the final example, and so that last example was known since the 40s, it was discovered
a long time ago, this is recent here, this is our work, and it's just a simple example
of this kind of navigating morpho space.
So here's your tadpole here, now this one has normal eyes, this is a normal tadpole,
and it becomes a normal frog.
But in order to do that, it has to rearrange its face, so the jaws have to move, the eyes
have to move forward, the nostrils have to extend, like everything has to move.
The traditional way of thinking about this was that, well, somehow the genome encodes
some hard-wired cell behaviors so that every tissue moves the right direction in the right
amount, and then you get your normal frog from the normal starting position.
So we wanted to test this hypothesis, and we thought that actually, no, probably it's
much more clever than that.
So what we did was we created what we call Picasso tadpoles.
So everything is in the wrong place, the eyes are in the side of the head, the mouth is
on top, everything is scrambled.
And the amazing thing is that these scrambled tadpoles still become pretty normal frogs,
because all of these organs starting off at the incorrect position will move around until
they get to where they're going, in fact, sometimes they go too far and actually have
