baby mantle, discovering for the first time what kinds of effectors it has. Look at this,
I've got legs, I've got arms, amazing. So, one of the, they don't know. You see, you don't know
ahead of time when embryos are born into this world, much like Josh Bongard's robots.
They don't know right away what they have, where their boundaries with the outside world is.
All of that has to be computationally defined spontaneously. So, if we're thinking about
how intelligence has come into this world, here's what the biology is telling us.
Multiscale competencies, lots of levels, as Daniel was talking about at the very beginning,
competing and cooperating with each other. Spontaneous emergence of boundaries, energy
constraints, which require you to do core, coarse graining on your inputs. Self-modeling,
all of this kind of stuff is what biology is telling us. And because of this interoperability,
everything that we know in the natural world, all of the Darwin's endless forms, most beautiful,
are just the tiny corner of this option space. Every combination of evolved material,
designed machinery, and software is some kind of agent. And a lot of this already exists.
So, hybrid, cyborgs, all kinds of things where the future is going to look like this. And that
really means that we have to redefine a lot of our old categories that started out by looking at
this picture of the Garden of Eden, where you have a standard human, you have some standard animals,
and that's it. And you can draw a simple line and you know what's going on. That picture is gone.
So, I'm just going to close here. There are some papers that if anybody's interested in
diving further into these issues, here's some papers I could send you. I want to thank all
the people that did the work. So, Doug and Sam did all the Xenobot work. Here are the other
students and postdocs that contributed to this stuff, our collaborators, our funders,
most of all, our model systems, the animals do most of the heavy lifting here.
And that's it. Thank you for listening and I will take any questions.
Oh, thank you for a truly marvelous talk.
Thank you.
So, yes. And yeah, so we have a few minutes for questions. I think you said we have about
10 minutes left. So, yeah, okay. Yes, Daniel, I think you were first.
Hey, if I start asking, nobody else will have time. So, I'll leave the others and
leave my mind for the last.
Okay, Christoph, I thought I saw your hand.
Oh, sorry, I was just clapping.
Oh, okay, okay. Well, anyone else before I start asking questions as well.
So, okay, in that case, I have too many questions and I don't know enough about it.
And I'd really like to know more about these bioelectrical patterns and how you, I don't know,
for instance, seem to have gained control over how to manipulate those, say for, you know,
you fix the genetics and you give it the somehow the phenotype of a different creature,
a different animal entirely. That is absolutely mind blowing, I have to say. And how,
I mean, it almost seems like, you know, you could make the phenotype of,
it almost seems like the genetics isn't as important as we, as we thought it, I mean,
yeah, as we thought it would be. I mean, it's just, yeah, to how, to what extent can you get
something with a sort of drastically, how drastically different can the phenotype end up?
I think, I think that, well, look, in the, in the plan area, it's 150 million years difference
between the animals that we start with and the ones that we can make. And it's equivalent to
150 million years of evolutionary distance to these other species. Plus, of course, we can make
shapes that never existed, that never existed. So, you know, I don't know what the distance
there would be. But I think it's a very important point. I think absolutely the role of the genome
is not what we thought it was. You know, one of the, one of the key things here is though,
is that I think, and a lot of people get very suspicious about, you know,
sort of computer science analogies, but I think, I think the part that is actually very,
very useful is the distinction between hardware and software. So I think that tells us what,
you know, the genome, this, this, there's the, you know, some of our students are taught this,
this that, well, you know, the cell is the, is the hardware that interprets the genome and the
genome is the software of this. I think that's, that's completely wrong. I think what, what the
genome actually does is nail down the hardware of the cell. The genome tells you what channels
you're going to have. If your genome does not give you a voltage-gated ion channel,
there's very limited, you don't have those transistors, there's very limited things you can
do. So the hardware is critical because it, it, it, it facilitates or forbids certain kinds of
behavior modes. But we all know now that knowing the hardware does not tell you all of the
interesting things you need to know about what this thing is going to be able to do.
Not only does it, that is, that can the same hardware run many different kinds of, of, of
behavior modes, but also it means that the way you interact with it does not have to be at the
hardware level, right? That, that's kind of the huge, the huge insight to me of, of, of, of, of
computer science is this idea of reprogrammability. There, there are certain, that once you get beyond
a certain capacity, and I think biological systems are way beyond that, you can, you can interact
with it via inputs, via stimuli, via communication, via, you know, who knows how high that goes,
not just by rewiring it. And so I think that all of this, you know, the focus on, on the DNA,
both as the source of the information and as the optimal control knob, right, all the excitement
over genomic editing and everything else, those things I think are, are misplaced. But that's
not to say that the genome isn't important. I mean, you need to have the right hardware. If you
don't have the right hardware, it's not, you're not, you're not going to be able to do certain
things. So it's like there's a whole area of interaction with physics, what this hardware
can do that, you know, there is some physics that it exploits, and that doesn't need to be in the
genome. And yeah, it's, yeah. Yeah, that's, that's a very profound, that's a very profound idea,
which is that, and people have been thinking about this actually in, in, in mathematics for the longest
time. So, so where do the truths of number theory live, right, where, where, you know, you could
change all the facts of, of the initial conditions of the universe, and the number theory would
still be what it is, right? And so, so think about this, right? If you were to try to evolve a
triangle, so you evolve the first angle, you evolve the second angle, but guess what, you don't
need to evolve the third angle, you know what it is, right? Where does that come from, that, that,
you know, that's an amazing kind of free lunch, you know, as the physicists would say, right?
And, and the same thing with computation. So once you evolve that ion channel,
that's basically a transistor. So now you get to have logic gates and truth tables.
Did you have to evolve a truth table? No, you got that for free. Where do truth tables live?
You know, I don't know, but that's kind of beyond my pay grade. But, but, but, but, but I think
you're absolutely right is that what evolution does is it builds machines that couple to these
amazing affordances, right? So, so, so, so when, you know, in the behavioral ecology, they would
call these affordances, these incredible affordances provided by physics, by computation, by geometry,
by mechanics, you know, who knows what else is out there. Yeah, I think, I think that's,
that's, that's really an important way to look at evolution. Oh, that's, yeah. Daniel, yes.
I can't hold myself any longer. But first of all, this is an amazing talk. I wish we could
now sit together and talk for the rest of the afternoon, which neither you nor I can do. But
that we should definitely continue talking. And one thing that I, I find we, I could, first
of all, completely agree with this point about the triangle. So I just recently said to somebody
that mathematics is neither discovered, nor constructed, but it's something in between.
Right. And basically, you construct some things and then there are constraints that emerge and
they are implicit to whatever you do. It's a bit like what I call a box of oranges,
you fill the box of oranges and you get these hexagonal patterns once you're dense enough.
And this is not something you created. It's a aspect of the space that forces this upon us.
But we still have choices between different crystal patterns, for example, in the dimensions,
for example, there are 14 crystal patterns. What I was wondering, I mean, to me, it looks like
there's an element of holography in the whole thing. So where information is not fully localized.
And I felt that's the most strong reaction in your example with the brain, with double,
reconstructed brain. Because the question is how much information can you retain holographically?
So when you take this plan on one, and I think there wasn't even the experiment where even mice,
I think mice got. The question is, well, how much information can you retain when my language,
I would say, how many bits can you retain in this delocalized form?
Yeah, that's a great point. I have no idea how much information. We can't do the bits thing
because we don't know what the encoding and decoding of the message is. So that's hard.
But you're absolutely right. There's holography here in two ways. One is the sort of lateral way,
which is that, yeah, most of this information is distributed spatially across the whole animal.
So the bioelectric code and what enables us to do these various things is not a single cell
code. This is not something that tells individual cells what cell type they should be. This is
spread across the whole tissue. And of course, you can cut it both spatially and behaviorally.
It rescales the information onto every piece retains it. So that's kind of lateral holography.
There's also a vertical one, which is interesting in a very important sense.
A lot of the same rules that operate in controlling the morphology of large scale
bodies, like ours, some of those same rules are playing out in the shaping of single cells.
So there are weird kind of mathematical aspects of morphology that work the same way
in multicellular bodies, but also in single cells that are completely low at a much lower scale.
And other people have found the same thing in patterning of ant colonies and so on.
So there's also this kind of almost a fractal kind of idea that the same things repeat themselves
again and again at different scales, despite the fact that the material implementation is quite
different at that point. That's really very interesting because I do think that there might
be ways of actually quantifying that. And I very much like this attractor vision of genetic coding,
because we know that embodiment can change a lot. I mean, the talk that I give with you,
I think I mentioned that very, very primitive example of how you can totally change the amount
of information you need to do something if you change embodiment. So it's really drastically
different than the big question is how much can you associate to the embodiment? How much can
you associate to, in your case, the genome? I see the Stavros question. So I just go silent.
We can discuss another time. So let Stavros go ahead. Sorry.
Stavros? Yeah, I'll take the question with I apologize in about three minutes. I do have to run.
Yeah, sorry. Sorry to interrupt you, Daniel. Thanks for your talk. I'll be very quick. I've seen you
in other talks sort of talk about using the language of affect to kind of describe like,
you know, navigating this morphological spaces and kind of extending the concept of affect.
Beyond what it's usually used to describe these morphological spaces. Can you talk more on that?
Yeah, I think that's a very long discussion. But the short version of it is that we have been
trying to map as many concepts in cognitive neuroscience as we can onto this, for example,
navigating morphospace. So all kinds of issues that people normally attribute to. So, you know,
goal seeking behavior, rewards, punishments, different different types of learning and memory,
different types of so affect all these kinds of things, perceptual by stability, visual illusions,
all of these things can be mapped very, very nicely. And in fact, I have I have tables in
a couple of papers, which I'm happy to send, where it just goes side by side. And it shows
you exactly what the what the mapping is. And so there are mappings for, for affect and for many,
you know, for many, many of these terms. And I'm not saying all of them are going to map,
but so far, it's the symmetry has worked, you know, kind of very nicely. So you can define
these things in other spaces. So incredible. Thank you. Thank you so much. Drop me an email,
and I'll send you I'll send you the paper where we go into this. Okay. So are there any more
questions? I don't know if there's actually time for any more questions, but it's I wish there were,
but it's, yeah. So take this opportunity once more to thank the speaker for a wonderful talk.
Thank you so much. Really appreciate the discussion. And please by all means email me,
I'd love to I'd love to discuss with anybody anytime. Yeah. Thank you again. Okay. Thank you so
much, everybody. Thank you. All right. Bye.
