Hey, what's up?
It's Ben Greenfield.
Prepare to have your mind blown because my guest on the episode that you're about to
hear is basically the world's leading authority on smart drugs and new tropics and how to
maximize cognitive enhancement of your brain, how to upgrade your brain.
So it's pretty cool stuff.
I enjoyed this interview quite a bit.
I think you will too.
However, as you know, it's not just a smart thing to upgrade your brain.
It's a smart thing to upgrade and protect yourself with life insurance.
I've got life insurance, but the fact is what a lot of people don't realize is that you
can actually save a boatload of money on life insurance if you're a healthy person.
So there's this company called Health IQ and they use science and data and research to
get you a lower rate on life insurance if you cycle or waitlist or swim or run or anything
like that because they have all this research that shows that people who exercise a lot
have a much, much lower risk of early death.
I don't have to tell you that.
I'm preaching to the choir.
But what happens is they negotiate with life insurance companies for you based on your
health results.
It's really cool.
So the way that you do this is you go to helpicue.com slash ben and they'll give you a totally
free quote.
If you go to help IQ like health intelligence quotient IQ.com slash ben, you can learn about
life insurance for physically active people, but also get that free life insurance quote.
So it's a good way to protect yourself and also take advantage of the fact that you're
exercising to save some money.
This podcast is also brought to you by some of the best tasting green juice powder on
the face of the planet.
And here's why I like this stuff and this particular time of year.
I usually will do like kale and bok choy and Swiss chard and stuff like that in my smoothie.
It's dense green super foods, but in the winter it's like it's hard to find those foods.
I've got romaine lettuce and iceberg lettuce and cucumbers and some squash, but you miss
out on one of those really dense antioxidants, a lot of the dense chlorophyll rich green
stuff.
So you can make yourself a smoothie with whatever cucumbers and zucchini and iceberg or whatever
kind of like slightly sub par vegetables, sorry cucumbers that you have around.
And then you can throw this powder in to upgrade the nutrient density.
I'm using that word a lot, aren't I upgrade?
So anyways, the way that you do this is you get this green juice powder that's called
organifi.
It's got like 15 plus different ingredients, chock full of just about every green thing
on the face of the planet.
And you put it in your smoothie or your water, your juice or your coffee.
If you're one of those weird people that blends strange things into your coffee.
And the way that you get this stuff, you get a 20% discount on it.
Use code Ben at bengreenfieldfitness.com slash fit life.
Code Ben gets you 20% at bengreenfieldfitness.com slash fit life.
Enjoy.
And now onto today's episode with a guy who makes me look pretty dumb.
Not that that's hard to do, but he definitely does it.
In this episode of the Ben Greenfield Fitness Show.
One of the things we realized was that people who are dealing with chronic complex disease
who are going to have to do a lot of things and that have some complication are also dealing
with decreased cognitive function, decreased energy and some, you know, emotional difficulty
that makes it hard to do what they need to.
So being able to support those areas is hugely beneficial.
When caffeine is bound to terastilbine, the pharmacodynamics of it are very interesting.
It slows the rate of caffeine into the bloodstream and it elongates the half life pretty significantly.
He's an expert in human performance and nutrition.
Voted America's top personal trainer and one of the globe's most influential people in
health and fitness.
His show provides you with everything you need to optimize physical and mental performance.
He is Ben Greenfield Power, speed, mobility, balance.
Whatever it is for you that's the natural movement, get out there.
When you look at all the studies done, studies that have shown the greatest efficacy.
All the information you need in one place, right here, right now, on the Ben Greenfield
Fitness Podcast.
Hey folks, it's Ben Greenfield and it's probably no secret that I often record podcasts with
all sorts of special things circulating in my bloodstream and today would be a definite
doozy.
I am chock full of Hooperzine, DHEA, Curcumin, Kersetan, Bio-PQQ, Artichoke, Cholius, Ginko,
Thorine, Theanine, Centrophaxine, Cytocholine, Alpha GPC, Zinc Picolinate, Magnesium-3nate
and a host of other variables that are right now lighting my brain on freaking fire, things
called Neurotropics.
My guest on today's show actually thinks there's a pretty big problem with this stuff, namely
that the entire field of, the entire movement of Neutropics or smart drugs that some people
will call them, even though there's a difference, that the entire movement has some pretty extreme
reductionistic tendencies, meaning that even though popping pills and using biohacks and
self-quantification to make your body and your brain smarter and despite the plethora
of scientific findings focused on individual neurotransmitters and mechanisms and cell walls
and receptor sites and brain flow and blood flow, it's all mostly a bunch of isolated
variables, isolated single parts of the cognitive machinery.
In many cases, when we look at all this stuff in isolation, there can be side effects, there
can be drawbacks, there can be some deleterious impacts in other areas.
My guest today has a distinct focus.
His focus is to somehow make all this stuff work together, how to better understand basically
the complex dynamics between the brain and an entire meta theory of cognitive enhancement
as geeky and nerdy and woo-woo and white lab codish as that may seem.
That's exactly what we're going to be delving into in today's show along with a host of
information on what I would consider to be the most comprehensive, neutropic stack ever
made and what actually happens to be circulating in my bloodstream and in my brain right now.
My guest today is Daniel Schmockdenberger, and I just love that last name because any
name that's multi-syllableic that I can say, well, without butchering it, I'll take it,
Daniel Schmockdenberger.
I almost butchered it at that time.
Daniel has actually been studying health and neurology for quite some time.
He was originally afflicted with some neurological and autoimmune illnesses that he'll fill us
in on, but wasn't able to get him fixed with allopathic medicine or with complementary
medicine, and so he really took a deep dive into physiology and pathology and became a
real academic of mind body medicine, a student of mind body medicine, and he has a huge background
now in everything from psychedelics to neutropics to meditation to psychology to all sorts of
different tools for evolving states and stages of consciousness and evolving the human cognitive
experience.
He brings all this together along with a ton of scientific research on his website, which
I will link to in the show notes.
It's called the Neurohacker Collective, and the specific flavor of neutropic that he has
created is called qualia, and so we're going to delve into that and probably take the deepest
dive we've ever taken into neurohacking, hacking the biology of your brain, your cognition,
the problem with modern smart drugs, affecting your neurons in a very positive way, building
new brain cells, and a whole lot more.
So Daniel, thanks for coming on the show, man.
Ben, thanks for having me.
It's good to be here.
Yeah, no problem.
And you are down in Encinitas, California, right?
That's correct.
Yeah, I like it.
The land of yoga pants and also navy seals, I suppose.
It's kind of a weird place, right?
Navy seals and yoga pants.
Is the intersection of both of those things.
You aren't wearing yoga pants and dressed up as a navy seal with a trident, are you?
That's private.
OK. All right.
All right. A little bit awkward, but we'll leave that to everyone's imagination.
Anyway, so Daniel, before we jump into this whole idea of new tropics and cognitive enhancement
and the nitty gritty nuts and bolts of how to do it, I'm curious about what happened to you,
because I know you had some kind of an illness or something that kind of led you down this road,
but what exactly was going on with you?
It's a field that I've always been interested in, the capability for us to develop human
potential in general and cognitive and psychological potential in specific, as well as just kind
of the cutting edge of personalized and integrative medicine, both in the diagnostic and therapeutic
sides, and with my background orientation towards whole systems, complex system science
and integrating multiple disciplines and approaches together that, like I said,
that had always been an area of deep interest.
But several years back, I did start having a bunch of symptoms, and when I went and got
traditional diagnostics, I had both autoimmune rheumatic disease and signs of a neurodegenerative
process. And the specific things that I had going on did not have any kind of adequate treatment
in allopathic medicine, and there wasn't even consistent success anywhere in integrative medicine.
And so the answer for me was to just start seeking to understand what tissues were being
damaged by what chemicals, what was happening up chain in those causal cascades that would lead
to that happening, what could be the tier one deviations from homeostasis that could lead to
those kind of cascade. And so that just meant starting to model out the systems in a more
complex way where we don't silo between neurology, gastroenterology, immunology, etc.
because obviously a gut brain access disorder can be affecting neurologic tissues. And so when
we started to model that, applying complex systems ontology, a lot of really novel insights
started to come about, and it led to me figuring out how to do appropriate diagnostics for myself
of what was going on. I found a number of key, like what you would call original cause, and then
also causal cascade insights, and was able to actually reverse those both the disease pathology
as well as the underlying causes, reverse the autoimmune antibodies, etc., and then was able
to do similar things for many friends that had also had diagnoses that had no formal treatment.
And this led to a series of insights about not just natropics or neuropsychopharmacology,
but the future of medicine as a whole. How do we do a better job of understanding what health is
in terms of whole system resilience and what diseases in terms of decreased resilience and
pathophysiology, and what the future of adequate integrative personalized medicine could look
like. That's a lot of big words, man. I'm curious, in terms of like the specific nitty gritties,
what are a couple of examples of things that you did, like when you're talking about autoimmune
issues or neurological dysfunction, were you just drinking bone broth and following an autoimmune
diet where you weren't eating nightshades and dairy and soy, or were you pulling a lot of fringe
little biohacks, or I know what you call neurohacks out, and if so, we're just a couple of things
that you did that kind of like affected some really significant change.
Well, you know how sometimes you've talked to integrative doctors or biohackers that really
focus on mold, or yeast, or GI parasites, or pathogens, or dysbiosis, or methylation disorders
from genetic predispositions, or HPA axis disorders, or Lyme's disease, or heavy metal toxicity, or
it's like, how do you put all of the parts together of all forms of toxicity, all forms of
deficiency, all forms of pathogenicity, code imbalance, because you're obviously going to treat
Lyme disease in terms of actual Borrelia in the blood very differently than you're going to treat
a mucosal infection, or you're going to treat heavy metal toxicity, and so the key for me was
actually enumerating the entire space of all the things that could be involved, doing complex
diagnostics across the whole space, and then rather than just kind of have a shotgun approach,
have very targeted therapy that factored exactly what was going on for me, that would be totally
different than what was going on for someone else that had the same disease diagnosis,
because you can have multiple different deviations from balance, deviations from homeostasis that
can lead to the same kind of disease disorder. So I was doing specific kinds of treatments
for mucosal infections, weird infections I had in my gut from international travel,
and that was both meds, so Alenia and Ivermectin, and a number of kind of normal and not very common
antiparasitic, antibacterial meds, and a lot of supplements that were both addressing
mucosal function, addressing infection directly, and so that would be like an example of dealing
with GI infection, where we were dealing with other mucosal infection, like things in sinuses,
then there were specific anti-infectious and biofilm-killing, biofilm-breaking things that I
did intranasally, a lot of IV therapies, IV chelation, glutathione, etc., for aspects of toxicity,
and ozone ultraviolet lights for some humeral infections, so lots of things, but it wasn't
just like all of the integrated things, it was very specifically targeted towards what order of
operations makes sense on what things that are here. Right, that makes sense, so you were not
just throwing everything in the kitchen sink at your body in some desperate attempt to fix
yourself, you were actually, I'm assuming, doing blood and biomarker testing as you went along
researching a lot of this stuff? Yeah, I started with comprehensive diagnostics across the whole
spectrum of things that could be involved, and then said, okay, does this make sense? If I look at my
medical history, when certain symptoms started, when I was exposed to certain things, I look at
the whole landscape of biometrics now, and in understanding of how causation could occur,
do I kind of have a story of when these exposures likely happened, when these kind of, you know,
exposures to toxins, infections, etc., injuries, stresses, and then if you can put a picture
together and you can get a sense of, okay, what would a project plan for reversing the speed?
Obviously, if you've got some kind of, say, GI mucosal infection that is causing continuous
inflammation to go into the bloodstream or allowing toxicity to go into the bloodstream,
you're going to want to address that before trying to address the blood side most of the time,
so order of operations, etc., that's just all things you would factor if you're doing kind of
comprehensive treatment. Yeah, and I know that today we're going to focus a lot more on kind of like
the nutrient status of things, right, like nutrients that you could put into your body to
