and we do this like 10,000 times to get a histogram. And then we indicate where
dimmed is, and it's significantly out of distribution, meaning that it's at least
not a randomly permuted configuration. It's very different from a randomly random configuration,
thus nullifying the null hypothesis. By contrast for L1 and fully connected network,
you see that the fraction of isolated neurons, they are still in distribution. This also makes
sense because they don't even have the notion of locality. So in this sense, they are by nature,
they are by default randomly permuted. But this is just a sanity check. And the second
quantitative measure is the average cluster size. If something is localized in space,
then it must have smaller cluster size than if it's spread over all of the place. So again,
the blue histogram is the random baseline where we randomly permute these neurons.
And again, we see that dimmed is significantly out of distribution of a random brain,
meaning that at least they are nonzero anatomical modularity in the brain that we obtained here.
So yeah, so I think that's everything I prepared. I'm happy to chat more if you guys have questions.
Yeah, I have a biological question, which is you started this out.
This is Chris, by the way. You started this out saying something along the lines of
brains work better when they have anatomical modularity. And if you look at humans or mammals,
then there's a lot of anatomical modularity. And there are also a lot of long distance
connections. In particular, three classes of long distance connections are the
thalamocortical connections, the frontal parietal connections. And then the connections
across the corpus callosum. And that suggests that one could actually test this somewhat
philosophical claim that you made by looking at variation in connectivity across the corpus
callosum and seeing whether people with less connectivity across the corpus callosum actually
work better cognitively. And we have the extreme case of split brain patients where the corpus has
been completely disconnected. And they're apparently normal on many tasks and severely
unusual on other tasks. And maybe Wes knows the answer to this question. I don't actually know
if connectivity across the corpus callosum has ever been correlated with cognitive performance
across some interesting battery of tests. But one would think that would be something that
would be possible. And it might be interesting to try to chase down biological data that would be
relevant to when is anatomical modularity actually useful for problem solving, as opposed to just
being useful for explainability, which I think your experiments demonstrate utility for explainability
very nicely. And the question is, is it really useful for problem solving? Yeah, thanks for the
great comment. I think one route we can pursue is that being produces local connections, but
there are still long connections in the brain making it more like a critical system. Maybe it's
a parallel correlation or something. So an intriguing question for me, for myself, is that
how can we modify the method? Or do we require a completely different method to reproduce this
parallel statistics in brain? Not just, yeah, this, yeah.
Thanks, nice talk.
