transcranial lasers, low-level laser. Not just transcranial, but sometimes they'll go up your
nose. Intranasal lasers can increase ATP production in the neurons, so increased mitochondrial output.
That's a good example. If you're increasing ATP output, you're not making the system more
moved in a stimulatory direction, right? You're not affecting stimulating neurotransmitters or
neurohormones. You're also not doing neuroinhibitory ones. You're just increasing the cell energy for
it to do whatever it wants to do better, which is kind of like a younger brain. Interesting.
There's a bunch more, but give me more questions, otherwise I'll keep going.
So you brought up the gut brain. Is there a feedback mechanism that you can train yourself to pay
attention to so that you have better insight or thinking sort of informed by the gut?
So we could take this a couple different ways. We could say that we might be actually looking at
the information processing of the enteric nervous system, right? That there is this gut brain,
gut nervous system, that it provides a different kind of input or feedback, just like there's
a bunch of neurons in the heart, and we could talk about the heart as an information processing
system, or the neurons in it at least. That might be true. I don't think we know enough
to know for sure. We can also though just talk about the benefit of tuning into different
perspectives and being able to get different information. So let me give you a totally
different example. Napoleon Hill's famous book, Think and Grow Rich. So he said that one of his
favorite practices that he developed in there was he had this Council of Invisible Advisors,
and his Invisible Advisors were, he thought about who he wanted to become,
and the qualities that mattered most, and he thought about people that really represented
embodying that quality well. And so maybe he didn't want to become Genghis Khan holistically,
but there was some aspect of Kurds that he wanted Genghis Khan's insight for. And so he had his list
that Lincoln, Da Vinci, Ford, whoever, I don't remember whose exact list was, but he studied
those people well enough that he could have some real sense of their personalities. And then he
would convene seeing them all at a council table with his eyes closed and a kind of meditative
state. And then he would bring life issues to them and ask for their feedback and go around and have
Lincoln talk, right, then have Napoleon talk. And one of the things that he found was that when he
was asking for Gandhi's input, he got insight that he would have never got just journaling his
own thoughts. And he said, all right, so is it because I am channeling Gandhi? Or is it simply
because I'm looking at the universe through a different lens that I wouldn't normally using my
own brain? And, you know, he said, let's assume that it's the latter, but it really doesn't matter
at all. The net result is profound, valuable, useful, empirically useful insights came from
looking at the world through those lenses. You can do the same thing with parts of your body.
And it's actually a really meaningful part of somatic psychology. So you can tune into your
gut, you could tune into say you want to use the chakra system, right, and you tune into your solar
plexus or your heart chakra, your throat chakra. Does it matter if they're really chakras? No,
it doesn't matter at all. Does it matter if the chakras correlate to nerve plexis or to
endocrine glands? Or if they're nonsense? Is you're just tuning in to this part of your body
and saying, what does it want to tell me? What does it think? What does it want me to know?
And some information comes, and then you step back in your normal state of consciousness and look at
that. Might you be able to gain meaningful insights from it? Definitely. Yeah, I think that's a really
good way of looking at it, because some people, you know, if they're not used to, or if they don't
believe that, you know, chakras exist, they might just refuse to use that technique. But actually,
the way you put it, you can totally just use the technique without having any kind of belief about
it. Does this work? Yes, it does. Does it not work? Okay, well, maybe I can try something else.
And, you know, it doesn't have to just be chakras as just an example, you could just take an area
of your body that's heard and tune in and say, what does this part want me to know? Maybe you
don't get anything, but then you just kind of feel the pain and you or the tension or whatever it is,
and you say, all right, if this pain could talk, what would it say? And you see what comes up?
It's interesting how often that ends up being insightful. And when we talk about the mind-brain
interface or the mind-body interface, there are a tremendous number of places where the top-down
regulatory system has huge effects on all the other systems. And so where specifically,
emotions, psychology end up affecting physiology. You think about why does a placebo ever make
anything better for anybody, right? Like, it doesn't even make sense why a placebo,
like why isn't the body already healing at its optimum capacity as it is, since it would be
genetically programmed to do so. And it is already healing at its optimum capacity and taking the
sugar pill isn't interesting. And it's not even the belief that's interesting. It's when someone is
in, say someone has a disease state, they're anxious about it, and that anxious is mediated by
cortisol and epinephrine and et cetera. And so their cortisol is taking the precursor hormone,
pregnant alone, and shunting it into cortisol and the adrenals, which means less of it's going to
DHEA, so the cortisol DHEA ratio gets higher. Well, that ends up affecting everything from genetic
transcription to lean muscle mass to bone density to so many things. So then when the person believes
they're going to get well and they feel better and their stress drops and their parasympathetic
nervous system can kick on and their sympathetic nervous system chills out and their cortisol DHEA
ratio moves in the right direction. The actual reparative mechanisms of physiology are more
available to them. And so their body is healing as best as it can in the stress state and in a
non-stress state it can actually heal better, right? Now, one of the interesting things is it's
placebo is not the only thing that can do that. You look at work like Norman Cousin's work where he
just watched comedy because he thought he was dying of cancer and his cancer got better,
not because he believed he was going to get better, but because he was not stressed out and he was
happy for the first time and ended up being that stress was meaningful to the process of
pathology that was going on for him. And so this doesn't mean that it's the only thing or that it
will always be affecting. Sometimes placebo just affects how you sense something, but not the
underlying pathophysiology, but it's a part of it. So when you tune into pain in the body, for instance,
or tension in the body, is it possible that there is some psychological connection that's
happening there where you can gain insights often? Are there other ways of affecting cortisol in your
body that are meaningful in the long term other than this kind of observing your body and releasing
it consciously? Oh, yeah. So this is like the first place that functional medicine doctors and
naturopathic doctors talk to people, which is understanding how the HPA axis works and that
the dysregulation and the HPA axis usually starts at the A at the adrenal side and that
roughly you can say the sympathetic nervous system innervates the adrenal cortex and the primary
hormone there's many coming from that process is cortisol and the parasympathetic nervous system
innervates the adrenal medulla and there are again many hormones that are coming out, but the primary
one is DHA. So the ratio of cortisol to DHA as hormones in the endocrine system in the blood
representing kind of systemic effects is roughly equivalent to the sympathetic parasympathetic
ratio of the system as a whole and related to chronic stress. So in early phases of chronic
stress cortisol goes up and the precursor to cortisol in the brain, ACTH, goes up. After that's
been the case for a little while, DHA starts to go down because cortisol and DHA are both made from
the same precursor hormone called pregnenolone and it's a rate-limited hormone. There's a finite
amount of it. After a while if someone stays in chronic stress cortisol starts to drop too simply
because the adrenal glands are fatigued and now DHA is way lower. So you can see people in high or
low cortisol adrenal stress states depending upon how long they are in that pathology, but so you
can give someone bioidentical hormones or things that support hormones to get them in the right
range quickly and make the person feel better. So say you do a blood or a salivary hormone lab
to look at adrenals you can do that but the big thing is just going to be dropping the stress
load and the stress load is psychological and physiologic stresses. So too much sugar and an
unstable blood sugar cycle causes cortisol spiking but it reads it as stress kind of continuous
starvation cycle responses. Not enough sleep is a huge cause of stress. Both not enough exercise
or exercising in a way that's causing injury. So you've got and as well as toxins and pathogens
that cause inflammation. So all of those can cause chronic stress as well as all the psychological
sources. So one of the you know you can say that the first good part of neurohacking is just health
right health and well-being because so many people are dealing with brain fog or low level
anxiety depression before they seek to optimize beyond baseline just getting back to baseline is
pretty great. So identifying the things that took them below baseline and reversing those
that should be the foundational stuff. Right I think so many people neglect that they're trying
to kind of go to superhuman levels rather than just trying to optimize for what's missing or for
what's kind of below normal levels. So what else is in that spectrum of what people often overlook?
We've talked about cortisol we've talked about the gut microbiome are there any other important
components of this equation? Sure this is not the sexy part this is the like fucking don't tell us
about the stuff again part but it's just it's critical and then the sexy part is the stuff
that seems like magic bullets that make you make you have superhero powers so we'll get
more into that the end but those parts really do there are some really neat exciting technologies
that can be very powerfully augmenting but they really do function radically better in a well-tuned
system than an already dysregulated system doesn't mean they can't help to get you back to function
in a dysregulated system but we really want to be functioning on foundational well-being.
So first category is sleep I say this because it ends up affecting more categories of health
and psychology faster than almost anything else and it's something that is just so easy
for most of us to do a poor job with. By sleep I mean both enough sleep and good quality sleep
so even you know it's give or take a third of your life but it's like 90% of all the
repair that happens to your physiology and you've got some very meaningful information
consolidation psychological consolidation happening in dreams and theta but almost
all the physiologic repair happens in delta it's also where the memory consolidation happens
so making sure that we're getting enough delta sleep I would say is a is a huge foundation
now we've got neural hacks for helping that you can you know one should make sure that
the foundational things are in place so that environmentally do you have a good sleeping
environment you have a good bed is it dark is it quiet good air quality you're not in a room with
mold or VOC etc and you don't have people or dogs or whatever waking up throughout the night
like we could do a whole show just on how to make an optimized sleeping environment
and it's a pretty important thing factoring how how big a deal it is and then there are
definitely supplements that people can take that will help them sleep better depending upon what's
wrong with their sleep but if they're if they're not sleeping long because they're waking up to pee
a lot versus they're snoring right those really need addressed in different ways
but addressing them is really important there's also the amount of light that you receive before
sleep so many people stay on their phone right before they go to bed and that can have really
terrible implications because your brain doesn't produce enough melatonin yeah so cortisol and
melatonin are in a circadian rhythm with each other where cortisol is high in the day low at
night melatonin is low in the day high at night and it's a light stimulated cycle and so it's
actually important to get enough bright light during the day if you don't and your cortisol
doesn't actually go high then it won't come low enough and give you good sleep at night but it
is important to avoid bright and blue light before bed so you see a lot of people wear blue blocking
glasses or put the flux app on their computer to take it out of the blue range you know things
like that in general I would say a wind down routine before bed where you stop taking in stressful
things you stop blue in the bright light and you start preparing body and mind for sleep whether
it's through a bath or the right kind of reading or stretching super useful we're working on some
technology some biochemical technologies that induce better delta sleep a number of different
ones one of the ones that we're most excited about is a new kind of brain inductions called
phase locked induction and this was a DARPA funded project originally with some people that were
partnered with out of a university of northwestern and rather than try to induce delta waves like
using binaural beats or strobelites or transcranial stem these researchers recognize that the brain
actually resists having its brain wave patterns changed externally pretty strongly because its
own process for regulating the frequency that it's in which is the opening and closing of the ion
gates is very very sensitive it's controlled by many factors and it's really only susceptible
to induction when the gates are open when the ion channels are open and so they put EEG on people's
head found out when the people went into delta sleep they were specifically trying to improve
the efficiency of delta sleep and then exactly when the gates were open they put in a stimulus for
the exact same wave pattern the same frequency that the brain was in where it was crest crest
aligned so they weren't changing the brain wave pattern they were just adding more of the exact
brain wave pattern that the brain was in to add amplitude which the hypothesis was would increase
the efficiency of everything that was happening because you get more net communication per unit
time happening and this happened and so the first studies that were done were done on memory
and they found a 400 increase in long-term memory in healthy adults after a week of using this
technology and that's testing memory but if delta sleep is going up that's going to be
helping anxiety it's going to be decreasing risk for Alzheimer's it's going to be affecting
oxidation and anti-inflammation so this technology is not far from being market ready this is an
example of like really fun neural hacks that we're right on the brink of that is so interesting
it sounds like it's almost tricking the brain into thinking that is doing a better job at whatever
it's already doing than it actually is and I wonder if it has a feedback loop where the brain
picks up that oh this is really working and and then it knows how it arrived there because it was
already doing that maybe just to a smaller degree and then it already knows how to do that and it
better next time is that the case so there are some therapies where after you do them the brain
continues to do them on its own because it learns how to do them that's kind of the exact opposite
of the way we usually think of say psychopharmacology drugs right which is that they create dependence
and addiction you get off of them your brain can't do that anymore because it overrode the
natural regulatory system this is one of our primary design principles is that we want to
understand what the brain's own regulatory process and the body's regulatory process is doing and
support it rather than override it in a way that whenever someone stops with that particular
technology you have a net neutral to net positive lasting effect rather than a down regulation
independence I would say good neural hacking in general should have that as one of its criteria
with this particular one I don't think a study has been done yet on someone using it for a while
and then stopping and seeing if they continue to get that elevation from baseline I wouldn't see it
as much as that it's trying to trick the brain as it is supporting it by adding energy right like
if you're if there's three people pushing a car and one more person comes along to push it just
goes better because there is you know more force being added to what's already happening and so
here the goal was as the brain is modulating its frequency and it's at the max amplitude that it
can generate if we can just add energy so we're adding amplitude we're just going to increase
the efficiency of its process there's something very beautiful it's something very aikido about
not we know what the brain should be doing better and we're going to try and induce this specific
frequency of delta but we actually don't know why it is moving between the frequencies exactly the
way that it does but we're going to kind of trust it and follow it and just add resource I think
stem cells is another way that you can think about that right as you think about stem cell therapy
we don't know how the stem cells differentiate into tissues fully and then all the metabolic
functions those cells do but we're simply adding resource to the system in general I think
the approach to support the system's own regulatory process is doing what they do better as opposed to
trying to override them is a is a key distinction in how we should approach tech interface with the
body interesting and so when it comes to supplements is this also your approach that you're trying to
support what the body is already doing rather than kind of installing a new program oh this is how
you're going to do it body okay yeah of course so you know like with the the supplements that we've
developed and more that we're in process of developing so let's take qualia as an example
it's a notropic product cognitive enhancement product that we made because there's a good example
here so some of the ingredients are actually just nutrients right they're nutrients that you should
