Welcome to the Future Thinker's podcast, episode number 42. Today on the show we have
Daniel Schmacktenberger, the co-founder and director of research and development for Neurohacker
Collective, which is a smart drug company with a vision of advanced human optimization.
Daniel's past work involved being a dean for a college of mind-body medicine and running
a think tank that focused on developing complex system solutions to environmental and societal
issues. We already interviewed Daniel on our podcast once before, where he talked about
complex global systems, and you can listen to that episode by going to futurethinkers.org
slash 36. But today our topic is neurohacking, or the voluntary altering of your own brain
function to optimize for performance, well-being, or a number of other factors. And we recently
got our hands on Qualia, which is a neuroenhancer or a smart drug stack from Neurohacker Collective,
which Daniel is the co-founder of. We've tried a few other smart drugs before, like
Modafinal, for example, but Qualia seems to be quite different from the others. For example,
my experience of Modafinal was that it made me just dislike people in general, although
it made me extremely focused, but Qualia didn't have any of those side effects for me. It
gave me a sense of emotional well-being and a general sense of balance as well as focus,
which was quite interesting. The term for this is broad-spectrum cognitive enhancement,
which means that it doesn't just improve one quality of your functioning, but multiple
qualities at the same time. Qualia specifically focuses on three areas of enhancement. Cognitive,
psycho-effective, and physiological. Cognitive area includes things like intelligence and
creativity. Psycho-effective area includes increasing confidence, willpower, and empathy.
Physiological area includes higher levels of energy, awareness, and responsiveness.
Qualia has also been designed with an ethical mindset. Instead of depleting or overriding
your brain's natural function like some other smart drugs, it works to support and enhance,
without creating dependency. There are over 40 active ingredients in Qualia, and it's all
transparent, you can check all of it out on their website, and there's 40-plus years of
international research on neurotropic stack formulation behind these ingredients. If you're
interested in learning more about Qualia, go to futurethinkers.org slash brain hack. One word.
And finally, before we get into the show, I just want to give a quick thank you to our patrons
and donors, Josh, Alfred, Lauren, and Melanie. Thank you guys for supporting the show. We love you.
To check out the show notes from this episode, go to futurethinkers.org slash 42, and the second
half of this interview will be at futurethinkers.org slash 43 once it's live. And to listen to our
first interview with Daniel, go to futurethinkers.org slash 36. Enjoy the show.
Last but not least, if you want to get access to more content, hidden episodes, or if you just
want to chat with us and previous guests, then check out our community at community.futurethinkers.org.
Daniel, welcome to the show. It's good to have you on again.
I'm happy to be on again.
So your last episodes were quite popular, but we talked about quite a different set of subjects,
and today we'd like to talk with you about neurohacking. So maybe can you give us a brief
introduction to what neurohacking is and why we should be doing it, if we should be doing it?
Yeah, so neurohacking is a broad and kind of ambiguous term related to biohacking and
consciousness hacking. Generally, we can think of it as the application of any tools for
technologies or processes to modulate, augment, upgrade some aspect of psychological neurological
function. And so we could think of ancient neurohacking technologies being meditation and
sweat lodges and psychedelics and dancing around the campfire to get into translate states and
etc. And obviously with advances in neuroscience and neuro technology, we've got QEG neurofeedback,
we've got transcranial stimulation technologies, we've got much more advanced microbiomic,
genomic, you know, biochemical technologies. So we can think of neurohacking as how do we
optimize the mind-brain interface towards any positive purpose utilizing whatever tools best
serve that particular purpose. I love how you say mind-brain interface as if they're very
separate things. Well, the reason that we're saying mind-brain interface together is because if you
want to run the analogy of mind stuff as kind of like software and brain stuff as kind of like
hardware, you realize that the distinction, the clear distinction in computers between software
and hardware, we don't have such a clear distinction in the human organism that any change in thought
has a physical change in the brain that's happening. Any physical change in the brain has some
change in thinking, emotion, experience, etc. And so they are dynamically co-inter-affecting
each other all the time. So I suppose a lot of the thinking that we've done about consciousness has
well, it's come from a lot of different perspectives, but the one that we land on quite often
is the perspective from Hinduism and Buddhism, which is you are not the mind and the consciousness
is not exactly localized in physical material in the brain. So do you have much to say from
that perspective before we dive deeper into neurohacking? Yeah, so we get right into what's
famously known in neuroscience as the hard problem of neuroscience. How does consciousness and brain
or in general consciousness and physics, what are they both and how do they relate and is there
causal interaction in both directions? This is the hard problem of neuroscience, but before that
this was the kind of hard problem, the mind-brain problem or the dualism challenge that all
philosophic systems face is it seems like there is third-person stuff, that we can
all independently measure in sciences the method of knowing the third-person reality,
what we think of as third-person or objective reality, we can all measure it, we can corroborate it,
and if we're going to make hypotheses about interactional dynamics, we'll be able to
make predictions, etc. And third-person stuff has weight and position and charge and length and
spin and those kinds of properties. First-person stuff doesn't have any of those. It has emotion
and feeling and longing and impulse and it can't be corroborated by anybody else at all. You are
having a first-person experience as we're talking and I can empathetically imagine and to feel into
what your experience is like, but that is different than actually having the first-person access to
it that you do. So that both of these realities exist has been acknowledged and there are
philosophic systems that don't think that they're both real, right? You have what are called idealism
systems that say consciousness is fundamentally real because it's the only thing we can know.
I can know that I'm having an experience but I can't know that what I'm experiencing about the
world, even through my scientific measurements, is true because I could just be a crazy person,
right? This could all be a dream. I could all be the matrix and it could just be
contours within consciousness, but I only have first-person experience, first-person access to
my experience of stuff, not the stuff itself. And so in those models, what's fundamentally
real is consciousness and the rest of the universe, right? Third-person stuff is either not real at all,
Maya, or it's an epiphenomena of consciousness, mind creates reality. You've got the other side and
says what's fundamentally real is physical stuff, material stuff, physical stuff,
happen with the Big Bang, interactions occur that lead to complexity, emergent properties have
enough complexity and somewhere around biology or maybe nervous systems, consciousness is an
emergent property, but what's fundamentally real is physical stuff and then consciousness is either
just not real at all, it's called radical limitivism. So Dan Dennett and others kind of propose that,
it's kind of like an illusion or consciousness is real but it's an epiphenomena of complex
neural networks, right? Radical emergentism. So you've got different philosophic systems that don't
see both of those as fundamentally real things or reduce them to the domain that seems more real
to them or they're stuck with, alright, these both seem real and they seem unconvencerate
called dualism or attempts to try and reconcile them more deeply and so when you're living your life,
when your body is touched, interacted with, sensation happens, this is physical, right? It's
being mediated by via biology and physics and yet you have a conscious experience. So it seems like
physics can affect consciousness, there is a causal movement but you also experience yourself
having some choice and again we get deep into not just the topic of consciousness but the
topic of will and volition and if your choice is real and then affects your hand moving,
it would seem that consciousness has some effect on physics and there for every branch where you
say well what about that and each of these questions, each of these things I've said and
the questions that come up, there is a whole branch of philosophy that goes down, is there really
free will or not, is it compatible with a deterministic universe or not, is universe deterministic,
etc. But most of what we're going to talk about today does not require these deep existential
issues being solved to say that we do know empirically both first person and third person
things that we can do with our subjective experience, so mindfulness, meditation, introspection, etc.
can actively affect the brain and affect the brain in ways that affect the mind's predispositions
and things that we can do to the body, i.e. changing its biochemistry, changing its microbiota,
exercising differently, change cognitive and emotional, right, mental and the experience of the
conscious creature. And you can abstract and say well okay so you're saying the mind, thinking,
feeling stuff is different than the body, is consciousness different than that as the
non-dual witness, you mentioned kind of the Hindu Buddhist philosophy, so maybe there is
consciousness as a field effect that is then interacting with this self-organizing system.
Fascinating questions and if you wanted to do a show where we just dive into them
existential questions at depth, I'd be happy. I think that's the plan for the next one actually.
Yeah, cool. But yeah, you bring up non-duality and that's exactly what I was going to say just
now. Do you approach neurohacking from a non-dualistic perspective where it's both ascending and
descending in terms that Ken Wilber uses? Yeah, so when Ken talks about the ascending path,
he's talking about the transcendent direction and the descending path, the eminent direction,
so the transcendent spiritual processes are around in some way having consciousness leave
body, mind, etc., and go into higher states of witnessing universal consciousness, etc.,
the descending paths around taking universal consciousness and embodying it more fully.
And if you just want to talk about it very simply in terms of just having expanded states of
awareness and then being able to integrate those expanded states as integrated stages,
yes, that's a valuable way to think about it. Cool. So why don't we move into the actual
subject of neurohacking? You talked about the different tools that we can use. What are some
of the currently available tools for neurohacking? Well, so there's a lot of different goals, right?
And so if someone's wanting to decrease anxiety, or brighten their mood, or increase their cognitive
function, or have altered psychedelic, numinous states, or improve their sleep quality, or each
of these goals are going to have different tools that are more appropriate, and then each of the
goals are going to have different tools that are different depending upon the person and what the
person actually has going on, their specific biochemistry, genomics, etc. So I'll speak broadly
about categories of tools that are currently available, and then we can get into applications
more. So think about first affecting the brain and body, and this is another important distinction.
So we look at the intersection between the mind and brain, but it's not just mind and brain,
it's your conscious experience in your body as a whole. And then we could say, well, it's actually
the mind, brain, body, environment complex, because the environment and the body are
affecting each other inexorably in real time. So these are embedded complex systems. But let's
just talk about the topic of embodied consciousness and conscious experience that is mediated beyond
just the nervous system in the physiology. You know, the first example that I think people are
getting pretty properly aware of is the gut brain axis. And the gut brain axis is mediated by
via a number of things. You've got the enteric nervous system, which is a whole branch of peripheral
nervous system in the intestines, where inflammation in the intestines can cause imbalance between
sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system can cause neural inflammation, etc. But you've also got
the microbiome digesting food. And actually, many of our nutrients are metabolic byproducts of
the microbiota. And obviously, we evolved with our microbiome over so many generations before
we had chlorinated water and antibiotics and refined sugar diets. And so the human genome
doesn't actually code everything necessary to make a human, the genome codes a bunch of stuff.
But we got a genome and a microbiome from our parents. And the baby's microbiome comes some in
utero, some from the vaginal flora, some from, you know, breastfeeding. But if we damage that,
a whole bunch of functions necessary to make an optimum human can be damaged. So specifically
regarding nervous system, some of the main neurotransmitters like GABA, dopamine, serotonin,
are primarily produced via flora in the intestines. And so each of those three I just mentioned,
somewhere between 30 to 80% of those neurotransmitters are actually produced in the gut. And then,
you know, move to the brain. If you think about losing 30 to 80% of your serotonin or GABA or
dopamine, that's, you know, psychopathology, right? That's a messed up brain. So then you start
looking at, well, how many people are eating food that is feeding some microbes more than others
and changing the gut microbiome or have some GI disturbance? And so it's important that if we
helped the microbiome of someone's gut, that's a neural hack, right? We can be changing their
brain chemistry, the most critical kinds of signaling chemicals by changing the bacteria in
their gut. The same is true if we want to look at, say, pain anywhere in the body. Pain can create
inflammation that can cross the blood brain barrier and cause neural inflammation and creates
depression and cognitive issues. Exercise, certain types of exercise can actually affect
genetic transcription and change endogenous biochemical patterns in the brain. And so,
you know, we'll talk about technologies to affect the brain and nervous system directly,
but some of them are technologies to affect the environment that the brain and nervous system
lives in, which is first order of the body, right? So tools. Let's think about biochemical tools.
So first line of biochemical tools is things that you can put in your mouth, right? So we're
talking about vitamins and supplements and herbs and drugs, et cetera. So you've got
anxiolytic biochemistry, things that can decrease anxiety. You've got things that can help with
sleep. You've got things that can help with cognition, all the notropics and smart drugs.
And then, you know, you've got things that can create
experiences that might not be where you want to live all the time, but are meaningful state
experiences. So let's take psychedelics and say, all right, are we optimizing the physiology by
taking a psychedelic or are we augmenting it, moving it into a specific range of function that
we might not want to live in all the time, but that has very meaningful positive effects,
lastingly, if done properly. So you've got, you can just think about all the biochemical stuff,
right? Now, then you've got biochemical stuff that could be injected, could go intranasally.
There's a lot of different delivery methods for biochemical technologies for neural hacking.
You've got the biological technologies, which like we were mentioning,
you know, affecting the microbiome of the gut, but not just the microbiome of the gut, the microbiome
of all of the mucosa systems of the body. It's pretty common for people to have infections in
their mouth, subclinical dental infections or subclinical nasal infections that are actually
releasing biotoxins that affect the brain. And so they are the boundary between good
integrative functional medicine and neural hacking, right? That kind of blurs. We've got
genomic therapies we can think about for neural hacking. So, you know, we're at the edge of starting
to think about CRISPR and looking at, do people with higher IQs, do people that are happier,
more depressed, have different genomic patterns? And can we actually do gene doping, splicing,
etc., to affect that? And even before looking at a genomic level, we look at a genetic expression
level. Can we turn on or off or modulate certain gene expressions? And there's a bunch of things
to do that. And then to the degree that we know someone has, say, a bunch of mutations on their
MAO branches or their COMT branches that code for certain neurotransmitter predispositions,
can we at least just do nutrigenomics, right? Provide different nutrients for them to bypass
where they have genomic deficiencies. You've got so many fun technologies. You've got biofeedback,
biofeedback, and specifically neurofeedback, EEG neurofeedback, which can provide input about
the brain to the brain that it doesn't normally get, that teaches it how to regulate much more
profoundly and quickly in many areas. We've got all the transcranial technologies so we can
stimulate the brain with transcranial lasers, transcranial direct current or alternating current,
transcranial magnets, or ultrasound. Ultrasound has some fascinating studies and early studies
in curing Alzheimer's right now. TMS has had some great work in depression and some of the TDCS has
been used for hyperclocking the prefrontal cortex. So there's a bunch of fun things in there, the
