and all of these metas and weaving with is an odd and our own forward going
direction, which is really the moment where it goes from being a forensic
sociology to the real-time sense-making and action selection based upon
our cognitive models in the broader sense, which includes humans and non-human
agents. But it's like that's when it goes from being more than just an understanding
when that understanding translates to an action policy and they do, then it matters as much as
anything does. Yeah, one of the criticisms of the active inference, I think, is like it's too
general to single out specific constraints that orient action. That's what I saw like
thinking about how symbols are brought about in community of new language users.
Assuming that the symbols are not, they are only meaningful throughout these
histories and practices can help us to apply this type of general story.
Yeah, navigating specific, well, epistemic communities. And I think that's the work that
my whole is going to bring along in terms of epistemic communities. And then you single out in
them. So you have these communities of language users in which specific practices
create specific orientations.
Yeah, one thought on that. Asking like what is active inference or linear aggression or
some other method. Again, this is who knows, is this just deep esoteric instrumentalism?
But asking what does it have to say about this symbol? What does active inference have to say
about the letter E in English? Can it be as simple as to say that that's a category error,
and that you could make a toy example or a pedagogical example where symbol one and symbol two
oscillate in a multi agent simulation? Or you could make a generative model for an
alphabet and leave it abstract, but you're never going to connect to the historicity
and the real enactment of the English letter E. Unless you're confronting
the minute particulars and the actual embodiment of that letter. And then there's
different course grainings, different iterated modeling decisions, different questions about
how do you include and participate in a different stage of the scientific process. But it's like,
you're in the specifics at that point. Active inference doesn't have an opinion on the letter
E because we wouldn't want it to. It would be too opinionated about the wrong things,
it'd be making assumptions and bringing axioms into play that would be extremely constraining.
And so it remains general as a framework and the free energy principle, even more slash
differently so. But when we get into the actual, that's where we're connecting the real systems
of interest. But how can we make claims and advance them socially about systems of interest
when we're not even, it's like comparing bridge building as a concept with this bridge right here.
It's a little bit like a category disconnect.
Yeah. Well, it depends on also how you single out some things, they're not,
they're just, you just don't do that because they're just not interesting enough, right?
There's nothing like that comes out of it in terms of this bridge right here in a single,
how did you put it again? Like your category of bridges in this bridge right here, right?
When you do that, you can learn something about the category in terms of this single one right here.
But it does not, it's not exhaustive. That's the, that's the thing, one point it's not exhaustive
and it's not right or wrong. It might be better than other, I think the idea like you can bring
some, you can make some comparisons in terms of like predictive value, you can have like
better or worse ways of doing it. And then it gains more utility.
Okay. Connecting this to also this non-exhaustive nature and where the power of a generalizable
framework is. Let's talk about the category of Golden Gate bridges in San Francisco. So there's
only one actual bridge there, but we're generalizing it. And so somebody makes a state space and says,
well, I'm exploring if there was more than two end to end. So they're exploring the state space
of topologies of bridge and someone else is exploring the state space of color. And somebody
else is exploring the state space of traffic dynamics and someone else is combining two of them
or combining all three of them. And then that's the conversation is which map of this category of
state spaces category of adjacent possible as we chose to model it. And if you don't include
traffic flow, don't be surprised that it's not going to take that kind of data or make that kind
of prediction. And some variables matter and some matter in combination and some don't. But
when we model, we kind of build these regions or adjacencies to the actual, which is where
the historicity of the past leaves us. And then we have an adjacent possible as modellers and
sense makers, including absurd counterfactuals and state spaces. And then the state spaces are mobilized.
Yeah, in a way, but if you talk about, like, specific type of engineering, yes, and that's
since they are mobilized, and they are not true or false, you can use false models,
that is to function, that's not like, you can you have specific uses of things that you know,
they're not really true, like the thing that tolerate, tolerate, tolerate type of modeling the
social, the solar system is to use that to navigate, you know, in the desert, even though
it's not really accurate, but if you want to go from A to B helps you to do that. That's
a different thing, right? Like, it is not true or false. But when you think about agents in terms of,
like, and if bringing back to the idea of symbols being only cashed out in terms of community of
users that have histories and they are made useful, that they are made meaningful in terms of their
practices, then you don't have ever this disconnect, right? You have a, you can think about this
cognition is always connected to this specific types of practicing, you can even single out some
moments of it and try to see what you learn from this kind of slice of time. But when you think
about the whole story of the cognitive system, you can, if you're going to really think of it in terms
that it's valuable, you cannot disconnect from the state, let's say the state space of practice.
Awesome. Well, do you have any closing thoughts or what are you looking forward to with the
discussion section and the rest of the course, just by way of wrapping up and letting people know
any other thoughts? Yeah, I would be cool to explore this, this idea that we've been actually
bringing along here, right? How we can go with that, like, instrumentally realistic book bay or
how can we understand this general synchronization of the model in terms of specific
instantiations and how informative they are. Is that really interesting or
how can these things be actually reified in terms of modeling and if that happens,
does that have any specific consequences actually or not, right? Maybe not.
Awesome. Well, very ambitious and excellent lexer. So thank you very much, Lorena and talk to you.
Just keep in mind, I was just like trying to ask these questions. I don't also have those answers.
I found very little about active inference and semiotics produced. I found a few papers,
so that's very exploratory actually. So we're also invited to think of these things and explore a
little bit further if it's possible. Yeah. Cool. Epic. All right. Thank you, Lorena. See you in a
couple of weeks. Farewell. See you. Bye.
