Alright, hello and welcome everyone.
This is the course active inference for the social sciences in 2023.
It's August 30th or maybe a different date depending on where you are.
And today we're in the semiotics and semantics section.
We'll be hearing a lecture from Lorena Zaganzerla and then we're going to have a little bit
of a discussion.
So Lorena, thank you a lot for joining and off to you for the lecture.
Okay, hello everyone.
I'm based in Australia, yeah, I'm Lorena, I'm doing actually my PhD in philosophy here.
I work in cognitive sciences and philosophy, I work with them from concepts or notions
of information.
So I'm very interested in foundational understanding of cognitive sciences and information and
how these kind of things cash out.
And this is why I was interested in talking about semantics and social cognition to see
how these things cash out.
I have a few ideas on how semiotics can be compatible with active inference.
And I try to organize a little bit of this semiotic notion and active inference to see
if they can out.
Maybe they don't.
So let's see how it goes.
So I'll let's talk about active inference for more semantics and social cognition.
What's up with it?
Okay, I cannot move my slides, now I can.
So I will first have a very short introduction for you guys I have out here.
So what are you going to do?
Like we have a short introduction, I'm going to talk a little bit of theories of meaning.
And then we're going to talk a little bit the free energy principle and active inference
and how shared symbols and social cognition can be taught together.
I bring one case that I find interesting and then we draw some conclusions.
So let me know what you think in the comments and after we can have a little discussion
or in the next session.
So the background introduction that I want to first point to is we're talking about biological
agents and how they act.
So we're always thinking in terms of biological agents acting to express in a way that express
information of sensitivities to context-dependent relevance to their environment and things
that involve communities.
However, how this very minimal way of talking about what motivates and what is relevant to
people becomes stable enough as a self-sustaining pattern of interactions.
Like are they stable and how they become that stable?
How can those information sensitivities ground values, norms and goals like consistently and
over time?
Assuming that those values and goals are necessary for meaningful interactions.
So we have to align motivations to behavior, right?
That's not really obvious and ultimately how meaning is brought about.
I don't think I'm going to answer that, but I want to point to some directions and how
people have been thinking about these questions over time.
So the problem of meaning has a brief account, right?
Like traditionally approaches to cognition localize meaning inside individual organisms
and more specifically inside their minds.
So meaning pertains to mental content and these kind of things.
So meaning have, however, like meaning have a developmental history.
It's hard to catch those two things together if it's inside people's minds.
How we can have an evolutionary and developmental history.
Assuming that meanings are same things that we can learn over time and they happen in
shared context.
They don't happen out of nowhere in a vision from nowhere.
In a sense, like we can say that it's not really trivial that conventionalized words
like, for example, meaning, the conventionalized meaning of a word, for instance,
catch means catch, have evolutionary histories.
One thing does not come from the other.
We need a broader understanding to cash this meaning out and that's where I'm stepping
from like that's my grounding.
Like we need to cash these things out in terms of community of language users.
Which brings a problem, right?
We have goals and values that can be defined in terms of those communities and you have
material and body factors.
So how these two things are together or how goals and values affect and motivate material
and embodied agents.
To answer this kind of question, like over time, there are a few preferred ways like some,
I would do a brief overview of some theories of meaning.
They usually in terms of cognitive sciences and any philosophy of mind, that's what I'm
interested in how they cash it out.
They usually try to think of those things in terms of syntax, like concerns with form
as an abstract organizing kind of rule.
It's a type of grammar and how the order of things and how the logical unfolding of those
symbols, how they become meaningful.
But the syntax itself is not really enough to cash out meaning in semantics.
So then in that sense, syntax evolve into a field that we call semantics in which meaning
and mental content are organized throughout this instructional syntax.
Then we have propositional knowledge and truth conditions in which allows
these organizational story of meaningful words to make sense.
And they're going to point out into the outside world.
And we have a third option.
It's not so new, but it's not so famous, which is semantics or more importantly,
euphoricism by semantics.
They use, it concerns with the use of symbols, like how they bring about meaning in terms of
pragmatics.
And that will be a little bit different and we'll cash it out in different terms
in relation to its peers, like semantics and syntax.
Well, syntax is pretty clear in terms of being rules, right?
So what is semantics talk about?
So talk about mental content, about intentionality, about mental representations.
In the sense, we have semantics that have specific key concepts.
They're reference, truth conditions and denotation.
So if you have mental content and if you put these meanings inside the organism,
it has to refer to something else and how this cognitive penetration happens.
Like how can meaning come about inside the mind and how that refers to something outside
in the world and how this observational viewpoint of you thinking about something in
front of you can be actually true.
So we need truth conditions that denote this specific relationship.
And that is represented like it's in terms of mental content.
Contemporarily, there's like very ways of catching this up.
Like that can be functional.
That can be more an internalized mental specific type of representations grounded in vehicles.
There's a very rich discussion and I don't want to go into all that.
But just want to point it out that science and neuroscience use those terms to study
and to build models that relates to mental representations in terms of
neural representations because it kind of makes sense for us like brain activity.
You can see them in terms of what happens by studying human beings and by studying animals
and how these mental representations relate to something that happens in the world.
You can see that one behavior elicits specific activities and they have a correlational
relationship and that is highly debated.
But there we go.
We have many types of catching out neural representations and concerning to this
relationship of stimuli and the interpretation of the stimuli and how
they motivate action.
That's our idea.
Very much weaker claim in relation to mental content and things being inside organisms,
but it is still in the same line of reasoning.
And there is also biosimiotics, which I want to focus a little bit more,
because it concerns the use and interpretation of science and symbols,
which also emphasizes the embodied nature and the situated nature of meaning.
So you don't have meaning without those practices and without the use of embodied agents.
So we have to reject the idea that meaning are abstract symbols or they are going to be
something that has to be in your mind and referred to something outside.
They are going to only exist in this type of relationship.
And they can take many forms, including chemical signals, like visual clues, behavior,
words, like the word catch.
You can have, and how we organize the word catch.
They are all symbolic and that fits also in that kind of structure.
So they are very important for communication, obviously, because we do communicate in terms
of pointing to the same shared notions of symbols in words and also other types of
symbolic meaning. And we coordinate life around them.
So living systems are then here characterized by the biosimiotics,
but the ability of creating and interpreting and using these symbols in terms of their practices.
The fathers, like the biosimiotics, started probably in the 19th century,
and Oak School is one of the most famous representatives.
Currently, we can find new authors like Hafenmeyer or Baker.
So I try to organize a little bit in a specific model, in a type of model, in a visual story,
how these two types of understanding meaning are being applied in terms of
theories of meaning historically.
So in biosimiotics, we have the pragmatics and you have the practice,
and they relate to dynamics and context dependent.
So you can see here on the top of the screen how we have the agent relationship with its
psychological and social aspects, and biosimiotics is somewhat concerning how correlation
leads to prediction and beliefs, and that leads to expectations.
And we also have other types of theories, like biosimiotics and theories of computational
syntax that tries to understand the dynamics and the mechanism of this relationship.
And they are not really crossing each other, they are not in the same,
they're not talking about the same necessary things.
So how can these things be brought together?
That's when I was thinking how we can bring this free energy principle and active inference
in terms of those relationships.
So well, the free energy principle and active inference as we know and I have been talking
about probably in the past two classes, it's a model that is interesting for that because
it has like very minimal assumptions. So it starts off from the idea that organisms act to
maintain themselves in their expected biological and cognitive states.
So you're always talking, you're modeling and using these mathematical to ground
biological agents in a very embodied sense, and they do so by minimizing their free energy,
so they have these metabolical states that have to be minimized in terms of
expenditure, in terms of uncertainty, given that the long-term average of free energy is
entropy, they want to minimize their uncertainty in terms of their metabolical states.
What that entails, that they have a specific range of states they want to stay in, like
minimally to stay alive, to stay alive, you have to do a bunch of things as a human being,
but every single embodied agent would you prefer to stay alive? So there are some preferred basic
states that we've defined how action will be taken first to maintain it, metabolical states,
and how that coordinate with the environment.
Which entails that organisms and agents can be described in in those terms like
an active inference tries to bring out those minimal assumptions in mathematical terms,
that try to express how reducing the probability of these non-anticipated states, or states
they are not favorable to maintaining their minimal metabolical needs, will be reduced.
And that can be cashed out in terms of a generative model, as we've been
saying throughout the past actions, how this generative model
sets specific times and organizes around specific parameters that can be described as
trying to maintain those parameters within reasonable range.
So by minimizing free energy on average and over time, this system will self-organize,
so we'll bring out the parameters of its internal states that occupy
a limited number of possible states. We will set into a specific range that will then be
then will be used as somewhat the base and the guide for this behavior. You have two
kinds of dynamics happening here, right? That's what I want to talk about a little bit.
So we have then a phenotype that exists in a specific type of states, but that will have to
coordinate two different kinds of dynamics. They're going to be stated here as complementary,
right? You have flow states and have belief updating. So with flow states, you have one type
of modeling, which is the normal equilibrium steady state. Then we use intrinsic, is named here,
intrinsic information geometry, and you have belief updating that can be treated as
extrinsic information geometry, and that those are different types of modeling
or the different types of thinking about those processes that's most important, right?
So in terms of flow states, we can talk about a dynamical system and how you settle and self-organize
specific parameters. And in terms of belief updating, we will be talking about Bayesian
mathematics and Bayesian cognitive cognition and specific ways of catching how an agent
will change and behave over time in relation to the dynamics that
is set into place in this state space of possible actions.
So while dynamical systems will explore temporal and contextual dependence between environment
and agent, we'll set this specific state space that has temporal dimension and has contextual
dimension. And once this state space is sort of established, we have more or less,
it's a more or less deterministic approach to what, what can possibly unfold. So how changes
and how behavior can be cashed out in terms of non-deterministic behavior, and that is defined
by the different type of probabilistic thinking, which is the Bayesian mechanics of belief
updating. So we have then a process of belief updating throughout weighted interactions within
this range of possible states. So we do have dynamics and we do also have Bayesian process
