unfolding together in terms of mechanisms. And with that, we do have mathematical statements
providing a unifying perspective on formal approaches connecting behavior and dynamics.
So that's what active inference should be bringing about as a novelty in relation to older forms
of understanding organisms, which can also can either cash things out in terms of behavior or in
terms of dynamics. So trying to bring these two things together is quite interesting to understand
how symbols and what is semantics, for instance. So that's the question I will be asking right now.
Let's talk a little bit about that. I'm drawing here from quite interesting paper
from Maxwell-Humstead and in Asia-Polytus, who is a principle for formal semantics.
So what would be formal semantics? It sounds like an oxymoron, right? Like how semantics can be
formal. How can you formalize it? So semantics, the theory of meaningful things. So how can that
be empty of content? Well, it has a few principles in which you can explain what a formal semantics
should be. How a formal semantics should be understood. First off, we have Bayesian formalism
that does not necessarily have to commit to classical notions of representations which
are propositional in nature, have propositional semantic content. So the idea is that you can
you can use the notion of representation in a way that is not necessarily contentful. So how
that is going to be. So under the free energy principle, representations can be formal. That's
the argument they are bringing. Under the physics of flow, specifically dynamical system theories
and information geometry, you can have mathematical statements that only represent possible
specific ways of interacting. How these correlations will affect each other over time
in this variational-based type of caching out mathematical functions.
In this sense, we can talk about representation. How we can be understood under this formalism
and what they are saying is that they are best understood as internal structures that enable
the system to parse out their sensory sensitivities or the sensory streams.
So to organize them in specific parameters and also in the terms of their own markup
blankets in their blanket states. Which is interesting here, which is the new
genealogy of these papers that ground in a mathematical model in these mathematical
properties of the system. We will avoid grounding these properties in terms of
the properties of symbols and thematics in abstract subjective notions of mean
but impossible ranges of action. So summing up what we had before was a type of computational
model that had specific components that does not allow for the intelligibility of cognitive
component, which is intention, which is motivation. We have new and cognitive activity often seen
as a transfer of symbolic information and cognition then the snapshot of this transfer.
So it's totally dependent of that kind of symbolical transfer, which is really difficult
to explain how that's going to be biologically plausible. And there's a lot of effort trying
to do that. So if you're interested in this, there's a very vast wealth of literature,
but they have to answer to this problem. So how do my brain needs to produce an
impromptu response to inputs of the external environment all the time? And the idea of this
formal semantics, the author is trying to explain, is trying to include this component into the model.
So you have a deflationary model about content. So you have a formal semantics, you have semantics
without content, interestingly, and formulated as a variation of free energy functional.
So those structures that embody those process correspond to status states in the system.
And we also have the ecological component that can be
formalized in terms of this tool, informational geometry that we use to densities,
do probabilistic densities, one from the dynamics and one from the Bayesian describing behavior.
And now watch. So how can active inference be compatible to biosemantics? Can it be actually
compatible or is it even necessary? Well, active inference is a very general framework
and then it does not really give us the tools to understand how encoding can happen in terms of
symbols, how they can be broadcasted into collective action.
Because prediction alone does not explain how do they come about. So in this sense,
we do have meaningful correlations that refer to the dynamics of one or two or more systems
in terms of informational geometry that needs to be cashed out with predictive value. So how
is this possible? Well, we can talk about that in terms of shared attention. That's one form of
this kind of model of chip cash design. So we have active inference capturing relevant statistical
relations between environment and net in aging. And why I'm trying to think about here is how
biosemiotics offer tools for these informational sensitivities and statistical relations
to cash symbols in terms of use and interpretation within communities of language users.
How about? And that can only happen in the sense via directed action. So the problem now
will turn into how is it possible to specify the factors that are sufficient to constrain
action and direct that into specific
interests. And through the history of action.
But through the history of action.
About is European forward street. I'm picking this sample from a very
like this. I really recommend kind of seeing tells the story about how coordinated action,
how state coordinate specific collective actions. But that's not the point that I want to talk here.
So here, let's unfold that a little bit in terms of the design of scientific forestry and think
about scientific forestry as a practice. And a practice that has an organizing principle
that will like that will be the main important articulating story that can connect together
how agriculture layouts, foundations in specific ways and how collect collective farms will make
specific choices in terms of this organization and how villages can structure themselves
around one specific notion or one specific organizational principle. And how everything
can be calculated to make once one type of practice, which is agriculture is very general,
more legible and more manipulable for different kinds of communities. So in that we will both
manipulating the very concrete aspects of the land, the terrain, the products, the workforce.
So it has a very encompassing effect over time and in a very concrete sense.
And interestingly, when you talk about European forestry and how European forestry was modeling
the terrain and how it's catching up value of these terrains, they were not trying to do that,
to successfully depict the full range of diversity of the actual social activity and
the actual activity of agriculture or the richness of the vegetation or they are not even trying,
they didn't intend to do that. That was not the point of this kind of modeling turned into a
practice, right? Those models generally represent specific slices of nature that were interesting
for one specific official observer. And that point is really important because that will
shape how all these communities and how the terrain and how the forest will unfold over time
within this specific perspective. So I bring here a quote that I really, really like because it tries
to flesh this out in simple terms and very useful ones. So thinking that exaggerating only slightly,
one might say that the interest in forest was resolved through one fiscal specific single
number, which was the revenue that from the timber that was extracted annually.
Well, that's okay, that's understandable, that's intelligible and that happens
still every day in terms of how we understand our economy. But what is interesting about this
quote is like the best way to appreciate how heroic was this constrictional vision is to
notice what falls outside the field of vision. So what is missing from that is not the organizational
principle of timber being valuable, but everything that was not there or was being excluded,
trees and bushes and plantas and plants that hold little to no potential for that purpose.
So missing out of that is flora diversity, foliar, fruits, et cetera, twigs and branches,
missing out of that are insects and small animals depending on the diversity. All this
ecological organization falls out of the organizational principle. And that has very
concrete consequences that we still suffer. We still live in the height of this
climate crisis that also starts from this kind of thinking. So it has really very
material consequences for us and had for them at the time, if you read more about it,
you know that a timber by like by trimming and domesticating nature so much, like decreased
in quality and then eventually decreased in value, which prompted them to try to reorganize that kind
of story. And what I want to call attention with the example is that also to bring some
specific ways of talking about it. This brings vocabulary for that only exist in terms of this
type of practice specifically. So this vocabulary constrains nature in a way by pruning what can
what cannot be used. So it generates more than eligible nature, but then way of making nature
intelligible and intelligible in a very specific certain way. And we make that happen in terms of
symbolizing things in specific terms. But the symbols, they don't exist in themselves, they
exist only in organizing this social practice around them. So when you replace nature with a
term called natural resources, we are doing exactly that is specifying from a generalized
notion of nature, like flora and fauna becomes something valuable becomes a commodity.
But not everything, right? It trims the practice. It separates competing species from valuables. So
plants are symbolized as crops. And what is what the competing species are symbolized as weeds,
they are not necessarily crops or weeds or anything like that in nature, but they are that for the way
we talk like that because we practice agriculture in a certain way that also help that that's the
same for insects or small animals that consume these interesting crops. So
the material effect of that and how that only gains traction in the practice over time.
And how we have specific intention that has unintended consequences are necessarily here
situated contextualized and embodied in terms of trimming specific types of attention.
And this attention will only shift to try to repopulate insect population, for instance,
when you realize that this practice like brought this specific effect in a certain way
that affects the value of our understanding of nature.
And that generates exactly a type of social coherence and social coordination and
how constraints create this coherence, right?
Well, now let's talk back again, like cement about formal semantics,
while this formal semantics and active inference sort of embeds one type of mathematical formalism.
Seals can only be grounded in specific concrete practices or inaction.
So, while active inference can be used as a tool to explain social understanding,
it does do that in terms of generalized synchronization, okay, in a model of combination
that can be inactive and dynamic, but is still very general. In terms of biosemantics, we can
think of it as a framework that might be compact compatible with active inference
in terms of explaining the materiality of the environment in a non-reductive,
in a non-reductionist way that tries to retain some naturalistic credentials.
So, how that conventions are affecting and affecting the embodied agent in terms of forming
those symbols and caching out those epistemic values.
And, well, social interaction in this sense is not reduced to prediction,
because in this sense, the prediction will not be primitive, but it would be a result of a specific
participatory construction of the social scene over specific organizational principles and actions
that through the synchronization of these generative models or the synchronization
of those agents that can be described in terms of those generative models gain predictive value.
And when you model that, then you have this type of understanding the value of prediction in those
senses. So, that allows us to say that social actors in this sense can behave as if they have
a generative model that synchronizes with that symbolic state of affairs, allowing them to
understand each other's behaviors or to develop approximates as informational sensitive or
responsiveness to the same symbols and goals. They approximate because they're obviously not
going to be the same, but they have the same approximate orientation. So, in this sense,
we don't have ever a view from nowhere. We don't have ever this view that is only
cashed out in terms of specific types of minds, but you also have types of minds shaped in terms of
these very concrete organizations. That happens in the community, like for humans, at least it
happens in community of language users. So, the relationship with symbolic cues helps to select
attention at that specific time as well pruning what should be ignored in socially constructed
environments. So, within a specific community of language users, some types of actions will be
desirable and will be deemed as true in that specific type of community and can be only evaluated
under those terms. So, you can provide reasons for actions in that specific
in that specific context. And you can talk about how
rational that action is in terms of the conditions set by those communities.
And that brings us to the idea that human cognition in this sense is never decoupled
from these cultural norms that like pushes and orient them over time. So, in those
scale of behavior, and that's the interesting thing, and that's why active inference can be an
interesting tool to model this type of human communities and this type of behavior, because it
can come from the very dynamics, the very basic of dynamics to specific types of perception
and scale up and more.
So, when you have the problem of symbols, like in these two decoupled, possible
community of users and symbols and embodied agents and things that do not combine, we can try to
model our agents in a way that we don't have this problem anymore because you're trying to include
that very component into the model. So, in this sense, we have active inference used as tools
to explain social understanding as generalized synchronization and in understanding others
in that sense, because of this generalized synchronization model and assumed by those types
of organizational principles, we can also engage in terms of need construction. So, we have a more
or less deterministic way of understanding the nature of symbols, because the more we interact
and approximate synchronize with the environment, we change the environment that might change us
back. So, you have an open system that is always and everywhere situated and it can be modeled
then with this type of predictive value. So, that's more or less what I had in mind,
and that's how I was trying to think about biosemiotics and possible relationship with
pre-energy principle and the formalisms of active inference. And yeah, I think this is it.
Awesome. Thank you, Lorena. I'll just
organize things a little in my room, but thank you very much for this excellent lecture.
Just as a warm up, how did you come to see it this way? What brought you to this general question
of semantics and how do you see that on your own path and see what other comparable or analogous
approaches have been done in terms of a meta-analysis and proposal related to the naturalization of
semantics? I think it's kind of hard to naturalize semantics, right? I think there's a lot of effort
in doing that, and it might be that if you think differently about how we naturalize those values,
we might have better answers instead of trying to fit the agent into the model.
We're trying to fit the model into the agent, right? I think that's the motivation. I think
there's an interesting part of biosemantics in that sense. It tries to make less assumptions.
When you start from a hardcore model assumption that semantics is only within
the mind, then we have a very hard time trying to explain that. If you assume less about that,
you might bring different types of explanations, of course, but they might be more interesting.
I was trying to see how that looks like when you bring these two things together in the terms
of active inference and free energy principle, if that works, if that is possible. I don't know if
that answers your question. So wondering about that fundamental question and then coming across
active inference or how elsewhere have people brought in the more formal and technical
into this question. What do you mean by more formal and... Can you repeat that, please?
Yeah. How does active inference help us or have continuity or difference with previous ways that
people have connected the technical part from the... Yeah. Yeah, what you described as the formal
semantics embeds the mathematical formalism and then the symbols are grounded in specific action.
So has that been played out in other technical frameworks? Well, we do have technical frameworks
that try to organize the editable of an activism, right? An auto poetic and activism. But then we
just have in these terms, the notion of symbols sometimes get loosely described and I think
these guys are not really interested in that. I think they're trying to describe something else,
for example. Or you can have some specific types of computational... If you really buy into the mind,
the computational brain and computational mind metaphor, then you have a hard time also to
