Now, really, the only reason that you should not learn Vim is because whenever you learn
it, you're going to feel stupid for not having learned it earlier, okay?
Now, to be clear, on my channel, I talk a lot about all these computer projects and software
programs and, you know, a lot of it, frankly, for most people is just interest.
Like, oh, suckless software.
Is it for everyone?
No.
Is it useful?
Oh, yes.
Is it going to be very edifying for you?
Definitely.
So there are a lot of things that are not for everyone, but I want to make clear one
thing about Vim.
If you use a computer for anything, even writing term papers or, you know, just even if you
just like playing around on your computer, there is no reason for you not to know Vim
and it will save you so much time and effort.
A lot of people say, oh, I don't have enough time to learn Vim.
No, you don't have enough time not to learn it.
This is what I don't think people understand because, and yeah, maybe you have an IDE that
you like using that does computer programming for you, but I'm not really even talking about
that.
I'm talking about Vim as an all-purpose editor.
It's not just that it can write computer code.
I'm not really talking to people who are writing computer code.
I'm talking about once you start using Vim, something really changes in how you use a
computer, including when I learned it.
Now just to, I don't know, before you learn Vim, this is usually how it works, okay?
Even if you're a computer guy, you might use a computer, but, you know, the terminal is
something scary, okay?
You might even know how to use some basic commands, oh, I can use grep, you know, something
like that, but the terminal is something scary.
It's something that you do things in when you have no other option, you know, or maybe
you want to look cool because you're stupid, but you don't actually know how to use the
thing, and it ultimately, you don't have that ability, like you're still in that mode
of I'm going to look up how to do something on the internet, right?
And I'm going to figure out, I don't know, look at Stack Overflow to figure things out,
okay?
But once you learn Vim, something changes in the sense that it suddenly becomes, like
very quickly, Vim becomes the most efficient way for you to edit text.
It might take a week or so for you to get used to it, you know, take VimTutor, go to
type in VimTutor a couple of times and go through it.
I don't know, you can watch my videos.
I did an hour-long commentary on VimTutor that's actually very good, I might add.
But once you learn Vim, you learn to relish, you learn to enjoy using the command line
because you realize it is much more efficient.
Now, of course, Vim itself isn't a command line, but it's a command line program, and
you start to, you start liking text files.
You start liking the extensibility of them.
You realize, oh, I can't just, it's not that I can only just modify this in Vim, I can
also use this with other programs, the other command line programs that I know how to use
because I'm using text now.
I'm not using something, I don't know, like more, you know, let's say you write a document,
you're not using like Microsoft Word or something like that.
So once you learn Vim, it sort of changes you, you start off being afraid of using
the computer or like doing complicated quote-unquote things, but then you suddenly become very
good at those things, right?
And even for people, like I was not doing any kind of programming when I started learning
Vim, or once I learned Vim, I mean, I was just like compiling documents, like I was writing
things in Lawtech, and then I started using it to modify my system settings, modify my
dot files.
It is totally stupid to modify your dot files in some graphical editor, right?
It is so much easier to use something like Vim, then you can have Vim shortcuts on, you
know, you can put in aliases on your command line to bring up, you know, Vim opening a
file, that's what I started doing.
It becomes very easy, you know, if you're a noob to, you know, edit all of these files
to do all these different things.
So you take the Vim pill, you start out as someone who's afraid of the command line,
maybe you're just faking it, right?
Maybe you're just sort of, oh, I like computer stuff, but I don't know how to, you know,
blah, blah, blah.
Then you start realizing, oh, it's so much easier for me to do this and that more.
I can start using command line programs.
It's way easier.
They make no, they might make no sense to you whatsoever.
Said, awk.
I don't know, those are all scary.
But once you start using plain text files and using things like Vim as an editor, it
opens the door for you doing other things on the command line.
You start messing with system settings, right?
You start messing with your dot files.
You start changing things.
You start optimizing things.
That's what it naturally gets you into.
And even just in the realm of text editing, even assuming that it's not going to make
any changes in your other computing habits, Vim is just so beyond even IDEs in how it
can modify text, like IDEs are really made for particular languages, like they have,
I mean, even Emacs is the same way, like Emacs has like modes, you know, each language has
a slightly different mode and things work a little bit differently.
But Vim, unlike Emacs, unlike, you know, IDEs and stuff like that, it is generalized.
It, you know, Vim commands apply in any language.
They are universal.
It's not just for programming.
I mean, the shortcuts in Vim are optimized for just modifying text in the way that people
usually, you know, modify text.
One way that I've often explained it to people is that, I mean, like Vim bindings are there
because they replicate the things that you want to do in your head, like, oh, delete
a paragraph, replace it with it, replace the stuff in parentheses with this, right?
Those are like two, three key presses in Vim to do very specific things that otherwise
you would be highlighting all this stuff manually with your mouse and deleting it and blah,
blah, blah.
Vim is just so much better at all of that stuff.
Okay.
I want people to understand.
As I said at the beginning, you know, a lot of people say, oh, it takes time to learn.
I don't know.
I'm a smooth brain.
I can't figure that out.
Listen, you're going to feel so stupid whenever you learn Vim, you're going to feel so stupid
for not doing it earlier.
I was the same way.
I feel so stupid I didn't do this five years earlier, even when I had no reason to do it.
Like that's the thing.
But what I'm trying to say is it might seem, oh, well, I can, you know, edit text a little
faster.
It doesn't matter.
It puts you in a position where you can, like you start being able to enjoy a world you
didn't know existed.
Okay.
You start being able to modify system settings.
You start being able to, you know, do all this crazy stuff.
And like it's one of those things like, you know, every tool needs, you know, every solution
needs a problem.
You know what I mean?
Like once you're able to use Vim, you realize, oh my goodness, there are all these other things
that I could be doing right now.
Oh my goodness.
I can use this to do this or that or the other, right?
And of course, you know, when I made my, when I made larbs where you can install my whole
system and stuff like that, all of it is based on Vim, right?
And I even know that the weird thing for me, I mean, this is not, you know, sliding anyone
out there, but I know that some people even use my dot files, but they don't know how
to use Vim.
And that drives me nuts because it's like, why, firstly, why would you do that?
All the bindings are based on Vim.
Like you're sort of implicitly learning Vim anyway.
But it's one of those things where you could just be getting so much more from it.
It's just a waste not to know it.
And that is usually how I describe, like if you are one of those people who's like, oh,
I want to learn more about computers, oh, but I can't figure it out.
Oh, what, what books should I buy?
Books.
Lame.
Books are lame.
Just learn Vim and start doing things that you want to do anyway, or that you will soon
learn to want to do anyway.
But you know, that's it.
It is a text editor that is unlike any other.
I mean, it sounds like when you tell a normie, like, let's say they're talking about Vim,
or you're talking about Vim, they're like, what's that?
You know, and you tell them it's a text editor, they're like, why does it matter?
Who cares about text editors?
But it's one of those things where it just changes the way you look at a computer and
the way you get things done.
So that's why you definitely, listen, go to your terminal right now.
If you don't know it, type in VimTutor.
I did a video, search my name, LukeSmithVimTutor.
I have an hour-long commentary going through VimTutor, well, once you do it yourself, okay?
Just talking about a whole bunch of other stuff that you can add on to that that's just
a great addition.
Just learn it.
Like, you are wasting time.
Yeah, like, time is money.
You are wasting it if you do not know Vim, and if you are using a computer and you don't
know Vim.
It is pathetic, honestly.
Like, meeting someone who doesn't know Vim in the computer world is like meeting someone
who isn't potty trained, okay?
You need to learn Vim, even if it's not going to be your text editor of choice.
You can still use your IDE that you like, okay?
I'm not saying you have to use Vim.
I'm just saying you definitely need to learn it because it will be useful, and you will
realize you can do so many more things than what you're doing now, and maybe you'll still
like your IDE.
That's fine.
I'm not trying to say that's a bad thing.
There are many things IDEs do.
Vim can basically do all of them.
Just Vim has, you know, sort of bad discoverability because they're all these secret, you know,
shortcuts that no one knows about, but it doesn't telegraph everything.
Anyway, just learn it.
VimTutor, look at my VimTutor video.
That's about it.
