And it's not even like you can say well if we could somehow force everybody to do this
that would fix it because you actually need totally different incentive structures
and in the current set of structures like there's no way individual humans can make that
left hand turn. So like how do you deal with that problem as an individual? Like how do you
not contribute but also not give up the things that make life meaningful and valuable to you?
Greetings. Today's episode is with my friend Ashley Hodgson. Ashley is an associate professor
of economics and runs the economics department at St. Olaf's University in Northfield,
Minnesota, which is very close to where I live or she teaches behavioral economics.
Ashley's YouTube channel is called a new enlightenment where she explores topics on
economics, governance, and the epistemics of a world of social media and increasing
concentration of power. In this episode Ashley and I discussed our systemic predicament from
a perspective rooted in behavioral economics. For those of you who watched last week's episode
with Steve Keen, you might understand that I don't have a lot of practicing economic professors in
my circle of friends but Ashley is one of them. I love her curiosity, her teaching ethic, and
similar to me she has a compulsion to share these ideas with the public. Please welcome Ashley Hodgson.
Professor Hodgson, good to see you. Good to see you.
I'm waving to you 25 miles across the river. Do you ever do these in person?
I have never done one in person though you and I could have because you are
by far the closest guest that I've had. You teach in Northfield, Minnesota, which is a
less than a half hour drive from me. I don't have the equipment to do it. I mean this office that
I'm sitting in is really like six foot by seven foot. It's really small. I don't think that you
could fit in here but over time maybe I think I don't ever expect this podcast to be super popular
because it's speaking too much truth to power and it's not necessarily a feel good thing.
But I do think there is an energy and a humanity of two people being in the same space
that's different than doing it remotely like this. So who knows?
I think of your podcast as being comforting actually because if people are aware of this
kind of thing I think you have an attitude and a perspective that actually makes it seem more
hopeful and manageable. Well thank you for that and the podcast theme and purpose is to
send a bat signal to people like you that feel that way. I just meant it's never going to be
uber popular because it's complex, it's threatening, there are no easy answers
and I'm not trying to gloss over and wave away the problems. I'm trying to look at them head on
and integrate them. So welcome finally after three delays. Not only are you the closest person to me
but you've also been the most delayed podcast because of my schedule and farm emergencies etc.
So finally we're here. You are a professor of economics at St. Olaf's University. You have a
YouTube channel, two YouTube channels, one where you do lectures on behavioral economics and the
other is something called the New Enlightenment. I think at the end of the day there's energy,
there's ecology, there's climate and environmental issues but it's our behavior
that is going to dictate what is possible and what pathways are open to us. So can you give us a
broad overview of how you think behavioral economics can apply to our cultural transition
which I labeled the Great Simplification? Behavioral economics is basically building
the insights of psychology into economic models and I think what needs to happen is there needs
to be kind of like a rejiggering of the nervous system of the superorganism. Like there's the
three layers of like economics, governance and knowledge systems and those the incentive structures
and the way resources flow, the way information flows across the body of the superorganism.
That's what needs to be rejiggered and in some ways it's built on top of human beings like the
human soul, human groups with all of their quirks and all of their biases and all of their ways
of interacting with the world that are not necessarily, that are not always helpful or
rational at an individual level and I think sometimes can get more unhelpful and more irrational
as you move up the layers of the system. So behavioral economics is really, okay if we're
going to design a system for real human beings, how do we take that into account?
And does behavioral economics look at individual behavior or human aggregate behavior as a
nation or as a global society? So I see it as both. I think many behavioral economists would
say it looks at individual behavior because it's mapping individual sort of quirks and individual
irrationalities. I use that in air quotes because it's mapping that into sort of models.
I think models can map how humans work together in different roles and different systems and
sort of this interaction between, I don't even want to say groups, I want to say systems
and individuals and so I think it's trying to be a bridge between those.
Is behavioral economics, I know when I was getting my PhD started it almost 20 years ago,
people were looking at David Leipzen and Kahneman and others. Is it becoming more
accepted within the field of economics or is it still kind of out there as a crossover with
psychology? I think it's more accepted. I mean sometimes it's a little bit hard to tell like
what is the ethos of the whole field of economics given that most people I interact with are into
behavioral economics or at least kind of accept it and see its value. But I think it's a little
more accepted, you'll see it in introductory textbooks. Is game theory, would that be under
the umbrella of behavioral economics? So game theory is, in some ways if you think of game
theory as having payoffs, how do you come up with what are those payoffs? Behavioral economics
basically helps you build in these human biases into those payoffs. In some ways I don't view
game theories being under behavioral economics. I view behavioral economics as like feeding into
game theory models. I know since we've talked several times that you follow this podcast
and that you actually have a video coming out which I think will be out by the time this one
airs on the super organism that you've shared a draft with me. So given the super organism framing
and the great simplification framing, can you give us an example of how game theory
could apply to the situation that I've described on this podcast? How could it be
useful or a frame that might be informative? Yeah. So I think one of the dilemmas- Not to
put you on the spot. No, no, this is good. This is like exactly the stuff I'm thinking about all
the time. I love the super organism analogy. I think it's going to be central. And I think if
we think about your podcast- Why is that? Why is that? Because I think it's really hard to move
into a new system and you need analogies that build on people's brains, what I call the mental
infrastructure, like the common understanding of how things work. You need ideas and things people
are familiar with. And the super organism is sort of this- It's like going from a single
cell to a multi-celled organism. We're sort of going from individualistic society to a system that
sort of makes human beings work together. And we certainly have a human super organism now
that is not functioning well. And many people are experiencing the downside of this. But to move
into something different, that's not going to happen naturally. It's going to require really
good analogies and really good ways for people to understand what they're moving into. And I just
think this one, it's sort of like, yeah, the body system, it has these incentive structures and
these informational structures that make the body work and that heal it when it gets wounded and
that sort of aggregate information across the body to prioritize pain and all of that. And I just
think this analogy, I just think we're going to need it. But you asked about how does game theory
relate to your podcast? And I do think a lot of people who listen to your podcast probably have
this problem that they recognize what's wrong with the world, with the system. They recognize
its complexity. And yet they're also embedded in a system where their job and their material
well-being and their relationships and everything that's of value to them is embedded in the system.
And so at that point, you have this dilemma, which is, on one hand, I don't want to contribute to this
problem that I see, destroying everything. But if you try to be like, okay, what can I do that would
make me not contribute to this? You've got the drop in the bucket problem, which is part of game
theory where your individual efforts cannot change the system. And it's not even like you can say,
well, if we could somehow force everybody to do this, that would fix it because you actually
need totally different incentive structures. And in the current set of structures, there's no way
individual humans can make that left hand turn. So how do you deal with that problem as an individual?
Like how do you not contribute, but also not give up the things that make life meaningful and valuable
to you? And the solution to that, I think, is going to have to be a collective action solution
of some sort, which is the game theory solution. It's sort of like, okay, this is a multiplayer
prisoner's dilemma. Well, I agree. And if everyone cooperates by consuming less and
respecting nature, the whole system would be better off. But if everyone's not going to
cooperate, everyone defects and keeps consuming and Netflix and chill and ordering those brown
boxes from Amazon and still worried about the future, but compelled to stay in the present
sort of thing. Yeah, well, like with the worry about the future, it sort of sucks people's energy
away. It's like, you may need to contribute in a way that like brings your human energy and your
emotions and your spiritual well-being into the equation. And if that energy, that spiritual
well-being is degraded through like looking at the problem in the face, looking at reality and
being worn down by your helplessness in the face of that, it's a hard problem to solve individually.
Here's a quote that I saw yesterday that I might have to do a frankly about and it speaks to what
you just said. It's from Rilke. The future enters into us in order to transform itself in us
long before it happens. And I do think that is a risk for those of us who are working on
these scary, complex futures that don't have a direct pathway, that we imagine all this stuff,
and it changes what we're doing and how we're thinking and how we're living today. I digress
from your point. No, I feel like that's exactly the point I was trying to make is I think in some
ways the right response to this dilemma is to look ahead and to think, what are the skills and what's
the like infrastructure that I could be building now that could be part of that collective action
mechanism that switches us from one system that's serving nobody well to a different system?
And how do you do that when nobody can actually see what the new system would look like? It doesn't
exist in its current form. It's probably like fragmented ideas here and there that will need to
be patchworked together to create something eventually. But I kind of view the two parts of
this collective action mechanism that could get us there. Like one of them, I think will be digital,
like digital algorithms of some sort. And the other part that has to be matched with that
is going to be more creative, more like relational and community oriented and trust oriented.
And right now those two sides are not coming together yet. They're kind of in separate spheres
and developing in yourself the skills and in at least the sphere of like trust and relationships
and community. And then if you have the skills to develop the infrastructure that's digital,
they could complement that. It's sort of like a lot of this infrastructure cannot happen
automatically, like it can't happen quickly. So when the right moment comes for that switch to
happen, are there enough people, which doesn't need to be everybody, but enough people who
have those skills? So is that what you broadly call the new enlightenment? Yeah, that's pretty
much the new enlightenment. Okay, could you unpack that? Why did you call your YouTube channel that?
And how does the new enlightenment compare to the old enlightenment? Maybe you could briefly
cover both of those. What was good about the old enlightenment? What were they thinking about at
the time? And then how do you envision a new enlightenment? Yeah, the old enlightenment.
So I view it as this paradigm shift in all three of these realms, the economic, the governance,
and the knowledge systems. And I think the purpose for those thinkers back then was how do you get
out from under the thumb of tyranny? And they were thinking really carefully about different types
of tyranny, like tyranny of the majority, tyranny of the leader, tyranny of all these kinds of things.
And they were developing ideas and concepts and processes that included things like the idea of
human rights and due process and checks and balances on power. In the knowledge realm,
they had the scientific method, which helped them sort of get out from under some of the
knowledge based forms of oppression that at that point came through the church.
And the problem is systems depreciate. And so even if you set up a system that's intentionally
designed to get around some of these forces of tyranny, eventually, like there's going to be
some form of power to the powerful that gets ahead of the system's ability to fix that.
And I think that's where we are now.
From a biophysical standpoint, I could understand why systems depreciate,
but you're talking about it maybe from a different lens. Why do systems depreciate?
Yeah, well, I think the biggest one here is going to be this power to the powerful notion where
if you have a system where when you get a little more power, you can use that power to gain advantage
and get more power. You get resources and other scarce things. I mean, attention is a scarce
resource kind of sucked more and more toward a smaller and smaller few, unless you have mechanisms
to sort of stop that, recognize when one group is getting too powerful and sort of sucking up
resources. And I think part of the problem here is it's not just resources, it's not just like
status that's getting sucked up through what Peter Tertian calls the money pump,
but it's like the ability to write the rules of the game so that the economics and governance
and knowledge system rules, those increasingly get handled by a smaller and smaller few.
And then if you add on top of that the digital age, it just speeds all of this process up.
Well, the parallel in my work is that in hunter-gatherer times, there was no way to
accumulate advantage. You could have higher status than others, but then agriculture created hierarchy,
then fossil fuels created energy surplus, which created an accordion effect of the power law,
distribution of wealth, then fractional reserve banking and fiat currencies and digital claims
on reality exponentially increased it. And now AI is going to exponentially increase it again.
So can you talk more about, I know you did a YouTube video on Peter Tertian's work.
How do you think that's relevant here on the concentration of wealth and advantage?
Yeah. Well, Peter Tertian, he's a cyclical view of history person and he's looking at data to figure
out when will these moments of revolution or these moments of violence that sort of overturn the
existing order, what predicts those historically? And he finds the top two are elite overproduction
and mass immiseration. And of course, he's looking historically, so he's measuring people's
height and looking at kingdoms. Mass what? Mass immiseration, I think is what he calls it.
Like misery for more and more people? Yes, exactly. Exactly. Sort of increasing poverty,
increasing, well, historically, it's the lower heights of people, which meant that they weren't
getting as much nutrition and all of that. And when you have sort of frustration in the population
that's growing because of their economic situation, combined with a lot of people who are buying for
those elite positions, where few of them will get them, it's kind of this recipe for the frustrated
elites who want the elite positions, but don't get them, can recognize the injustice and they can
use the frustration of the masses to marry the power that those aspiring elites may have.
They have access to more avenues to change things. And when you combine that with the
energy of a frustrated populace, that's a recipe for some sort of major change in the system.
And how do you see the, I mean, I think that describes what's happening right now. Yesterday,
I did a roundtable, which will be out in a few weeks on poverty in the United States, and 41%
of American families are what's called ALICE, which is asset-limited, income-constrained,
but employed, 41%. So poverty is much wider and deeper in this country than most people are aware.
And yet, if you look at the average wealth and income in this country, it's quite high,
but the average, the mean is quite different than the median. So how do you see
the digital age affecting kind of Turchin's thesis?
Yeah, I mean, I think what the digital age does is it speeds up the interconnections people have,
and it creates more interconnections such that people can connect meaningfully with people all
over the world, kind of like you do. But that means these networks also had this Matthew principle.
Matthew principle. What is that?
Yeah, so the way I explain this in class is if you do an experiment where you give everybody
$100, and you start off with a luck-based experiment where everybody can bet half their
money, and if it's heads, you gain, you know, if you bet 50, you get your 50 back plus another 50.
If it's tails, you just lose your $50. If you do that experiment, starting everybody from the same
point, obviously that's going to create inequality over time because some people are lucky for all
10 of the first 10 rounds. Some people are unlucky for all of those 10 rounds. But I think the thing
