that surprises people is after 10 rounds of that game, the person who's the average luckiness, which
is like 50% lucky, 50% unlucky, they're not at $100 after 10 rounds. They're at like $23.
And if you were to... Why is that?
It's, I mean, it's just a mathematical reality. It's sort of like that people who have more when
they bet their next round, well, they're at $150, so now they can bet $75. People who
lost the first round, they're down to $50, so they can only bet $25. So just the nature of
the mathematics. So who ends up having the most? The consistently lucky people?
Yep. Well, in this little experiment, it's consistently lucky. But of course, the real
world isn't just luck, it's also skill and hard work. But if you were to like redo the experiment,
except how you win the bets is like, where are you on that spectrum of how hard you work? Like,
if you just say, okay, people at the 50th percentile, how hard they work. In a system like this,
they would be sort of falling farther and farther behind as well. And if you sort of add on top of
that the fact that when you get more resources, it's not just that you can bet more and lose more,
it's also that you can influence the rules of the game. You can sort of control pathways of
upward mobility. Those properties, when you add them together, mean people who are even sort of
in the middle are going to get farther and farther behind in many systems where gaining,
wealth and gaining power leads to this, the greater power. And that's the Matthew principle
based on the Bible quote that says, to him who has more will be given, to him who is not,
even what he has will be taken away. That was in the Bible? Yeah.
That's kind of a nasty phrase. Yeah. So the United States is often described as a plutocracy
where the power lies with the wealthy, who are some combination of lucky, hardworking and skilled,
and also probably recipients of the cantaloupe effect, which is when new money gets created,
they're closer to the source of the money in their investments, etc. So does this wealth inequality
translate in our country and in the world to power inequality as well?
Yes. I think power is actually the more important aspect here. I've started not even thinking of
it as power to the wealthy. I've started to think of it as power to the people who were placed around
the important nodes of power. Because I'm sure if you rewind sometime in the system, it was,
okay, yes, the rich are getting richer and that's the main force at play. But if you think about
this sort of Matthew principle where, okay, first the bottom 10% gets sucked dry and then
the next 10% and it sort of moves its way up to where, okay, now if you want to suck people dry,
it's going to be the 60th percentile or whatnot. Eventually, that system sort of leads to the
only people who are able to use resources to suck towards themselves are people who are really well
positioned on other dimensions of power, where here we're talking about resources like oil,
like do you have control over one of those nodes or media power or military power or administrative
power, institutional power, there's sort of these different nodes at the top of the system.
And in a lot of ways there's negotiation between those nodes, but a lot of really rich people
actually don't have any leverage at one of those nodes. And I think many of those people,
even if they're super, super wealthy, may be looking at the system, they may even be like an
aspiring elite who's like, wait a second, I see these problems that are serious. I would like to
use my resources to do something about the problem, but they just don't have access to that power
node that's a specific resource. Well, since I'm talking to an economist, I just had a nerdy thought
that I'll express while you were talking. There's resources, which are very important to our economy.
Then there's the control of the resources, which might be the first derivative of the resources.
Then there's the control of the control of the resources, which is where the real decisions and
the behavioral dynamics happen at very influential nodes of the system. And my fear is, like you
were saying before, you've sucked the bottom 10% dry. And then the next is that with AI and blockchain
and the rapid fire technology that we're going to end up 10 years from now with like 2,000 humans
that own everything on the planet. I mean, not exactly that, but that's the direction that we're
headed. What are your thoughts on that? Yeah, I really like the way you just framed that. I
completely agree. And I think when you said, okay, there's the resources, the control over
the resources, and then the controller influence over that, I think a lot of the energy trying to
solve the problems is that a layer that's like lower down in the system where it's like, okay,
how do we tweak around the edges of these people who control a node and they have some power,
but actually there's multiple layers above them where the real power is happening.
And so if the energy to fix the system is not pointed at a pretty high level, if not the very
highest level, I don't think it'll get fixed. So there needs to be a change of consciousness
of the elites in the world for any real change in the super organism. Otherwise, it's just going
to continue on that second derivative of control over control of resources and optionality for
more monetary wealth, which is a claim on social power until it consumes the earth and
sucks the bottom quintiles dry to summarize it. Yeah, well, and I think the question is like,
does it need to be all of the elites? I don't think the whole populace can go against all of
the elites to accomplish this. But like, yeah, how many people need to be on board with a system
change to make it happen? Yeah, this is a deep conversation and also a threatening and uncomfortable
one, especially to a tenured professor. I don't think it's the fault of the elites that have
gotten us here, but it now is the responsibility of many of the elites to help steer and change
a way out of this. And then we run into game theory for them, which will be a barrier,
like you were saying before, right? Yeah, exactly. So the collective action mechanism,
I think it's going to have to operate on different levels. It's going to have to operate on the
population level and on the level of the elites who are willing to change this system, which is
almost certainly not going to be all of them. It's been a while since I took an economics class.
This is not the stuff that they talked about in economics classes when I was in grad school
or undergrad. How do you do all this? How do you manage thinking along these lines and doing your
online lectures and your new enlightenment videos? Plus, you run an economics department
at a pretty prestigious school. How do you manage all that?
I mean, I don't know how I manage it, sort of sometimes barely above water, but I mean,
once you start to realize these problems, like I went into this field because I cared about the
problems and then you start realizing, wait a second, when I'm trying to solve this problem,
I can't and I have to zoom back and I'll try to solve it from a different level and then I'll zoom
back. And I feel like my whole career has been doing that. It's been zooming back another layer
and another layer. And once you sort of realize, wait a second, we're in a place as a system that
I mean, it's scary in terms of what could happen, but it's also exciting because it
means there could be a moment for real change. I can't not think about this stuff.
So it's like my YouTube channel is just like this outlet where I can be like,
I need to get this out and I'm hoping to talk about it with other people and that's just a
good way of like organizing my ideas. It's yeah. Well, I'm glad I found your YouTube channel and
I imagine if you zoomed out nine times, you found my YouTube channel, but I feel the same way. I
can't stop thinking about this and my franklies and this channel are, the franklies are my personal
expression on ideas that I come across and then the Great Simplification Podcast, you and I right
now is highlighting other people that have found this and are thinking about it and trying to
change the software of the operating system of the super organism. And we have to change the
software in order to change the hardware. I don't know how good a metaphor that is.
I like it.
Okay. First time I've used it. And it's not, it doesn't look great, but it's also not impossible
and we are functioning akin, as you said in your, your super organism video, we're functioning akin
to a cancer which is unbridled growth that is slowly but inexorably impacting the life support
systems of the only planet known in the universe to harbor complex life. But that doesn't mean that
that is our epitaph or a foregone conclusion. And that's, and that's my hope. So, so what sort of,
what sort of hopeful or possible trajectories under the new enlightenment
are you advocating for or steering towards?
So I think the knowledge systems are going to be the foundation because, yeah,
the economic systems are built on top of knowledge that, that moves incentives. And so rethinking
how knowledge networks work, I think is going to be the most important. And that's going to be
considering group think towards a, sorts of biases just because communities of thinkers
like academic communities, they can develop sort of a social dynamic and a power dynamic within
that community, which can be bent toward power. And that's one thing we'll have to get out from
under. I think it'll have to involve salience, like a lot of the facts that we disagree with
strongly online, like when there's communities at each other's throats.
I think they sometimes think they're disagreeing about the facts, but they're not
really, they're disagreeing about the salience of particular facts. And it's like, how do you
place this particular fact in a worldview? And if your perception is, okay, this fact is
representative of something bigger that's harder to see, and it's growing, you're going to have a
very different relationship with that fact than if it's just like an isolated fact.
So facts are secondary to ideology? Is that what you're saying?
No, that's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is how a person takes a series of like facts that
may be scientifically validated or indicative or whatnot and constructs those facts, like pulls
those facts together into a worldview that places them properly so that you can use them and you
have an accurate perception of reality, the mechanism that helps you place facts into a
salience frame. That's really important. Because like salience, it's like, there's most facts out
there are invisible to you. And most facts probably should be invisible to you. But like, yeah, it's
a behavioral economics concept that I always use the example of when my friends have children,
suddenly they see daycares that were that they could never see before, like those daycares were
invisible to them. But their salience frame changed when they had children because it's relevant.
So how do you take like information about reality that's been perhaps validated using the scientific
method and figure out what parts of this should be invisible, perhaps what parts of this should be
really salient. But right now, they're not reaching the brain of the super organism. I think sort of
rejiggering that is going to be key. So are there, I assume when you've read Turchin and others that
you've looked at historical cultures, are there notable past societal responses to turmoil
that are suggestive of possible pathways for our current situation?
So I don't know if I'm the best person to answer that because Turchin looked at
the New Deal in the 1930s as a positive example. And I think I could be convinced that that's a
positive example. But I'm not yet like if the New Deal had happened without World War II,
would there have been more of a leveling like there was an inequality? And did that did the
New Deal even like solve things the way they need to? I mean, I don't think that's even remotely
close to what needs to happen. I think it's going to need to be like a much bigger system change.
And then yeah, I think what's going to need to happen in the digital age is just so different
from past societies that like the closest thing I can think of is going from going from apes to
humans where humans have this this moral mechanism in our brains and our hearts and our human nature
that sort of helps us enforce a collective action mechanism such that you don't get a bully like a
single alpha male like in the chimp groups that rules everything. Like humans can act against
that using moral communities. And in some ways, I think that is the closest parallel. Even though
human communities vary widely in terms of some of them are super egalitarian, but that's enforced
using moral communities and concepts and some of them are more hierarchical. So yeah,
maybe that's I don't I don't necessarily have a good answer to that question.
Yeah, it's it's an interesting one. So you I assume that you standardly teach your students
micro and macro economics and the things we're talking about on this podcast are not
your bread and butter of your teaching, but you spend a lot of time with young people.
What is your sense of being a college teacher? I haven't taught in a few years.
What is your sense of of young people and are there
intergenerational dynamics that are going to be relevant to potential systems change?
I definitely think we're going to need a collaboration across generations,
because my students, they're very aware of how social dynamics work,
both in the digital space, but also the way the digital space spills over into real world space.
And I could never be at their level in terms of that kind of social understanding. It's like the
part of our brains that is socially attuned for them that part developed in the digital world.
And I'm almost certain whatever change we we're going to have is going to have to use digital tools.
So you need people who understand how that works on a level that no model could capture.
And I think the young people are going to do that. I also sense that there's more awareness among
that generation of the frailties in the system than say in my generation,
because in some ways they're trying to envision their own careers, their own pathways.
And I think they recognize, wait a second, when I try to envision
forward, what is my role in the system? It doesn't always work.
So they do, I think many of them have an intuition about this kind of stuff,
even if they're not explicitly watching your podcast or
keeping up with some of the other people talking about this stuff.
So in a way, they've grown up with social media and digital world. They've outsourced a little
bit of their system to the cloud in a way. Their social physiological system resides
in these devices in a way that you and I grew up in a little bit different world.
Yeah, exactly. And that could be an advantage or it could be a disadvantage if there's sort
of a lot of mechanisms inside the phone that point understanding toward power.
And so it's like, how can we switch that the phone and the way people outsource their knowledge
and their trust in a lot of ways from the phone to a version of the phone that's healthier,
which might still mean that many people have different pathways that they're going to in the
phone. I don't think we need everybody to think the same way or use the same trust pathways
to reach information, but almost certainly the pathways right now bend toward power.
So when you walk into your classroom, are the kids talking to each other or are they kind of
on their phones and then you get their attention? I've been intentional about, I have had semesters,
especially since COVID where people were not talking to each other, which was different.
I've been intentional about getting them to do icebreaker questions, or sometimes they just
kind of know each other and are talking. So right now this semester, there is conversation between
them before class, but I do think it's a real thing where there's a little bit less comfort
with that. The skills for in-person communication are lower among that generation, which I think
most of them acknowledge. Yeah, our generation does have a lot of our social building online
where you can kind of smooth out the hard edges that most social skills is figuring out,
how do you smooth over awkward moments and hard edges and those little uncomfortable parts of
interaction? Yeah, Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist, was on my show earlier and recently
he's been researching and tweeting out a lot on how bad social media is for young people's
mental health, depression, self-perception, self-image, all that. So it's both a vector
for positive change because it connects the kind of the global brain of humans and the
superorganism, but it's also got this sucking your mental energy constantly out of it. So I don't
know what the ultimate answer is. Yeah, it's definitely going to have to involve something
where incentives are pointed more toward real world communities and maybe that pointing toward
is mediated through the digital world, but there needs to be incentives to just show up and be
with people and persist through the inevitable conflict that happens with human communities.
What you mentioned briefly earlier, Blockchain, what are your thoughts on Blockchain, Bitcoin,
etc., as one possible avenue towards the new enlightenment?
Yeah, so I don't know the answer to that. Other than, I mean, I think the kind of
switch we need to a new system is going to be, it's going to require tools and I think the hope
of Blockchain is that it does offer some really helpful avenues, like having a universal computer
that anything written on that computer, whether it's rules about how the game works or rules about
governance or whatnot, having a place where people can trust those rules are not being
