innocent casualties. And the other will that you have to have is you have to have the will to die.
And that is that no matter how surgical you are, no matter how good your weapons are, no matter
how good your technology is, when you go to war, you will have young American men and women
being killed in horrible ways, way too young over and over and over again.
And if you're not ready for those two things, then you need to stop and think about what you're
actually doing. Yeah. What do we do about changing the relationship between news media
and combat troops so that we have the ability to understand what we're doing abroad,
say thank you to the people who need to be thanked and welcomed home, keep an eye on what needs to
not happen, such as a place like Abu Ghraib. It seems to me that we've got a, we're developing a
fragility as a people that is incompatible with our level of lethality. And we have to
get information back to the home front. Am I wrong in this? I mean, we had embedded troops
in Ramadi. There was combat photographers. There was photographers. There was reporters.
They had very open access to everything that was going on. So I think I don't know
how many clicks on the websites the normal military news stories got compared to, you know,
whatever entertainment Hollywood gets. Let me give you an example of what I'm talking about.
This isn't strictly a foreign, foreign involvement, but when 9-11 happened, the most famous photograph
from 9-11 is this photograph called Falling Man of this inverted human being sort of doing a
weird kind of like bicycle motion and he's falling to his death. And I think it ran once
briefly in the morning. It was spiked and it didn't become the iconic photograph of 9-11.
If I think back to Vietnam, we all have the same set of 10 photographs seared into our minds.
And yet I don't know, you know, beyond like a statue being toppled, what we would associate
with Iraq, except for the Abu Ghraib photographs. So it didn't seem to have that kind of effect of,
in my mind, commemorating what that war looked like. How long were we there? How many troops did
we have? How many families, you know, lost somebody? I just, I feel like it sort of took
place out of sight. Yeah. And the interesting thing is there's thousands and thousands and thousands
of pictures. I just don't think they were, I don't think, I think more, I think the, I don't know,
call it a problem, but I think it's more the fact that people weren't clicking on those pictures and
remembering them because if you Google Iraq war, you'll see hundreds of thousands of pictures
from all kinds of news agencies all over the world. It's just people, maybe they're,
they've seen so many pictures that they're over it. I don't believe this actually, Daco. Here's my
take on it. If you think about what the cartels have been doing on our southern border, it is
spectacular. The violence is so graphic and so disturbing by design. And yet so many Americans
are unaware of just how bad the drug wars have been in Mexico because the information doesn't
percolate. And these photographs, if they were run, would capture the public's imagination. I don't
think there's any question. Okay. I see what you're saying now. I didn't quite understand that. It
makes good sense with the cartel because certainly they're down there. I think we're terrified to
show people the extremes of what life actually looks like anymore. Yes. And if that is a bad thing,
you are correct. Yeah, that is a bad thing. You are correct. Okay. It's taken me a while to
understand your point. I apologize. No, no, no, no. You are correct. And you should, people should
see what, you know, I would, when I would talk to young seals, even now, I have pictures of
me lie, color photographs of me lie, which you know, you don't see very many of those,
but they're absolutely horrible to look at, even for a, even for a young seal that's, you know,
in his mind, super hungry for combat. They see these pictures that I put up on the big screen
for them. And it's, it's stomach turning. Then so that's what they need to see. They need to
understand that you go a little bit off the wrong direction. If somebody doesn't step up and say no
when things start to go sideways, this is where it can end up. That's right. So yes, what you are
saying is correct. If you want people to understand what's happening, one of the best ways to do it
is the same technique that you're saying earlier that the enemy can use, which is a message of
violence. Here's what is happening on the southern border. These are the people that are
one mile away. And this is what they're doing to whole families in certain cases. Yes. Should that
be propagated? Absolutely. So that we understand the seriousness of the situation down there.
Same thing with when ISIS was acting this way. Anybody that looks, I mean, you know, here's
another good case was the Rwandan genocide, right? Yeah. 800,000 people in 100 days, mostly with
machetes. And we, I don't want to say we let that happen, but we could have intervened in a very
powerful way. And we chose not to. And part of the reason that we chose not to is because of the
very graphic images you're talking about from a year and a half earlier when Somalia took place
and they were dragging American soldiers bodies through the streets. And we got completely
turned off by that. And so when Rwanda happened, it's like, we don't want to, we don't know if we
want to do this again. This is really what offends me, which is that when you send somebody into
a position where they could have their body dragged through the streets by enemy combatants,
and they know that, and you turn away because like you sent them there, and then you can't
bear to look because of your delicate sensibilities, that strikes me as something very, very wrong,
as opposed to we know why we're someplace. And thank God we have people who are willing
to do this. And, you know, I mean, I appreciate the depth and the complexity of your perspective.
You're saying on the one hand, people who've been to war, the ones who don't want us to go to war.
On the other hand, you're saying that war can be more fun and more meaning than you could have in
the rest of your life. And these are, these are really not contradictions, but they're incredible
tensions. And instead of having this be part of our makeup, where people come back from the front
and they talk maybe in measured ways about what they saw, what they participated in, and what
they saw this is doing for our nation. I mean, I think that these things are very progressive in
a certain sense that we're standing up for people who, you know, might be completely defenseless,
what you're talking about in Ramadi. And in fact, I'm very worried that what you said was
that in Ramadi, the people who got killed were the people who had helped our coalition. And so,
did we have an obligation to stay there in order to make sure that the people who helped us weren't
in harm's way? We saw the same thing with the Marsh Arabs in the south of Iraq, where they were
told to rise up by a former president. And we saw the same thing in Vietnam. We saw the same
thing in Vietnam. I mean, it matters to me that we're engaged enough to realize, hey, we just
issued an instruction and people trusted us. And now those people are in a world of pain and hurt.
And where are we? And we need a tougher country.
There was a, it was sickening for me when I saw the black flag of ISIS flying over the
city of Ramadi. I mean, clearly, first and foremost, because of my own friends and my men
that were killed in that battle and wounded in that battle, then obviously the Marines,
the soldiers, the sailors, the airmen that fought alongside of us who made the same
sacrifices were killed or gravely wounded. And then I knew, you know, as soon as I saw that
flag flying, I mean, before we even got reports back, we knew what was going to happen to the
civilian populace. The civilian populace had been, was going to be, was going to be annihilated.
And that's exactly what happened. And they do it at the level of families, right?
Like somebody collaborated on an entire family, a whole family is done.
Right. So did we have an obligation in my opinion, which again, this is just one man's
opinion. In my opinion, absolutely. We absolutely had an obligation. I'm so glad to hear this.
And the fact that, that we didn't uphold that obligation, it's, it's not good. It's, it's,
it's a letdown. It's, and luckily we went back and they were able to take back the city and
Americans did support that. And, but the Iraqis, they did the bolt, they did the fighting,
which was very impressive because when we were in Ramadi in 2006, the Iraqis didn't, didn't want,
they didn't really have the stomach for the fight. But I have friends that were in Mosul
and the Iraqi troops were fighting hard. They were taking massive casualties. In fact, the
Americans were saying, look, I don't know if we're going to have enough Iraqis to do this.
And, but the Iraqis kept fighting. So, so that was a really positive thing to see that the
Iraqis were now fighting for themselves. But do we have a moral obligation? I think once we
commit to something like that, then we need to see it through. There's a certain amount of you
break it, you bought it. Especially because, you know, Leif, who, who wrote the books with me,
he went back to Ramadi in 2010. And during, so when, when we were there together, there was,
you know, there'd be one, two, three, four, five casualties a day, several of those wounded,
several of those killed every single day, just in the city of Ramadi. When Leif went back in 2010,
during his entire six month deployment, there was one fatality, one coalition fatality, it was
from a vehicle rollover. It wasn't combat incident. So it was completely settled down. It was, it
was peaceful. And we took that as, okay, we should leave now. And, and that was the wrong move.
That was the wrong move. And people say, how long are you going to stay there? Let's say,
we're still in Germany. Yeah, well, we are right. We're still in Japan.
So, I mean, this is the thing where I want us to think about total cost of ownership of a conflict.
And I want whoever is going to lead us. I mean, I was very concerned watching
the Democrat, I come from the Democratic side of the aisle,
watching these Democratic presidential nominees and wishing more people came from a tougher
perspective, knowing that American troop deployment is a real issue. And who are we going
to follow? Do they have the presence of mind, the gravitas to tell the country, hey, we are going
to go into something and you guys need to toughen up because otherwise we're going to be inconsistent
sending messages to the people who are deployed abroad and leading the interior of the country,
you know, which is going to the malls and just trying to figure out how to have a nice weekend.
And somebody's got to take us along. I mean, it's just irresponsible for
us as a country to be this focused on what's going, you know, keeping up with the Kardashians
when we have people in uniform and in arms ways. Am I off? No, you're definitely not off. And if
you don't understand what's happening overseas, then you're more willing to send more people
overseas. You're more willing to not think about the consequences of what you've started
and more willing to abandon those situations before they're finished. So I guess your entire
thread of this and I think I missed your point in the beginning is yes, absolutely Americans
should know and understand what is happening overseas so that we can make informed decisions
back here. And be able to stomach it. And have that will that I talked about earlier,
the will to kill and the will to die, which is what you need. Do you have some stories that
illustrate not only the will to kill the will to die, but also the genius of improvisation,
which is something I associate with our arm services in general, but also particularly
with our special forces where really brilliant stuff was hatched out and tried.
Yeah. I mean, like I said earlier, the entire war for me in Iraq, which for me, I only deployed
twice, which is not a lot, but the adaptations that were made all the time was, you know,
I've often said that war is an exercise in creativity. That's right. Because you're
constantly looking at you're looking outward at the enemy. You're seeing what they're doing.
You're seeing how you can adapt, what you can change, what you can overcome. You're looking at
your own troops saying, okay, how can I lead them in a way that they understand what's happening,
that they understand the value of what they're doing, that they're making the right decisions out
there on the battlefield by themselves. And they've got to make a decision where they're going to
kill somebody or whether they're going to let them live. That's a that's a 22 year old sniper
on a rifle with someone's life and death in their finger. And you've got to get them to a point. So
how can I get that message? Yeah. Combat is an absolute exercise in in creativity. And
which is one of the interesting things is, you know, you talked about earlier about who gets
promoted. Right. And certainly the person that conforms to what they're being told to do and
they follow instructions, they're going to get promoted to a point. They're going to do fine.
But they're not going to be exceptional. The really exceptional guys are the ones that look
at the situation and say, okay, here's what I know what we've been told to do. Or here's what
the the doctrine says to do. Here's what we're actually going to do. And here's why we're going
to do it. And so those are the people that you want to follow on the battlefield and those are the
people that truly step up and lead. And it's the same thing in the business world as well.
Who do you look up to as being a great improvisational commander that you served with?
I don't really want to name the names of people I served with. You know, Colonel David Hackworth
is a guy that that I espouse his methodologies and his philosophies all the time. He was a young kid
at the end of World War Two. He joined right at the end of World War Two. Then he fought in Korea
and he fought in Vietnam. He ended up writing a book called About Face because at the end of
Vietnam, he was the guy that that went on the prime time and said, if we don't change the way that
we're fighting this war, we are going to lose. He was the and he was a full bird Colonel when he
did that. And they drummed him out of the army in like a month. And he, you know, went to Australia
and and and he wrote this book called About Face and obviously part of the meaning of About Face
is he turned. But and he was very, very misunderstood, well, not misunderstood, but he was he was hated
right by the big army. And then what happened was he actually wrote an article later about
the chief of naval operations, a guy named Admiral Borda. And he said that he hadn't earned some of
his combat decorations and Admiral Borda committed suicide. And so he was hated. So
David Hackworth was hated by the Navy. He was hated by the army. And part of the reason why
is he was hated is because he called it like he saw it. Right. And he ended up writing this book
and and he's he explains and this book is not a leadership book at all. He doesn't talk about
leadership from a from a perspective of leadership only at all ever in the book. But the entire
book it's 800 pages long. The entire book is a leadership book because you see how he led his
troops, how he dealt with people up the chain of command. And, you know, he got to that point.
And that's that's one of the things you know, he played the game. And I talk about this often with
from a leadership perspective is, you know, if I work for you and you, you know,
you do some things that I don't really like. But you know what, I'm going to play the game because
I want to build a good relationship with you and I want to get your support and I want to give you
the support so that you give me more support so that I can go and accomplish my mission. Like
that's playing the game. And and he definitely played the game. You know, he was a soldier,
and he was he was absolutely adored by his troops. And even up the chain of command,
the people that he worked for, they loved him. And so but he played the game until he finally
got to a point in Vietnam, where he saw young men getting killed. And he said, you know what,
and he tried to change it. He went over there as a battalion commander, and he changed the way
they were fighting. And they turned things around for themselves. And he cut their casualties and
took the fight to the enemy did all those great things. But he got to a point looked at it from
a strategic perspective and said, Look, we need to change what we're doing. We need to change this.
And or we're going to lose. And and they drummed him out. So that's the guy I would say, from,
you know, from a grand perspective of who I look at and really try to emulate his leadership. And
I stole all kinds of things from him. You know, I I had a when I was assigned my task unit,
which is a group of two seal platoons, when I was assigned my task unit was called task unit
Bravo, which is which is the phonetic B, right, the phonetic letter B. And in Hackworth's book,
he changed the name of his units to something that he wanted to reflect what the guys were.
And so I changed the name of my task units task unit bruiser. And and we had that attitude of
we're going to go, you know, smash. But so that's one, you know, leader that I really
try to emulate. And then the other one was when I was in my in my second seal platoon.
And I won't mention any names, but I had a I had an officer that I worked for
who took over actually that we had a mutiny against our against our platoon commander.
And we rebelled against him and went before our commanding officer and told our commanding officer,
we don't want to work for this guy. He he doesn't listen to anyone. Wow. And our commanding officer,
who was a great guy said, this sounds like a mutiny. Get out of my office, go do what you're
supposed to do. And then a couple days later, he fired the guy and brought in a new a new platoon
commander. Yes. And when he brought in a new platoon commander, this guy was very, very experienced,
tactically, tactical genius, very skilled, you know, good shooter, just good athlete,
just just just an awesome guy. It was who was held in very high regard. And I thought, Hey,
