Hello, welcome to another episode of The Portal with Eric Weinstein, and I am pleased to
be joined in studio with none other than Jaco Willing.
Jaco?
Sir.
And I understood that Jaco didn't call for an immediate response, and so none was given.
Jaco, it's great to be here with you.
Thanks for having me on.
Thanks for coming.
One of the things I'm really excited to talk to you about is just how our military interacts
with our civilian society.
But before we get there, what I'd love to do is to just have you talk a little bit about
your trajectory through Special Forces and the SEAL program into this situation where
you're now a podcaster, I guess, you were brought to the world of podcasting by our
mutual friend Tim Ferriss.
And what are the highlights of that trajectory so that we have some place to begin?
I was born and raised in a small New England town on a dirt road out in the middle of nowhere.
I joined the military when I got done with high school.
I went through SEAL training.
I went in the SEAL teams.
It was now 1991 when I showed up at a SEAL team, SEAL team one.
I was an enlisted guy, so then I spent several years there.
And then I got picked up for a commissioning program, which meant I was going to become
an officer, move into a leadership position.
And I did that.
And then I went to the East Coast, went to SEAL team two.
From there, I had to go to college.
I went to college at the University of San Diego and majored in English.
And went back to a SEAL team.
I did two deployments to Iraq once as a platoon commander and once as a task unit commander.
Got done with that.
I ran training for the West Coast SEAL teams.
And the training that I ran was the tactical training, not the training where you see the
guys on TV carrying boats on their head and carrying logs around.
That's the basic SEAL training.
And I ran the advanced kind of tactical training where SEALs learn to shoot, move and communicate
and where they learn their tactics and where they learn combat leadership.
And that's where I spent my last three years.
And then once I got done with that, I retired from the Navy.
And when I got out, I started working with companies teaching leadership.
And that expanded, eventually started working with a friend of mine I was in the SEAL teams
with, Leif Babin.
We got a lot of business consulting about leadership.
Eventually, a lot of those businesses asked us to write down the concepts that we had
or to be able to give them something, a handout of some kind.
So we wrote down the concepts and that eventually became the book Extreme Ownership.
The book Extreme Ownership came out in 2015.
And in 2015, I was on Tim Ferriss's podcast through a mutual friend, through two mutual
friends, Kirk Parsley and Peter Atia, and was on Tim Ferriss's podcast.
When I got done recording with Tim Ferriss, he pressed stop on the recorder and he looked
at me and said, you should do your own podcast.
And I noted that.
And then a couple weeks later, or a couple months later, I was on Joe Rogan's podcast
and in the middle of the podcast, he told me that I should have my own podcast.
So I started my own podcast because when Tim Ferriss and Joe Rogan tell you to start a podcast,
you should start a podcast.
So they told me I started a podcast.
I've recorded a hundred and eighty something podcasts.
Since then, I've written a bunch of other books, a book called Discipline Equals Freedom
Field Manual, a book called The Dichotomy of Leadership.
I've written three kids books in a series called The Way of the Warrior Kids series.
And I've written one book for smaller kids called Mikey and the Dragons.
And we've continued on with the business at Echelon Front, working with companies all
over the world teaching leadership.
I think that's where I'm at right now.
Well, that's quite a story.
Something that would be meaningful for me to know more about is I've always understood
that our military has had to have really a separate culture right down to, let's say,
marriage ceremonies looking different in the military than they do outside.
And one of my questions is, to what extent is the military still a separate culture?
Do I have that wrong?
And then following up on that, to what extent are the individual special forces units really
an entirely alternate world with different practices, different disciplinary regimes,
things that are unthinkable, let's say, in the civilian world?
The military is made up of a bunch of human beings, people from America, from every different
walk of life in America, and they all come in, and certainly you go through boot camp
or whatever indoctrination program that you go through, and you learn some of the fundamental
military methodologies of living, such as being disciplined, such as chain of command,
such as the rank structure, tactics, so you learn those things, but at the end of the day,
those are just overlays on a bunch of human beings that are just human beings.
And so the military is just a subsection of American society, and it reflects that way
inside the military. As far as the special operations forces, sure, they all have their own
little culture, but you go to different colleges and they have different cultures and you go to
different businesses. I work with different businesses all the time. They all have their own
little cultures going on inside. And you don't think it's more profound? The military of a difference?
I don't know if it's more profound. There's some really dynamic companies out there that have
very, very deeply rooted cultures, and those are probably in some cases even more
distinct than what you have inside the military. One thing that's interesting about the military,
sure, there's some military traditions that go back hundreds of years, but the military,
people come and go in the military all the time. As an officer in the military, you might spend
two, maybe three years at an individual unit, and then you're gone and someone's going to take
your place. So it's not like a business or a company where sometimes I work with companies
where there's been people there for 28 years. Throughout the chain of command, maybe it's a
frontline worker that's been running some machine at a company for 27 years, or maybe it's the CEO
who's owned the business or started the business or inherited the business or bought the business,
but he's been there for a long time. So those cultures can have kind of a more unified way
about them because there's that continuity of human beings in it. Whereas the military,
people move around and they get stationed, they get out, they retire, but so there's cultures,
I think, in everywhere in the military, certainly has a culture, but depending on what you're into,
if you go to a Grateful Dead show, you'll see a strong culture there that everyone dresses the
same, everyone looks the same, everyone probably thinks very similarly. If you go to a Metallica
show, same thing, people are going to dress very similarly. So I guess it just, I think everyone's
got a culture and it's present in the military for sure, but I think there's cultures everywhere.
Somebody who was in the military once said to me that you have to understand that the
military values interoperability in place of continuity, because people are constantly
being moved around, the culture is almost defined by a kind of mental flexibility of a certain
kind and that the person went on to say that American companies used to move people around
and have stopped doing that largely, so that it used to be in his estimation that our companies,
like Procter and Gamble or an Exxon, would be much more like the military and that they would
have an expectation that you would be posted to a particular place for a couple of years,
there would be sort of a welcome wagon and there was a way of absorbing families
and that that had actually been given up and that the military had retained some of that,
but that was in fact also at risk. I don't know whether that resonates at all.
Well, certainly the military, you have to be adaptable and when you take different people
all the time and you cycle them into different military units, you learn to work with different
people, that's for sure and you can't get used to working with one type of human being because
even though that human being has been through boot camp and they've been indoctrinated,
they've still got all their own personal emotions and drives and personality and idiosyncrasies and
things that are going to drive you crazy and things that work well and things that don't work well
and you've got to deal with all those things and so that does happen in the military and it happens
in the civilian sector now. What I find interesting about that statement is I think nowadays people
change jobs a lot more than they did when I was a kid. When I was a kid, all my friends' parents,
they worked at the same company for 29 years. They might have been moved around by it and now
you might move around a lot but stay in the same city. Yeah, but you might move around from company
to company. Exactly. So, following on that, one thing that I had heard that I thought was kind
of interesting at an almost a biological level was a description of boot camp, which was that
boot camp was a recapitulation of human development for adults that needed to be retrained as if they
had always been meant to be soldiers. So, the idea being that you have a civilian set of instructions
in your brain and you have to more or less blow it away to accept all of these differences,
that there really is a chain of command and it's not flexible in the way that your regular life
might be flexible or that you think that you can't do something that is within your physical
capacity to do it but requires a lot of effort for you to get to that level and that in essence,
what boot camp was was it was a second childhood that was imposed to make you safe to be a soldier,
to be in harm's way whereas if you took your regular self onto a battlefield, your instincts
would be completely counter to what would be safe for not only you but for others who were
attached to you. Do you buy that boot camp is effectively another version of childhood that
is overlaid over the previous one? I don't know if I'd call it another version of childhood
but I can tell you what the military boot camps do an incredible job of taking normal human beings
from every walk of life and turning them into someone that is in many cases now the military is
not perfect by any stretch of the imagination but if you take a kid like me, we'll use me as an
example, you take a kid like me that was a marginal student, a marginal athlete, I was very
rebellious, I was getting in trouble a lot and you put me into boot camp and say okay here's
you have a blank slate, none of your past matters, we don't care where you're from,
we don't care what your parents did, we don't care about any of that, we don't care about your history,
your past at all, what we care about what you're going to do now and if you do these things,
you're going to move in the direction you want to move into and here's what you're going to do,
you know what you do in boot camp? You fold your underwear a certain way, you walk a certain way,
you eat a certain way and that's what you do and if you do what they tell you to do,
you can move forward and you can advance and things work out well. Now what the thing that
you've got to remember is boot camp is a miniscule fraction of what your career in the military is.
So for instance, obedience to orders, that's something that you get drilled to do in boot camp,
in fact the purpose of military drill, you know you see the guys marching around with
rifles on their arms and they're all coordinated doing synchronized movements,
that's called close order drill and they used to do it because when you were in battle in ranks
in the revolutionary war period, of course we didn't fight this way in America, that's why we won,
but the the British military, close order drill, hey you're going to draw your weapon at the same
time, you're going to load your weapon at the same time, you're going to fire your weapon at the
same time and you're going to follow these orders when they come out directly, that's what it was
originally for, but they, we still do close order drill in boot camp and the reason that they do it
is so that you learn immediate obedience, obedience to orders, that's why you do it.
Now what you find out after boot camp and what I tell people all the time is the last thing I want
as a commander is people that are just going to obey my orders without questioning them,
I want to be surrounded with people that question what I'm saying, that give me push back when
something doesn't make sense and the last thing I want is somebody that's just going to blindly
obey my orders, so boot camp is like childhood I guess, but it's really only like infancy,
it really just teaches you, gets you potty trained and then once you get into the military,
that's where you actually learn to maneuver, how to lead, how to interact with other people,
you learn how to flex up and down the chain of command, like you talked about the
inflexibility of the chain of command, that's actually once you get the further you get in
the military the more flexibility you see in the chain of command. So in part wouldn't that be
because the people who rise to positions of power cannot get there by doing it highly egoically,
that they have to actually recognize that the guy at the bottom might have the best information
and that so that it's really because we refuse to promote people who are crazily egoic that we
have that kind of flexibility. Well that is an ideal outlook and certainly that would be a nice
thing, but no there's people in a like I said in an ideal situation, sure people are getting
promoted because they're the ones that are open-minded, there's the ones that put their ego
aside, but I have to explain this to people all the time that because I always tell people, hey,
you need to keep your ego in check and I have to explain to people, yeah sometimes that person
that is concerned about themselves and they're taking care of themselves, while I'm telling you
Eric, hey, don't worry about, you know, don't worry about yourself, take care of the team,
take care of the mission and things will be okay and I have to say, but listen, this other guy
who's taking care of himself, he might actually get a promotion ahead of you, he might move ahead
of you this time, he might even move ahead of you next time, but guess what, eventually people are
going to look at that guy, they're going to characterize him for what he is, which is someone
that's taking care of himself, doesn't care about anyone else and that is going to undermine his
future. So in the long run, you'll advance because you took care of the team, you take care of the
mission, maybe in the short term, you might advance because you took care of yourself,
but that's not a long-term solution. So ideally, yes, people that put their ego in check,
those are the people that get promoted, unfortunately, it doesn't always work that way,
sometimes some people are egomaniacs and they step on people's backs and they make it to the top,
that absolutely happens. Do you find that there's a, I mean, I'm always suspicious of the idea of
really sidelining the ego, that the ego is in some sense this receptacle for we, you know,
our life needs a protagonist somehow and the ego provides that sense that it is about us because
we have one set of eyes and that's how we tour the world. Do you find that the people that you
respect the most, keeping their ego in check as you say it, are people who are really not highly
egoic or are they people who have their ego involved in like a Mexican standoff with other
parts of their personality so that there's a tension and a dynamism to it?
Certainly, there's something that I call the dichotomy of leadership, which are these opposing
forces that are pulling you in opposite directions all the time. And yes, ego is absolutely one of
those things because if I truly had no ego, well, then I wouldn't care what my performance was,
I wouldn't care about anything, right? I would just be happy to be sitting watching television
