and eating Cheetos. That's what a total lack of ego could do to me. The other extreme is,
hey, I'm going to step on everyone's back in order to rise to the top and I don't care
whoever gets in my way, I'm going to take them down. Where do we want to be? We want to be
in a balanced place where we're confident but we're not cocky. You know, I went and spoke
with some inner city kids here in LA. And whenever I speak to people, one of the topics that I
talked to them about is, hey, you've got to stay humble because normally I'm talking to people that
are CEOs of companies or people that are in positions of power. And so I have to constantly
remind them to keep their ego in check. And that originated in the fact that I was training young
SEAL leaders and young SEAL leaders, they're front runners, they're overachievers, they've got a
strong ego. So they have to be told, hey, you got to keep that thing in check, you got to make sure
you're listening to other people, you got to hear other people's ideas, you got to make sure that
you're taking care of your team, head of yourself. They need to hear that. I went and spoke with these
inner city kids and it was an interesting group of inner city kids because they weren't just
they weren't just underprivileged, they were underprivileged, but they had done some kind of
tests so that they were, they were, they were smart kids. And I was going to talk about the
normal topics that I speak on and one of them is humility and I went in this room and I immediately
realized I wasn't going to talk about humility at all because every one of these kids in this room
was, was beat down. That was the message they needed. Their heads were hung low,
they wouldn't look me in the eyes. So what they needed to hear is, hey, be confident, you have
capability, you can do this. So they were, there's a group of people whose ego was crushed too far
and they needed to have confidence built up. So again, this is another one of those classic
dichotomies that needs to be balanced. You need, yes, you need to have an ego, but at the same time,
you have to be humble enough to listen to other people and you can't let your ego get out of
control. So I'm super glad to hear you bring up the dichotomy of leadership and I was just
trying to touch it lightly. Can you talk more about what that theory is and how you've come to it?
It's interesting the way I came to it. The way I came to it was by real, I actually had to have
the ultimate form of humility with myself because I realized as I preached these, many of the,
the theories that I had as I preached them, I realized that I wasn't always right. And I'll
give you an example is one of the things that I always talked about, especially on the battlefield
was that you had to be aggressive. Like you have to be aggressive. That's what you have to be.
You have to be ready to maneuver. You have to take the fight to the enemy. If you see a problem,
you need to attack that problem. I talk about that all the time. And then plain as day, clearly,
are there times when as a leader or as a human being, you can be too aggressive?
Yes, there absolutely are. And we used to call that running to your death. Like if you're super
hyper aggressive, because Jaco said, you got to be aggressive. And so now there's a machine gun
nest on a hill and you just go charge that thing, you're going to die. And whoever follows you is
also going to die. So you, you have to be, you have to, you have to modulate your aggression.
Either sometimes we have to back off. And that was sort of the first thing that I said, well,
on the one hand, I talk about, you got to be aggressive, but there's times where you can be
too aggressive. And then I said to myself, well, what about, what about talking as a leader?
Because as a leader, you have to talk, right? You have to communicate with the other people
on your team. Right. Is there such a thing as a leader that can talk too much? Yes, there absolutely
is. And if I, as a leader, all I do is talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, will eventually people
stop listening to me. They don't know what's important and what's not. I over communicate
to them to the point where they stop listening. So you can talk too much, but the other side
of the spectrum is I don't talk enough. And now you don't know what's going on. The team doesn't
know which direction we're heading. So this is where this idea came from is that the quality
that we're looking for isn't on the extremes. It's a balanced, it's a dichotomy of leadership
and finding the balance in those dichotomies led me and my buddy, Leif, to write this follow on
book to extreme ownership. The reason the follow on book to extreme ownership, the reason for that
is because that's as we work with companies, not only did most questions revolve around
this idea of the dichotomy of leadership, but most answers, most answers that I give are someone
says, oh, my team isn't taking any initiative. Okay, well, let's break that problem down.
Why is that happening? That's happening because you perhaps are taking so much ownership, so much
extreme ownership, you read the book extreme ownership, so you're taking so all this ownership.
Well, now your team doesn't have any ownership. So they're just waiting for you to tell them what
to do. So when you do that, their initiative gets crushed. You go too far in the other direction,
and you've got people doing things that they shouldn't be doing, working on their stepping
outside their bounds, they're not staying within the parameters you've given them because
you've got them running wild. So you've gone too far in the other direction.
Where do you want to be? You want to be balanced. And that's where that dichotomy of leadership
comes in. So, I mean, it's fascinating to have to tell people that the best advice is to constantly
recalibrate the forces that are in opposition within your mind. Do you have any way of helping
people in general with dialectics that need to govern them? I feel like, I thought it was beautiful
what you said before about these intercity kids. So much of what I hear is people giving blanket
advice, which has no sense of what listener it's finding. So you teach people to be humble,
who are already humble, you're just cutting them off at the knees. Or if you teach people,
you need to be assertive and you've got somebody who's wildly over-aggressive,
the person just takes it as license. How do we responsibly push out a framework
for balance, which isn't mealy-mouth, but really has full-blown versions of these opposing ideas
within one mind? Again, that's why this book, The Dichotomy of Leadership, was we had to write it.
Because we put the name on the first book, Extreme Ownership, we gave it that name. And that's a
great concept when you've got people that don't want to take responsibility for things like,
listen, you've got to take extreme ownership of what's going on. But it's like you said,
when you give it that to someone that's already a micromanager, oh, they're all of a sudden,
they're running like, what'd you say, a license? It's like they have a license now to micromanage.
Double low micromanage. Yeah. And they're wondering why things are falling apart on them
and why no one has any initiative anymore and why they're having to make every single decision
and why the frontline troops aren't maneuvering on their own. Well, it's because you're micromanaging
them, now you're micromanaging them to the extreme. So that is why we had to do it. Because these
things, as you said, you have to constantly modulate all these different balances, all these
different dichotomies, you have to constantly modulate them. And by the way, once you get it
modulated today, tomorrow, it'll change a little bit. Because all of a sudden, you know, if you
had no initiative, Eric, and I said, hey, listen, I might have been micromanaging you, I need you
to step up more and you go, oh, okay, cool. And the next day you show up and you start
doing some project that I hadn't even authorized. And now I got to come back and I got to adjust
because now I got to tighten you up and say, hey, I want you to take initiative and I appreciate it,
but you still got to stay within the bounds of what we're trying to get done. So I was right
yesterday. And now all of a sudden, same mindset, I'm wrong, and I have to adjust again. So
you're 100% spot on. You have to modulate all these principles for the people that you're
dealing with and the situation that they're in. So one of the things that I've been really curious
about, I don't know whether this, whether you reacted this in any way at all, is we always
talk about teaching critical thinking, but we don't talk about teaching critical feeling.
And but by critical feeling, I mean that most of our emotions are susceptible to becoming
maladaptive. And because they're not analytic thoughts, they're sort of harder to access and
harder to influence. I would imagine that when you are in some situation where you're, you know,
in harm's way and you've got a bunch of people that you're looking out for and you've got to get
something done and stakes are very high, the emotions that you might have around your house
on the weekend, when you're with your family are very different than the emotions you can afford
when you're actually engaged in some sort of action in a military context. Can you,
do you relate to this concept of critical feeling at all? Does that sound like something that you
have had to think about? Am I off base? I have had to think about emotions a ton. And what I have
found with emotions is just like every other thing that we have as human beings, they can get
out of balance. So if I have a leader that gets super emotional about every decision or flies
off the handle or shows a bunch of anger and loses his temper, that is not going to be good.
People will not respect that. People will not trust his judgment because they're emotional.
So we can't go and be super emotional human beings if we're trying to be in a leadership position.
And that includes in your house, right? If you fly off the handle with your wife or you fly off
the handle with your kids, that is not going to be healthy for those kids. They're not going to
trust your judgment. They're not going to respect you. How can they respect you when you can't control
your own temper? And if they do respect it, that's actually scary because what you're teaching them
is that in order to get respect, what you have to do is have a violent crazy temper. So you don't
want to be a super hyper emotional person. What's the other end of the spectrum? The other end of
the spectrum is I've shut my emotions off completely. I'm totally and completely detached. I have no
emotional connection with the people that I'm leading, whether they're on my team or in my
family. And guess what? If I don't have that connection, as a human being, as human beings
working for me, they are not going to do what they need to do to accomplish the mission when they see
me as a cold blooded robot. So with these emotions, you have to keep them under control. I'm not telling
people and I don't tell people that they should be void of emotions. Because if you're void of
emotions, you're a robot and people don't follow robots. People follow other human beings. People
follow human beings that they're connected to emotionally. However, let that go too far and
your emotions are out of control and you're making bad decisions. I always I was asked people when
what kind of decisions do you make when you're super emotional? The answer is not really good
ones. Not really good ones. Yeah. But if you completely cut emotions out, if you've got a team
and you're going to make a decision, that's going to be a massive negative impact on them
and you don't let those emotions play a little bit and you just make the perfect business decision.
Okay, great. You made a perfect business decision. You saved X amount of dollars,
but you cut that emotional connection with your people and they saw that you didn't really care
about their emotions. Okay, you got the short term win. You made a little more money this quarter.
Guess what's happening next quarter? You're losing three people, critical people that went
and found a job somewhere else. Somebody, some other leader somewhere made an emotional connection
with them and now they're gone. And so your short term win turns into a long term loss.
How do you think about the concept? We're used to hearing your overthinking this.
And I've started to try this phrase. I think you're over feeling this.
I've noticed that in our public square, it's become more important to constantly
explore one's feelings and to the point where I find it absolutely distracting,
the extent to which people are now sharing their feelings feels, to my way of thinking,
wrong. They're not holding anything back. There's nothing intimate. You're expected to go into this
performative kind of heart connection to various abstractions. I know there's a better way of saying
it. Your over feeling this is not an easy thing for people to hear. How do you get people to
rein in some of those emotions? I actually don't know if there's a better way of saying that.
Over feeling is a great term. I think I might have to use that. That's great. And that's explaining
what I just explained. If you tell me something and my reaction is this massive emotional reaction,
what's horrible about it from a strategic perspective is if you tell me some opinion
and I just immediately fly off the handle emotionally, you don't listen to another word
that I say. And it means nothing to you other than, well, he's super emotional. You discount
everything that I say because I'm emotional. And you as a human being know that someone else
being super emotional isn't thinking straight and isn't making good decisions. And they're just
being emotional. So I'm better to say, oh, interesting point. Let me give you what my
take on that is. And all of a sudden you're going to sit and you're going to listen to me and you're
going to hear me out. And so yes, over feeling is something that happens all the time. And again,
that's just going too far out of balance in the dichotomy of leadership with your emotions.
So another thing I want to explore with you is this question.
Well, come at it from kind of a funny angle. Are you familiar with Esther Perrell at all,
the relationship expert? No. She specializes in thinking about very difficult topics. She's touched
what happens to marriage in a monogamous setting when it feels very constraining.
She's touched on infidelity. She's now talking about workplace issues,
where she's exploring sort of forbidden thoughts about what happens in the workplace.
And one of the things that she said to me that was very interesting is that she was
reconsidering masculinity. And she said that masculinity is clearly an incredibly powerful
thing. But she hadn't appreciated that it is as fragile as it is powerful, that the number of
ways of invalidating men is quite high and that there is some sort of dependence on kind of a
bargain in which men tend to be more disposable, particularly in times of war and conflict.
Let's be honest about it. No doubt about that. And that there is something both
extremely powerful but also fragile about the concept of masculinity itself. It's very difficult
for us, even in our society, to find things that are wholly positive that we ascribe to the concept
of masculinity that we would deny to the concept of femininity. Like we've gotten to a point where
we're just unsure it would seem as to whether or not there's a compelling reason for half of humanity.
Now war, of course, is an easy counter to that. But the more distance we've gotten from World War II,
I worry that we've forgotten exactly why men exist in terms of their full
complement of abilities and skills and functions. Do you think that there's anything to the concept
that masculinity may be intrinsically fragile?
Like it's subject to veto. If you do something that's heroic, let's say, and nobody chooses
to acknowledge it or like, well, you're showing off, it's a very hard thing to protect. Do you
detect a crisis in masculinity? That's a big topic. We get a lot of young people
who come to some of the shows of friends of both of ours. And it's very clear that there is this
search for how do I make my way as a young man? Are you getting this energy?
Yeah, you know, I don't get a lot of that energy. And the reason I don't get a lot of that energy
is because I mean, I do what I do. My friends, they do what we do. I think the thing with masculinity
is just like everything else. If I take any masculine trait and I take it to an extreme,
it turns bad. And I should say traditionally masculine trait. Because if I take any tradition
of masculine trait and I take it to an extreme, it turns bad. The thing is the masculine traits
that we talk about, but I have three daughters and one son. I raise them all the same. And I want
them to have the same amount of the masculine traits. Hey, do I want you to be assertive?
Yes, I want you to be assertive. That's a traditionally masculine trait. Do I want you
to be brave? Yes, I want you to be brave. Do I want you to be stupid and go overboard?
Hopefully that isn't just a masculine trait. Yeah, we have to check with my wife on that one.
But even those aren't really, I mean, I wouldn't say that assertiveness is a masculine trait. I
would say we have, our flavor of assertiveness has been traditionally different than the female
flavor. But definitely, I think if my wife is one of the braver people I know, and there's
nothing that contradicts the feminine and that, but she doesn't do it the way, let's say my brother
would behave in a brave context. And so the question in some sense has to do with,
it's, you know, I give people the puzzle, name some positive trait that you would associate
with masculinity to distinguish it from femininity. There's plenty of things that we say that are
feminine that are positive, but there are very few things that we can say are masculine that
are positive without an immediate claim that that is as female as it is male.
I don't know. I mean, I don't know. I'm over here doing what I do. I don't know whether it's
considered masculine or whatever, but this is kind of what I do, how I live my life. The people
that I know that are men, they all seem kind of similar to me. Okay. I mean, not all of them,
obviously, because you got, I mean, I have friends that are that are not like me at all.
