intrinsically the good guys, but you had the opportunity to go up against some of the
most horrible people we've ever seen in modern times. Is that a fair characterization of the,
of the enemy? Yes. Can you talk about, and I would actually like to do it somewhat unflinchingly,
what distinguished ISIS in terms of, I talk about a concept most people don't
react to called message violence, where the point of the violence is to be so picturesque
that it works its way into your mind and it won't let you go because somebody did something that
was unnecessarily unthinkable, just for the purpose of torturing your brain with knowing
that that's what's on the other side. Is that a fair characterization?
Yeah, so the term ISIS started being used around 2007. My last deployment ended in 2006,
but the characters are still the same and they weren't as organized as they became when they
became ISIS, when they started flying the ISIS flag. And then what you had was this recruitment,
this worldwide recruitment of sadistic, evil human beings coming to the caliphate,
to torture and murder and rape systematically, girls and boys. And yeah, what we saw in Ramadi
in 2006 was it's the worst nightmares that you can imagine from people being skinned alive,
people being beheaded, people being tortured in all manners, rape, you know, rape used as a weapon
of war, just everything, every horrible thing that you could imagine. Family members being
violated in front of other family members, right? Absolutely. And that's why, you know,
for us, when you ask, did you feel like the good guys? Oh yeah, we definitely felt like the good
guys. And we especially felt like the good guys because the local populace is who was enduring
this heinous, these heinous acts was the local populace, the local people that lived in Ramadi.
That's who was enduring and suffering these horrible acts. So when we came in and started
eliminating the insurgents, they were ecstatic and they were happy that we were there and they
believed me they wanted nothing more than for to help us get those insurgents out of the city
and out of the country. What is it that you think, you know, you mentioned the caliphate and my fear
is, is that the caliphate was sort of a remote dream and that what we allowed to happen
was that the caliphate came to be a potential reality in a world of people who hadn't been
used to thinking about it until recently, that in essence, there have been a couple of major
shifts in the Islamic world. One, for example, suicide bombing was an almost unknown before
the Lebanese barracks. And then it was perfected in Sri Lanka by the Tamil rebels against
against the Sinhalese populace. Well, and then it comes back to the not everyone in Sri Lanka.
I mean, the Sri Lankan, the Tamil Tigers, there was Tamils that were in the Sinhalese or that
were in the Sri Lankan army. Right. So it wasn't all it wasn't all it wasn't pure. It wasn't a pure
ethnic tactic was was very strange in the way in which it's been a relatively modern invention.
And then it came back to the Middle East and that together with the concept of the caliphate
started to animate a kind of sleeping Islamic identity that hadn't been wildly present. I mean,
I sort of analogize it to what would happen in Judaism if somebody started rebuilding the temple
and all of this code that has not never been run like where you can
reconvene the Sanhedrin's to meet out death penalties, according to Jewish law.
Thank God we don't have a third temple, right? But somehow we we let this idea go from fantasy to
some kind of reality. Is that is that wrong that somehow we allowed something to animate this portion
of the world? And it went very sadistic and psychopathic. I think it is wrong that we allowed
that to happen. And it was it was clear to people that had been in Iraq that there was embers of
the insurgency of this of this sadistic insurgency that there were embers that were still burning
when we pulled out. And so once we pulled out, all of a sudden, you know, the fire the firemen
there was a fire at a house, they came spread some water on it, the flames were gone and then they
left. That's what we did. Well, the fire is not out yet, right? And so then it didn't take long
for those embers to rekindle and start completely burning out of control. And then
we we we let it get to a point where I mean, in the city of Ramadi, we had people that we knew
who when when ISIS took over Ramadi, which Ramadi was peaceful from
2007 until 2014 2015, like completely peaceful. When ISIS came in, they rounded up about 500
families that had families members who had worked with the coalition forces, and they murdered them
all. Right. So just just sick, sadistic, subhuman beings that should never have been allowed to do
that. Now they did it. And once they did and they took Ramadi and they took Mosul, you know, when
Iraqi forces went back in with the support of heavy American firepower, they cleaned those
places out and and it took I mean, they wiped out about 40,000 ISIS fighters, which is pretty much
all of them. Pretty unique situation. Were they skilled fighters? Some of them were. But what
was interesting is you had them wearing uniforms, carrying flags and in trying to act like a
conventional military force in many ways, not always, but in many ways. And so, you know, you
want to get into conventional war with basically with America, that's not a good tactic. But it
was a good tactic for us for them to do that. Right. Because, you know, fighting an insurgency
is much more difficult than fighting an open conventional war. Now I have a very unpopular
opinion in this country, which is somewhat popular outside of it, which is that Saddam
Hussein, while horrible in all the ways that we claim he was horrible, was in fact holding together
some powder keg and that was using was a relatively secular government and that brought some order
to a potentially very chaotic communal situation. His sons, of course, were, you know, one in
particular was a stone cold psychopath and he, you know, Saddam Hussein did terrible, horrible
things by American standards. But if we evaluated him by the standards of the region,
we might come up with a different answer. Is there anything to that? He was obviously a bad guy.
He certainly provided stability for the region. No doubt about that. Yeah. Have you ever seen the
video by which he took over the bath party? No. So he shows up on stage smoking a cigar and he says,
we have a special guest today and this guy comes to the microphone and starts saying,
I've plotted against Saddam and I'm here to read the names of my co-conspirators
and you see panic takeover in the audience and names are called and people are let out of the
auditorium and people start to understand that everyone who's let out is going to be killed.
And so they start screaming like, you know, long live Saddam. We love Saddam in order to save their
own lives. My understanding is, is that the people who were left were given side arms to
execute the people who had been let out to consolidate power around a founding atrocity.
To me, that's an example of this message violence concept that for people who don't speak other
languages, violence and even sadistic language is their poetry and there's poetry in which
our fighters who are doing the right thing and are on the side, you know, the side of the angels
are engaging in brutal poetry and the other side is engaging in some sort of
very disturbing art form. Is there a way of looking at this that's profitable that people
who have not been in battle can understand about how these messages are used to hold together
societies that are dangerous and fragile? Well, as you pointed out, I mean,
all human beings have a guttural reaction to violence and violence is a language that every
single human being understands. You know, you were asking me earlier what languages I speak and I'd
said English and you said you didn't learn any Arabic and I said, well, I learned enough to say,
get down, show me your hands. But when I would speak those words in Arabic to,
you know, enter a building, enter a home and there's, you know, a military age male and I'd
be speaking to him in Arabic, he didn't even understand that I was even trying to speak Arabic.
A, because my Arabic is bad and B, because it's just he's not expecting that. And so
they don't respond. Very seldom would I have until we get them to calm down a little bit,
then I could maybe speak a little bit of Arabic to them. But in that initial moment of terror,
there's they don't understand, they don't understand what you're saying. They're not,
they're not ready to hear it. But when you have somebody that is resistant, clearly resistant,
there is some nonverbal communication that you can do that is violence and they will understand it
and the other people that see it will understand it. So there's no doubt that violence is a method
of communicating with people, a message stronger than words in many cases. And people like Saddam,
people like ISIS, they'll absolutely use that to the best of their ability. And then they'll exploit
when things happen, you know, one of the, one of the horrible strategic losses or strategic setbacks
we had in, in the Iraq war was the, the abuses that went on at the Abu Ghraib prison. Because now
we had photographs of these Americans with doing things that look like extreme torture
to the prisoners there and, and the al Qaeda elements just absolutely took those and ran with
them to make, to fuel that insurgency. And it did, it did a great job of fueling that insurgency.
So you have to be very, very careful about the way you treat your enemy, because if you treat,
if you mistreat the enemy, then the enemy will use that as propaganda and they would do that on
purpose. They, they would love nothing more for than, than for you to accidentally kill a kid
or, you know, drop a bomb on a mosque or drop a bomb. They love, they absolutely would love that.
And so we had to do everything in our power to prevent those things from happening,
because the strategic, the negative strategic impact was phenomenal when events like that occurred.
Did you watch the video of the Jordanian pilot who was executed by ISIS?
Yes.
So a lot of people stateside did not watch that video. And one of the things that I found
very interesting about it was that it had a point that was disguised by our unwillingness
to watch the video. Now, maybe it's important that ISIS not be allowed to communicate its point,
but the point was you're up there in the skies meeting out very particular forms of death,
in particular incinerating people and burying them in rubble. And our aim in this video is to
subject a captured pilot to the exact form of death that you are dispensing from the skies.
And so you're normally not here to see this, let this be your death. And, you know, it was
cinematically beyond belief. It was shot to be gorgeous and to be repugnant and sickening.
And that concept of a Hollywood style death filmed for real, a snuff film, if you will,
with a point. And then offering bounties showing the homes of the Jordanian pilots, you know,
by street, I think in Amman, Jordan. My sense was is that Americans didn't pick up anything
of what was going on, because we decided that we didn't want our population exposed to anything
coming from the other side. Even their propaganda informed us as to how they were thinking and
feeling. But it was as if we plugged our ears and didn't want to understand what we were watching.
Do you do you see that? I see. Yeah. And I would agree with the point that
when you disconnect people from war, it's they lose track, right? I mean, in America,
you know, we when I was in Ramadi in 2006, I was, you know, sitting in some combat outpost
in the middle of nowhere with mortar shells coming in. And meanwhile, everyone in America was,
you know, going to the mall and driving around their SUV in order in the Starbucks. I mean,
that's that's just the way it is. I'm not mad at that, but there's a definite detachment there.
I'm mad at that. No, here's why I'm mad at that. First of all, I think I'm slightly older than you
are. And so I have some memories of the Vietnam War as it was playing out on American television.
That's some of my earliest childhood memories. And let me say this, it was spectacularly gruesome.
What we saw on the TV during that period of time, I believe that my parents turned off the TV
when it showed an image of a GI's head on a pike. And it was just like, okay, this is too much.
And on the one hand, this was real information coming from the war. And on the other hand,
it was propaganda. It was meant to strike fear in our hearts. There was a self-hatred
that was playing out just as there was concern about the excesses of American kids being turned
loose in a jungle with too little discipline and supervision. I mean, there was so much happening
in Vietnam, which was hard to pull apart. And what I found was is that after that war, we never went
into a conflict the same way again. The embedded journalists didn't seem to
want to report in the same way that a non-embedded journalist did. And there's a need that we have
to be able to go to war without constantly second guessing ourselves and putting our own troops
in harm's way and not working through all of our psychological nonsense when we have people who
are definitely at risk in doing our work as the military. I don't know that we've ever really
come to grips with the lessons of Vietnam. We don't have a clear sense that we should go to
wars in nation where the newsreels should talk about our side versus the other side. We don't
know how to do this. Do you have a sense that, like my sense is that Vietnam really broke something
in terms of our ability to go to war? Vietnam was, and I've been lucky enough to have a lot of
podcast guests that were in Vietnam. And their experiences were all different. I mean, from
one guy, Captain Charlie Plum, who was shot down and was in the Hanoi Hilton for six years.
I've had SOG Special Operations or Studies and Observation Group guys that were fighting behind
the lines in Cambodia and Laos. I've had helicopter pilot that was shot down in the jungle prisons
for months and months being tortured and mock executed the whole nine yards. So
what was horrible, there's so many horrible things about Vietnam. I did a podcast about
the Milai Massacre, which really is by far the biggest atrocity that American troops have
ever committed. And it was absolutely heinous now. You could go to Sand Creek and maybe some of the
Native Americans. There were some significant horrible atrocities there as well.
Those generally weren't as clear cut. Most of those had American soldiers that were saying,
no, stop. Milai, for a while, for at least several hours, it was no one. No one was stopping.
So what you have, I think with the press and the media in Vietnam was you had a lens into what war
is. And in war, you're killing other people. Right. And when you're killing other people,
it's, you know, you just take one step back. If you don't know what that other person did
and you take one step back and you watch someone kill someone else, that is not going to go
over well in most people's stomachs. Most people are going to look at that and say, why is this
happening? Why are we doing this? So that's what happened in Vietnam. You take one step back and
you see, you take one step back and what you see is killing. You see human beings killing other
human beings and why in God's name are we doing this? And so that's what I think happened in
Vietnam. How it broke us. I mean, I don't know if broke us is the right word, but we certainly
are more cautious and should be more cautious always about going to war. I mean, you know,
you want to talk to the people that don't want to go to war. It's the people that have been to
war, the people that have had their friends get killed. Like they're the ones that don't want to
go to war unless it's absolutely necessary, unless we've tried every other method, unless we've
used every other technique that we could use to prevent us from going to war. Now that when you
have to go to war, like go to war and win. That's that's my attitude. We don't want to go to war
at all. If we have to go, go and win, win as quick as you can, use whatever means necessary to
achieve a quick dominant victory. I mean, there's so much in that so, so rich is an answer. I guess
where I want to go back to is I think that it's irresponsible for us as a nation
to allow this much insulation of the home front from the raw facts
of what we're doing abroad. And that if you're going to main, you know, if you take my assessment
that the United States is the most dangerous machine ever constructed, right? We do not have
the right to wield that power if we're not interested in what it looks like and what it means.
If we're not willing to celebrate heroes who come back from the battlefield, if we're not willing to
look at murderers and psychopaths who fought under our flag. I mean, you know, my belief is, is that
to have a mature relationship with your country requires being able to look at something like
Milai and seeing it for the horror that it was and still coming to an understanding that there's
going to be some amount of breakdown that looks something like that, maybe not that bad.
Anytime we deploy troops, that that's part of what it means to deploy troops
is that you can't monitor how every particular unit functions and particularly if there are no eyes
on them. One of the things that I've said before is that if you go to war, you have to be willing,
you have to have the will, the will for the following two things to happen. Number one is
you have to have the will to kill. And when I say kill, I'm not just talking about killing your enemy
because although you'll try and kill your enemy, you will absolutely have collateral damage in war
and innocent people are going to die. And if you think that you can pull off a war without killing
innocent people, you're wrong. So you have to be willing to do that. You have to make sure that
the cause, the reason, the why behind why you're going to war, you need to make sure that you
understand that you will kill innocent people and you have to be willing to do that. Even if you
net save innocent lives, there will always be innocent casualties. There will absolutely be
