But yeah, I don't know. Let's try another one. I don't know if I have the best, the best answer
for that. Okay. What is it that I guess I think about the few people I've gone through life and
death situations with, and I feel a very special strong bond to them that was catalyzed by the
peril that we went through together and I watched how they performed. But it wasn't in a military
situation. It was just sort of, you know, you're like, you're out on a remote hike and people
perform and they come through and you take that knowledge for the rest of your life that
that's somebody I can depend upon. Is there any substitute for putting your life at risk when
it comes to deepening bonds between people, particularly men? Going through hard things
together is what brings people together. And for sure, the harder things that you go through,
the tighter the bonds going to be. So if you take the military, for example, to start with the
military, well, the first thing you do is you put them through boot camp like we talked about.
Well, that's hard. And you go and you form bonds with people that other people that went through
boot camp, we all kind of have that common bond. Then you go to airborne school where you're going
to jump out of airplanes. And that's a little bit of a death defying thing. And you're going to be
the airborne crews are going to be a little bit tighter. You go to special operations training.
And all of a sudden, you've done something that's harder than that. And and and now the bonds are
a little bit tighter. Now you take that unit and you put them into combat zone. And their bonds
are going to be even tighter. Now you take that combat zone and you make it super intense,
those bonds are going to be even tighter. So there's no doubt about it. Now in the business
world, what that looks like, and especially mean I retired in 2010. So the companies that we
worked with a lot of them, the companies that we work with were many of them survivors of the
economic crash. And believe me, they talked about that, like, that was their battle zone.
That's where they formed these really tight bonds. And they weren't going anywhere. Now,
they were tight. So whether you can replace it, I don't really think so. I think the harder
strife you go through with someone, the tighter the bond is going to be. And maybe over time,
you form a strong bond. You know, if I had to rely on you for something and you came through for me,
and then you did it again and again, and then I did it for you and we stuck together. I mean,
over time, you can definitely form a really, really strong bonds with people. But I think the
harder something is, the stronger the bonds. If it doesn't fracture, if it doesn't break you.
Right. Well, then you have that guy you'll never speak to again, because where were you when I
needed you? Exactly. Right. My concern, though, I mean, let me just open up about the fact that
my least favorite phrase in the English language at the moment is, I've got your back. And the
reason is because I think it migrated from the military into civilian life, where civilians
have no idea what it means. They think that it's like, it's a good thing to say. It's like,
I really care about you and I don't want anything bad to happen, but it has nothing to do with,
I've actually got your back. Do you find that there is this kind of military envy and bleed
where people talk as if they're in these situations and it actually just doesn't match
in any way? I don't know if it's envier, if it's just slang terms that expand over time. I mean,
there's slang terms that we use all the time. Well, farming sports and the military provide
a lot of language. Right. Right. So I think, I don't think that when someone says, I got your
back, you know, you and I are, hey, can you, I'm going to go to McDonald's. Right. You know,
I got your back. You need anything? Let me grab you some chicken nuggets over here.
I don't think that my intent in saying that wouldn't be like, Hey, brother,
I got your back with the chicken nuggets deep. You know, I think it's just a slang thing that
people are throwing around. I think it comes up in the situation in which like, you know,
the boss is going to come and ask a bunch of questions and one guy says, I don't worry. I
got your back and he immediately folds because he did not even think about what he was saying.
And I think in part, one of the fears I have, and I don't know whether you resonate with this,
is that I think a lot of American men, men in the developed world, don't have any bonds
that are comparable to the bonds that you're talking about. In other words,
their closest friend is untested in any real way. Yeah, that's not good. That's not good.
You definitely want to have some friends that, you know, when you call them, they will answer.
And when you make a request, they will deliver. And you don't need a big group of friends like
that, but it's nice to have a few. And one of the things that I'm curious about is that I'm seeing
kids not be allowed to work out their own problems. And that they're taught if anything goes wrong,
immediately go find an authority figure. And as a result, I worry that these kids are never
going to have those strong bonds because you have to get into trouble and out of trouble
repeatedly with the same people. Do you think there's anything to that?
Yeah, definitely. You form good bonds, doing hard things, and also when you get in trouble.
Is there anything that you got in trouble for that you can discuss from like before you entered
the military? Oh, yeah. I mean, you know, just every other knucklehead thing that every other
boy was doing when they're 13, 14, 15 years old. Such as? Whether it was, you know, blowing up
fireworks, driving like maniacs, just every stupid thing, fighting, you know, big giant
street fights, just dumb stuff. And yeah, I did it all like an idiot, like a 14 year old boy,
like a 15 year old boy. Did you enjoy street fighting? Yeah. Okay. So there's a good example
of violence with probably very little point, but the pleasure of fighting, you know, I think it was
PGA Rourke who pointed me to, it's one of his writings that he said that we used to discuss
the drunk delight of battle before we decided that war was generally a bad thing.
You know, I think people like competition, right? And, you know, there's no
more heightened form of competition. Well, war is number one, whereas I'm trying to kill you,
then you take step down from that and where are you at? You're, oh, we're going to fight each
other. We're not going to kill each other, hopefully, maybe. But, you know, so people like to fight,
many people like to fight. It's the old, it's a very good challenge. And, you know,
especially when you're, when you're young, when you're 14, 15, 16, 18, 22, we're going to fight.
There's these people up in, where are they up in Oregon with their, their fighting each other,
protesting, wearing masks, all these guys up in Oregon, beating people up and whatnot. And,
everyone's all surprised. And I'd say, yeah, they're, they're guys beating people up. Yeah,
that's, that's normal. That's, that's what, that's what guys do. Oh, they're, but they're wearing
masks and stuff. Yeah. Okay. That's what they're doing right now. In the 50s, they didn't, right?
In the, well, you know, it's just, just a different, what are they trying to do? They're
trying to fight other people. They're, they're, they're tribal, you know, and, and DNA, they're
DNA, they're combative DNA is leaking out. They don't know how to control it because they're
young and they're going to go beat people up. So is fighting an important part, like physical
fighting an important part of human development? I think so. I'll tell you what I think. And,
again, this is, I don't, I don't want to sit here and talk like I'm making some sort of assertion
for mankind. And I think you might have just framed the question as if for human development,
right? Which for human development, I don't know. But let me tell you from my experience,
because I don't like to talk in broad, you know, statements for all of humanity as you would like
me to do right now. I, I, for me, there was, there was three things that really
helped me. I don't know, I gave a speech at my friend's wedding. Yeah. He was getting married
and he was a guy that I had trained Jiu Jitsu with a lot. He's a guy I went to combat with.
And in now I was at his wedding, he's getting married and I was giving the speech. And what
I said was there was three things in my life that sort of made me feel secure as a man. Okay. And
the first one was learning how to fight. So like learning Jiu Jitsu and knowing that, hey, if I
get into a fight with someone, I can handle myself. That was number one. Number two was going into
combat. Because when you go into combat, you, you want to know that you're going to perform
your duties and you're not going to cower and you're going to be brave and you're going to do your
job. So went to combat. I was good with it. I liked it. It was fine. And then the last one was I
got married and had kids and all of a sudden now I've got people that depend on me and I've got
people that are a higher priority than me ever, than I will ever be. And so those three things
were very important to me feeling secure. And, and you know, I always say when I was young and
stupid and didn't know how to fight, I used to fight all the time. And then once I learned how
to fight, I didn't fight anymore because I didn't have anything to prove anymore. You know, I'm not
trying to prove that I'm tougher than you and outside the 7-eleven. It's like, hey, if you want
to find out who's tougher, come to go to the gym and we'll, we'll get on the mat and see who's,
see who would win. But let's not do it in the street like, like dummies. So those three things
I think are helpful for people to do. They were helpful for me. I know that they were helpful,
you know, as a young insecure kid, which that's what that's what kids are. They're insecure with
who they are, you know, that no one's walking around at age 15 thinking, you know, I'm the man.
And when they project that, which I certainly tried to project, what they're really projecting is
I'm pretty insecure about what's going on right now. Okay, cool. How are you going to get over that?
Man, you know, learn how to fight, learn what that feels like, take responsibility for, you know,
when you have a wife and kids, you have a responsibility, a big one. So those are things
that I think move you in the right direction. So if I take that sequence, right, the first one is
learning theoretically to be capable in a fight so that you don't need to worry that if something
happens, you need to back down instantly, you can assess the situation, figure out
how you want to handle it on your own terms, hopefully. But then you say the second thing,
which is beyond being able to fight, I really enjoyed or combat helped make me who I am.
Can you talk about and feel free not to, if it's not right, what, what is the sort of the
poetry of combat that allows you to more fully develop, that allowed you to more fully develop
as a human being beyond the ability, let's say to just handle yourself in a fight where you're
actually applying this now with leverage in terms of weaponry, in terms of command, in terms of
strategy tactics in a life and death situation. You know, all that stuff that you just mentioned,
I absolutely love and I've spent my entire life trying to get good at tactics with weapons,
maneuver on the battlefield, combat leadership, and all those things are awesome. And that is
certainly the things in combat that you get to experience. But the bottom line is this,
when you go into combat, you got people that are trying to kill you. And at some point,
you realize, okay, I could die tonight. And if I die, bring it. And I think for me,
you know, the idea, you know, people, people go through life, they, they, they, you got death
out there in the future. And they either don't want to face it, or it's so far away that they,
they don't need to face it, or they put it in the back of their mind. Well, when you go into war,
it's coming to the front of your mind. And you get to answer that question that you,
some people wait their whole lives to answer, is what am I going to do when it's time to die?
And once you answer that question for yourself, then for me, I was like, okay,
you know, I, I, here we go. And if I die, okay.
You're familiar with this movie, No Country for Old Men?
Absolutely. Well, and I've, you know, read the book, Kormak McCarthy's
my favorite fiction author. Oh, is that right? Yes.
The famous gas station scene where Anton Chigur is this sort of methodical hitman of
potentially supernatural origin is offended that this guy transgresses a politeness boundary and
asks one too many questions. And he traps him into this coin toss. And he says, what's the most
you've ever lost on a coin toss? And the guy says, you know, I don't know. He's, he said, well,
you have to call the coin. He says, I didn't put anything up. And the hitman says, oh, you've been
putting it up your whole life. Every day as you leave the studio, you're going to be taking a
risk with your life as you walk across the street that somebody's on their phone texting and not
paying attention. And yet you don't, most people don't know that they, they imagine the death is
this incredibly remote thing. They don't see bodies with their fewer open caskets, probably.
We, we cremate people. We don't visit graves. They're all sorts of things that are keeping
us in an abstraction where death seems very, very remote. Are you saying that combat was
liberating specifically because you were forced to say, I am playing with the full stack and
I've accepted that and your comment, bring it. I mean, it's a terrifying thing to say in a life
and death situation. How do you, how do you, how do you see that if you crossed over some threshold?
I think it's a matter of acceptance, of accepting the fact that this is what is going to happen.
And, you know, you talk about not visiting graves. I mean, I visit my friends' graves all the time.
I go to national cemeteries and I see, you know, there'll be some, some person who died in,
like let's say the fifties or the forties and there are fresh flowers on that particular
grave and it's very moving. So I don't know if liberating is the, is the word, but perhaps it is.
But I think again, and, you know, Sam Harris, he, he asked a very pointed question on, on his
podcast. He said, you know, you talk about war being hell, which I do and, and being awful,
which I do and which it is. And then, you know, I say that combat was like the best time that
I've had in my life and he says, how do you reconcile those two statements? And, and what I
said to him was, I asked him if he ever knew anyone that had cancer and that had cancer and lived.
And he said, yes. And I said, and when you ask those people, they very often give the answer,
I'm glad it happened to me. This is what I learned from it. They had to face death. And once they
were through it, they realized, you know, they wouldn't wish it on their best, on their worst
enemy, but they're, they're glad that they went through it because they learned. And I think
that to me is what combat is like. You have to face your own mortality and you have to recognize
that, you know, you could die. And then when you're done, you get back and you realize that
the sun coming up in the morning is a beautiful thing.
Can imagine. What about, so you were most associated in my mind with,
with the Iraqi theater. And what I wanted to ask you about is what was in your estimation,
what was unusual and peculiar about operating in that theater at that time?
And, and what did you bring back from the particularity of that experience? It wouldn't
have been the same if you'd been in Afghanistan or posted somewhere else.
One thing that's interesting is I do two deployments to Iraq and, and the
amount that the battlefield changes all the time, how quickly the enemy adapts and then how
coalition forces have to adapt to what the enemy adapted to. And that's a cycle that just doesn't
stop. And so you're constantly trying to keep your eyes open and be humble about what the
enemy's doing and never underestimate what their capabilities are.
As far as the operating theater, my first deployment, I was all over the country. We,
we operated all over the place and I was living in Baghdad or we had our compound was in Baghdad.
And then, but I operated all over the place and we travel and fly and drive everywhere in Iraq
or to a lot of different places. And then my, my second deployment where we were in the battle
of Ramadi, I didn't leave Ramadi. I didn't leave that little, you know, three, four square miles
of neighborhoods. And so that was very different. And who were the belligerents on both sides?
Was ISIS on the other side? My first deployment, what it was was a bunch of
thugs, criminals, former regime elements, running around, causing problems,
and they were very disorganized. So that was in 2003, 2004. By 2006, when I went back to Ramadi,
or when I went to Ramadi, there was now a full fledged insurgency that was organized and financed
and led and they were operating as a paramilitary organization and same folks who'd gotten disciplined.
The same folks, but they had gotten disciplined. That's what I'm trying to figure out. Yes,
the same folks disciplined, but more important, they had leadership now because Al Qaeda started
bringing in foreign fighters, foreign leadership to go in and run and direct operations. And that's
when you, when you have a, an organization without leadership, isn't an organization at all.
And sure, they can, they can nip at you and they can do some random attacks and that'll be problematic.
But once you organize an element and you put leadership over them, then that's when they
can start to do real damage. And that's exactly what happened. And where was the experience
coming from? Was it Chechnya or? All over, all over from, yeah, from all over.
One of the things we talk about in World War II is the sense of being the good guys. And I think
in the era that followed World War II, we were less convinced that we were always
