this guy is going to come in and it's going to be like, we're just going to we're going to follow
this guy. And and he's going to tell us how to do things. But he wasn't like that at all. He came
in and said, Hey, why don't you guys plan this operation? And why don't you guys take ownership
of this? And why don't you guys lead this patrol? And was that like for you? It was awesome. Yeah,
it was awesome. That's when I realized, Oh, wow, if you actually give people ownership of things,
they take it and they do a better job. And that was like the that was the very first
kernel, the very first seed in my brain about leadership, seeing it from the perspective of,
Oh, if you're actually listen to people, then then they're going to want to work for you more.
And this was contrasted with the guy that got fired who didn't listen to anyone.
Well, this is this is something I'm glad you bring this up. I don't know whether this is
going to dovetail properly. But I always surprise people that I talk about followership
because we always talk about leadership. And I think we have a terrible relationship to it,
which is that leadership is like, Yeah, I'm kicking back. I'm in the corner office. I got this thing.
And in fact, I think that's nothing to do with leadership. I think that leadership involves
followership and that people who hate the idea of following other people can't lead themselves.
And so when you find that people have a finite they'll smirk, Oh, you're interested in followership.
Greatest gift I can give many people is saying, I'll take direction from you.
And you know, it's very weird. People think that they want to be in the top spot. As soon as they
have responsibility for somebody, somebody's sort of following their directions, they're not sure
that they love it. Yeah. Well, just to dovetail into that, people are generally surprised when I
build up and I'll be talking about build up the most powerful leadership, one of the most
powerful leadership tools that they have in their entire inventory of leadership tools
that they can they can utilize and they can exploit and they can take advantage of this tool
at the right time. And it's going to do wonders for them is to listen to people, right?
Like just be quiet as a leader and just listen to what people are saying. And if they have a
good idea, support their idea. Well, you know, it's sort of a weird thing to bring up because
it's not as intense as what you do. But when I have, when I work with an assistant,
one of the first things I do is to teach that person to tell me when I'm over a line. Like,
because if that person doesn't have the comfort with saying, Hey, you know, you're calling me on
a Sunday and this is not an appropriate reason to call me on a Sunday, you're at a line, then I
don't feel great because if I'm in a leadership role with that person, then I don't know if
they're doing these things because they want to be doing another thing is always like, can I get
you coffee? I want to make sure that somebody understands that if we're forming hierarchies,
it's not for the pleasure of working out, you know, love we didn't get as a child. It's because
we actually have to accomplish something and trying to take the sting out of it without taking,
you know, in some sense, the, the necessity of forming hierarchies. Because I think that most
people don't have an idea that if people below you don't want to follow you, there are a million
ways to sandbag you. Oh yeah, they'll, they'll, they'll sabotage you. They'll sabotage you. I
say this all the time, you know, it's like if, if, if I, if I'm in charge of you and I say,
Okay, Eric, here's what's going on. Here's the mission. Here's the vehicles I want you to take.
Here's the people I want you to take. Here's the weapons I want you to use. Here's the method I
want you to use. Here's the route I want you to take to the target. Here's the route I want you
to take home. And here's what time we're going to debrief. You take that plan and take ownership
of it and go execute it. And even a, even a really great guy in the back of their mind,
they're thinking, well, I would do this a little bit different. That's not the best way to execute
that. And so when you go out to execute the mission and you hit an obstacle, you, you instead of
trying to overcome the obstacle, you just call up and say, Hey, we couldn't accomplish the mission.
Sorry, we're coming home. You didn't think of this. Your plan wasn't quite what you thought it was.
So what I should do as a leader is and say, Hey, Eric, here's the mission we want to get
accomplished. Go get with your team, figure out how you want to do it. And here's some
things that I'm thinking about. Do you see any problems? Yeah, I wouldn't even, I would say,
well, it depends. Well, here's what it depends on. If you and I work together already,
you already know what those things are. You already know me well enough to kind of,
I've already educated, I've already trained you. So you're, you're, you already, I don't have to
say those things like, Hey, I'm thinking this, that you already know that. So I just say, Hey,
come up with a plan. You already know the parameters work within. So you come up with your own plan.
You actually, if you're a good leader, you go go with your team. And you say, Hey, guys, here's
the mission. How do you all think we should do it? And now we have a, now we have a plan that
your team came up with, you came up with. And now there's no talk of how do I get you to buy
into my plan, right? You, it's your plan. You're already bought in social team. When you bring it
back to me and you say, Hey, Jaco, here's the plan. Now I look at the plan and I say, Hey,
okay, that looks pretty good. And maybe there's a little nudge I give you. Maybe there's a little
course correction I give you, but it's still your plan. And, and now you go and execute the plan.
When you hit an obstacle now out in the field, you go over it, you go around it, or you go
through that obstacle because you have ownership of the plan. So no doubt about it. That's that,
that, that leadership thing of, I actually say, you know, people always talk about leading from
the front and that you got to lead from the front and, and you certainly do. But there's many times
where I want to lead from the rear a little bit. I want to lead from the back. I want to make you
lead. You know, this is really theory of follow me where you put the highest value person in
harm's way first. And it doesn't make sense initially, but then you realize, okay, well,
if he's willing to go over the side first, then maybe I'm going to take direction from him
because he's, he's putting it all on the line. Yeah. And there's, there are limitations to that
plan as well. Sure. Because if you're the most experienced guy and you have the most tactical
knowledge and you have a full understanding and you're going to be able to make the best decisions
in the shortest amount of time that's going to keep everyone alive and you decide you're the one
that's going to go first and you get shot in the first three seconds. That's right. Guess what?
It wasn't a good one. It didn't work. And even though I'm following you, I'm following you
into a bloodbath. So what I would rather have you do, and this, this happened all the time with me,
if, if I was approaching a building and I happened to be one of the first two guys,
three guys on the entry team, I would take one step to the side and my guys knew, my guys knew
exactly that they didn't know. But it was predicated on the idea that nobody, that everyone knew that
you were making a decision for a strategic or tactical reason. But in order to have that
known, you have to do something that demonstrates that you're not doing it for a personal reason.
Yes. And, and there are times, there are absolutely times where no one's going to move
until they see you move. And so you've got to, again, this is the dichotomy. You can't
lead from the front all the time. You can't lead from the rear all the time. Sometimes you got to
be up front. Sometimes you got to be in the rear. Sometimes you got to be in the middle.
You got to be able to modulate that appropriately for whatever situation you're in.
You know, it's very, it's very interesting. We get to watch some of these films from
Afghanistan and Iraq. And, you know, I remember particularly poignant films, one of which was
some convoy that they're trying to make a positive identification. They decide that it's enemy,
light it up, fire, fire along the convoy. And then, you know, there's sort of muted celebration,
job well done, blah, blah, blah. And you're like, wait, we're getting reports that they're friendlies
in the area. And you listen to just like how flipped out these people are about what they've
done in the interpretation. Another one, I remember the sniper was talking and something
to the extent of, you know, what do you think about this target? Yes, no, yes, no.
Somebody said something like, okay, well, here comes pink mist. And, you know, this human being
effectively evaporates, you know, with a well-placed sniper shot and the ambiguity of the situation
and the weight that comes from taking life as well as from putting your own life on the line.
You know, I think one of the things that those videos have done for me is to remind me of the
professionalism that we've moved towards and how seriously people are taking these decisions.
And I worry that in some sense, we need to update ourselves for how much we changed after Vietnam
in this context. Well, the opening chapter of the first book that I wrote, Extreme Ownership,
is about a fratricide that took place with my guys and I was in charge. And there was a chaotic
situation. I had multiple elements on the battlefield, including myself, all engaged in
firefights. And there was some miscommunication, there was some noncommunication, and there ended
up being a small element of friendly Iraqi soldiers attacking one of the positions that my guys were
in. And one of my guys shot and killed an Iraqi soldier, they were then attacked by the Iraqis
and then the army, who then who called in as a quick reaction force and engaged my guys
in a building with 50 caliber machine gun. I had one of my guys wounded. There was several other
Iraqis wounded. And all this took place in five minutes. By the time I went down, I was in it,
I was a couple blocks away. And when when my guys called in the what they called the heavy QRF,
the heavy quick reaction force, which was a section or two M1 Abrams tanks, when they called in the
heavy QRF, I told the guys I was with, I said, Hey, those are my guys, we're going. So we went down
there. And all this had unfolded in, like I said, in like five minutes. But so that that's the opening
chapters, how that happened. In the book Extreme Ownership, there's two other situations that
Laef wrote about another situation where the very situation you're talking about his sniper,
which was which was Chris Kyle was looking at a building, he sees an enemy with a sniper with a
with a scoped weapon. And he's asking, Hey, do we have any friendlies in that building? Laef,
who's the platoon commander calls the army and says, Hey, do you have any buddy in this building?
And the army says, Nope. And he says, Well, we see a guy with a scoped weapon, they're like,
take him out. Because, of course, we were losing guys to snipers the whole time. They're saying,
take him out. And Laef says, Well, can you confirm? He says, I'm confirming right now,
we have no one in that building. And Laef didn't feel comfortable with taking the shot. And Chris
didn't feel comfortable with taking the shot. And he didn't take the shot. And, and Laef said,
we're not going to shoot. He says, Can you send someone into that building? And the army guy is
mad on the on the horn thinking, Are you kidding me? Now you want me to send someone into that
building where there's a bad guy? He's like, fine. And there's continuing to watch that building.
And so we're sending the assaulters now and the assaulters leave the building that they were
looking at because it was a miscommunication on where the where the bad guys were. Wow. And then
the chat one of the chapters I wrote about is a similar situation. There was a Bradley fighting
vehicle with a 25 millimeter chain gun getting ready to engage armed sniper positions on the
rooftop of a building. And as I deciphered the situation and told them not to shoot and eventually
had them confirm exactly by literally I said, Count the buildings from where you are to where you
see the enemy. And they counted the buildings and they said, Stand by, we have an adjustment.
Oh my God. And guess who it was? It was my guys. So those horrible situations they unfold and
that's the that's the that's the reality of of combat. That's the harsh reality of combat. Well,
I wish more people understood that when we talk about leadership, it's not necessarily glamorous.
It's heart wrenching, heart in your mouth situations where you don't even know and
with incomplete information what to do. And there's no one there's no one to to lean on,
I would imagine. There's no one to lean on. And there's also no one to blame when you're in charge.
Every single thing that happens on the battlefield absolutely is on you. Well, and this is where
I want to sort of maybe close out this this sit down with you, although I'd love to continue
another time. As you know, this this podcast is known as the portal and the idea for the portal
is how to extricate yourself from wherever you feel trapped
towards some sort of more transcendent existence. And what I understand from everything that you
do and project and I just I feel very grateful that I was connected to you by some of our mutual
friends. This is our first meeting is this concept of liberation through extreme discipline.
And that sounds sort of counterintuitive. It looks like you have this oppressive life where
you get up in the morning at 430am, you're taking a picture of your wristwatch and there's sweat
everywhere. And the point is, you know, there's a path and you can fall off it. But if you get back
on it and you own it, there is freedom and liberation, even though it seems like an oppressive
regime. Can you talk about this as a portal and as a as a way out for people who haven't understood
what they're capable of doing by toughening their mind and sort of making use of all of these very
hard one lessons that you've decided to share with us from places they'll never go.
For me, when I was a young new guy seal, I wanted to be a good seal. That's what I wanted to do. I
wanted to be a good seal. And I looked at other seals that were respected for their operational
capability. And I, I'm not going to sit here and tell you that I did like a Tim Ferriss assessment
of breaking down each and everything and what what is it that makes them great. But I looked at them
as a young kid and said, What are they doing that's making them better? One of the things I
noticed that they were doing is they got to work before I did. Okay, so guess what? I'm going to
start getting to work earlier. I'm going to start getting up earlier in the morning. Guess what
else they do? They work out every day regardless of what's going on. They get that done. Oh, guess
what else they're doing? They're studying so they understand tactics. They train with the
weapon systems as much as they can. So they impose these disciplines on themselves. And
the more discipline they imposed on themselves, the better they were. So when you had somebody that
was hardcore disciplined, they ended up being a hardcore operator. I saw that and said, Okay,
I need to and I didn't even call it discipline. I just said, Oh, I got to get it get to work
earlier. Oh, I got to study more. I got to train more. And then the more I did that, guess what?
I'd go to a training event and I would have freedom there because I was in better condition
or I understood the weapons better. I understood the tactics better. So or I just was more prepared
because I had gotten to work at five o'clock in the morning and prep my gear and prep my dive rig
before anyone else did. So I was just a little bit ahead so I could spend a little more time
doing a chart study of the water I was going to be diving in. So I kind of got a better lay of the
land or of the ocean in this case. So these little disciplines that I imposed on myself
made me more equipped to handle what I was going to face in these training situations.
And then, you know, very soon you realize that the more discipline you impose on
just about every aspect of your life, the more freedom you end up with, whether it's
the example of financial freedom. If you want financial freedom, guess what? You got to have
financial discipline to get there. If you want to have more free time, guess what? You got to have
more discipline time management. And if you're part of a team, then the way that you, if you
saw my syllable tune, you'd see that we had discipline standard operating procedures for
just about everything that we did. And you might think that that constrains us on the battlefield,
but it actually gives us freedom. And that's the way that it is. That's the way that for me,
discipline in my life has given me, from my perspective right now, an immense amount of
freedom. Now, as far as the portal that, that allows someone to kind of transition,
for me, another thing that I talk about all the time is the ability to detach
from the chaos, detach from mayhem and detach from your emotions so that you can make good
logical decisions about what you're doing in your life in the world. And this is something that
I remember the day I learned it. I was on an oil rig and we were doing a training operation on an
oil rig and we approached one of the main deck of the oil rig with my platoon and everyone gets out
online on this platoon. We're all lined up waiting for a command to be made, whether to go left,
whether to go right, whether to go forward, and no one's making any decision. And I think this
was my first platoon, so I was a new guy. And I'm waiting and no one's making any decisions
because everyone's doing what I was doing, which is staring down the barrel of their gun,
looking for targets. And I stood there for a second and then three seconds, then five
seconds, and I said, okay, I'm just going to take a step back. So I lifted my gun into the
high port position so I wasn't looking down my weapon anymore. I took a step back, I looked to my
left, I looked to my right. I saw that no one was looking around to make a decision. And I said,
hold left, clear right, which was a common standard operating procedure. And everyone
