repeated the call because that's what you do in the SEAL teams when somebody makes a verbal
call, everyone repeats it. So everyone says, you know, hold left, clear right, and then everyone
held left and we cleared right. And I realized at that moment, I was the least one of the least
tactically experienced people. But because I had taken a step back, I was able to see things with
a lot more clarity than anyone else on that line could. So that's the phrase you use, take a step
back, which essentially, as far as I can tell, means go metacognitive, witness the robot that is
you, yes, acting robotically and find something that is not the robot to evaluate the situation.
You have to, I just call it detach, you have to detach from all that chaos. And what you're
really doing, and this, you know, makes me think of your portal ideas, you're detaching from you,
right? You're taking a step, you're attaching from your own brain, and you're looking at things
from a different perspective. And the better you get at it, you know, it got to a point where I
don't even have to move, and I'm detached and I'm looking around. So that to me is one of the most
powerful tools you have as a leader and really as a person is to instead of be being constantly
in the in the firefight, right, take a step back, get out of the fight. This is like when
you're watching a football game on TV, you watch that football game, you wonder why these idiots
on the field can't see what you see. Well, it's because you're seeing it from nine different
angles or at least an elevated angle on the television, you can see everything that's
happening. So if you do that with your life, you detach, it's going to make it's going to give you
much more visibility on decisions you should make and directions you should go. So both at the
level of cognition and at the level of emotion and feeling. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, this is
some incredibly powerful advice. I'm going to try to put it into action. By the way, if you've never
seen Jaco discussing a moment of weakness where he tried to resist eating a piece of cake, eventually
succumbed to eating a piece of cake and realized that he had to get back on the path. It is one
of the most powerful minutes because it's as if he's locked in combat somewhere in Iraq. And in
fact, he's simply in the same struggle that everyone else is making it human. Thank you so
much for being one of the first guests on the portal. I learned a ton and I would love to have
you back at another point if you'd be willing to do it. Absolutely. Thanks for having me on.
Appreciate it. Sorry to meet you.
