is their freedom from and ability to persist through transformations
of both. Their relationship to the environment does not reduce to responses that
preserve a stable coupling, but an asymmetric dependence upon
the environment gives the continual flows of matter and energy.
So, it is not just that the Fraynida principle is too general to describe living systems and needs supplementation
by additional requirements, such as temporal depth, mason length, or non-equilibrium,
but that the features it highlights are the ones that living systems are actually defined by the violation
of, and so it may ironically be much better at describing non-living physical objects,
a stable coupled systems, and biological organisms.
So, if the most basic goal of an organism is to preserve its continued existence,
then this protonormativity, if you want to treat it in a locus of protonormativity,
is not well formalized by, and can be directly opposed to, the preservation of a steady state
and an upper blanket. Fraynida humanisation itself cannot describe
the extensual imperative that organisms must follow.
But despite this, I'm not saying that modelling systems, both living and otherwise,
as Fraynida humanisers, isn't useful. As we've seen, like an extensive amount of
work in active inference, it demonstrates otherwise. A lot of organismal behaviour,
although far from all of it, is describable as hermousases of steady state.
But if these kinds of stability aren't necessary survival, or survival, then why would this
work so well? Well, as the Seville-Longo and Stuart Kaufman, among others,
argue, it's this openness of organisationally-closed networks,
the cumulative historical chains, and the difficulty of pinning down and identifying
invariant features that can make it particularly difficult to predict their evolution.
If not impossible, then at least inordinately more difficult than for physical systems.
But it's not only us as external observers that want to predict
what will be compatible with a system's ongoing existence. Living systems themselves
need to do this. If Fraynida humanisation is an idealisation,
and it still makes sense as one that we, as living systems, can actually implicitly use
to estimate what will be good for us in terms of a kind of conservative stick
with what you know and strategy. As a living system, your identity may only be
contingently associated with a particular physical form and pattern of behaviour.
But given that this particular institution has worked for you up till now, and served your
mind to what needs it till now, it's able to maintain it in the hope that it will continue to do so in the future.
It's not a bad strategy. It's just not a software necessity.
Okay, and that is my talk.
Thank you so much for listening.
That was absolutely brilliant.
I'm going to let Kier take the questions now.
Thank you, Kate, for the presentation. I find it reassuring that
Max Infanterist takes seriously some of the best
inactivist points, which you did, so thank you.
I have the whole question, which is
so, in your opinion,
the Fraynida principle is a potentially useful idealisation
for a living system, if I understand.
Do you think it is explanatory if it is in what sense
and of what?
So I think basically it's useful for modelling
how you respond to modelling
response to perturbations to remain stable.
But not useful for modelling adaptations when it comes to
a strategy or a particular way of responding to perturbations.
They all go working for you and they need to move to a new regime. And it's not useful for modelling,
I don't think, metabolism, which I kind of take it to be
what homeostasis, what the maintenance of stability subserves,
so that metabolism is prior, homeostasis is for metabolism,
and surprise minimisation, described by Fraynida minimisation
can describe what being homeostatic looks like.
But it's not going to get at the difference between the homeostasis of a biological system where
that's important for the preservation of existence in a different way from which
stability is important for the preservation of other physical systems.
If you could just repeat his question very briefly to us so that we know what
you're answering to. Sure, so I guess the kind of key thing that I'd like to point out was the
question about, we can describe outer body systems
using the Fraynida minimisation framework and how do I
think that whether or not that's an observer-dependent kind of projection
and the difference between when it's an observer-dependent projection and when something's really
doing, whether or not it makes sense that something's really minimising Fraynida
versus it's useful for us to describe it that way. Is that
even a one key point?
So I think that's exactly what I'm concerned about with this talk, because
I didn't talk much about handjournism, but I think for me
to start talking about things as having intentions as trying to do things
as being agents, that is all going to be grounded in
a system that has the precarity of being a metabolic system, a system that
whose continued existence depends on its own activity
in a way that I think metabolism characterises. I don't think Fraynida minimisation does
because you can describe all sorts of systems Fraynida minimises that don't have
that kind of precarious relationship to their own activity.
So the difference from what I think would be that you can talk about
a system trying to do things, trying to preserve itself, following imperatives
and all that kind of thing, only once it's a metabolic system.
And then the imperative that it follows might be to minimise surprise, but it's
only genuinely trying to do that because its existence depends on it
in a way that a metabolic system does, and in a way that things like couple pendulums
go. Are there any other questions?
Stephen?
Thanks, yeah, I was just going to ask
what you think about the difference between a thing and a system
because a thing doesn't have to
make a system per se.
And also where
using
variations
in the process of minimising free energy might be enough to get information
to do stuff, even if it's not.
The stuff isn't always about directly going to a minimum
of free energy at that time. I wonder what your thoughts are on
the difference between a thing and a system where maybe it's important to distinguish
and where it's not always about minimising but using
the process of minimising to get information.
Yeah, so in terms of the distinction of a thing and a system
that's not something I've been thinking about, but in terms of
when you think about how you describe systems, you sort of partially describe them in terms of their
dynamics as a process and partially in terms of their constituents
and where their system is defined as a process or
the thing that realises the process is something that I've
been thinking about. I don't really have, I think
a whole lot to say about it, except that
I think when you're characterising properties like closure
or self-production, what you're really characterising is a process.
So to say that a system is closed in a particular
way is never really to say that the thing that realises that process
is closed in that way. So when you say that, for example, a living
system is one that is, or an operation closed system, is one
closed to petivations that would take it outside its characteristic set of states,
it's not that the thing that you're describing is isolated or invulnerable to those,
it's that the thing only realises that particular system
as long as that's true of it. So I guess I'm
interested in the idea that when we talk about things as systems, we're talking about the more as processes
than as substance, I suppose, as physical
realises, but I don't have much more to say on it than that.
I can't remember the other part of your question.
Yeah, I mean the other part is about whether minimisation
has to be the main
route to everything. There might be a minimisation process, but in minimising
you might just get a route of variations
which might then give you a route to something else as opposed to it being
I suppose that starts to bring in the process theories a bit more,
but you're focused mostly on the focus
on minimising, isn't it? I'm getting to a minimum of free energy.
Would you say that what if it's not always
it's just using that process to do something else?
Is that what you mean by metabolism?
Yeah, I think that's what I want to say that
if we think of maintaining
a characteristic set of states as definitive of
some physical object existing over time,
then that can be described by minimisation of surprise level, minimisation
of energy as an approximation, but when an organism does that
that's for something else, that's for
maintaining the kind of intake that it needs to support its metabolism
So yeah, it's like
a useful tool to achieve a different goal. It's not that the minimisation
of energy is the fundamental imperative,
it's sort of like a useful way to do something that's what you really, really do want to be doing.
Nice, thank you, that helps.
Anyone else?
If there are no more questions
we're about at the end of time.
Thank you, Kay. It was a great talk.
