This is not optional. Your theories, basic concepts are not true.
They have a limited scope. And what science does that we haven't had before is the ability to have a theory that tells you the limits of its own concepts.
So this is not a minor point. And apparently, it's non-trivial enough that a lot of brilliant, actually very, very smart philosophers have made the same argument in print that you necessarily are shooting yourself in the foot if you make this kind of argument.
But so, incompleteness is just such a theory, is it not?
So, incompleteness says, I'm going to give you a really nice logical argument that proves that really nice logical arguments can't tell you the whole truth.
And that's beautiful. That's really what is so great about scientific theories, as opposed to just verbal theories.
So before science, we had verbal theories. And you could wishy-washy, move around, evade, you know, avoid getting people, in scientific theories, that's really, is mathematically precise.
And a good theory, you can say, aha, Einstein, your stuff stops at 10 to the minus 33 centimeters, aha, it doesn't work. And what can you say?
Except, I don't like it, but yes.
In fact, Einstein didn't know that there were black holes. You know, Schwarzschild came back in 1916 and told Einstein, hey, your theory has predicts black holes.
Einstein didn't know that. And of course, black holes are the thing that ultimately are the doom of the scope of space time.
So that's, so that's an important aspect about science that apparently some philosophers, I'm not going to say all philosophers, but philosophers who wanted to comment on my work about evolution and evolution again.
They have systematically said that a mathematically precise theory of a scientific system like Darwin's could never contradict the fundamental concepts of that theory.
Based on the idea that no theory can prove its own assumptions, but no theory would contradict its own assumptions either.
That's right. On pain of shooting yourself on the foot logically.
And I'm saying, know that misunderstands the whole scientific game at the core.
The whole point of scientific theories is to give you the tools to find out the limits of your fundamental concepts.
That's the point. We didn't have that ability before.
We could just dodge and weave and dodge and weave. We would never figure out what were the limits of our theories.
So science gives us the wonderful mathematical cure for dogmatism.
If we apply the cure, of course, there are many scientists who are dogmatic, but as a field,
I think as a social field, science is non-dogmatic. It may be slow moving. It may take several centuries to let go of space-time,
but I'm confident that science will let go of space-time because the evidence will become overwhelming.
I think it was Plank who said that science progresses one funeral at a time.
And ultimately, that may be why science is not dogmatic, because the younger generation will be very happy to show that the older generation didn't know what they were talking about.
Chris Fields has a slightly more positive version of that where he says that only technologies settle arguments.
So at some point, presumably, there will be something that is irresistible because of its utility that rests on some other non-space-time, whatever.
And then the new generation will put it into their little whatever, and then that's it. That's the end of that.
I agree with that. Chris is a very deep thinker.
My own guess is that these positive geometries are a first step outside of space-time.
I think of space-time as just our headset. It's our little VR headset that we use.
In reality, whatever it is, is outside the headset.
We're getting, in some sense, you can think of it as like the first layer of software outside the headset that's controlling our headset.
Once we understand that software, we can play with a headset.
I mean, if I know the software in Grand Theft Auto, I can do things that the wizard inside the game would be blown away.
I could take all of his tires off. I could take out of his gap.
I can take the geometry of this whole space and change it, however I wish, because I control the software.
So my guess is that one killer app technology will be once we understand the software outside of space-time.
We won't have to travel through space-time. We can travel around space-time.
The nearest galaxy, Andromeda, is like 2.4 million light-years. That's our nearest galaxy.
Well, good luck. I mean, your great-great-grandkids won't get there on a ship.
But what if we don't have to go through space-time?
What if we realize space-time is just the M equals 4, amplitude, and now we know that's a pretty trivial little...
The M equals 4 is the trivial case. We now know of a little bit of the software outside,
and we can now actually just change your position inside that little headset from here, from Earth to Andromeda Galaxy.
Just change your pointer.
But that's very interesting, right? Because, you know, the conventional theory also points out what the actionable control knobs are.
So, right, so within the space-time, we know, you know, there's mass and there's some other stuff.
Those are our experimental control knobs.
Do we know, you know, if we're dumping all that, what's the next set of practical control knobs that we get to twist?
Well, and that now gets into the, like, the nitty gritty of these new positive geometries.
And that's only going to be a first step because they have no dynamical systems here.
These are just, like, static geometries.
And so, in some sense, and no surprise, it's only been 10 years.
So, you know, I think that they'll want to go there.
But they are giving you some different knobs.
The knobs now are the face structures of these geometries and the volumes of the various subparts of these geometries.
So, those are sort of the new kind of knobs.
And you get things like the unitarity of underlying quantum theory comes out of sort of, again, the way that faces divide into smaller faces.
And the, and you also get, now, I forget how this happens.
You also get, so you get locality also coming out from the geometry.
So, locality and unitarity are something that you get, you see directly in space time.
But they're sort of artifacts of the geometry of these objects beyond space time.
So, we're going to see that kind of thing.
But what are the explicit knobs for us are now just part of the geometry.
And there's something else that's more interesting about these bigger geometries.
And what I'm trying to work on with my team is trying to get a Markovian dynamics that would give rise to these positive geometries.
Where we could then really start to have to really get to your question, like, you know, have different kinds of knobs that we could turn.
That would be much more interesting and actually be able to play with things like mass and momentum and energy because we would know what those are.
For example, I think mass might correspond to the entropy rate of communicating classes of these Markovian dynamics and so forth.
So, we have specific knobs that we're starting to propose because the standard model of particle physics has to put the masses in by hand.
But if our theory says the entropy rate of a communicating class is going to project to what you call the mass, then all of a sudden we can make predictions about masses from first principles in this theory.
So, we will have new kinds of knobs that are predictive, whereas before we had to just put them in by hand.
We'll see. I mean, this is where we're headed. I'm not saying we've done it.
You know, I have a wacky analogy and so this is probably pushing your video game analogy too far.
But in my search for control knobs, you know, one interesting thing about video games is that often there is there are combinations of key presses that unlock meta properties of the system that are not about.
So, you know, so you've got your controller that makes the Ferrari go faster or slower, but there's a combination of button presses that mean that does not mean anything within the game.
It's completely it's, you know, it's nonsense with within the game, you know, the five times to the left and then really quickly right you know that kind of stuff it doesn't doesn't do anything really in the game.
But what it does do is unlock a meta debugger or something for the, you know, that that was put in by the, you know, by the designers that let you tweak things for the purposes of, you know, improving gameplay.
So it's like, you know, you can go in and you can change the mass or you can whatever right and you and you unlock it with these things that have no meaning within.
So, so I wonder if we're going to find that if we take this this this whole thing seriously. I wonder if in the future you're going to find there's some that the control knobs are some kind of sequence of some kind of action that under the old model doesn't do anything.
But actually, then, somehow, you know, in a in a meta way change lets you know that that's that's my conjecture right is that there are going to be knobs that are there made of conventional actions and yet they only make sense from the next level up, you know, they don't make any sense at the level that you're looking at.
So maybe that's another way of looking at, you know, the control knobs may look if you zoom in they look well that's just the conventional you know magnetic fields that we've been.
But if you do this or that suddenly it like, you know, you crack some kind of some some aspect of the simulation you know that that kind of thing.
I think that's very likely Mike I think that that's.
And that again would be part of the new technology that would probably, you know, swayed everybody that, yeah, we need to move beyond space time.
I mean, one little hint in that direction is, you know, I mentioned the m equals for aspect of the amplitude hydrant and m equals four is just the meta parameter for our little four dimensional space time.
But there's already a parameter they found outside of space time that you can crank it up and have a better headset. So why not an m equals eight headset right.
The question is what's the cool like what's the actual crank right and there are examples of this so so I'm you know here's one silly example like I don't know if it's silly I'm the something like feng shui right so so somebody says oh you've got to
have a corridor that looks like this and then you'll have you know financial where and say what the hell is the connection between the you know this the the the angularity of my corridor and the and the finance system that's going to bring in more.
And say don't worry about it that's you know this this is this is what it is. And right so that kind of, you know, that kind of thing that only makes that doesn't make sense within the model, but somehow activate some kind of large scale meta pattern patterns that do change how the the the virtual reality
operates, because of things you do in it.
But I agree I think that that's going to be one of the more fun, promising and wild, probably, because we're going to have to really think outside of the space time box.
But we see, even in our current science within space time we get little hints of this like that with with Newtonian physics and Einstein's physics, you don't get the notion of entanglement.
And all of a sudden with quantum theory you get this thing that says, you can do certain things and objects will be entangled over long distances of space.
And it takes decades before you know we're scratching her head and we're thinking about it takes decades before you figure out how to actually use that knob and, and all of a sudden we realize, Oh, when we do it actually, well, there are useful things that we can do with this knob.
The math told us that there was this knob way back in 1926, it took several years for us to realize it was telling us that there was this knob.
And then it took several more decades to start figuring out how to turn the knob and all of a sudden we're realizing, Well, that's a really important knob.
So yeah, but, but I think that the problem is our brains have a hard time thinking out of their old boxes.
And like Einstein's, I mean, he pointed out entanglement in some sense, because he thought that there was wrong.
Richard, do you want to say anything about the the circularity of time sort of thing right we've talked about a little bit before.
Yeah.
So, I've been thinking about, you know, everything is a everything is a vibration everything is an oscillation and things which appear to be objects are just oscillations of particular combinations of harmonics that create high dimensional
curves.
But really, or every all of it is just a, it's just an ordinary equal curvature circle in a high dimensional space there's no special kinks or anything in in this orbit.
It's just that when you project that orbit down into lower dimensional spaces it doesn't look like a circle anymore.
For example, when you you project it down from from one dimensionality to another than it looks like it doesn't have equal curvature all over.
And you regain something that looks like an ordinary regular orbit that circular again, when you find a harmonic projection that's it's taking a particular time slice through that temporal thing.
And if, if the reason that I can see you is because I'm an oscillation that's at the same frequency as you.
And that if we were at slightly different frequencies you would just look like a blur to me, and I would look like a blur to you but if we were at the same frequency we can see each other.
You could also see you if I was at twice the frequency or half the frequency would you know that if I was at a harmonic review I would also be able to see you would look stationary in those as well right.
And then the thing that's useful about that, potentially, is that if I was reacting to things that you do.
If everything that you are is a is an oscillation and everything that I'm is an oscillation then when I react to things that you do that'll look like my reactions come after the stimulus.
But if I do it the right amount of late.
Then it's as though it appears to be just before the stimulus like wagon wheels going backwards in the strobe of the TV right.
So by doing a if everything is cyclic then by doing a reaction that's just the right amount of late actually becomes a prediction.
And what I'm reaching for there is that when we act on.
Future consequences that we would like to have right when agents appear to act when when an organism appears to act with agency, it appears to do something because it wants a particular future outcome.
But what it's really doing is responding to something that has already happened in the past with just the right amount of late for it to appear to becoming just in time in advance of it occurring again.
But that only works if everything is cyclic.
You know if events are really unique and time is really linear.
Then you don't get you don't get to do agency that way you don't get to have anything that looks like it's in advance of the causes.
So, you know, and then you get things like nested agency nested selves from the harmonics of the of the of the of the oscillations that we're looking at the same thing but at a faster timescale and then you get a self inside a self that sort of thing.
Yes, I don't know what you're supposed to make of that but that's what I've been thinking about.
Well, I think that that's we're on the same page.
We're doing exactly that kind of we're attempting exactly that kind of thing where the more coping dynamics when you when you look at the the asymptotic behaviors is it's characterized by the eigenfunctions of these kernels.
When you look at what they are there in many cases they're identical to like the wave function of free particles and in quantum theory.
So they're all about waves.
The whole thing in some sense everything we're doing with the Markovian dynamics of conscious agents theory is is all all about.
Fibes harmonics and ones that are compatible ones that are not we talked I think last time a little bit about this trace logic that we we've discovered and we're continue to work on you know the paper to publish on that but that that gives us a way of combining
and and and also disunifying you know disassociating consciousnesses based on their compatibilities or incompatibilities.
It's a non-bullying logic of consciousness and it also gets at something that you talked about earlier which is in some sense you talked about like temple windows.
We have some kind of notion of temple windows and and we're actually looking at that in two different ways in this we can actually take sampled.
Chains so we can and so we can have different temple windows of the sampling and and that will and we actually are hoping that that will actually help us in predicting for example the inner.
Momentum distributions of the proton.
So so inside the proton when you're at the.
The the most low resolution will they call your connection Q score which is the temporal and spatial resolutions that are inside the proton you'll see three dominant valence corks.
As you increase your temporal and spatial resolution you start to see yeah and cork anti cork pairs appearing and a bunch of gluons and at the highest resolution it's basically just a gluon seat you're just seeing.
That's all gluons all the energies and gluons and we think that we can get this by looking at smaller and smaller.
Temporal windows on our.
Markov chains.
They'll be getting the better and better resolution of your connects and in our model what happens is as as you reduce the temporal window you.
You buy us towards particles that look like their massless spin one part.
In our model and that's just from the sampling.
It just is all an artifact of the sampling so so what we're what we're going to propose is that as we know from our model.
When you're looking at this finest resolution inside the proton and you're seeing these gluons see it's not that you're getting closer and closer to reality you're seeing noise you're seeing statistical noise and you see that noise as massless spin one particles.
So, so it's so there we're actually hoping to take this this temporal resolution idea and actually make hard nose predictions about the momentum distributions of particles that.
Different be organics and q squared inside the proton.
So, so absolutely.
And we're working on another interesting idea.
Sorry just that connect with a notion of, you know, so if events are circular, if time is circular, then the idea of taking actions because you had an intention to produce a particular future, or taking actions because it's a consequence of a particular past.
Those things are symmetric now, like we can go forwards or backwards on this circle it doesn't really matter.
And if you take it if I observe what's going on at a particular frame rate it'll look like a prediction and if I observe it a little bit later it'll look like it was a consequence.
So those, it's, yes, you know, looking at things that close a temporal resolution is is very close to, you know, not just not just looking inside physically but looking inside temporarily but also it's very close to the notion of, you know, exactly the kind of
that's weird about agency exactly the kind of thing that feels weird about consciousness is that this thing like I feel like, you know, I feel I know that I exist now, as you say and now is always here and I'm all.
