So one thing I'm done, I was listening to a conversation you had with somebody else and you were talking about realism and the moon, you know, and this idea that the kind of the whole interface theory and all that.
And this idea that what's what's what's happening to the moon when we're not looking at it, right, and it's not being rendered and all of that.
So I'm interested in you talking about what what on your model what does it mean that the next appearance. So let's say you know the moon goes, you know, behind some occlusion or something.
And then the next place you're going to see it is you can actually guess where it's going to come out next by with a model that assumes that it actually does exist and it's tracing out a particular path.
Right. So there's some, there's some some explanatory value that you get from from a model that does think that even when you're not looking at it it's doing a set of steps that will lead it to be where when when you do look at it here's where it's going to be.
So I was curious about hearing you talk about that and then you know kind of Richard side on the his take on the realism of it and what the delta is between what we do what we do see and what's actually going on behind the scenes.
But that's a great question like and I get it all the time in emails, usually with the kind of gotcha kind of attitude toward you know you clearly you haven't thought about this one.
And so it's actually quite easy just as long as you think about virtual reality in a VR multiplayer game you'll get the right answer so so listen instead of the moon listen let's talk about I'm doing Grand Theft Auto virtual reality with a bunch of people and I see a red Ferrari.
Well, in this example, the reality I'll assume is some supercomputer right just for sake of argument.
Right.
And if you looked inside that supercomputer you would never find a red Ferrari. So there's there's no, there's only a Ferrari when you when you render it now however, there's something going on on the supercomputer that's not a red Ferrari.
And because what's going on in there is it's lawful and so forth. I can use Newtonian physics intuitions to guess if I look back where the red Ferrari is going to be next based on the speed I saw and the direction it was going.
I can, I can predict so. So, in other words, we can use all of our space time intuitions as we should to to predict where things are and none of that affects the realist realism claim.
But we're so used to thinking that way that that we we miss the the logical leap that we're making just because it's a useful way to do things doesn't mean it's true.
And the VR the VR game really sort of brings that home.
And, and by the way, my guess is that these questions are going to go away in about a less than a generation because a generation raised on VR games are just going to go deaf.
I'll bring up one one thing here that that I heard you talk about before and I think is interesting as well in this long the same lines of what's real and what's not and that is the distinction between living and non living.
I know you were talking with Bernardo about that and the two of you disagreed a little bit and usually I agree with Bernardo but then this, this is one case where I disagree with Bernardo.
So it's it's and so it'll be fun to talk with him at some point about it, but I think there's no principle distinction between living and non living.
If you really take idealism seriously, as Bernardo does, and you take the dashboard or interface theory seriously, then the distinction that we make between living and non living is merely an artifact of the limitations of that dashboard or that interface.
And it's, it's a use again it's a useful distinction to make inside the game.
But, but when we when we step back and say but our is it really a principle deep distinction that's true. No, it is just useful for the game, you know the space time science game.
But it's not a more deeply true thing so so I throw that out there I don't know if you mean you I mean I get any pushback from you because I think that was your position as well.
Do you think that is so.
Okay, so in moving from let's say Newtonian paradigm to say the relativistic paradigm. Do you think that that entails in any sense, getting closer to the actual dynamics going on on this on the supercomputer behind the scenes or you like like is there, you know, are we in fact getting closer to that at all or is like what what is the arrow if there is one there.
That's another very great and important question. And, and it gets to the very heart of what it means to have a scientific theory.
So, so a scientific theory, and this is just like the ABC so it's very very simple stuff.
We always start with assumptions, and we say if you grant me these assumptions I'll explain all this other wonderful stuff.
And actually, a scientific theory cannot be a theory of everything because it's not a theory of its assumptions, its assumptions are miracles for the theory.
Now you can say, well, I'll give you a deeper scientific theory that explains those assumptions. Indeed, that's what we do, but your new theory will have its own assumptions which are your new set of miracles, and this goes on ad infinitum.
Now, so that that's I think just, you know, standard, you know, elementary philosophy of science kind of stuff.
It has important implications but here's where I take it I think that that entails the ad infinitum I take seriously.
And that means that our science is infinitely far, always from a complete theory of everything infinitely far, because this is like your kids when you're when they're growing up to say, but why is that why is the sky blue and you say well it's because of this
Why do photons have that that that wavelength.
At some point you just say they do that's that's just the way it is and shut up.
And so the game the kids play which is why why why always questioning the assumptions is something that I think we can go on ad infinitum and and in principle, we should take it seriously that we go on ad infinitum.
Now one thing that gets us psychologically on this is that we think that of course, space time is fundamental so there is some assumption, it is an assumption, but it's the truth.
And so we think okay space time is you know, we have that psychological feeling that space time is the truth and not you know, but science has moved on space time is doomed.
And so we actually have to learn how to think entirely outside of space time itself.
So, so the one thing that I think has sort of kept us from really grasping how important it is that there's an infinite regressive scientific theories ahead of us.
And so, so it's horrible for those want a theory of everything that's this bad news. It's great for, you know, job security for scientists.
But but in terms now to get to your question like I think it means that there is a sense in which Newton is not as useful in many cases as Einstein and quantum theory.
But that I don't think means is getting closer to the ultimate truth in any in the sense I think that best what science is doing is giving us a description of a perspective on reality.
A one of an infinite number of different possible perspectives so so this is just the opposite of the theory of everything kind of attitude.
You have a theory of a trivial perspective, the one that homo sapiens happens to take out of the out of the infinity.
And my own feeling is that that the one we take which is a four dimensional space time kind of view of things is probably one of the more trivial headsets.
I mean, why four dimensions is about as minimal as you can do and have it be functional. Why not have 10,000.
Why not go to something more general than dimensions. So as my guess is, you know, we're dealing we're on the dumber part of the hierarchy of headsets that are being used perspectives on on reality so.
So so my attitude, Mike and I would love for pushback is that of course I as a scientist I want us to get better and better scientific theories, but that doesn't mean that they're getting closer and closer to the ultimate truth.
That just means that they're better and better descriptions of the particular perspective we happen to be looking at reality from and making useful insights into that particular perspective, which is just one of an infinity of perspectives.
So it's very, I say it's a very humbling way to view on all this.
I kind of help noticing, Don, that when you wave your hand with your fingers spread, we get a little glimpse of a reality behind the dashboard that zoom creep it's there.
The background blurring doesn't, you know, I just, I can see the room is in for a minute.
It doesn't have an orchid in it.
So obviously we have the sort of standard way of assessing whether one scientific theory is better than another is because the number of assumptions that it makes is less.
Yeah.
And the dream of a grand unifying theory is almost as though, you know, we just reduce the number of fundamental forces or fundamental constants or fundamental assumptions we need to make until they're almost aren't any as though it's always just like it's just just, you know,
when false is false and everything else will follow from that.
No, that's, that's the goal we want as few miracles as possible.
Ideally, I'm sure most in their heart of hearts would like no miracles at all but but that's when you look at the nature of scientific explanation, you always have to start with with some miracles are come just says, use as few miracles as possible.
And by the way, this has a really important implication for how we progress from three to three.
So, so your suggestion is that the space time perspective might have a grand unit for young theory with less miracles than those that we have so far and we can as we can assess the value of one theoretical framework with respect to another within that
perspective of their quality.
But we could have taken another perspective in which the same things might have been explained with a lot of miracles or with a little with a little number of miracles and there's an infinite number of perspectives we could have taken.
And how many miracles we're using to explain our predictions doesn't tell us which one of those perspectives was true.
That's, that's, that's correct or or if not true.
Useful from our particular headset perspective on reality.
Can I come back to the VR and the red Ferrari for a minute.
So you suggested that the answer to.
I'm not looking at the Ferrari, but my model that assumes that there is a Ferrari.
Gets a reasonably good prediction about where it's going to be next time I look perhaps hasn't moved actually perhaps it's still there next time I look that's a model of what the Ferrari is.
And you said well that's because the supercomputer has a law like a law like physics for want of a better word for it, even though there isn't a Ferrari and there isn't any redness and there isn't any rendering happening until I look at it.
I guess it feels like there's a bit of a.
Something a little bit slippery about well when I model the Ferrari being in a new position at a particular time.
Was I making the assumption that it was a that it had object permanence and that it was moving through space, or was I simply making the assumption that it was that his behavior was law like.
So, it's, it's about the.
What, what am I, what am I perceiving when I perceive space time, am I perceiving space time or are I perceiving law like stuff which is consistent with space time.
And of course the inclination of most of us, including smart scientists is to take our perceptions of space time as real that as you know object permanence the moon really is there when no one looks me someone as bright as Einstein believe that.
Right, so, so that's that's what we typically do and, you know, child psychologists tell us that that's wired into us from three or four months of age.
So, so it's not a, you know, an intelligent reasoned intellectual decision that we make. It's something that that we can't help it happens to us at four months of age.
And then it takes a lot of education to outgrow it as adults.
So, so, yeah, yeah, so I agree that we, that's a good question. I think most of us.
Just pre theoretically and even theoretically assume the moon is there when no one looks and that is that is real. And it's a real shock. That's why idealism is such a shock to most people's sensibilities.
So, let me extend the.
Occam's number of miracles thing to.
Is it possible to go meta on that and say, well, let's use a similar principle to assess the quality of taking one perspective or another.
So in one particular perspective, we might find that we have a grand unifying theory that gets down to a small number of miracles, but in another perspective would be equally.
explanatory and might have the same number of miracles or it might have less. But if there was if there was.
Is there really a difference between saying this theory is better than that theory within this perspective and saying this perspective is better than that perspective.
Because, you know, a theory is just taking a perspective anyway, isn't it.
Yes, and, and so yeah, the distinction between a perspective and a theory of a perspective is an interesting one because it's hard to even talk about a perspective without sort of already having a theoretical idea.
Right of what you're talking about. And there is.
At the core of all this, a deep point, which is.
If I'm saying that no scientific theory is the final word and we have we're going to have an infinite sequence of theories and an infinite number of perspectives.
What is the ultimate nature of the reality that we're taking perspectives on. And, and my, my own.
View is.
So think of it like in terms of like incompleteness results like girls and others that that the reality whatever it is transcends concepts.
It's so so those who tell us if you want to know the truth, you have to be the truth by letting go of all concepts and face it head on.
I think there's something there that that's, but that's not a conceptual knowledge that's that's entirely a non conceptual knowledge and and and so that starts to get to sound mystical.
But, but it seems to me like a direct shot from what is a scientific theory.
Can you tell me more about the difference between conceptual and non conceptual knowledge?
Well, yeah, non conceptual knowledge would be any word you use to describe it any predicates are necessarily wrong.
Or, so, so if you it's like the the Tao to Ching, basically, at the very the very first line of the Tao to Ching is the Tao that can be spoken is not the true Tao.
In other words, if you can talk about it, that's not it. And that's that's sort of the attitude I have now, looking at the nature of scientific theories is reality is whatever it is.
And we've conflated our little theories for true descriptions of reality and I think that that's immodest and actually not understanding what we're doing.
It's, I think a more modest position is to say, theories are theories and concepts are concepts they're human concepts.
And that's not the truth.
So is that is that a bit like a Gestalt perception, right? You that's, it's, it's all there all at once.
And anything that you do to try and cut it up, categorize it describe its parts that that's not it.
Yes, and in fact, now this might sound contradictory, but I'm trying to do a mathematical model to capture that kind of thing.
But I'm going to be doing it in the spirit of humility that saying, this is just a model that tries to capture that idea that that there's some kind of deeper synchronicity that that is non causal and so forth but from a perspective it looks like there's causality and so forth.
And so, so, so, immediately I'll say right up front that what I'm about to say, I'm not saying is anywhere near the truth is just that it's an interesting mathematical model that helps us think out of that live.
In other words, it helps us get out of a little box that we might be stuck in. And so, so the idea is that there are these Markovian dynamics that are stationary.
And that means that the, the entropy doesn't increase from step to step is the same entropy at every step.
So there's no entropic arrow of time.
But it's a bit like saying it'll, it'll always, it always was and it always will be. It's just what it is.
It is what it is and you can it's just a shape it's not a process run it forwards or backwards you see the same thing.
You know, long term. And, but it's a theorem that if you take a perspective you take a projection, what conditional, you know, conditional probability on this.
So, three line proof really trivial, you get a new, new dynamics new Markovian dynamics and the entropy will be increasing as a result of the loss of information in the projection.
And so my own take is that our view from, from inside space time. So, for example, of evolution of organisms fighting for resources and competing and the fundamental resource that's limited is time.
If you don't breathe in time, you die. If you don't made in time, you don't reproduce. If you don't eat in time, you die. Time is the fundamental limited resource.
And, and as you probably know, I've done a lot of work on evolution. I love it. It's a wonderful, wonderful theory. There's no better theory of biological organisms inside space time than Darwin's theory and evolutionary game theory.
Having said that, I think that time is an artifact and it's the fundamental limited resource in evolutionary theory. So I think that all of Darwin's theory, as beautiful as it is and as perfectly suited to description inside space time.
All of it is an artifact of the space time projection. None of it is a deep insight into the nature of reality. We could have this deeper reality. And again, I'm not saying my Markovian model is, is reality.
I'm just saying it's there as a way to help us think outside of a box. So this model shows how you could have a synchronistic, you know, in the union sense of a synchronistic system.
The entropy is not increasing. No limited resources, no nature, red and truth and claw. But when you take a perspective on it, all of a sudden, you get nature, red and truth and claw, you get organisms fighting, you get entropy increasing, you get Markov blankets, you get predictive processing, you get all that stuff.
So what I'm saying is predictive processing Markov blankets and that whole way thing. Absolutely brilliant. I'm not putting it down. It's absolutely brilliant. It works really well inside space time and every bit of it is an artifact of projection of a deeper system that's
synchronistic and doesn't have, you know, doesn't need predictive processing and so forth. It has nowhere of time. So, so I'm saying that again, not to say I'm right, just to say here's some mathematical model that can help us blow open some boxes that we might have, you know, in our conceptual system.
So there will be a deep connection then between time entropy, causation, right, if there isn't any time then there isn't any cause, right, there's just, it's just what it is. Nothing's causing anything is around any events if there isn't any time.
And there'll be a deep connection between that and where you are, where you are in time, where you are on this shape taking a perspective and having a first person experience of it, right, there'll be some, some deep connection between taking a first person perspective, having a first person perspective and
experiencing a ride on this shape, right, I imagine the kind of shape you're talking about, like a high dimensional curve, that by the way, I'm thinking is probably a knot.
And the, when you take a particular projection of it, suddenly it looks like there are events, there are causes, there is entropy increase, there's an arrow in time.
The notion that the subjective field is the sort of the primary, I don't know what to call it because all the words use space time.
The primary thing.
There must be some deep connection between that assumption and the, and this idea of taking perspectives in a way that have a particular point in time or seed time as, as, as a real thing rather than a non thing.
Yes, and I think that, you know, there is the question that comes out of your, your, your discussion there that, you know, we experienced things in space and time, but there is, you said this first person perspective and that just I and the sort of the I am experience I am.
And it's striking that I am always only now.
Nothing happens except now.
There is a sense in which we actually directly experience the fact that time is an illusion, because there is no time there's only now, and time is something that I make up to to describe the changes in my experiences now.
So it's, and by the way, you can see I'm not terribly comfortable in this area right now is that I don't have a mathematical model of the now and that kind of thing so it's, but, but from a first person perspective and also when you look at, you know, various spiritual traditions that that that talk about this kind of thing there is.
Pretty good intuitive evidence that now is all there is, whatever that might mean and it does seem to to interface nicely with the ideas that we were just talking about that that there could be a deeper synchronistic model that we could give a mathematics for that has no arrow of time, and in some sense, since there is no
arrow of time as always now.
But if I imagine this complex high dimensional shape or curve which represents everything that always was and it always will be in that isn't moving through time it just is right.
I can imagine projecting it like projecting 3d to 2d but I can also imagine a projection that is a bit bit more interesting that a projection that is because the object that we're talking about is going to be fractal.
So there's a there's a possibility of a projection that something to do with taking every other dimension from it or taking every, like, I'm thinking about viewing it with different frame rates instead of viewing it at different viewing in different spatial projections.
Which is a strange thing to say since we just decided that it isn't moving in there isn't any time.
But if if I imagine myself moving on a on a complex high dimensional curve, then my experience of that curve as I move around it is going to be varying that I can see.
I'm writing and writing on a subway train and I can see that the carriages in front of me are doing this or they're not doing that depending on whether I'm going around a sharp curve or I'm going along a straight.
It doesn't that doesn't feel like moving but it feels like the future and the past are waving around in front of me right if I'm writing on the train going around this curve.
If I change the frame rate or change the speed at which the train is moving, I could hit the same part of the curve with the same curvature.
Again a moment late and it would look like it wasn't waving around in front of me would look like it was stationary again because I hit a harmonic of that curve that made everything stationary again right.
So there would be multiple speeds I could travel that would make the world look non eventful and.
I'm really I'm reaching for something to make the the projections you talk about that that when you take a projection of this shape it it looks like it has time and it looks like it has events and it looks it has causes and a further this person way of thinking about it and a way to make time fractal do that do that and give it back to me.
Well, so it's it's I think that's a great project and it's quite interesting.
There's some work. Have you heard of the universe plus initiative from the European Research Council.
It's I think you've mentioned it before yeah.
Yeah, universe plus and it's there what they're doing is they're finding these new timeless structures outside of space time.
Called positive geometries.
Among them are the amplitude hydrant cosmological polytopes associate hydrant and so forth and and then some combinatorial objects called decorated permutations that classify these structures so here they hear these they're not dynamical.
They're they're these platonic solids that so if you will, although in some cases are not polytopes like the amplitude hydrant need not be a polytope so it's so just a little more complicated than just, you know, polytopes out there, but these structures give rise to the correct predictions of scattering amplitudes for particle
processes inside space time, like two gluons smashing into each other and six gluons spring out that you know some big collider.
If you if you do that computation inside space time using quantum field theory and Feynman diagrams, hundreds of pages of algebra, millions of terms for one one interaction, these new objects outside of space time.
Three or four or five terms, you can write down by hand, you get the you get the right answer without all the mess, and you see new symmetry something called the infinite Yang-Ying symmetry that you can't see inside space time.
So already, and this is only in the last 10, 12 years that the physicists, the high energy theoretical physicists have discovered these structures, published in 2013, the archive from 2014 in a journal, the first of these positive geometries.
So, so it's 10 years old, basically. And so it's a brand new field, but they're doing exactly what you are asking Richard, they're they're they're they're starting, I mean, it's not the final word, but it's like they've taken a step outside of space time.
And by the way, outside of quantum theory, there are no Hilbert spaces in these structures.
But what they're showing is that you get space time and quantum theory, both joined at the hip as a projection and a fairly trivial projection with the amp with the amplitude.
There are these, it's, it's a geometric object that has three parameters and K and M, and, and then a matrix that you need to call Z that an M for our little universe, you know, space time and was for, but, but this positive geometry allows them to be any, any positive number that you want.
So, what we call our universe is just the M equals for trivial example in one of the more trivial examples of an amplitude, you know, that that could go off to M, you know, and M could be a billion.
So we're stuck with M equals for that's why when I say, you know, I feel like we got cheated, we got the cheap version. Yeah, we got the M equals for version of the amplitude.
But the amplitude itself in the very definition of it says M could be any positive integer you want, you know, and four is about as small as you can be, and have the thing just not be trivial.
So, so, so there is efforts in the direction you're talking about in the positive geometries, I think are a really good thing to, to, to look at there.
Um, but, but I should say one, one other thing maybe is this slight, slightly off the track, but, but I think it's importantly related, because it, given that we're doing all these different scientific theories, right.
And now I'm not saying none of them are the truth, all of them are perspectives and so forth.
How do we, as scientists actually go from one theory to another? Well, if we have a good mathematically precise theory, then that theory will give us the tools to explore the scope of that theory.
And the point is, every theory, because it's not a theory of everything, there is no scientific theory of everything, because you have assumptions.
Your, your theory, any theory will have a limited scope, period.
So there is no theory of everything. That means every theory, no exception. Einstein's theory of gravity, every, everything has a limited scope.
A good theory gives you mathematically precise tools to explore all the wonderful things in the scope and what it can do in the scope.
A great theory gives you the mathematical tools to precisely find its limits.
And that's what, that's how science, a really great theory gives you the tools, the mathematical tools to say when the fundamental concepts of that theory no longer hold.
So in Einstein's theory of spacetime, when you bring it into, say, quantum field theory, you get, Einstein's theory assumes that space and time are fundamental.
And that's a great assumption until you get to 10 to the minus 33 centimeters.
And at 10 to the minus 33 centimeters, 10 to the minus 43 seconds, game over for spacetime. It has no operational meaning.
So Einstein's theory, together with quantum theory, is a great theory because it gives us the mathematical tools to actually find precisely what its limits are.
And that's how science works.
And the reason I bring this up is there are many philosophers who think otherwise.
Many philosophers who would say that what I've just said is actually illogical.
I'm shooting myself in the foot. I'm making a logical mistake.
And the argument, and by the way, I'm saying this because they've actually published this.
So these are published. This is not just informal discussions over beer.
So they'll say, look, for example, I published with my Chaitan Prakash and Manish Singh and a number of other graduate students and so forth, some work showing that evolutionary game theory entails that physical objects like organisms and resources cannot be fundamental.
And so several philosophers have published articles saying, well, Hoffman is a poor guy. He shot himself in the foot.
I mean, and the argument goes like this, either evolutionary game theory faithfully represents Darwin's ideas, or it doesn't.
If it doesn't, Hoffman couldn't use it for what he's doing.
And if it does, evolutionary game theory couldn't possibly contradict the fundamental concepts that Darwin used in this theory, namely organisms in space and time, competing for resources in space and time.
And that last claim is where they go astray.
They think that a mathematical model will never, for a good scientific theory, will never contradict the fundamental conceptual entities at the heart of the theory.
And what I just said earlier was, no, that's how science progresses.
A great theory actually gives you the tools to find the necessary limits because they will be limited. And that's the point.
