Thanks Carl.
Great. And before I introduce our next panelist, I want to remind all the committee members to return your form about the dissertation so that we
turn that into the administration.
Now, my pleasure to introduce Dr. Martin Paulus, who is the scientific director and president of the Laureate Institute for Brain Research in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
So, look forward to your commentary Martin.
Thanks, Sean, and thanks Carl.
And I really actually quite enjoyed the discussion.
I have to comment on all the other comments before I get to my point. I really enjoyed what Conrad was saying and I think that resonates very strongly with me that Conrad was highlighting that, you know, the free energy principle and active inferences and
answers. It's a start to think about something. The difficult work is actually trying to find what's the right, what Carl, what you were saying, what's the Lagrangian for the things that we're interested in, how is it being implemented.
I'm going to say something before I ask the question, because I also want to make sure that I understand what you're saying.
Let me say a couple of sentences and then I want to formulate my question.
So, I understand active inference is a theoretical and computational prescription for normative behavior in complex environment that is fundamentally based on Bayesian inference.
And by you, prior probability distributions are used within the constraint of the free energy principle to arrive at posterior distribution that quantified the behavior to be observed.
That is most consistent with the underlying belief about the nature of the environment.
So that's my understanding, as I would say.
So now I'm putting my psychiatry header, you know, I'm interested in alteration or dysfunctional behavior.
If I'm correct with my premise of what I just stated and you can correct me and I could be wrong and that's what I want to, but if that is sort of the correct premise.
I think that this dysfunctional behavior can be conceived in this framework in this ansatz as stemming from an altered and possibly inaccurate belief about the state of the environment, or by a faulty integration of available evidence to form adaptive
distribution.
And so my question that I wanted to kind of just get your input on how might one arbitrate between those two different alternatives.
And maybe more in the biology how might these different differences be implemented but we probably won't have time to discuss this.
Because I'd also actually think and now I'm becoming becoming sort of more real practical.
Because A and B could mean different things for remediation or intervention.
Right, because one of the things that we want to do if people, because I'm a psychiatrist or animals, if you're an animal person, who behave in such a way that we would agree in some form is non adaptive we want to help them to become more adaptive.
And so the dysfunction is based on fixed prior probabilities about their environments or faulty computation, the remediation might be actually quite different.
And therefore, you know, we need to find almost ways of arbitrating between those two alternatives and so I'd like to get sort of your perspective on that and how would you go about doing that.
Yeah, well you know how I do I do it like you're doing it.
A tricky question.
So, the way I resolve this mathematically as it's a really interesting question but I sort of deflate the question the problem is, you know, is this broken inference, or just bad prize.
Yeah, bad prize with great message passing schemes or broken message passing schemes with good prize.
And that's a really interesting distinction but practically I don't think it's terribly, it's terribly meaningful from a practical point of view.
So I dismiss that with something called the complete classroom and the complete classroom just says for any pair of observable behavior and some loss function.
There are some prior beliefs and render that behavior base optimal. So what that allows me to do is say that everything that's broken can be cast as a, as a, an unusual prior.
This prior is so unusual that it looks as if it's a faulty message passing system so say I had a prior belief about attentional deployment and precision.
And while I'm here just open brackets because this is a lovely connection between precision convergence and precision in the sense of Mark and deploying attention.
And indeed, from Martin, your point of view, you know, deficits of attention and deficits of consciousness are implicit and deficit of attention.
So precision here getting the precision right these sort of inferences about the variability or the, the width of probability distributions in terms of the encoding of uncertainty.
So the way that I had bad prize about that what would that look like when it would look like I had an attention deficit disorder that would look as if I had faulty evidence accumulation and assimilation that would look as if I basically had a broken imprint scheme.
So what I do is, I don't worry about it.
What I'm going to say is the real job. And then you come back to your second I think key point. The real job is to find out what part of this deeply structured hierarchical generative model that is a generative model of dynamics is broken.
Sorry, not it is broken is that is described by, you know, by its priors and formal prize in terms of its structure. What part is abnormal. Yes, broken in this kind of person on this disease relative to another another disease.
I think the question you're asking, of course, it is exactly the practical question the Conrad was referring to. And just to pick up on one, you know, your excellent summary of active inference.
If you want to make an application, the free energy principle, you're absolutely right. It is just a prescription. It's a prescription as a method of weighted things. So just like Hamilton's principle of least action, it's a method.
So you give me a particular ball and a particular sort of cannon, and I'll tell you the trajectory. But before you do that, it's nothing for me to do.
But all the heavy lifting and all the hard work is basically finding the generative model that under the assumption that, you know, you can now apply the free energy principle variational inference of an inactive sort or active inference.
And then that provides a good account or explanation of this person's behavior. Then then the job is just a normal clinical neuroscience problem of finding what part of this narrative model is different.
And by this part, I mean the particular prize and usually hyper priors. And they usually, as you will, you can't respond because it's my turn to talk but what Marty would like to say.
There are these higher order priors whose biological substrates are probably tied up with neuromodulators and synaptic excitability and all the physiology that goes hand in hand with that sort of fussed, you know, synchronous interactions and the like.
So a very specific class of part of neurobiology that deals with modulators and particular kinds of neuropharmacology. And this I think is a perfect example of actually sort of say what of the universe of this deeply structured generative model that, you know, is not only describing a person but in an encultured context.
What's remarkable about this prior relative to this neurotypical prior. And that's a really difficult game, obviously.
Yeah, I actually had a second. So, so even though this is already been a very fascinating discussion for me, I actually had a second question because we were asked to have two questions I do.
I want to, that's a little more edgy, not edgy for you but edgy maybe in the sign of times, which is the fact as you, you actually have now expanded which is very, I just can't wait to see what you're going to do with the message, a message passing scheme between active inference agents,
because now we're talking more than one agent. And you gave the nice example of the 20 questions and how one can develop a common framework to then arrive at the correct solution.
But of course, again, coming back to the fact that I'm interested in when behavior goes wrong. We live in a time. For first of all, let me just say that, you know, even psychiatric disorders, or abnormal behavior, individuals are not islands.
They're embedded in, in communities. And these communities interact heavily, and therefore doing the kind of message passing that you're talking about.
But coming back to first principles, you know, we live also in a time where it seems like that some agents together are very good in message passing, and other agents are very good in message passing and arriving at some consensus.
But then there is nucleations that seem to be occurring and they seem to be getting more prominent and more severe in, in the current time, where there is very little message passing, going between those nucleations.
So the question would be, how, how would you understand that as emerging from sort of an active inference principled agent that interacts with other active inference principles agents.
That's a great question. And I suspect it probably will probably just use that question when we come back to sort of round summarize ways forward.
So the way that I would do that is basically by numerical analysis, and I would write down a little world and see what emerges when each member of a population or ensemble is described or its behavior is prescribed by by active inference.
And what I would imagine would happen is that this dialectic between trying to make your world as predictable, predictable, and at least surprising as possible, whilst at the same time trying to share your generative model with as many artifacts like you that are generating the things you're trying to predict,
that will be resolved by this enucleation and this sort of blanket building isolationism, if you like, sort of partial isolationism that characterizes so many aspects of our sort of political and geo and your familial cultures and structures that there is, again,
a real invariance that does entail sort of a mark off blanketing or blanketing or segregation or partial segregation that fulfills that within your blanket within your family within your ethnic or political or religious, you know, culture.
There is a shared narrative, and everything is nice and predictable.
And that that that sort of encapsulation is underwritten by something we were referring to before, which is this base optimality in terms of bias sampling.
If I act to realize the kind of world I think I'm built to self evidence in, then I'm going to construct to the extent that I'm going to be successful in so doing, collectively, then those boundaries will will will be maintained.
The question now is of course you know what is the scale and the structure and the number of these of these communities that are emergent properties, very much in the spirit of Turing pan formation that you know we're talking about.
We're talking before about Alan Turing. I mean this is exactly the kind of segregation and we actually diffusion like phenomena.
He wanted to understand. And I would imagine the same techniques will be used a century later, and by which I mean he started off by basically doing by hand Excel spreadsheets and looking at sort of local exchanges to look at yourself organization and
pattern formation, we would do it in computers but actually probably just at the same speed because we'll be actually modeling active inference agents that actually are modeling everybody else in the eco niche.
And who knows what will happen, but hopefully for a sufficient number of scaling variant aspects to this procedure, you'll see what tends to happen in your own brain that you actually get functional specialization in the context of integration.
So you get the structure processing but there is segregation of function. And, you know, you can chase that right down to the structure of a new one right up to the structure of your body.
There are symmetries but there's also specialization. So I imagine that there will be the similar kind of structures emerging that will be describable in terms of the dependency kind of causality through Markov blankets.
That one could be looking for in silica.
Thanks, Carl. In the interest of time, you're right. What you just said is essentially the overall one table. But in the interest of time, I would like that we into, we get the commentary of the, of the last two presenter, and you integrate your reply into, we will start our
round table with you, Carl, for the last. So if it's okay, and Daniel will be presenting their commentary and then we'll start the round table with you and you'll answer to those two at the same time of the general question.
How do we go for this real precision?
So back to you to introduce a line.
That's my pleasure to introduce Dr. Elaine dagger who is associate professor at the Montreal Neurology Institute and McGill University and neurologist specializing in movement disorders and functional brain imaging and little known a fantasy American football aficionado.
Thank you. So thank you, Carl for a really inspiring talk. And I have two related questions or comments. One has to do with what you refer as your day job functional neuro imaging.
We've been able to measure blood flow in the brain for a few decades now. And in the early days, we just ask questions like what does what.
One interesting prospect is to try to measure information in the brain, and specifically to ask how is information processed in the brain. And one way that you have promoted is to try to quantify cognitive processes and then relate them to brain activity and I wonder what you think the
aspects are for for this area. And specifically I'd like to ask you about dopamine, which encodes information in multiple ways.
And I'd like to specifically ask you about tonic dopamine, because it seems to be related to motivation and to the willingness to act in the world.
There's low, low tonic dopamine. So that's the dopamine that basically bathes neurons. These patients experience apathy, despite the fact that they still enjoy life and they still have the ability to experience pleasure, they're not willing to act.
And conversely, when we increase their tonic dopamine with medications we can trigger states of maladaptive action, such as pathological gambling and compulsive sexuality.
And I was trying to think where tonic dopamine fits in the free energy principle and I was wondering whether it could encode expected information, and that that alone could explain its effects on apathy and motivation.
Quite interesting. Do you have another question, Alain, before I introduce Daniel?
No, that's it.
Very good. Let's shift to Dan Belsky, who was wondering why we had invited him on the panel and it was very, very carefully selected for Dan is working from the genes to society.
He is working on issue of aging, life course, socioeconomic status that are so important if we are to create this next generation science of real-world behavior in real-world contexts in a more adaptive manner.
I'm his assistant professor of epidemiology at Columbia University, Mailman School of Public Health, and also at the Robert Butler Columbia Aging Center.
So Dan, why don't I let you through all the space we can get. Go ahead, Dan.
So thank you so much for having me for the invitation. It was a fascinating talk and equally fascinating questions from the panelists. I've learned a great deal.
And in fact, the questions that I initially wrote down to pose to Carl, which were about how this model speaks to the development of individual differences and in particular how that happens across time scales of human development.
across the lifespan, have been partly answered in the responses in particular to Randy regarding time and to Martin regarding the genesis of individual differences.
So in service of transitioning us toward that overall panel, let me pose the more general question to Carl from the public health perspective since I'm here from the Department of Epidemiology and I know you've been thinking about public health and epidemiology in the context of your models recently.
How should the free energy principle inform the kinds of strategies that we are developing to shape public behavior, private behavior in service of cultivating health for individuals across their lives and that's a,
you know, maybe the opposite end of the spectrum from Alan's question, which is, you know, very specifically about a particular mechanism that you've thought about. And I guess I'm asking more generally, not what does this say to, you know, sort of public health in general but what are applications that you might envision
of the free energy principle that could guide us toward a more precise approach to public health and social policy.
Then where we stand today. And perhaps, you know, we can have some further interaction in the subsequent Q&A.
Thank you very much, Dan. And I would like to make sure that all the panelists are having their video on. We have 12 more minutes in those 12 more minutes we will have Carl addressing those first to
last two commentaries, but within the broader perspective, Carl, of your words of wisdom, how can we as a worldwide community move toward this next generation precision convergence, convergence science.
So, Carl has two or three minutes and each of you will have one minute after and then Sean and me will be concluding. Go ahead, Carl.
Thank you very much. In fact, Dan, your question and Elaine's question are actually, I think of the same milk and like really important and also speak to what we were discussing with Martin, which is, you know, you've got a principle, a recipe.
How are you going to make it work in a useful way at different scales.
So, you know, in answer to Daniel's question, one can drill down on the individual on the single person in terms of their neurology and their psychology as an individual and try to understand the functional
objectives and the physiology of the belief updating and the, the message passing neural message passing very much along the lines that we're discussing with Martin.
So this basically would be understanding neurology, psychiatry and indeed behavior as a barren to belief updating from the point of view of active inference.
And because you've got this process theory underneath the hood that grounds it in your biology, you've also now got a way of articulating psychopathology in terms of pathophysiology things that are, you know, that are a barren highly unlikely in terms of the physiology and the dynamics and the structure
of your anatomy of a particular brain. So that, you know, that is, if you like, you're already an active research part of say computational psychiatry and computational neuropsychology you just build things in silicone, you see you make
sure you optimize them so they behave exactly like your patient, you do a bit of precision medicine, just by nuancing and adjusting and optimizing the prize of this twin digital twin if you like.
So that complies with the method of the free energy principle. Then I think you have to move up to the next level which we already talked about which is the, the exchange between agents and issues of data foraging not data.
The information foraging epistemic trust static interactions therapeutic engagement. Martin, if you have time would speak to this, you know, how can you use these principles to predict the kind of priorities that people will have it will commit to the ensures a therapeutic
interaction with the doctor say or with the public health service these are really important issues. To understand the mechanics of the belief updating in terms of interpersonal inference, maybe really important in just supplying public health care.
That alone, you know what that care, the content of that care. And then at the next level we're talking about epidemiological modeling.
I haven't thought about that yet in the sense that when we model viruses, and model people, the vectors of those viruses, the people are just like points are like this is a physical cow.
And in themselves have any intentions or priorities. That's an outstanding issue and I repeat, I think that's where we're going to end up.
I won't finish that because I want to just comment on Alan's. That's a great idea. I haven't thought about that.
Sorry, dopamine may well be the encoding of the expected information gain of the, you know, the epistemic value.
I think it's entirely licensed because the speaking to the exchange with Martin.
What we're talking about here is prior beliefs about the precision or the confidence or the certainty with which you subpersonally your brain holds certain beliefs.
And that's for every probability distribution, every probabilistic representation in the brain, there is a precision that may or may not be encoded implicitly or explicitly with a neurotransmitter.
So that certainly speaks to a plurality of things that things like dopamine might encode. We certainly know something to do with plans and action.
And beyond that, I think that the, the hypothesis it could be expected information gain is exactly the side kind of hypothesis that you would then use simulations to test by, you know, playing off expected costs, for example, against expected
information gain. Factorily, and seeing which was the best account for dopamine in this region as opposed to the responses in that region. So that's an excellent idea.
But we'll be part of this basically building a brain in silicone optimizing using the principles we've been talking about to, you know, to drill down, you know, in a precision medicine kind of fashion, which would be one end of the scale from a public health perspective.
The scale being where I'm going to finish, which is the agenda that days.
You want to go with your one minute commentary on the where we go from here.
Well, in a sense, I but the last, the last 30 seconds was meant to be, you know, I think we've identified, you know, where the challenges are and it's basically something that everybody's spoken to at some level from Conrad, you know, the complexity of it all from Randy,
how do you get the multiple time scales from, you know, Daniel, you know, how do you how do you get this to the public health it's all about basically self organization of sentient artifacts at different scales.
So it is exactly collective agency. So that's the big challenge.
The last thing I'd like to say is, I hope I get the PhD.
Absolutely.
When you get many postdocs. So let's let's have this 30 seconds to one minute commentary for each of you, you can you can vote on the PhD, but most importantly, I want to hear from you.
What do we go as a capacity building world wide community in the next six months of a year.
Mark, I will follow the same order than we are in the panel. Mark.
So Alan Turing keeps coming up in the conversation today and I don't think that's an accident Turing's worldview included the theory of computation. And I don't mean digital computers in your laptop I mean the theory of information dynamics as a unifying theory of everything and it permeated all of his
laptop. And I, you know, I don't want to talk my own book here but but I think the theory of computation offers fertile basic ground just like set theory did a couple of centuries ago for mathematics to create a common language and a common set of models.
Thank you.
Well, you're muted.
I think building this, the underlying theory for machine learning is very, very important and more broadly from your science, which means if we're in these normative spaces, oftentimes our algorithms do a lot of arbitrary things and I think there's a lot of wonderful recent
developments in the area where you can then prove that say we'll generalize for a certain set of phenomenon like packed and thinking of ideas like pack base.
And I think, like in the interface with theories of how the world was that they depend on all these pieces that we come in that we put in. And I think there will, there's this a lot of development that we need to make these ideas be concrete.
Thank you.
Lauren.
We may have lost Lauren. Okay, Randy.
I mean, what would I take away from this is that there is a lot of work to be done and thinking about how to build the generative models that we need to answer some of these questions.
Conrad posted some of the examples of the application of free energy in the domain of COVID modeling.
We've done something similar using merging agent based models with some sort of sIR models. And that's also a generative model is the question of the objective functions.
I think this is a domain that kind of extends beyond just thinking about the, the tool itself but thinking about the application and where the application can take us and that's, I think, been a constant theme.
So it's not just so much thinking only about free energy per se but also, you know, what do we want to understand and can we use free energy to engender new understanding of these problems.
Thank you, Martin.
I want to keep it very brief. I want to thank Carl for challenging all of us to think harder about, you know, how behavior emerges and how it breaks down.
Again, I'm excited to see what multi-agent active inference will look like and what, you know, what patterns emerge and how we can potentially use the insights to make the world a better place.
Thank you.
Okay, thank you. Well, I think that the challenge is to see what is a vulnerable brain at least in medicine and understand how genes and environment conspire to create a vulnerable brain and to understand that vulnerability at a computational level.
So that's the interesting challenge of the next few years.
Done.
I mean, I think I would just echo Alan, I think, I think I was inspired by Mark's initial comments about the idea of information as a fundamental element in the universe and genetics is an encoding of that information and so the way in which that information interacts with the
information of our experience to produce variation in behavior is the frontier. And I should also just say I'm grateful that Lauren has returned and so we can give the last word to the philosopher.
Go ahead, Lohan.
Oh boy. Well, yeah, so I, I mean, Carl's work is already bringing together many approaches and I think this is particularly useful for many questions, especially ones that are kind of on the edge of discovery and in some sense the edge of science.
So where do we go from here? I think we can kind of capitalize on this and do more of this, having more discussions, asking more questions and more attempts to answer them.
Thank you. Thank you. Shifting to you. In fact, Lohan, shifting to you, Lohan almost used the expression you were using. What we are doing is bridging the edge of science. I will let you speak for yourself or your commentary but also introduce our next precision convergence.
That is, in fact, a very nice build up to what we were having today. Go ahead, John.
Yeah, I gotta do it quick because I have to go meet my Dean. But thank you for the wonderful talk, Carl, and thank you all the panelists for a mind expanding conversation. I feel like, you know, you're talking Lagrangian's message passing free energy.
It's been a quantum chemistry talk again, which is my background, but it was really interesting and stimulating talk and our next presentation will be, I believe, on May 24.
Carl, Kitty is putting the poster in the chat.
And Satya Ghosh from MIT will be talking about basically how neuroinformatics is facilitated by infrastructure development. He is the lead on an infrastructure project called Dandy, which is a microservices architecture for bringing together neuroscience pipelines and data.
So a very different talk, but still interesting nonetheless. But thank you again, Carl, for what a very wonderful presentation.
Yes, indeed. Thanks to Carl.
We very, very much appreciate you placing this in your business schedule and each of you on the panel, and those in the audience also.
We all know what two hours mean, and we appreciate very much. Not only the time, but the brain investment in the last two hours is indeed building this capacity for precision convergence, which is this edge of science connecting all of the above for real world transformation in as real time as possible.
Thank you, everyone. We will end here. And we hope to have you on the next one, but most importantly, it is, it is a community we are building so we will be getting in touch in that in diverse manner.
Thanks to all of you. Bye bye.
