experiences, either physiologically or non-physiologically, depending on the trauma that was
inside of the near-death experience, then you will experience how fragile our sense-making can be
in terms of simple notions like time is flowing or sounds are actually seen as opposed to heard
or that my body is all joined up and doesn't fly around, for example, or that I live inside my body
usually just behind the eyes. All of these are as fantastic notions as Jack's notion of an atom
that is never actually seen and can be so quickly dissolved. I am me, I am a person. These are very,
very fragile hypotheses that can easily be, if you like, removed either in certain psychopathological
conditions or psychiatric conditions or by taking drugs or by trauma that is experienced,
unfortunately, by some people. Normally what they involve with is, involve is this
aberrant selection of evidence for sense-making at various levels in these hierarchical models
and, biologically, what that looks like is a failure of or an aberrant function of something
called neuromodulation. Now neuromodulation just means modulating the excitability of neurons,
brain cells that communicate messages that cause this belief updating and sense-making
passing messages from one level of the hierarchy to the next level of the hierarchy.
And it is very important which messages you pass, both upwards in terms of the prediction
errors and downwards to provide context and constraints in the form of predictions for
sense-making at the level below. And one way in which you select these, it is thought, is to
enable certain ascending messages that ascend deep into the hierarchy through these gain
mechanisms, either whether it is a potential gain or post-synaptic gain if you are an electrophysiologist
that are mediated by certain neurotransmitters. And interestingly, it is the transmitters that
are affected, the transmitters that are affected by psychedelics and by psychotropics and most
drugs using neurology and psychiatry. These drugs act exactly upon these neuromodulatory
mechanisms. So I would imagine that most near-death experiences fall into this class of altered
states of sense-making where there are no constraints on or you are dissolving certain
deep constraints by removing through a better neuromodulation,
moving the constraints on certain kinds of sense-making at particular levels in a hierarchical
model, which enable you now to experience the world in a very, very different way. I do repeat
though that this is sometimes a therapeutic objective. Imagine that you, for example, were
very depressed and had built a model of your world in which anything you did was met by
rejection or hostility or potential ego-distanic responses. And the best thing is just to stay
in bed and do nothing. And the problem with these kinds of world models is that they preclude you
going and searching evidence that challenges that model and that hypothesis. So the very fact
you're disengaging socially in terms of interpersonal or dynamic interactions means you can never test
the hypothesis that everyone is going to be nasty to me, which means that there's no challenge.
So these, if you like, self-assembly malignant hypotheses, sometimes you want to actually
challenge and resolve. And one way of doing that is to target these neuromodulatory mechanisms,
either by using drugs or by engaging in certain attentional practices. So you become skilled
at actually activating and deactivating these modulatory systems to allow yourself to explore
other ways of being, other hypotheses about your interaction with the world. And I'm thinking here
about meditation practices, internal attention states, mindfulness practices, some with or without
the use of psychedelics to augment that. And they can be very powerful, these modulatory
drugs. I don't know if that helps. I haven't had a near-death experience, so I can't speak to
No, no, no, it wasn't my, it was a question for someone else, so I can't speak for them,
but I hope it was helpful to them. He said something that interests me, though, that
there are some things that you find much more interesting, or at least as much as interesting,
like I'm in my body and there are a couple you mentioned. Anyway, one, I like to, I love to
read one book by Oliver Sacks, I think he's called S-A-C-K-S. And he had some stories about
patients. And I think one of those stories was about someone who was dislocated from their body,
like a couple of centimeters to the back and then a couple of centimeters up. So they were always
looking, looking somewhat down on their body. And so when they had to, you know, when they had to
grab something, they always missed. So they had to purposefully relocate their hand in a very
awkward way to magically somehow grab the cup they want to get. And there was also a case by
of a patient who had, who was stuck on the ceiling and was looking back upon themselves.
And while they tested it, obviously by writing something on a paper and putting in, putting it
with the letters upwards towards the ceiling and ask, ask the patient if he could read it. And
obviously he couldn't already made something up, but it was very convincing. That's the first thing
I think about when, when I think about near-death experience or no, no, out-of-body experience.
Yeah. But I would like to, maybe there will be a pill or a drug or something that I could try
to, for like 20 minutes, that would be so cool. Just for 20 minutes, just be, just be on the ceiling,
how that feels or not be in my body. It will be, I think it will be a very interesting experience.
So you should, you should invite Mark Sones to talk to you. I don't know if you've,
how do you spell his last name?
So S-O-L-M-S, Mark, his, his, his world expert on what's called neuropsychoanalysis,
which is basically a mixture of neuropsychology, brain lesion experiments and clinical treatment
in neurology and psychoanalysis. And he's also one of the world's experts on
Freud and Neofroidian thinking. But he, he has some really great ideas about consciousness,
but also has lots of patience of the kind that you've just described, for example.
So fascinating.
Yeah, it really is. You should, you should get him onto, you know, one of his, Amy Dolman is one of
his colleagues and she has a patient or not, but a patient just, you know, somebody that
she, she investigates, whose visual system is just reversed. So she sees everything.
Wow.
When you see her go from left to right, she sees it as going from right to left,
and she has to compensate. And then he realized this when she went to university and started
actually talking about the direction in which things moved or so. And really fascinating how,
how easily our geometric, our perspective taking models can go wrong with certain kinds of,
you know, aberrant neurophysiology or anatomy. And in light of that, if you also,
there's a gentleman called David Rudroff, Rudroff, our you, our AUF, who's currently,
he's been Grenoble, is currently relocated to France. And he's a great theoretician who has a
whole projective geometry theory of consciousness that really does put where you think you are
centre stage in building models of how we engage and act in our world. And of course, you know,
where we are physically and how we move our bodies around is a really important part of that.
Yeah, because you're not, you're not in your foot right now, you're somewhere here,
which is kind of super strange if you think about, I wonder if that's also one of these
things that are just efficient, maybe, or maybe there's some free energy principle going on there.
But I wonder, I actually did wonder about that somewhat earlier. It's like,
why am I not in my foot, why my hand? Yeah, it seems we all share this.
Apparently, we're about two centimetres just behind the midline of our eyebrows, apparently.
That's where most of us put ourselves. But it's a really interesting, why, why, why would that be
the vantage point? David's theory of projective geometry as a key architectural principle of
the generative of the world models that we have given our kind of bodies that we have to use in the
way that our eyes have evolved or our engineer, you know, that provides some really interesting
insights into, you know, the vantage points of where am I? Yes, being in a foot, I would have to think.
But thank you for the recommendation. I'll look him up. Thank you. Has you written any books,
Mark Soms? Well, Mark Soms has written a number of books. I think the most recent one was called
The Hidden Spring by Mark Soms. But he's quite a prolific and a very well known international
speaker. So you should be able to find, so he lives in Cape Town that travels the world,
you know, seeing academics and patients and the like. And the other gentleman was David Rudroff,
who was younger and hasn't written a book yet, to my knowledge. But he has certainly written some
very interesting high-end papers in this field with his mathematics. Yeah, and I'm a good at
reading papers, but luckily we live in the age of chat GPT, so I can ask for a summary, right?
So, Carl, were there any moments in your personal or experience in your personal life that you say
have significantly shaped or redirected your research in theoretical neuroscience and computational
modeling? I think most of the decision points were formative and absolutely crucial. Yeah.
So I don't think there were, you know, there were no specific events because very much,
as we were talking about before, in terms of having a narrative, having a willful narrative
about what's going to happen to me next and actively putting yourself in that position,
that's been very much where that I've designed my career. So every move I have made has been chosen
in order to align with this axis or direction of responding to epistemic affordances, to put
myself into a situation where I could ask questions and try to answer them doing theoretical
neuroscience. So formative ones were, I haven't got time to tell the story, but ending up doing
psychiatry, for example, that was very important and spending two years in an old Victorian style
lunatic asylum with 20 to 30 chronic schizophrenics and psychiatric nurses and
colleagues in a community setting for two years. That was quite interesting. Formative time of my life.
I can imagine. Yeah, there must be a lot of good stories there, maybe for another time, but
it's very interesting. And the other way around, how has your understanding of it
influenced your daily decisions and how you think about the world? Has it gone the other way around?
Yes, I think that's certainly true. I mean, a lot of the common sensical interpretations of active
inference are those that actually comply with the free-engine principle. They are accurate,
but really simple explanations for observed behavior. And of course, I observe my behavior
more than anybody else's. So a lot of this is, yes, that makes a lot, that's a simple explanation
for why I did this or why I perceived that or why I thought that or why I planned that.
So yes, there is a circular causality. Was there a moment where you were like, well,
if I hadn't done this work, then I wouldn't be this person? Or has Carl always been this person?
And he always knew what to do. And this work didn't change his inner perspective on life.
Oh, if it's so personal, you don't have to share. I'm just curious.
I'm just trying to think about your entertaining, but sensible answer. No, I think I just think
I was very lucky. I don't think I've actually used any theoretical insights to further my career.
Having said that, perhaps there is one interesting example, which is,
I came into science in the context of brain imaging and first contributed by writing
software packages for analyzing brain imaging data, specifically statistical parametric mapping
with colleagues. And subsequently, procedures that we mentioned right at the beginning of
the interview, such as dynamic causal modeling, having to solve the problem of how to analyze
scientific data exposed me in part to the principles of more generic modeling and sensemaking,
which meant that it was easy for me to see how one could apply exactly the same principles that
we were using to analyze our scientific data to the brain when it was trying to analyze its
sensory data. And very fortuitously at that time, people like Geoffrey Hinton and Peter Dian had
just moved next door to our brain imaging unit. And we're telling a very similar story from the
point of view of the importance of generative models in making sense of data in the context of
artificial intelligence and machine learning as it was in the early 90s. So I think the
confluence of those two things were very formative in terms of translating basic statistical
mathematical principles and methods into a story about biological self-organization,
and in particular, neuroscience, that then could be generalized to any kind of biotic
self-organization. We're nearing the two and a half hour mark, so I don't want to take up too
much of your time. I'm not sure how much energy you have. I don't want to be rude. We haven't
discussed this because we just went into the interview, but usually around 90 minutes,
two hours, I'm like, okay, how are you doing? Should we go on? Do you want to eat something?
Have a break or just end it? So here's that moment. Do you want to go on or like, no, Jack,
I'm done for today. I have to see my wife, whatever, hug my kids.
Let's do one more question, or if you have one. I have tons of questions. Yeah, okay. Well, then
it's a silly question, actually. Well, Carl, if you could have a conversation with any historical
figures, whether scientists, philosopher, religious leader, whatever, about our views,
who would it be and what would it be about? I'll be torn between Helmholtz and Richard Feynman,
I think. Oh, Feynman? Yeah, yeah. I mean, there are lots of great thinkers, but certainly for
me, for me or my heroes, apart from Sherlock Holmes, who's not a real person, are Helmholtz,
the other polymath and Richard Feynman, so it would be nice. I don't know that I'd have anything
sensible to ask them, but at least I could say I'd spoken to them and be very proud of that.
Well, I have been a fan of when I was younger. I listened to the audiobooks, the Feynman lectures
on physics, and oh boy, this man couldn't explain anything to you. It was so gorgeous to listen
to his stories, the way he explained it. He made everything simple, and he adds such a joy,
such a wonderful way of teaching these things, and it was really genuine. He wasn't even teaching,
he was just telling stories, but what would you have asked either of them? Because you would
like to speak with them if you could, but I'm curious, what would you have asked them?
Well, I would have, I'd like to have known where the contributions came from. In exactly the same
way the past two questions have been asking me, where how did my life story and career intersect
with and cause the academic contributions. I would also have the same kind of fascination for
these people's epistemic journals, at what point did they have these insights, and what
point were they articulated, what was a kernel for it, and do we understand them now in the spirit
in which they were originally invented? What I'd be particularly interested in is what would have
happened if Helmholtz had met Feynman? See, Helmholtz, I think, had all the right ideas that one could
even argue under right generative AI, and the past hundred days of great achievements in
machine learning and artificial intelligence research. He had all the right ideas, right from
the physics, right from sort of Helmholtz's decompositions and Helmholtz free energy,
right through to the psychology and his work on perception and optics. I think he knew an
enormous amount and tried to find a unifying principle for all of this intelligence and this,
he framed it unconscious inference, in terms of a neural energy or a neural energy that played
the same role as a Helmholtz energy or a Gibbs energy in free energy, in thermodynamics,
and really failed. And it's interesting that Freud at the time was coming up with his notions
shortly afterwards of energetic and bound energies and the like, and I would like to ask him to
extend Freud, was trying to take this narrative further, but just didn't have the right physics
grounding. But specifically, what would have happened if Helmholtz had met Feynman? Because
Feynman, I think, came up with the right kind of free energy that Helmholtz was looking for
in his work on the methodical formulation of quantum electrodynamics. That's the free energy
that is the free energy of the free energy principle. It's this thing that is used to
do good modeling, to work out the probability of things which normally you wouldn't be able to do,
because you couldn't solve this impossible marginalization or intractable marginalization
problem, but he worked out a way of doing it of the kind that could be used by physical systems,
like the brain. And had Feynman been able to talk to Helmholtz, I'm sure that we would have got
things like the free energy principle, not in the early 21st century, but in the early 20th
century. Yeah, you'll be out of a job then, so maybe it's for the best girl.
Girl, thank you for your time, really. I appreciate it so much, people here too.
I'm not sure how the weather is. It looks very nice behind you. It looks very sunny,
it's super sunny here, so I'm going to enjoy the last bits of sunshine too.
Yeah, just thank you for this conversation. I really enjoyed it.
Yes, well, I did as well. Thank you very much for having me. I can see the sunshine
fading behind you. I have very much enjoyed the questions. I didn't realize that so much time
had passed. You're absolutely right. So thank you. Okay, thank you. And I'll be speaking again.
If not, girl, good luck. Cheers.
