and his claim is that he can mathematically prove that and he's made a mathematical theory and it
is mathematically a pluralist theory in a sense that you need at least two conscious agents to
begin with, but philosophically speaking he admits that he is a monist and that says an idealist,
that consciousness is the source of existence and everything particles and energy and all that kind
of stuff is a projection from conscious agents like agreements between them. Donald, sorry,
I'm butchering your theory but this is as far as I can briefly explain it.
Well that was really useful and everything you said made perfect sense to me and I sort of
rang bells so somebody's clearly also tried to explain it briefly in previous conversation,
but everything that I think sounds perfectly consistent, you know, this notion of having
wrong models that are optimal in the sense of being sufficient to explain and predict our
exchanges with the lived world is to my mind absolutely right. It sounds very much like the
notion of satisfying, there's a whole theorizing where simplicity or minimization of complexity
is the objective function and this inherits directly from the sort of information,
theoretic perspective that you get from the free energy principle in all its carnations
and certainly would be the line that somebody like Jürgen Schmidt-Huber would pursue that to
compress is to have the best kind of model and that that compression can be scored by
the variational free energy. You will find it in economics and the sense of heuristics
and satisfying of the kind promoted by Goethe-Pigurenza and you will find it in machine learning
and data science in the form of compression. So again, you know, only having that stuff that you
need, everything else being redundant, so your models have to be as simple as possible.
As a statistician, I think this is a really fundamental point because, you know, if you just
write down the expression for model evidence, the marginal likelihood of your data given a particular
model and you write down or decompose the logarithm of the evidence, you could always express it as
accuracy minus complexity. That means to do good self-evidencing, to have a high adaptive
fitness for example, just means to provide an accurate account of your sensorium as simply
as possible by minimizing the complexity. So it doesn't surprise me in the slightest that when
you simulate agents who have the right kind of simple model, as Einstein said, you know,
keep everything as simple as possible but no simpler. So there's a golden loxary theme of
simplicity and damning down that will always outperform somebody who is overfitting their world
and having very, very accurate true models or certainly closer to the generative process.
And you find that, you know, basic phenomena emerging everywhere, not just in data compression,
but in overfitting, for example, in machine learning where they ran to things like sort of
sharp minima simply because they're overfitting the data. They need to simplify things by mini-batching
or blurring data, for example. So as a deep truism there, which means that all your models are wrong,
so he's absolutely right, but they're the best models, that's the important thing,
if they've maximized the evidence. You talked about the relational aspect and monism
and that physics is a construction. I think most physicists would agree with that, you know,
physics is measurement and measurement is inference and most of certainly sort of relational
quantum mechanics would certainly say that, you know, most of the things that we actually deal
with are, can only be described in terms of observation and measurement. I've just read
Carlo Revelli's book, Helga Land, which is beautiful, that convinced me even more that
everything is, as you put it, relational or certainly arising from diadic or dyadic
interactions and measurement. Yeah, I find that the theories that deal with information as a fundamental
fundamental thing of nature or even the most fundamental thing, I find them always hard to grasp
and it's silly because on the other hand, I have no problem considering that consciousness is
fundamental and that all exists is consciousness and interactions within consciousness and that
all particles and stuff like that are manifestations, imitation. I have no problem with that, but when
someone says, you know, reality is just information, somehow it just doesn't click. I see numbers and
I'm like, okay, how can reality be pure information? Yeah, but I mean, that's the message
throughout those and I mean, you know, Richard Feynman, you know, energy is information, you're
it from it, you know, wherever you look. Well, certainly as I get older and I did physics,
quantum physics and probability theory as a young man, and I thought that was reality. I thought
that's the description of reality. But as I get older, I start to realize that even
classical quantum physics, classical mechanics, statistical mechanics, quantum mechanics,
and even I think the Bayesian mechanics of the free energy principle, these are all just stories.
They're just stories that are part of my judging model that I've, some of my teachers have shared
with me, that you have as much, if you like, veracity as my fantasies I am me or that, you know,
or anything else that characterizes my beliefs and explanations for the world, for the,
of my world. So I know what you mean, but I'm pretty sure it's right that your notion of an atom
and a particle, have you ever seen an atom? No, no, I used to think, no, I used to, well, they
made beautiful pictures and drawings and animations, but apparently you kind of make a photograph
because they're smaller than the wavelength of light. So light passes over it. At least that's
a metaphor they gave me. So I'm at the stage that, okay, these are just useful metaphors,
nothing wrong with them, but they are metaphorical, just like almost anything we describe in reality.
But that just makes it easier for me to think about these things, that they're useful models.
Well, absolutely, I mean, making it easy to think about them is exactly the sort of, you know,
the free energy minimizing process that we were talking about, having those good, fluent,
simple models that make the most sense of everything that we encounter. But just think about what
you said, you find it very difficult to think about a universe that is composed just of information
and numbers, but much easier to think of it composed of atoms. And yet you've never actually
seen an atom. And even if you could, you wouldn't be able to see it. Even worse fantasies, at least
you can see a number. So, you know, isn't it strange the way our brains compel us to try
find these very simple, intuitive, good enough, sufficing stories to explain our world, even physics.
And physics changes every year, you know, there's no ground truth there. It's, you know, it's,
no, I have, well, I used to think that there was an objective truth, and then I didn't think
there was an objective truth. And now I'm just, I don't know, it's just I'm getting pretty agnostic
the older I get. So, but you're right, the stories we tell ourselves is, is one of the most
interesting things. It's also the way how our language works. It is metaphorical.
Almost everything is a story. A theory is a story from beginning to end, that this is how it seems
to work. There are certain archetypes, how these stories are built. And this is how we understand
it. And it's just, it blows my mind why this is apparently the only way that it works for us, or
maybe that is what language is. I don't know, I'm just, so someone else, oh wait, DSX had one other
question. It will be cool to ask him about his opinion about UFOs. But that's totally different
direction. But why not? This isn't, you can ask any question here. So, Carl, there we go. One
question to another question. No relationship. But what do you think of UFOs or UAPs as they are
called nowadays?
I guess the question is, well, I mean, certainly if, you know, if there are what is on the tin,
then they're just unidentified and surprised and unexplainable, so they will certainly
attract our attention under the free energy principle, or if we're doing the right kind
of active inference. If the implicit question is, you know, is there other kind of intelligent
life form elsewhere? I think that, you know, that is an interesting question, which again, I have
not, I don't have an informed view on. And my sort of back of an envelope, calculations, just
looking at the probability that we have co-evolved to a similar level of intelligence, and we allow,
you know, you mentioned it, communication. So the only way that we'd actually, you know,
see a UFO is one way of communicating. It's a deontic cue. It's a sign that there's something
roughly our size and, you know, it has the same kinds of physics of us that is around that can
to be in the same spatial location under my physics stories in my world. The probability
of that happening, I think, is fantastically small. So I would be extremely surprised if there were
if there was a lot, if there were aliens driving and identify flying objects around the earth,
very, very surprised, simply because there are so many constraints that would render
render the probability of that happening under my physics world model, my my intuitive physics.
Yeah, there seem to be a lot of reasons why aliens, well, the time it takes to travel,
the fact that you can go faster than light, the if it takes like, I don't know, 10,000 years to
get here, then by the time they get here, maybe their civilization has died out, and they even
forgot why they got here in the first place. Maybe alien life is so different than us that
simply are not able to see it. And then they're not able to see us in the list goes on. So
there are there are enough reasons. I kind of agree there. It seems like a slim chance, the
fact that they might exist sure, but no, why not? It seems awfully possible that they exist.
But so there's your answer, DS Adkinson. I have another question.
Let's see if that's the right one. MadMVD asks, makes me really wonder what happens to the energy
within us upon death to where does it dissipate? What form must it take? And the age old question,
where does conscience go after we die? Right, so again, sorry, we're just picking your brain
or all kinds of things, want to know how your brain works, how you think about things. So
right. So, so from a review of the sort of physics of self organization, I mean, death is
you're a really interesting phenomena in the sense it is exactly a failure of this
maintenance of this individuation of the thing from everything else. And, you know,
certainly using the word dissipate is I think very, very interesting. You could have used a word
decay or dissolve. All of these words basically reflect that there is a loss of the integrity
of the Markov blanket or the separation of you as a living thing from the rest of your world.
So I'm just picking up on the use of the word dissipate here. It is, I think, possibly
inevitable of all self organizing processes because this kind of process of self assembly
and sustainability into an attracting set cannot has to be, if you like,
reproduced over increasing time scales, which means that there is always a time scale
where things die very, very quickly from your point of view. And there's always a time scale
above where things last for an eternity from your point of view. So for example,
for me as a body, a lot of my cells actually die very, very frequently. And indeed,
whenever I cut my hair, I'm discarding some part of my body that has died and that will dissipate.
That would be looking at things at a smaller, faster time scale that indeed could actually
constitute me at my time scale. But also there's a time scale, let's say an evolutionary time scale
or cosmological time scale that is much longer. So if I am me and my conspecifics, I could endure
for thousands of, if not millions of generations. But at each level, there will be an inception
and a dissipation that is just part of this nested kind of self organization that can be
described as self, if you like self evidencing or free energy minimization, just in virtue of this
existence of solutions to certain states of being that is expressed again and again in this nested
way over different time scales. And where does the energy go? That speaks to the notion of
conservation of energy. But what I've just described is something that is not conserved when it dies.
So I prefer to think of this as from interpreting energy really purely in terms of
information and the processes, the information processing that is entailed by sense making and
by living. So in many respects, you don't have to worry about thermodynamic energy. It is the
energetic processes read as making sense as perception and active sensing that is the expression
of the, if you like, the informational aspects of the energy and just being and possibly even
being conscious is probably best thought of as a process that could be read as consuming energy.
And when that energy is no longer consumed, that is when you die. But of course, in your death,
death, there will also be other things will be reborn from your death, either at an evolutionary
time scale or indeed in terms of your what's happens to your atoms. I'm sort of wandering away
from the question now because I'm not sure what kind of energy that we would we were talking about.
And I would read energy really as I repeat a potential literally as like a voltage
where that potential is always read as a log probability, which brings us right back to the
notion of information, which means that, you know, in a very simple sense, energy and information
are the same thing. But things are processes. And that means it's the way that we handle energy
and handle information, which defines us. And in a sense, death is the cessation of that kind of
processing. Thank you. All right, another one, which is people are asking questions. Finally,
guys, this is what I this is why I'm using streaming art. So you guys can ask questions.
So a question from I'm not sure how to pronounce it see the cheat. I think you talk about using
free energy to explore future consequences. But what about reflecting on past actions? I see
self reflectivity as a key characteristic of general intelligence personally. Yep, I'd agree
entirely. So that notion of introspection and self reflection, and indeed reflecting on past
actions is speaks very much to what I was what we were talking about previously in terms of
the essential role of memory and and planning and memory in planning. And one aspect of
that planning is that one can improve one's world models, one's internal models or generative models
by effectively rehearsing what has happened to you and maximizing the efficiency of those models.
But interestingly, usually involves a not an increase in the accuracy, because whilst you're
reflecting or introspecting, there's no more data that you're trying to assimilate. So that you there
is no notion that you're trying to maintain the accuracy of your expressions of data because
there are no data. However, if you remember, we were just saying before the log evidence,
which the free energy approximates or bounds is equal to accuracy minus complexity. This means
you can still self evidence by minimizing the complexity of your models. And one way of doing
that is basically to resolve do house cleaning, if you like, and remove redundant aspects of your
world models during periods of interception. And some people also argue during sleep as well
during dreaming, for example, that these are excellent opportunities to continue self evidencing
in your head by looking for associations by resolving or eliminating redundant parameters
of your generative model that were otherwise rendered them too complicated and with a tendency
to overfit. So one picture of this is Julia to known as picture, for example, of synaptic
homeostasis that we spend our entire working day rushing through life, building up all sorts
of associations in terms of brain connections or synaptic connections in the brain. And then
we have quieter moments of interception of introspection, possibly
mindfulness and certainly sleep, during which we can revisit all those associations and remove
all the unnecessary and incidental associations in terms of synaptic connections in the brain.
So that we wake up the following morning or in a refreshed way with a slightly simple explanation
that has stood the test of time as it were. So I think that's absolutely crucial. And you see
that empirically in those sorts of context, you know, even little mice running around mazes
will emit signals from their brain suggesting that they're actually replaying and rehearsing
what they're going to do and what they have just done in order to consolidate and to
install the right simple kinds of generative models in the head that are apt for navigating
this particular situation. Thank you. Thank you, girl. What are your thoughts on NDE's
near-death experiences? I said nothing to do with your field. Still curious.
Near-death experiences? That's exactly right. I've never had one, but I had a friend who really
wanted to ask you that question. Right. I mean, these often associated with altered states of
consciousness and they, I think that they're terribly informative and presumably, if you've
ever experienced them, can be quite life-changing. And indeed, one might imagine that the experience
of these altered states of consciousness are sometimes the aspirational goal of certain
meditative practices or mindfulness practices and indeed some therapeutic applications
that engage the sense-making systems that we were talking about before in relation to mental
action and attention. So from my perspective, the typical near-death experience and outer body
experience, for example, that might be characterised by seeing yourself, you leave your body or you
might see a particular sort of photic stimulus, a bright light, for example.
So these are sort of characteristic experiences that are reported by people who have had near-death
experiences. And they all speak to, I think, a very important aspect of our sense-making. First
of all, they do reveal how fragile our fantasies and our hypotheses are. So if you take psychedelic
drugs, for example, that act upon exactly the same mechanisms that may be engaged during near-death
