the courthouse in Pennsylvania, like what sort of government have you given us? It was like a
democracy, if you can keep it, I think was the quote I was thinking of from Franklin. I'm amazed
that we've kept it this long. Well, I mean, and that's the thing is like, I think it sounds like
a great idea. But like, if you take it, if you look at it with with fresh eyes and just look at
what you've got, I think uses the example in the other post, or maybe even in this one about education
and lost purposes. That's a good that's a good easy example. Like, what does college look like?
Well, I'm getting an education so I can get a good job. And it's like, are you doing either of those
things where you're sitting there learning 12th century underwater basket weaving? Yeah, and you
and like, for the most part, no, trade schools are tight. That's like, we're, hey, I'm here to
learn this, so I can get a job doing this, you betcha. And there are like, actual schools that
do that sort of thing, not just like software boot camps, you can do that for like, automotive
repairing everything, right? Yeah, but those are low class. Yeah, they're low class. We'll get there.
No, no, no, I shouldn't transition yet. Now you're good. The, I guess what I'm getting at is that,
like, people, and this is explicitly why I went to college was 75%, probably more if I'm
being honest, was a sense of social inadequacy. I wasn't doing anything with my life. And it
became especially stark when I bumped into somebody from high school, and they're like,
oh, I'd be doing something more interesting. And like, fuck me, you're right. And so I'm like,
well, you know, what's a good answer to say? What are you doing? You know,
oh, people who are in school, you know, I'm, I'm going to college. That's what I'm doing. That's
the entire reason I went. That's the overall and majority of the reason. I can't think of,
I mean, I guess I sort of went there to learn stuff. But, and like, I tried to pick something
that I was actually interested in, that I felt like I was going to do something with. I got an
undergraduate degree in science of psychology. And I say science, because most schools, it's a
liberal art major. So I had to take some science classes, and realized my second semester in,
because I'd already had my undergraduate or my whatever core credits out of the way from
what do you call it? Community college. And I'm like, oh yeah, this is actually super boring.
Turns out reading psychology research is a lot of fun. Doing it is insanely boring. And this will
not be fun for me. So I realized immediately, I'm like, yeah, I'm not going to do this, but I'm
here. As long as I'm in school, I can at least tell people I'm in school. That's what I'm doing
with my life. I went because I knew from, I don't even know how long, as far back as I can remember.
So at least elementary school, that that was the life path. You do really good in school,
then you do really good in high school, so that you can get into a college, and then you do good
in college, and then you get a job. Like there was just no question ever about it. Going to college
was part of the life track. And then yeah, I dropped out after one year when I was like, this
is shit, and I don't want to do it. And I'm not doing what I wanted. You know, it's like, this
isn't actually advanced. It's once once like you're at college age, after you've been old enough to
sign the loans, that's when you start to like come online enough as a person to realize like,
wait, this isn't actually advancing my personal agenda of like, self actualization towards what
I'm trying to do. But since you get to sign those loan papers at 17, you're not, you know, at least
when you're me, you're not really a sentient person yet. And you're like, Oh, great, I'm in debt.
And I guess I'm already here. So might as well finish it. Yeah. Yep. Okay, so he upon further
reflection, figured out, at least suspected that he came across as deep, because he coherently
evaluated a cached pattern of deep wisdom in a way that made immediate sense. Because there's
this stereotype of deep wisdom that death, complete the pattern, complete the pattern.
Death gives meaning to life. Okay, I guess I'll do it. Now we're all looking at like screens and
you're looked around at us. Yeah, everyone knows this is the standard deeply wise response, but
they will not be surprised. It carries no experience or insight. One might call it belief in wisdom.
And yeah, that was his point that everyone knows it's wise, but not surprising at all. And he was
surprising. They may even say what deep wisdom, perhaps in hope of being thought deep themselves.
But he also points out that like, the the transhumanist School of Thought has its own
cash thoughts there. And this is where it's like, Yep, I've done my original seeing and I've come
to the exact same conclusion as the transhumanists. Death, complete the pattern. Death is a bummer
that we should get or as death is a pointless tragedy that we should do our best to get rid of.
And it's like, that sounds all original, because fewer people think that way.
And it doesn't mean that it's the wrong idea. That's, I think that's the tough part. You just
kind of got to like, dig around and think, like, Okay, yes, I happen to have come to the same
conclusion as my peer group. But I'm kind of wary of that fact, because, you know, is this
some social pressure me trying to make sure that I fit on the same, like, intellectual level as
them? Or is it like, is this my actual thought? There was another key component to seeming deep,
which was that if you're conveying, you know, because every, I guess there's two components.
One, you have to have all these thoughts cashed in advance, because that's where every good
thought comes from. Generating thoughts on the fly sounds like me rambling on in a sentence and
you sound like an idiot. And yeah, he said that he already had all these thought patterns as
automatically as he breathes. Exactly. And then the other thing is to be able to convey them
with minimum inferential distance. I think he specifies one step, but I think if you could do
a couple and still sound really deep. He said that was the hard part. Yeah, the part that made
him seem deep was being able to just have that one inferential step rather than be bizarre out of
nowhere. Yeah. And it's interesting because I've heard people who, you know, say long things that
are sound bizarre out of nowhere because they haven't conveyed the distance and they just sound
dumb or insane. And it's like that might be a real coherent thought, but you've not convinced,
you've not bridged that, that, that crevice for me. And he pointed out that transhumanism is like,
got its own whole coherent philosophy that many people have spent a lot of time thinking about
and making cohere. And so the fact that he was able to present a unified coherent thought was
very important because it wasn't just original. It was also original and made sense internally.
Right. Made sense to the listener too. Yeah, yeah. And it was like more than just one thought. Like,
you can have a deep sentence that you've got cashed somewhere, but then someone asks you to
expand on it, you've got nothing. You clearly review yourself to just like, you know, and this
is something that God, I mean, it doesn't have to be a smart thought, but you know, like a random
cash thought, you know, I think about this, like dinner party I went to a few years ago,
once every couple of months. And it's like, we're playing, what's that, cards against humanity.
And I mentioned this in the context of other posts with like applause lights and everything.
But it would be, you know, somebody throw in some random jab about, Oh yeah, America is the worst
and basically get a round of applause. But if you ask them to expand on that, they can't. And it's
like, well, why, you know, what specifically? Well, you know, racism. It's like, well, okay,
sure. But like, no other country has that. Yeah, we invented it. Speaking of, I saw
SNL this morning. And it was the guy from Get Out. Okay. And it was a bummer because he's
remarkably unfunny. And you know, like most SNL episodes have like, like one or two good
sketches from get out. Okay, okay. I forget the guy's name. Yeah. But like his opening sketch was
like, I know, because he's British. He's like, I know what you're thinking. He's British. Oh,
no, he's not black. Don't worry. I'm black and British. And it's like, we all know, you know,
he just always like, we're aware that this can happen. But well, there's also a thing right
now where the capital B letter black applies only to American people who are descended from slaves
or something. Like there's a whole new woke vocabulary around that. I'm lucky. I don't
buy the woke dictionary and read it then because I remember years ago, like being confused that
African American is what you're supposed to call black people. Right? I'll call anyone who,
you know, what they want to them to them. But I'm talking about a group. Because at the time,
most black people I knew weren't African, weren't African American in any guys. One, you know,
one was Jamaican, one was French Canadian. And it's like, so, you know, calling you African
American is like, Oh, you're black, you must be from Africa, right? It felt so kind of sending
to me. Yeah. And then and calling black people from other countries, African American, that was
the last straw was I saw something about, you know, African American British actor.
It's just Elba being considered for James Bond. And I'm like, African American British actor.
Okay, yeah, this isn't this is nonsense. It wasn't just me. Great. So anyway, what I brought that up
because Oh, a lot of his stuff was those sort of just like random, quick jokes about like, Oh,
don't worry. It's I can't think of any examples. Point is, it was like applause lights, but it's
it's like almost a deep thought, but it's like, there's no substance to it. And you can tell or
many people can tell I think that it's like, Oh, yeah, there's, you know, this is just a shiny
coat of paint. And there's nothing underneath it. Good comedy is actually subversive, which I guess
often means that it is an original thought. Yeah, I mean, I think, and it wasn't just the jokes,
I think, I mean, don't get wrong, it's, it's, I'm not sure if the guests write their own monologues
or what. Let's see, was there anything else I'm seeming and being deep, like having a parent
philosophy that's easy to explain and non typical seems to be the, the one sentence summary, right?
Yeah, he did also point out that an economist once remarked, the popular audiences are so
unfamiliar with standard economics, that when he was called upon to make a television appearance,
he just needed to repeat back econ 101 in order to sound like a brilliantly original thinker.
This was written about 15 years ago, this post, do you think this is still true?
That's still true. I have this experience with any,
uh, anyone to try to talk to you about economics is not like in this circle directly.
No, that sucks. Yeah, we're in our bubble so much that like it seems like the sanity
water line is up, but that's because we're just swimming in the deep end, baby.
For the shallow end, I'm not really sure. But it's not to say everyone's dumb. It's just like,
you know, in fairness, you know, most people haven't heard any kind of one on one lecture.
And so they hear stuff, and it's kind of like the joke there was one of this on like American dad,
where, uh, the daughter's like in her first week of college and she says something about something
and, oh, how's that cycle in one class teaching you? Well, it's only been a week, but I know how,
I know how the whole world, I know how the whole world works now. And it's like that, that sort of,
that, that the joke there is that like, you, these are original thoughts that you haven't had,
you know, that you haven't been exposed to yet. And it, you know, sounds deep and profound and
smart. And in a way it is because it's new to you. But it's not like this is not the, the, the edge of
humanity's grasp of the subject, right? It's just, it's just yours.
I have over the last 15 years started to see more and more of the death is a bad thing,
idea seeping into popular culture. Is that just me looking for it? Or is this actually a thing
that's happening? Um, I mean, we still get a whole bunch of death is crap in the media,
but every now and then I see something that really makes me hopeful.
Yeah, I mean, I, I'm hoping it's a positive trend. I mean, I remember we talked to Eleazar about this
a few years ago, back when, uh, Harris was hinting that they were going to write a, that he was going
to write a book on the, on AI. Um, and I'd asked him, I was like, you know, it seems like more
and more conversation about AI seemed, I don't know if we caught him on a bad day or if he actually
feels this way, but I was like, it seems like more and more conversations these days about AI
are less about like the terminator and more about like actual content. And he just said twice,
because I think I read the question, he's like, I am not optimistic or hopeful about,
you know, the public conversation on this or something. Um, and maybe again, maybe he's having
a bad day. Maybe he's, he's definitely, you know, more, he's got his, uh, ear to the floor
there more than I do, but I feel like it's more positive, more conversations coming down from
people like Bill Gates and Elon Musk and, you know, names that people listen to,
aren't talking about the threat of bipedal robots shooting us in the face, right?
Yeah. Or saying just unplug it. Right. Yeah. I mean, even Neil deGrasse Tyson,
you know, came around completely on that, right? And he's a popular science figure.
So, uh, well, that's because I don't know. Um, that's because AI exists now. Uh, we have,
we're like, we're going to have self-driving cars. We have GPT three. Uh, there's some really cool
services now using it. Like, um, I'll have to see if I can find the service and put it in show notes,
but there is a GPT three powered article writing software now where you just tell it like,
I want you to write an article for this kind of blog and on this subject and add in quotes from
this thing. And like, I don't know, just a sort of, you can make it as detailed or easy as you want,
and then just be like, generate and it'll like generate a title and then it'll start writing.
And, uh, I haven't tinkered with it yet. I think it might be for pay, but, uh, yeah, there's,
there's a few things out there like that now that I've, I've seen people tinker around with and
do reviews of and they look pretty powerful. Still not quite as good as a human article writer, but
like one human article writer can do the work of 10 just by using that and yeah, culling,
tightening up a little. He ends because so all of that was about how to seem to be deep to, yeah,
read about, um, non-standard philosophies that are, uh, that are well thought out. He said,
to actually be deep, you got to think for yourself about what's wise or important. And, uh, it's
not necessarily coming up with an unusual answer, but it does mean seeing for yourself and expect
to the previous post, uh, rather, rather than letting your brain complete the pattern. So it's
key, key points to this is don't stop at the first answer, uh, cast out replies that you see as vaguely
unsatisfactory and spend a lot of time on it because if you keep mulling over the stuff for a while,
eventually your thoughts may form a coherent whole. Yeah. And time, your thoughts will form a
coherent whole flowing from the single source of yourself rather than being fragmentary repetitions
of other people's conclusions. I just wanted to make that sentence because it's good. I like
that too. It's fun because I try, you know, I don't know if I'm getting there. I'd have to,
you know, do another deep dive on all my beliefs. So give me 10 minutes because I don't have that
many. Um, for the most part, most of what I believe is amalgamations of what like is what I try to
like synergize from other, you know, other thoughts that have come to me from other sources.
And then I try to, I try to make something fresh out of the combination thereof, right? And that's
still like original, but it's, you know, I didn't make the ingredients. I just made something new
out of it, right? Well, literally everything is a remake. I mean, yeah, but you can, you can
independently discover something, right? Yeah. And so that can be, yes, someone else already had
this thought, but you didn't know that it came to you fresh. Right. You know, no doubt. I don't
know who, but it's always, you know, sparked by or outgrowths of other things that you've already
run across or that you already know. Probably. I mean, like, I'm not sure who gets credit for
being the founder of the transhumanist school of thought, but there are no doubt the first person
to think that death is bad, right? Right. I think that this article is not saying original thoughts
have to be wholly original. Like, it has to be original from your brain. But like not, I'm the
first person who's ever thought this thing. Like that was sort of the distinction between seeming
and being deep. I do think it's really important that he, you know, he says, oftentimes you will
just get the standard answer because, you know, if you have to find a nonstandard answer in order
to feel like you've won, then that leads you down into conspiracy theory land. Yeah, you're
going to have to be completely nuts. Most things that the common accepted wisdom is probably true.
Right. Yeah. All right. For next week, we are reading the logical fallacy of generalization
from fictional evidence. I just talked to Rachel about that yesterday. Yeah, that's one of my favorites.
Or at least it's a fun one. And hold off on proposing solutions. All right. We should actually
get to the topic, though. Yes. So we are talking about the I'm on the wrong mailbox primary.
Am I not as proposal for Republicans or was it the book review? I mean, it's just the whole
how about it's class stuff in general based around that. Yeah. Astral Codex 10s essays on class.
Right. I keep forgetting it's Astral Codex 10. Just call it Codex. That works. I don't know.
ACT runs, I mean, it's already an acronym, but SSC was, you know, so ingrained for so long.
Yeah, it's going to be hard to change. There was a book review we did a few months ago on.
It's not ACT, it's ACX. Well, I look at the at the word 10. I know. But I guess I don't know
if this is supposed to be in group signaling or a marker of higher class that use Roman numerals.
But well, the website is astralcodexten.com. If you wanted to be Astral Codex X and say 10,
