walk in an interview than maybe for clinical research.
You might not...
I'm not sure how you demonstrate your knowledge in that industry.
Like an...
No, you can.
There was like tests where you had to memorize like 500 acronyms and...
Yeah.
No, like I had to be able to like explain the, you know, declaration of Helsinki and...
But you didn't have to, I don't know, give an explanation of how old was...
I forget the guy who discovered penicillin.
Well, whoever it was, the idea that you didn't have to recite the pointless trivia you would
have learned in school.
Yeah.
No, it was like stuff that you need to know in order to do the job.
Exactly.
I do remember Scott Alexander specifically complaining that he needed any kind of undergraduate
degree before he could go in for a medical degree.
And so he got one in philosophy and his, the medical teacher when they saw that were like,
oh good, we're going to have someone to class this place up.
It's like, I spent four years and $60,000 so I could class a place up before I learned
how to actually be a doctor.
Motherfuckers.
Yeah, that's fun.
See, this seems to indicate that class aspect that I was talking about though, where...
He literally used the word class.
Oh yeah.
Well, that too, that's perfect.
But I was thinking like, if you know pointless trivia, it shows that you have time to learn
pointless trivia, right?
So if I can tell you how old Charles Darwin was when he, whatever, had his first kid or
something, does that make me a better biologist?
No, but if you want to be a evolutionary biologist and you go through the school program,
I don't know if you'll learn that particular piece of random trivia, but my point's illustrated,
right?
Yeah.
So yeah, I think being as this community is already kind of down on college as a wasteful
signaling game that steals years of people's lives for not much benefit.
I think we're kind of already on this boat.
That's part of what made this so like, this delightfully dangerous idea here of the proposal.
It's like, oh yeah, check, I'm already on board with that.
Oh shit, check all of these boxes, man, what are you doing?
Yeah.
So the second box is the war on experts, which first of all, I'm not sure I like the sound
of that because I kind of like the experts when they tell me that, you know, things about
coronavirus.
But then I remember that the experts also told me that masks don't work because I guess
they wanted to preserve the masks for the emergency workers and decided lying to the
public is the best way to do that.
And for the first three months after vaccines came out, they're like, nope, keep social distancing,
keep quarantining, keep wearing masks.
No, you still can't see your family.
Like basically the vaccine doesn't do anything, right?
That was the message for the first three or four months, right?
And it's just like, in fact, I think it was in the last couple of weeks where it was like,
nope, you don't have to quarantine if you travel anymore if you're vaccineed.
And it's like, thank you, I fucking knew that.
But you know, why do I need your, so it's annoying.
And that's part of what makes this fun is like, these are the same noises that people on the
wrong set of arguments make, right?
It's like, I already know better than you on this.
And it's like, most of the time you don't for any given expert on anything that they're
talking about, right?
Yeah.
So like this generic anti-expert rhetoric is terrible for the most part.
Right.
But it's, but there are so many times where you can say,
What about this situation with the expert literally fucked the public for their own
gain?
And you're like, well,
even like just taking COVID again, like if you, if you mention that it's, you know,
the average survival rate for people in our demographics is like 99.995% or something.
Like that sounds like a anti-corona believer person would say, right?
Right, right.
Like I'll almost certainly not die if I get COVID.
And that's just, that's a fact.
I'm a basically healthy 30 something year old, right?
So like my odds are pretty good.
But, but to acknowledge that out loud makes it sound like I'm shouting from the red tribe,
right?
And like, I just looked this up yesterday.
I think Colorado had 6128 deaths recorded for COVID.
And so granted how many of those were, I don't know, you know, Cuomoed away into like,
not actually COVID, but where COVID deaths, right?
Let's say if you double it, right?
There were still half a million cases ballpark in Colorado.
So, you know, we got something like 10,000 deaths for half a million cases.
So the survival rate was pretty good.
Granted, way scarier than a flu.
But like the, and also part of the good survival rate was the fact that we didn't overwhelm the
hospitals.
Right.
Colorado did a good job.
And like that's the thing is Colorado had 6,100 something deaths.
The United States had a half a million, right?
So we just, our state happened to do a pretty good job.
And that's however you, however the numbers were, where came to be 6128 exactly.
Again, double, triple it, it's still pretty good.
Doesn't, it's not a drop in the water really for the half million dead, right?
So the solution that he proposes is prediction markets.
Yes.
This is the thing where like, I wasn't on board with this until he said,
the solution is prediction markets.
And then you're like, oh, what's that prediction markets?
Oh, that's not the thing that our group has been pushing for the last decade.
So yes, about the prediction markets.
Yeah, repeal all bans on them, give tax breaks for participating in them.
Then you'll get a decentralized populist, credential free market based alternative to
expertise.
When the prediction markets outperform, 75% of experts fire them and say,
this proves you're right all along that government sponsored entities were just
a jobs program for the upper class.
The remaining 25% of experts are cool.
And you'll definitely listen to them very closely for whatever they have to say.
So yeah, kind of acknowledging that this one's a bit of a stretch, but you can sell it.
I don't think it would be bought, but I mean, I think it's a damn good idea.
And if you're dealing with a Republican party, which for the past five years
has been saying experts are awful and telling everybody that, you know,
you can't trust experts.
And this is part of their branding now.
They can't just drop it.
This is Scott's way of like saving that.
Like you don't have to lose face and turn, you know, turn around on this.
You can continue to say you can't trust experts and still be that party.
But look, we can fucking do prediction markets.
It kind of feels to me like Scott saw a way to hijack the Republican party
into supporting something we all actually want and think would make the world much better.
And I admired that of him.
He's that's one of the things that makes him a genius.
He's a very like creative thinker, able to like articulate these.
This is an original idea that, right?
I wish he was in politics, but I wouldn't want to like impose politics on him.
So when we said I'm a worst enemy, but he saw that Republicans have this problem
that they are now anti-expert and he has a solution, which happens to really,
you know, dovetail very well with his own goals.
And part of the solution is like, you guys can be the experts, you know,
we'll deregulate prediction markets and we'll tax incentivize them.
So you guys now are incentivized to learn what you can and, you know, make money on this.
And so yes, we still have experts, but it's you, the public, right?
The working class, you guys can be the experts on this when you make the right predictions.
Like it's a very like empowering message.
And the idea, you know, what is it?
Predict it.io or whatever or predict.it.
It's like a $500 maximum that you're allowed to put any in the prediction market.
If it was $500 million that you're allowed to put in there,
people could be making some serious fucking money on this.
And even if you're only, you know, over an average year making 1%,
like 1% of 500 to use staff debt, 1% on 500,000 won't be a comfortable living,
but it's a pretty good living.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's 5,000 a year.
That's not a lot.
I thought it was 50,000.
Oh yeah.
I think it's more of the sort of branding than like, it's not necessarily that everybody who's
going to vote for this wants to be the expert themselves, but like the fact that I think
Republicans, whether they're super rich or super poor, do just like all tend to be pro-money though,
or you know, pro-capitalism.
So the association with money and the idea that the common folk could contribute.
Yeah, or rather than like, yeah, the experts aren't these people who are coming from these
like Ivy League colleges.
And like he says, sneaking in democratic ideas that are pro-democrat bias into their judgments.
Yeah.
I don't know if a real Republican would actually like buy this though.
I doubt they would, but it's an elegant solution to this We Hate Experts problem.
Well, the point is that there's no other solution to where it's sort of like, well,
what's the alternative?
So like, maybe this doesn't exactly dovetail with the Republican ethos, but it's at least
something that they could like, pretend to support.
Yeah, the alternative is like, there's two.
There's what they're doing now, which is say expertise is a myth and those guys don't know
what they're talking about.
Or it's flip-flop and say, you know what, never mind, let's start touching the experts.
This way it's like, no, you guys get to keep the experts in check.
And just the fact that it's a like, it empowers the populace in a way.
I think that's the the attractive part of it.
Speaking of empowering the populace and you guys are the experts.
Number three is the war on upper class media.
Why am I the expert on that?
Well, I'm not saying you are the expert.
You were saying that the you guys, as in the general populace are the experts.
Oh, yeah, you can take over for the upper class who are trying to
lead you around by the nose.
He points out that 67% of US families watch the Super Bowl.
What percent of New York Times editors and reporters do?
How come 96% of political donations from journalists go to Democrats?
Insist, there is no reason any of this could be true except systemic classism.
And any other explanation is offensive.
And it's upper class is upper class media's moral duty to do something about this immediately,
which I think is fucking beautiful because it's basically a mirror of the thing where,
you know, they say, why is it that 14% of the population is black, but only 4% of CEOs are black,
you know, this is could only be due to systemic racism.
And you must do everything you can to fix this right now,
which I'm not saying that's a wrong argument or anything.
But the fact that he can just completely flip it around like that
and say like, well, 90 per six of political donations from media go to the Democrats,
that could only be due to systemic classism, which is just as bad as systemic racism.
And you got to fix that now.
They're paying the government to reinforce their narrative for their ends.
You guys need to stop them.
Yeah.
