All right, I'm going to be that person.
Is it pro or proly?
Oh, shit.
I don't know, man.
I was saying prols and I was reading it in my head.
I've heard people pronouncing it prols.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'll go with prols then.
I'm sorry.
Well, you can say it however you want.
I'm not sorry then, but I'll say it the right way.
So there, prols.
Like, is it plebs or plebs?
Yeah, I don't know.
I believe it's plebs, but I've heard it said both ways.
I think they're both, what's like the contractions of a full word.
Yeah.
I don't know if there is an official pronunciation.
Okay.
Well, no, prols is short for proletariat.
Yeah.
I've never heard proletariat.
So, okay.
Anyways, yeah.
They really like mass culture and they watch like transformers and shit.
And he points out that there's these classes, like there's,
there's three different ladders on which you can rise or fall.
Like you can become really rich as a proly and still, you know,
you can be Michael Bay, I guess.
But you're still proly class and you can be a super upper class person
and just be destitute because you decided to go into, I don't know,
17th century art history and you know, everything there's to know about that.
And you live off that little bit of interest that you get every month from your parents,
but it's barely enough to buy your cigarettes.
The dictionary only has the little line over the O on parole.
So, I think that's how you say it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Anyway, what I really liked about this was that it demarcates income from class.
Like social worker makes $40,000 a year, teacher makes $40,000 a year,
but they're upper class because of their interests and like how they,
how they conduct themselves and their attitudes towards things.
How they vote, yeah, what they're, what they're signaling with their purchases.
And likewise, if you're a lumber baron and you make $400,000 a year,
you're still low class, right?
Or like a famous NASCAR driver.
Right.
They could be like, yeah, I think sports stars generally, like you're kind of...
You're in the, usually you're coming from the low class.
That's a weird, that's a weird thing, actually.
But this is where like, I get confused to like, he talks about cruises as like vacations and...
And the people that would respond with like, I would never take such a cookie cutter vacation.
Like, I'm going to go to Bali and ride a...
Raph made out of sea turtles, yeah.
Sure.
Like, I, for me, it's just like, I don't get how, who decided, was it just Russell?
Did he observe that people felt this way about cruises?
I think he observed it.
Because like...
I have observed everything.
I've known...
Upper class go backpacking through Europe.
But I've known upper middle class people who do cruises.
And I don't know any lower, I guess poor people have done cruises.
Not necessarily poor, because that's not the point.
But I know people who fit in these low class, what he calls low class labor work.
And they do more of the upper class vacations.
And so, and I guess it's not supposed to be where like, everyone fits in.
It might be your aspirational class.
Maybe.
I mean...
Can I tell the story real quick?
Yeah.
This is actually kind of illustrative or something.
So my parents both, I don't know if either of them even have GEDs,
but neither of them went to college, but they're both business owners.
And then me and my two sisters all went to college.
And my sister, my, I'm the oldest of the middle sister, for Christmas, she got a teacher,
she got like a job teaching and had like decent money and bought my parents a ticket
for a cruise.
And they refused the gift and made her return it.
Wow.
Because it seemed very much just that like, no, this is like, we're not the kind of people that
go on cruises.
But this is too expensive.
This is too flashy.
We can't accept this.
You're like, they felt super uncomfortable with being given a nicer gift like from their kid,
because that was that like just violated the order of things.
Okay.
I also like how their, their refusal was based on the seams to upper class.
Yeah, they're like, oh, I'd be so out of place.
Like it just, it was complete status anxiety.
Like I can't accept this nice gift because it's going to like, I know my mom would just
be really upset about all the rich people or like the being surrounded by people she
perceives as being higher class.
It was always this like weird thing with both of my parents and especially my mom,
where there's this like genuine hatred of the upper classes and anything associated with them.
Or even like it was weird where they'd make fun of like people with college degrees,
but then also like strongly encouraged me and my sister to go to college.
It seems like they fit neatly into that upper middle class or into that middle class group of
like status anxiety.
Oh yeah.
Where like like the upper class and the lower class don't have that,
but the middle class has like a lot of anxiety about how they're being perceived by people,
right?
Yeah.
So yeah, that makes sense.
I don't know, like as far as I wouldn't buy a cruise just because I don't know if I'd
enjoy being on a boat that long, but if someone got me a ticket for a cruise, I wouldn't turn it down.
Yeah, it sounds fun.
Yeah.
And I always enjoy the opportunity to like interact with different people.
I just figure I could lay by the pool and eat as many shrimp as I could just to see what it does,
right?
That might not be the best idea on a boat.
It's like Jay Feralta when they go on the cruise.
All right.
Yeah.
Okay.
That went over in my head, but now that you've pointed out.
Living in the full on slug life.
We had the best lower middle class boat.
It was like a small Cobia boat that my dad liked.
Was just Cobia?
It's like a brand of boat.
It's a small like kind of shitty boat.
I don't know.
But he stuck a gigantic engine on it.
So it had like a speedboat engine.
It was like a total like Franken boat.
Like we, my dad loved tinkering with stuff.
So we grew up with like Franken bikes and we had Franken cars and then that was our Franken boat.
See, I'm confused because owning a boat seems like upper middle class to me.
But the power boat is like a lower class, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you're upper class, you sailboat.
Yeah.
No engine.
And if you're really upper class, you've just, you've got yachts or wood yachts.
Yeah.
Anyway.
And the upper upper upper class just buy a bunch of yachts to crash into each other to see what sound it makes.
I have another story about that.
I should stop telling stories though.
I feel like I can't not tell that because just there was someone I was doing graphics design for
who's this like wealthy guy from Florida who came into Atlantic City and was trying to buy one of the
casino or did buy one of the casinos.
It didn't work out.
But like this dude was just wild.
He brought his yacht because he didn't want to stay in any of the hotels in Atlantic City.
So he like brought his yacht and they're not meant to overwinter, but he didn't know or care.
So it was actually like a guy who hired me for different graphics design jobs.
I remember he was telling me, he told me this story and it's much better because he saw it happen.
It started snowing and this guy, Bill, he was like really anxious whenever it snowed because
he like was scared of being snowed in.
So he'd always like go out to a diner.
And as he said, he went to Atlantic City.
He's sitting there watching the water, I guess, and then starts to see this yacht.
Coming towards land.
This yacht unmoored itself and crashed into the Atlantic City Harbor because yeah,
this guy just had to have his yacht to live in.
But like I'm just imagining sitting there in a diner eating some soup and you see it coming
closer and closer and you're just like, it's not supposed to be there.
It's going to crash into me.
So shall we move on?
Yeah.
Okay, I think the reason this is particularly interesting recently is because of the follow-up
post he made where he said that that classism is kind of a big deal but no one is talking about
it right now and the Republicans could seize on this to actually make something of the party
again rather than the flaming pile of vomit and wreckage that it is currently.
This one is exactly it, but yeah.
Yes, and not far off.
Yeah.
I like it's like, look, I hate you and you hate me.
Yes.
But I would rather you guys develop yourself into like a coherent message that like you can
actually articulate yourselves behind just to make it to that my side has to like actually
level up to compete with it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you guys weren't a bunch of bumbling morons, it would like because you guys are a bunch of
bumbling morons and I'm paraphrasing his stuff, it means that my side doesn't have to shape up
whatsoever because all they have to do is not totally suck to do better.
But if you guys didn't-
What are you going to do?
Vote for the yacht guy?
Yeah.
If you guys didn't suck so hard then my side would have to shape up and that looks great.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So he does this by pointing out that Trump did not win on a platform of capitalism or
liberty or anything else.
He won on a platform of being anti-establishment and the establishment that he stood against
was the upper class, people who live in nice apartments in Manhattan or San Francisco or
DC and laugh under their breath at anyone that comes from Acron or Tampa.
Is it Acron?
Akron or Tampa?
