And yeah, that is absolutely the impression that I got that Trump was the president of the
lower class, even though he never said anything like that, like everything about him screamed
that the way the media portrayed him was they are pissed off that someone this low class and
crude got into the presidency, right?
Well, what's fun just a picture about how, because then you wonder like, all right,
what about class and money?
Trump's no doubt lying about his exact figures, but let's assume he's got some.
He's the guy who would drink a six pack of Coca-Cola a day and have his limousine driver
take him through McDonald's drive through and then presumably have explosive diarrhea on his
literally gold gilded toilet, right?
And so the money aspect isn't really playing a role there.
Neither is all this flashy shit.
Like he's as low class as it comes, right?
It's not that he has the money.
It's that he still feels the need to signal that he has the money.
And you can't signal louder than a golden toilet.
And when you're shitting up McDonald's and Coca-Cola, it's just, it emphasizes that point,
right?
Or a well done steak with ketchup on it.
Like the guy, and I only know a couple of like his eating habits.
Well, I know the McDonald's one because when the basketball team came during the furlough.
We've got the best eaters and say, oh my God, I forgot how that guy talked.
I love I haven't heard a fucking thing.
You know, having that guy off Twitter has made the world a better place.
But anyway, yeah, the class aspect of it isn't like how many Big Macs can I buy?
It's the fact that he's eating Big Macs.
And so it's the establishment and the the classism that he was winning that he won his campaign on
his platform wasn't like against the rich because he had a bunch of rich friends.
His cabinet was largely wealthy people.
He's technically rich, if you believe all the signaling he does, yeah.
And if you're looking at his properties, he's probably have enough.
He'd probably have more money than all of us put together.
Right, right.
So, you know, there's all that.
But it was the so, so the class that he's articulating against and I might be jumping
ahead here is the elites.
Yes, those who think they're better than you.
Yes, exactly.
Now granted, those who call all the other states the flyover states.
Yeah.
And like I, you know, I eat Thai food and I think they'd gain 200 pounds if they stepped in a
McDonald's and won't even speak the name Chick-fil-A and go to Ivy League College.
There's a long list.
I love being in the middle on this.
You know, like my wife went to an Ivy League college.
She doesn't brag about it, but I do.
And yet we had Chick-fil-A like last weekend, right?
So I, you know, we're just fuck all the norms.
We'll just zigzag as much as we want, right?
Again, I'll eat dinner late like a rich person, but I'll have, I have waffles for dinner on
Thursday night, right?
So.
So I don't know if this is worth bringing up, but having met your wife, she very much
gives off an upper class vibe.
Because she's sophisticated.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, that's cool.
I mean, yeah, I guess that makes sense.
But again, she's a social worker, right?
So it's not about the money.
Right, right.
It's just the.
It's the culture attitude.
Yeah, the attitude and the culture, I guess.
Yeah.
And I don't know exactly how she does it, but like you can just tell.
You're like, huh, okay, that, that person's classy.
It's because normal plebs like us aren't that beautiful.
That must be it.
It's at least part of it.
Yeah.
Your wife is very conventionally attractive, but she also is, there's like mannerisms that
clearly are just part of like how she grew up.
And like, I would feel weird breaking it down since she's not here to like defend herself.
And you know, there's, there's very attractive lower class.
Class people too.
So like.
Oh yeah.
I'm being somewhat tongue in cheek.
Like you said, there's certainly a mix.
Like you still eat at Chick-fil-A.
You guys went to the same school together.
So I think that's.
Nothing else.
She wasn't in a European boarding school.
Yeah.
I mean, she went to, she went to public school.
It was just like Colorado State University didn't accept her for her master's program.
And for some reason, Columbia did.
So well, honestly, the real reason is probably because CSU wanted to have out of state people
because they get to charge them three X, right?
So anyway.
Yeah. What do, what do we think about this, uh, modest proposal?
Well, I think that he's right about Trump ran on classism.
Like the people who love him.
But he never used the word.
No, he never used the word, but you could tell just you don't need to use the word to tell,
to your actions speak much louder than any words do.
Whatever he said was immaterial as was proven by him many, many times.
And like the people who support him, even though lots of times they're hurt by any
and any of his policies, individual policies that you care to mention,
it doesn't matter because he's from their class and he's the only person from their
class that that's in the political game of, of at least at any really important level.
Everyone else for the most part is upper class people.
Maybe there's a few upper middle that have made it in like, uh, AOC, but there's no,
of no one in the lower class, the proly class or pro class representing them.
And he does.
And that's fucking nice to see.
And you're willing to vote for like one douchebag who's kind of an idiot,
as long as like he's the one person representing your entire class out there,
finally sticking it to those rich snobby assholes that think that you're a bunch of hicks with,
you know, missing teeth that aren't good for anything except working in the coal mines.
Yeah, it definitely helps resolve the, like what was a confusion five years ago about like,
you know, the NASCAR enjoying drive through, um, you know, again, you just check the box
down the list of what you call low class and it's like, I thought you guys hated rich people
and yet you guys are big fan of Donald Trump.
And it's like, well, it's not about the rich part.
It's that wealth seems to correlate with upper class, but this guy's, you know,
he does all the same, you know, the same shit I like, right?
You were about to say degrading, weren't you?
Yeah, but I don't want to, like, again, I was mainly thinking of the, um, uh,
like the McDonald's diarrhea, right?
So, um, that sort of stuff.
Can you stop putting that mental image in my head, please?
All right, last time.
Okay, that was it.
Okay, um, do either of you remember the title of or some way like some Google keywords for
another essay that I think was Scott Alexander where he suggested that we have two different
elections, one where you vote on the policies and one where you're voting on the status stuff,
because I feel like that kind of correlates to this where.
Yeah, that rings a bell.
Okay, here it is.
It's the 21st century having principles is out of style.
Politics is motivated by tribal hatred.
You tell your people that the other side hates them and wants to kill them,
they need to fight back.
The Democrats are great at this.
Cis white men hate you.
They deny your right to exist.
Their cruelty is the point.
Resist or be destroyed.
Your Republicans have been caught flat footed.
You can't openly defend cis white men.
That would be transphobic, racist, sexist.
And you can't openly attack trans black women.
That would be super transphobic, racist, sexist.
Plus it wouldn't work.
And the sort of bitterness in the leg having principles is out of style.
Politics is motivated by tribal hatred.
It just really echoes that essay that I wish I could remember the name of.
I'm probably going to remember it as I'm driving away.
Happens every time we record this podcast.
I'm like, ah, it was that big.
No, you could always, um, always text us about it later.
People who listen to the show will know it immediately.
Correct, everybody.
I do like that about our community.
Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, I think that is, you know, absolutely why Trump won
and why, um, the media hated him
and couldn't understand how he could possibly get in.
And I mean, I, I do think it's a problem that there's an entire class
of the American populace that is just ignored by the political apparatus.
Not even ignored, but outright like shamed and mocked.
Yeah.
And.
Or at least pitied.
Like at best, maybe pity.
I feel like there's not very much pity.
Well, it's like, oh, those poor, you know, factory workers, you know,
or those, those people have to work in fast food restaurants.
They, you know, oh, must, must suck to be them.
I feel so bad.
And like, I do think that there's some, some level of pity, right?
Probably.
I've definitely run into people, I guess like now we're starting to divide Democrats
or Republicans like, or liberals rather, that just cannot spare a shred of sympathy
for someone who they know belongs to the, you know, the group of racist, transphobic,
warmongering, whatever, whatever, like education, Hayton, gun, Toten.
There was a really fun, like eight minute episode of Sam Harris's podcast,
I think the day before the 2020 election.
And it was like his final, like, you know, you talked about stupid epiphanies earlier or something.
It was kind of his on that with Trump, where it's like, he's like, I finally get it.
And it was, like I said, less than 10 minutes long, but he's just listing off.
And he's like, you know, consider the message that you get from your friends on the left
about like how you suck.
Every problem for minorities is your problem, is your fault personally.
You know, you're not good enough because you're not woke enough.
Your, your, your failure to master all the pronouns proves that you're a piece of
shit and, or your failure to, you know, master them immediately proves that you're a piece of
shit. It's like all of this, whatever, not merely like kicking, kicking yourself,
but like the rest of your group kicking you down for not being good enough.
And everyone gets points forever.
Every kick they get in, maybe kick yourself, you get extra points.
And I'm paraphrasing.
Watch me checking my privilege.
Exactly.
Because you compare that to Donald Trump, who's like the McDonald Jesus, right?
You know, you're, there's no comparison.
