You know, you're never told you're not good enough.
Like every fault that, every quote fault that you have is just fully accepted and that's okay.
And it's like, I think that's partly part of the message that makes this divide, right?
That's definitely like a left, right thing and not so much of a class thing.
But the class thing correlates strongly with that, right?
Scott Alexander says whenever an upper class institution tried to make him admit that they
were the experts and he should bow to them, he spat in their faces instead,
which feels really gratifying after being subjected to what you were just talking about.
Yeah, it's really concerning though, I think, because basically it was like he won on a platform
of hate or disdain for dismissal of like wanting to overthrow like these elites.
But as, you know, Scott also pointed out, he was like,
like spitting in the faces of pandemic, I was extradistoring a pandemic.
That wasn't a costless signaling thing.
Well, that brings us to Scott's modest proposal.
I was going to say really quick though, I don't know if it was fully a platform of hate,
it was just a platform of you don't suck.
But that wasn't what the, or like the things that people were like cheering for
and voting for him for were his like making the other side really mad.
Yeah, there was definitely that too.
And talking shit about them.
That's a Democrats one too, right?
Yeah, no, I'm not saying this is literally anyone but Trump, right?
Well, the thing is, when you've been feeling that way for a decade or more, like,
it was a powerful message of people that felt totally disenfranchised,
somebody could like make it to the highest office in the US and then talk shit about,
I don't know, gays in the military.
What was it that the riot is the language of the disenfranchised or whatever?
It fortunately, they didn't have to write, they just had it to vote for Trump and he would have
the... They did riot eventually.
Yeah, well, yeah.
And then, you know, his election would be basically a four-year riot that fucks the rest of the country.
Yeah, it was a little...
It was pretty fucked up.
Don't get wrong, there's plenty of hate there, but I'm just thinking like,
you know, the couple of Trump voters I know, they're not particularly hateful people.
I think that, and they're always just gonna vote,
they're gonna check the red box no matter what, apparently.
But I think that it's, for many, it wasn't just like,
oh, finally, someone else who hates black people as much as I do.
Go ahead and quote mine that.
Like, it was, oh good, here's a guy who's not telling me that I suck.
You know, if it's, I don't know, because the professional politicians like Biden and Bernie,
they do a pretty good job of not shitting on you personally.
Yeah.
But, you know, like, I don't know, maybe AOC, but even she's more just like fueling hatred.
It's not so much about how you suck and you're not woke enough.
But that's like the message you get from your friends if you hang out in left circles like I do, right?
I think it was just finally somebody who's like,
no, actually, you're good and I got your back, even though I don't represent
anything that you care about personally, but I'm not going to put you down.
Right.
I'm trying to, that's like, I'm like charitable.
It's probably both of those things going on.
Totally.
I'm sure that there's probably two different camps also of like,
people that voted for Trump because he represented them in some way and people that
voted for him because they had the same enemies.
100%.
Yeah.
I'm really trying to cut my most positive spin on how, because I mean, again, this is just the
thing that is important to keep in mind that like, it's not true that 40% of Americans are just
savage, bigoted monsters, right?
No doubt every savage, bigoted monster voted for Trump, but not every Trump voter could have,
it was that because frankly, the country is way too well like, our society is too strong for it
to be the case that literally four in 10 of us are raving psychopaths.
I'm willing to bet a lot of savage, bigoted monsters voted against Trump too.
Probably.
Yeah.
Now I know a lot of people that voted for Trump.
When I think of the other angle.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Man, I think this might have been on Radiolab or something, but where they were looking at
trends about who voted for Trump and one of the confusing ones was first or like second generation
immigrant business owners and talking to them, it was clear that they first of all thought that
Trump was going to help business and then secondly had this like, yeah, I guess it was the
like sort of class familiarity thing.
And I think the really fucked up thing is that the only person that these people could turn
to was fucking Trump, right?
Like there was no one else, this was what they were stuck with.
That's because we're voting on policies.
I guess that's the thing that I'm like bitter about with this, but anyway, like.
So yeah, so his modest proposal is that we can actually, the Republicans can pivot to actually
represent these people and instead of being, you know, the flaming wreckage of a party they
currently are, they can start focusing on that and becoming the party of the working class
and put all their messaging on fighting classism.
Whenever anyone talks about the white working class, you can always say the white working class.
And yeah, and focus, focus on that instead and that he's talks, you know, this could obviously
it would appeal to the people who are factory workers and working class already, it would appeal
to blacks and Hispanics because they're mostly working class and they hate the elites as much
as anyone else.
He was talking about a bunch of people who could it could appeal to it could appeal to
Republicans weren't it for capitalism, because you'd argue that capitalism is a system that
lets people succeed regardless of their class could be appeal to poor people who just want
jobs, passing out how DC Democrats passed a law saying all child care workers must have
college degrees and how this is just a blatant attempt to take away jobs from working class
people and give them the upper class people instead.
And you can even position yourself as the power of meritocracy.
And because meritocracy is the opposite of class favoritism.
But I like about this whole like when you're reading this, I don't know about anyone else,
but like I'm getting this sense of apprehension because like this is like a damn compelling
message and I don't want the enemy to be that powerful.
And yet that's the point.
Yes.
And it's like if we if we get an articulate powerful enemy, then the then the other side,
our side has to up the level of their game.
Right.
There's a lot of shit I don't like about Democrats that like, I think that I mean, I'm like,
kind of excited about this.
I don't know if it's going to, you know, here's a really good strategy.
Have it for free.
Please take it.
But it's coming from a like San Francisco Jewish intellectual doctors.
Like I'm I'm worried about it because like you said, it's a compelling strategy and it could
get them winning a lot.
And I hate Republican social issues.
I I'm on, you know, I think abortion is the most important right that the modern society
can have.
And they're rabidly against that.
Plus, you know, a lot of other things that I clash with them on.
But on the other hand, maybe if they were to adopt this working class thing,
they would have to modify some of their positions in order to go down to the platform that he
proposes.
Yeah, the platform is really interesting.
Yeah, I had a comment just before platform that I wonder if platform even matters.
Right.
Like nobody voted for Joe Biden because they liked his take on whatever issue, right?
Right.
They voted on him because he wasn't Trump.
Right.
And I think the people who voted for Trump didn't they're like, oh, he he's
pro this or anti that.
They're just like, oh, he's he's he's on our side.
Right.
So I think it's less about like what individual candidates like policy proposals are or
stances.
It's more just like how well are they communicating their allegiance to me?
Well, that's the distinction between like signaling voting and policies voting.
Right.
I really liked Scott's other.
I think it's the other proposal that we just have two separate elections.
Oh, and the thing is you get one vote, but you only get to vote in one or the other.
Yeah.
And one or the other.
So you have to pick whether do you remember this?
It's vaguely ringing a bell, but I remember thinking it would be really great because
one of the things he proposed was that like so the policy, whoever wins the policy election
would get to like do the boring stuff, like worry about budgets and laws.
And then the status side would get to decide what national anthem we get to play and what
the official dress of inauguration day was like, like everyone has to wear a uniform
and like sing a song and they get to pick which one it is.
Yeah, I can I can see where that I like that.
I think that is fun.
But I I guess my last thought was about the what was it?
What was I just saying about classism and signaling and policies?
Oh, right.
So that I guess that's what I was going to say was that like, you know, there are there are
Democrat policies that I'm not like the biggest champion of.
But the most important ones are like to me, things like environmental sustainability,
global warming, abortions on the list, like those.
And it doesn't make me a single issue voter necessarily, but it makes me a plural issue
voter really like one sides pro science and education and reason the other one's not.
And like that's a somewhat harsh distinction, but it's basically comes down to that.
Right.
Like if you're if you're going to be a global warming nihilist, you have to be an anti science
person. Right.
And that means that means that means that seeps into everything else.
Yeah.
But germs aren't real.
Covid's you know, Covid's fake.
And you know, I'm being untratable there.
But Covid's not real.
It's fake and also China made it.
Yeah.
I mean, I think the left has its share of things that it exaggerates scientifically as
well or denies or whatever.
Organic foods.
Yeah.
GMOs are a fun, fun example.
Chemicals.
Vaccines are kind of the one, at least as of like 15 years ago.
I'm not sure where now vaccines are definitely a political issue where the left is all for
them.
But five years ago, it was one of those things that kind of split evenly among the parties.
You got like, oh, the purest non chemical liberal people and then the anti science.
Yeah, it causes autism.
Well, I mean, even on the climate change side, like what's her name?
Greta from Norway.
Bloomberg.
Okay.
Yeah.
The 16 year old girl who was literally like, she was very impassioned and everyone loved
her and cheered her, but she literally thought the world was going to end in her lifetime,
which I don't, I don't know how you can, in good conscience, raise a child to think that.
That's what I was taught.
And I started college as an environmental science major and I dropped the major because
the, yeah.
And no one corrected her.
They cheered her on.
Yeah.
