by planting them in a rotting wheelbarrow or a rowboat displayed on the front lawn,
but seldom with success.
And then there's another whole paragraph about desks.
And then another one about when, what time you eat dinner.
And I think this is definitely pointing at something because I've,
like I have family members that fall into these different classes and I like,
as a kid was always super confused by it until like I finally learned about signalling.
And then I was like, oh.
Yeah, see, I have dinner at 9 30.
So I'm upper class.
Does it matter that I'm eating freezer waffles off a paper plate in bed?
Like that doesn't sound very high class, but the time sure does.
I mean, I think it has to be a confluence of various indicators.
It seems like what's going on is that we have these stereotypes about what things
belong to which class, some of which are true and some of which aren't.
And maybe they were true at one time, but just it's all shifted.
And we're still kind of stuck in the 1950s stereotypes because we started portraying
them that way during that time period on TV and whatnot.
And Fusil gets to signal his class by being able to list off at a glance,
30 different kinds of flowers, where I'm like, I think that's a rose.
And like that's about it as far as my plant skills go.
Oh, wait, I know what a spider mum looks like.
I don't know if knowing flowers is upper class.
I think having in this...
Yeah, I mean, old Gardner could know flowers.
But yeah, maybe flowers, but I think there's something about knowing a lot
about something that doesn't matter, that signals upper class.
Or at least signals upper middle.
That's why I don't like...
It seems like the middle encompasses basically everything.
Well, I think the middle and the lower encompass basically everything,
but that's also kind of the point.
But the middle covers everything from Jeff Bezos to basically not a factory worker.
And so I don't so much like Fusil's hard lines,
but I like the general points that come across from this.
But anyway, if you're the kind of person who knows a lot about fonts,
which you might bump into if you do.
I do.
Right.
But you have a professional graphics designer.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so I mean, professional interests, I think gets rid of the class from it or something,
but fonts or whatever, different hues of paint or like...
I'm feeling really called out here.
I know lots of shit about useless stuff.
Sub varieties of wine.
I'm not calling out.
I'm just saying that I feel like this is a way, if I knew a lot about wine,
if I could write a book on it, all that does is signal to people,
well, one thing that does is signal to people that I have so much free time
that I can spend it accruing all of this useless knowledge.
And that suggests to you that, oh, this person doesn't need to spend all the time working.
If they can know this much about wine,
it's because they don't work so many hours that they can't read books on wine or something.
Right?
Right.
Well, I think also a lot of it is also the attitude.
Like I don't think Jeff Bezos could ever be in that sort of aristocratic elite area,
but like his kids probably could.
If they spent their lives immersed in that culture with their, you know,
they bought their way into those neighborhoods,
and they had those peers, and they went to those schools,
and they didn't have to do work.
Or, you know, if they did, like you can be an inheritor to a large company
and keep running it and still be super upper class
if you don't really get your hands dirty.
Like his kids could be there.
I just don't think he ever would.
Fair enough.
Yeah.
I'm just willing to just leave all that aside because I don't...
I get the distinction that it's making,
but I don't know if it...
Again, I like to hydrase, but it makes me squint.
But not enough to hold the conversation on it anymore.
So I'll just take it for granted for the sake of the discussion.
Yeah.
He does say that the middle class is marked by status and anxiety.
Upper middle class, like people like Jeff Bezos,
have already made it, so they're fine.
They aren't anxious.
But the middle class actually is pretty anxious about their situation.
I like that a lot because that's where it's like,
at some point throughout the book review, it's like after the flowers bit.
And he's like, so that all sounds...
I'm paraphrasing kind of crazy, right?
Why does he get to decide which flowers mean what?
But this is where it starts to get scary.
And he lists off another passage about...
It might have been how he separates...
Super Bowl parties.
Super Bowl parties and a couple of other things.
And it's like, those are all spot on.
And this is a 40-year-old book.
Contempt for clothing with obvious brand names.
Lists of grammatical pet peeves.
I feel called out by the brand names thing.
Because I've always hated brand names on clothes.
I've been like, if I'm going to advertise your product, you should pay me.
Same.
Yeah.
But now I'm like, oh, I guess I'm middle class.
I don't know.
That's what I thought.
Maybe it's just because this is what I've been taught by my class.
I mean, it kind of goes back to our original thoughts and seeming deep where I think it's...
You do kind of have to deconstruct your own preferences.
And that's just where I don't get like, this guy just decided this.
Right?
Well, I think he observed it.
Yeah.
But I mean, I think that there might be good or bad reasons to like,
not want to wear a Nike t-shirt.
Right?
Well, I mean, it could be like, if we're being a little more introspective about it,
we see people that we consider of a lower class and they proudly wear these brands.
You know, they're always flashing their brands.
Yeah.
So your only exposure to it is tackiness.
Yeah.
You're like, I don't want to be like that.
Stout as anxiety.
Yeah.
So I won't wear those symbols.
And, you know, then you're like, oh, shit, I'm a classist piece of shit too.
I think that there's, because I mean, if you read both of the book,
if you read the book review, and I'm sorry if you read the entire book,
you're going to fall into these groups, right?
So I don't feel like feeling called out and like, oh, no, I fit in this pattern.
I don't think you should feel bad about it because he's describing at least at some,
he's at least brushing on like every aspect of human life.
Yeah.
Right?
Yeah.
So you're going to fall into these groups.
Yeah.
And I don't think, I guess I don't know what, if it does mean that, you know,
having a preference about whether or not you wear Adidas brand clothing
with the word Adidas on it, if that makes you classist or not,
but like then just don't care about that, right?
Yeah.
This reminds me of the conversations that people always inevitably have
after learning about signaling and economics for the first time,
where you start seeing it everywhere, and then you see yourself doing it,
and then you go, oh, no, everything's signaling.
Even counter signaling is a type of signaling.
I had a fantastic.
Yeah, just, but that's what humans do.
It's not good or bad.
Like move on.
I had the conversation with a friend a few years ago.
He was talking about, is there any way for me to like tell my friends that I gave
to charity that isn't signaling?
And I'm like, there's no way to do anything that isn't signaling.
Right.
And that's sort of the point.
Like you can't even be healthy without signaling something.
So like signaling isn't bad.
It's just the explanation for a lot of human behavior, right?
I think similar to this.
This is in fact, all of this classism basically is signaling, right?
Yeah.
And so if you think of signaling as just a form of communication.
Yeah.
Then like, maybe you can try to, I don't know, I feel like people try to put moral
judgments on the stuff when they first learned about class signaling and signaling in general.
And it's kind of, it's, that can be, I don't know, that can be an interesting topic for a bit, but.
So everyone belongs in some kind of class.
You just shouldn't be classist to people who aren't in yours.
Yeah.
Kind of like race.
Everyone belongs to some kind of race.
Just don't be a racist.
I think that in general, you can get, you can get right on, you can be correct on basically
all of these by just saying, don't be a dick to people who don't like what you like.
Right?
Right.
Yeah.
If someone likes.
Maybe like the things you like for genuine reasons or like try to analyze that.
I mean, if someone likes something that you don't like, you know,
but they enjoy it, like just let them do it.
You know, if someone likes driving a Lamborghini, even though it's a complete waste of money
and it costs $5,000 to get the brakes changed and all that nonsense.
It's like, if you like it, go nuts.
Sure, you're sitting in traffic at the rest of us and your bottom of your car is scraping
potholes because it's so low to the ground.
But like, that's you, you know, if you're having a good time, go for it.
If you like watching Desperate Housewives, have a great time.
Right?
Yeah.
If you like watching reruns of Marvel movies, don't shit on that person.
Right?
Yeah.
And at the, at the last class, last class, I don't know, the third class is prolies.
It's short for proletariat.
They do wage labor.
High prolies are skilled craft people like plumbers, medium and low are more typically
factory, factory workers.
