At least everyone that I saw.
And like no one said, look, the world won't literally end.
It'll make things hard for a lot of people and it'll especially fuck the poor countries,
but the human race is going to keep going.
And, and I mean, sometimes you see some of the, the estimations on how much it's going
to cost to change things.
And like the left doesn't even want to talk about that.
Like here we can change some of these things and talk about how we're going to change other
things and maybe we can look at geoengineering or something.
And instead they're just like, no, cut carbon, cut carbon, cut carbon.
And it doesn't matter who it emissarates and how badly the world's poor are going to be
affected by this because they're the ones that are needing to boost their carbon output
in order to have better lives.
And it's just, just this whole idea that all you have to do, that all you should do
is cut carbon no matter how much it hurts people or the human race will go extinct
is a thing that I see pushed sometimes.
And yeah, it's definitely.
And it's wrong.
And that drives people away.
It's a reduction to the absurd for sure.
And it's like, because the, the non bumper sticker version of it, or because the truth
of the, of the issue is too long to put on a bumper sticker.
Yeah.
It, it becomes like, well, the, the simple succinct message is what gets pushed out there.
I think.
I think especially like the sort of anti corporate message to like pig oil and,
you know, the big agriculture are generating all the carbon.
It's their fault.
We need to performatively say that we don't agree with them while eating our fast food
sandwich, like driving our car.
While eating our organic food that takes three times the amount of energy and puts the grill.
I think it's like, you know, yes, the, the messaging and often the, the practice of solving
it is misguided, but they're at least acknowledging a real problem that they're trying to address.
Right. You can't just ignore it.
And so that's going to be fucking even worse.
Right. So that, that's where I'm at.
Almost certainly will be.
Yeah.
I mean, granted, there, there would be possible to try and fuck it up worse than it just happens
to work out.
But I don't think that's, I don't think that the push to cut carbon is going, is that way.
Right.
Right.
Um, at least the lift acknowledges that it exists.
Yeah.
I don't know.
The ride is starting to.
Yeah.
They're probably not buying beachfront property in Florida.
Yeah.
All right.
I didn't mean to derail us too hard there.
I guess all I'm trying to do is like, is it's probably that it's possible to be
on either side and not be an insane evil person.
Yeah.
Right.
And I do think ultimately it probably will be good to have a strong opposition party
because otherwise you can just do whatever and shit the bed and it doesn't matter.
Yeah.
I've, I've heard, I don't know.
I don't remember where I heard this.
It was probably on some HBO series or something where some politician was pushing something
and someone said, but this is going to negatively affect black neighborhoods.
And he said, what are they going to do vote for the Republicans?
Where was this?
I don't remember.
I think it could have been the wire or something.
Oh, okay.
So not real.
Well, that's the kind of thing that this would prevent.
Exactly.
Because if people have an alternative option, then you actually have to take care to address
your constituent's issue.
Or if somebody is pointing at things that you're doing badly, then you have to do better.
Yeah.
I could even see, I mean, like I might vote for a Republican if they like advocated some
of the things on this platform.
Yeah.
So this is an interesting platform.
And I have comments about it afterwards, but shall we go into some of it?
I don't know if both sides could have like stuff that I agree with.
And there's one politician who's like, they're running on the platform of I'm going to do
this thing, even if they brought a bunch of other Republican shit that I don't like in.
I just think it'd be fun if there was, if it was hard to pick between two candidates,
imagine sitting there actually thinking and like, I got to do some more homework.
Yeah.
You'd have to weigh the pros and cons of this policy package versus this one.
And I could see some cases where it might outweigh, where the benefits might outweigh
the non-benefits.
God damn it.
It's like about the platform.
Okay.
But I think to almost every listener and every American, you're like, you're pretty sure,
you know, which side you're going to vote for, because you basically know what you're getting
or you've accepted that package, right?
If it was a hard choice, I think that's what makes this modest proposal so interesting,
is like, I could see myself deliberating if one side was particularly arguing the platform
we're about to get into, right?
Yeah, people would actually, it would make people more like politically active.
If it was like, oh, both sides have good points.
Now I actually have to think about it.
Yeah.
Most people don't even like, I don't know, they don't even research their candidates
or what their platforms are.
They kind of just like go to the poll and be like, blue, blue, blue, blue, blue, blue, blue.
So first point in the general rebrand yourself as against classism is declare a war on college,
because college is basically there to serve the upper class.
Make it illegal to require bullshit degrees for any sort of promotion, which happens a lot of
places where they don't even care what degree you have, you just have to have some kind of college
degree.
Or how long you've been doing the job.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did you read this one, this bullet point here that said, just use the words class and classism,
say, hey, we Republicans want to be the party of the working class.
We're concerned about the rising power of the upper class and we are dedicated to stamping
out classism.
Yeah.
I don't know if you said that yet or not.
Oh, I don't think I said it.
But that's the, that's like the setup for this.
The rebrand.
Yeah.
And this is how they're going to do it.
Yeah.
How to stamp out classism, which is as bad as racism, if not worse.
And anyone who isn't a Republican is, you know, trying to oppress your class or something.
Yeah.
It gives, it lets you have that same actual like superiority looked on your nose that the right,
or that the right has, or the left has towards the right right now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That I'm a racist.
Yeah.
Not really.
You're a classist.
Exactly.
Those would be fun bickering wars to watch on Reddit, right?
Right.
Yeah.
Sorry, you're still talking.
Well, no, I was just going to talk more about the war on college and why.
Yeah, that's what I was going to mention that specifically says ban degree discrimination.
Or if you can't make it illegal, just make all government offices and companies
that do business with the government ban degree discrimination.
Can't require someone have a degree if they've shown that they can do the work,
which, God, I don't even remember who this was that I was talking to.
But there was someone I was talking to not too long ago who had,
Jace, it was you, in fact, wasn't it?
I don't know.
You haven't said what the thing is.
It was a library position.
And when you wanted to get hired on, the guy, your boss said, you already do everything,
probably better than someone we brought in new would do it.
But you don't have a degree, so we can't hire you.
Yeah, I would need a library masters to be a librarian with a capital L.
Even though you were already doing all the work.
And well, actually, my boss was like, well, if you want to get a promotion,
you could, I don't know, I was considering it.
And she's like, it would be really easy for you because you already know everything in the degree.
So you could just breeze right through it.
And I was like, but I'd be out 20K.
I just have to bribe someone $20,000 to continue doing what I'm already doing.
And do a lot of writing essays about and working on stuff that I already know, which like...
Waste your life.
Not to mention staying in that same job without prospect of promotion for like the two years
it takes to get a master's degree.
Yeah.
I mean, I think you could do like an advanced standing program that get you through in a year.
But it's like, so what you're basically telling me, just hang out,
keep getting paid on paid at this job title,
just like get the piece of paper that says you're allowed to give me a better job.
See, this is compelling.
Yes, it is.
Yeah.
There's and trade schools are often frowned upon for whatever reason,
even though they teach you how to do the fucking job as, you know...
I went to a trade school instead.
Yeah.
Two thirds of us are in bootcamps right now, right?
Or have been through bootcamps anyway.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And because you finished one, you're in one right now.
And yet there's still places that are like, oh, a programming bootcamp.
I need to see a degree.
Yeah.
I think those places are here with you.
But they do exist.
Yes, they do.
Clinical research was interesting, though, because they did the...
I did that bootcamp for clinical research.
And nobody, like none of the companies who hire researchers are familiar with it.
My resume and like interviews had to include a lot of explaining what the course is and
like showing that they are actually accredited and that I do actually like know all the like
federal, you know, codes and stuff.
But you were able to demonstrate that.
I knew them at one point.
That was a struggle getting like coding bootcamps off the ground too.
Yeah.
But it's easier to walk in and demonstrate that you can, you know, talk the talk and walk the
