then you could have done that. That would have been just two Xs.
But everybody abbreviates it as ACX. Yeah. Okay. Well, they're all doing it however they want,
you know. Okay. All right. So there's a 1983 book called what class a guide through the American
status system. Right. And that was some months ago. And or was this before after his post on
February 24th? Okay, there we go. I can't which one came first. I guess I can just check. The
Trump one was after that or the Republican one was after that. Yeah. So it was Oh, it was the day
after. So I thought that it was like a while ago, you read this book, then he kind of put
together this original thing. But I guess he was doing them at the same time. The I, I recommend
reading the book review of by Fusel Fusel, I'm assuming Fusel. Yeah, I don't know how to pronounce
it. Fusel. Fusel. Yes. It was it was just fun. Like the guy. He writes great book reviews. And
even now. Yeah. So Alexander writes great book reviews. I don't know if I could recommend the
book to people just based on the review, but I can recommend recommend the review to people
based on the review itself. Apparently the guy, it's hard to tell when he's being serious or not.
But he's basically trying to decide like, All right, what does upper class and middle class
and lower class look like? And I think his definitions are probably slightly too constrained,
which he talks about a bit when he's with Alexander talks about when he's responding to it a bit.
I guess Scott talks about and I said Scott, Alexander, whatever. Yeah. Yeah. He has two first
names. That's right. ACX talks about, see, that's just terrible. That's awful. Anyway,
where do we want to start with this? Well, good question.
So I want to start actually way before this, but we'll jump into it in just a second.
Remember when we talked about when we had that episode about the four settler groups in America?
I'll be on seed. I'll be on seed. That's right. This is an excellent book review. It is. This
reminded me a lot of that because I think Alexander has been or Scott has been leading
up to this for quite a while, or maybe it's just been an evolving line of thinking. No,
I was going to bring that up in response to these subjects because I as I was reading them, I kept
being put in mind of earlier essays on politics that he had written. And I think finally now he's
like getting to the big reveal, the prestige part of the magic show, or he's like just at least
discovered another component of it. Could be. Yeah. That's true. He's probably like learning
as he's writing. But is this an original thought? I think it is. The hand with the butterfly,
which our listeners couldn't see. But yeah. So yeah, I mean, like that, I guess what it comes
down to is that culture is really important and culture matters. And class is basically
another type of culture. It's... Or there's a cultural component to class. A strong culture.
I think not just a strong cultural component, I think class is basically just culture because
he makes the argument here that you don't have to be rich to be upper class, and you can be extremely
rich and still be middle class or lower class. Yeah, there's maybe some distinction about like
class also being your beliefs and values. Yeah, yeah, which is culture. But yeah, it's just...
So he says that... Sorry, I'm just trying to think of examples of things that aren't in
struggling but gone. In the book, Fusel's book or Fusel's book, he says that upper class is old
money. The people that you think of as rich and famous, whether they're tech billionaires or
celebrities or whatever, are not upper class because to be upper class, you have to inherit
your money. If you know about the upper class, it's probably only because you know their ancestors,
like Rockefellers or... Ford. Yeah, Ford, Carnegie. The real upper class is not showy. And I think
partly that's just a defense mechanism. It's much harder to loot the wealthy when you don't
know who the wealthy are. There's this whole other... I think this wasn't... Alexander, although it might
have been essay about fashion in fashion and class where you're sort of, if you divide class into
four categories, it was previously the upper class, like the aristocrats sort of setting the
fashion standards that would trickle down. But when we got the fast fashion industry, the elites
started... Mark Zucker started just wearing hoodies. It was too easy for the lower classes
to copy the rich. Back when you had an expensive well-boned corset and somebody would have to
save up for a very long time to get that, or painstakingly craft one themselves. And by the
time they had one, the aristocrats had already moved on. But now, as soon as you see a celebrity
wearing a particular t-shirt, China will crank out thousands of them. He could wear one the next
day. So I guess they tried to win there. Currently, the strategy is win the game by not playing.
Right. I don't know if... I don't remember if it was this post, but he put pictures side by side
of Trump's residence with everything it looks like. It came out of fucking 14th century Florence,
Gilded, and crazy shit. And God, who's the... Oh God, the name is sleeping me right now,
but he's the hedge fund manager. Really rich dude. There's a few of those. That's true. Okay.
I don't remember.
Coke brothers or...?
No, it wasn't the Coke brothers.
We got it. Richie McRitch guy.
Yeah, extremely rich upper-class dude and showed a picture of his house.
I have a really minimalist house.
Yeah, yeah. You wouldn't have guessed that it was his house.
Yeah, I thought it was actually kind of...
Oh, Sam Walton maybe, because he lives modestly.
No.
Fair enough. It's not in the post, so...
But yeah, the point is that to be upper-class, you have to have already been born into a lot of
money and be raised in that culture from birth, basically.
Yeah, and I like... There's some pushback in the... So we're talking about the book review.
That's Fusil's definition. I like how there's some pushback on that from Alexander later on,
because I don't know if that is a distinction really worth keeping.
I mean, if I'm old money, but I've got $10 million and you're new money, but you've got $40
billion. At that point, it's not about the money so much as it is just like the signaling aspect,
right? Like, what do I do with my time and money? I guess I can kind of see that, but I don't know...
There's definitely gatekeeping where old money considers itself to be basically the aristocratic
class. People with new money don't fit into that culture because they just haven't grown up in it,
so they didn't learn all the nuances.
Which is what one of America's worst classic books is about.
Oh, is that Gatsby?
Yes. He's like, I'm rich, but I can't buy my way into the upper-class. What was me?
Yeah, it sucks to be you, man.
Yeah.
There's also a good book that illustrates this well that I thought was a lot of fun
just because I was like, oh, it's these people from a ton of French is the likeness,
the people who all live in that house, especially like the guy who inherited it.
They're all doing the full upper-class lifestyle, right?
In fact, they're doing it even though they're not that they don't have that much money, right?
You don't have to have money to be upper-class. You just have to have come from that culture
and have those values.
And the other one defining characteristic is they're never trying to prove anything because
they have nothing to prove.
Yes.
And so they're like, they don't give a shit.
And they're not throwing nice parties because nice parties that show that I have to prove
that I have money to throw nice parties and I have nothing to prove.
So they'll throw boring parties, much like Gatsby, I'm sure, right?
I'm sure that they had nice champagne or something, but no price tags on it or something,
whatever.
Yeah, he says also that Jeff Bezos for all his billions is only upper-middle-class at best
because he still had to work to get that money.
Yeah, I think at the point, I guess, working.
And I think the reason I'm like, I just don't like necessarily that hard line is because
I don't I don't know what the useful distinction is then saying.
All right.
Yeah.
So we've got old money.
It doesn't matter how much money you have.
That's this own separate group, but is Bezos out there trying to demonstrate his wealth to
people and like doing any of the things that upper-middle-class people do?
No, I don't think he does.
Not really.
So then all of his behaviors also indicate old, you know, or also indicate upper-class.
I do not think his behaviors indicate upper-class.
Well, if he's doing, if he's not, if he's doing the one thing, which is not trying to
prove anything to anybody.
Well, no, he's working.
He's not performatively not trying to prove anything.
Right.
If that makes sense.
His business is successful and that he, you know, keeps it growing.
Oh, right.
Because I guess if you're the real upper-class, you're not even maintaining a business anymore.
You're just riding on the coattails of your ancestors to get you money.
Yeah, living off interest or something.
Okay.
All right.
Well, that's fine.
I guess I just, I find that an almost arbitrarily niche group, but that's fine for
the purpose of, like, I don't think they are.
I think those are large groups.
And I think you don't necessarily need to even not care about anything.
The, oh, what was the guy I just heard about on the Doofcast?
The guy who did the Coraline movie or funded it anyway.
He's a, the son of the Kellogg fortune.
Tim Burton.
No, no, no, no, not Tim Burton.
The guy who financed it.
He's son of the Kellogg's fortune and he like spends all his time and a lot of his money,
just making stop-motion movies that are beautiful and usually almost nobody sees.
And that's just all he cares about.
And, you know, that's interesting.
It's in each interest.
He's doing something.
He's making the world richer, but it's like he's not doing it for the money.
He, he, like the money doesn't even come into a consideration.
He's just kind of living his life.
He's just patronizing the arts.
But the fact that he's working hard doesn't seem to indicate upper class, right?
He should be sitting around doing nothing, but, you know, sniffing expensive wine all day.
That's, that's where I still get like squinty-eyed at it, where I'm like,
people, that was another thing that I guess aristocratic classes are known to do, patronize the arts.
Yeah. And, and he's a hobbyist.
It's like, I, well, I support patronizing the arts.
Like I actually think it'd be awesome if there were, like, if we could shift culture to be a lot more,
like, you know how you can display that you have lots of money,
like make a charitable foundation, like the against malaria foundation or,
or even patronize the arts.
Like, no, I mean, I agree with you.
That would be great.
But also, I think that is like, that is a sign of the middle class because you're trying to
because you're showing your care about something.
Yeah, exactly.
Like I have no idea that this guy even existed.
He just like makes these movies and stuff because he enjoys it.
But that's, that's where I found that distinction kind of arbitrary.
Like he's, he works hard because he cares about stuff.
Well, yeah, but he enjoys it.
That, yeah, but this seems to indicate that he's, he's doing stuff, right?
And he cares about doing a good job.
Yeah.
Like, I think you're allowed to be like a hobbyist.
All right, fair enough.
I mean, I guess the, the book review, the Fusil was not crazy clear on,
like, to me what it actually entailed.
It seems to be explicitly, I have money, I don't have to do anything.
I think it is really hard to define.
That's probably why the book seems so vague.
Can we like read the, can I read the paragraph about flowers?
Yes.
Yeah, that this is actually the one right after he says, Fusil, a lot of things really.
Sometimes it's hard to know whether to take him seriously.
What is one to make of paragraphs like anyone imagining that just any sort of flowers can
be presented in front of a house without status jeopardy would be wrong.
Upper middle class flowers are rhododendrons, tiger lilies, amaryllis, columbine,
clematis, and roses, except for bright red ones.
And I'm, that freaked me out because I was like, that was my grandmother's garden.
Like the, yeah, the rhododendrons and the tiger lilies.
One way to learn which flowers are vulgar is to notice the varieties
favored on Sunday morning TV religious programs like Rex Humberts or Robert Schollers.
There you'll see primarily geraniums, red are lower than pink.
Poinsettias and chrysanthemums.
And you know, instantly without even attending to the quality of the discourse
that you're looking at a high prole setup.
Sure, dude.
You know, instantly.
Other prole flowers include anything to vividly read like red tulips,
D-class, also are flocks, zinnias, salvia, gladioli, begonias, dahlias, fuges, and petunias.
Members of the middle class will sometimes hope to mitigate the vulgarity of bright red flowers
