Yeah, I mean, I guess that one's less clear what it would look like.
Does it just mean like buy a subscription to Breitbart's sub-stack page?
Yeah, it's basically things like, you know, read blogs, go on sub-stack,
watch YouTube, don't don't watch the mainstream media channels anymore.
But there already is like Fox News.
There is Fox News.
That's the problem.
This one, I don't, I haven't, I read this in February when it came out.
I didn't get a chance to rereading the last part here.
Does he or does he expand on this point that much?
Anti-censorship is a big part of it.
Okay, yeah, I guess I can see that too.
Insist that working class people have the right to communicate with each other
without interference from upper class gatekeepers.
It's a really nice way of saying you should be allowed to say the N word on TV.
Oh, shit.
I mean, or let's put it in a more defensible position,
because this ties into bullet point four about wokeness.
But it's like, this says that you should be allowed to read Huck Finn in college, right?
You should be allowed to read it out loud in front of a class if you're pulling out an important
passage and you shouldn't lose your job for reading Huck Finn or To Kill a Mockingbird
or these other important books, right?
Yeah.
So the, I guess, yeah, I do, like you said, you pulled out that bit where it's like,
yep, let's just flip this whole thing on its head.
So I'm not sure how I feel about that one in general, because again,
I'm not sure about the splintering of the media.
But I mean, then he points to Substack and, you know, podcasts and blogs and I'm like,
I'm down with all those things and participate in some of them.
But I feel like everybody already does that, right?
Anyone who wants to listen to podcasts can.
I guess, yeah, I don't know how you are.
As far as right wing news.
Yeah, but this isn't actually solving that problem.
It sounds like it's trying to get anti censorship.
Yes, yeah.
There would be like a thing where you cannot be kicked off Patreon if Patreon has issues
with what you were saying, which I know has happened to few well-known people.
I don't remember who at this point, but it was one really famous case that cost Sam Harris to
leave Patreon because he was like, well, I guess if I say the wrong thing, I'll get kicked off too.
So let me take care of that right now.
It might have been Jordan Peterson or maybe it was Milo Yiannopoulos or one of those
professional trolls.
I'm not really sure.
But yeah, it's funny because that's my inner status, I guess.
I like the idea that if I get on Patreon and I've got a podcast and I'm whatever,
not merely throwing around the n-word, but advocating for violence against these communities
or something, it's like, yeah, you know what?
Patreon is totally justified in kicking me off their platform.
It's their house.
Again, that's me and that's how I feel.
And I realize that there are problems with, I think you gave it to me in the most articulate way,
which in the most succinct way that drove the point home.
It's like, imagine if the other side controlled the platforms instead of our side.
Right.
That would actually be illegal.
Well, so then it's like, oh yeah, if it was Fox News and tried to do everything and not
the New York Times just to make it super simple, then what all my opinions on Patreon have to
subscribe to Fox News narrative?
No, we should just protect every narrative.
All right, fine.
I get where that's coming from and yet I still find, I need to settle this.
Internally?
Internally, not word vomiting through the whole thing, but it is an interesting way to drive
that point home.
It's like, Steven, I'm saying this to myself, you're probably only okay with this because
your side controls the right side of the narrative, right?
Right.
Like, if it happens to be that the dark side controlled the internet, then you might feel
a little differently and I probably would.
If it was Joe McCarthy and this was the 1950s, you would be like, you know, I shouldn't get
kicked off of the only way I can make a living because you think that I'm a communist because
I said certain things about how workers should have rights.
Yeah.
Or like me being trans means that I would be censored just for that fact.
Because you're an unwholesome influence on our poor young Christian children, right?
Some bullshit like that.
That's what I was saying.
We'd be illegal.
I mean, we're like atheist free thought, like pro science podcast.
We'd probably be censored.
Yeah, I could think of all kinds of nonsense reasons that if the wrong side was in charge,
they could find reasons to kick all of us off.
And you're right, you're in it.
Jason, you're indicating but you can't, audience can't see.
Isn't a uniquely tough position there because you're basically at that cusp, right?
In the trans community, I mean, right?
Like, if things were just a little worse, you wouldn't be allowed to podcast whatsoever, right?
Things would have to get substantially worse before atheists were allowed to podcast.
Yeah.
But, you know, if Trump had 10 years in office instead of four, there's a good chance that
we wouldn't be allowed to hear your voice on the radio, which is funny and horrifying.
Like the favorite minority or the, I don't even know what to call it.
Like the minority that people are the most like angry about on both sides,
where like, you know, I'm actually curious who's going to come after.
Like once trans people are considered like, you know, like gay men are pretty much like
nobody cares anymore, except for some like extreme sort of fundamentalists about whether
or not they're, they should have equal rights and public acknowledgement and whatever.
It's like, who's going to be next?
I feel like some people on the right would probably say that they're already next.
I feel like it's like kind of, they're kind of happening at the same time though.
Conservatives, we have it so much worse than the trans people.
I mean, some people can think that thought without laughing.
I've met so many Christians that think that Christians are a persecuted minority.
Oh my God, I know, right.
That deserve protection.
Well, that's, it's literally part of their religion.
Yeah.
It's like, you know that you're on the right side of history when you're being persecuted by the,
you know, the government in charge, because it was Rome at the time.
And oh, it just happens that 2000 years later, they control all the government and everything,
but it's still part of the religion.
You're being persecuted.
If you aren't being persecuted, you aren't a true Christian.
So very important to keep that complex.
Yeah, they're still trying to earn their gold medals in the oppression Olympics.
That's, yeah.
Dude, now that you put it that way, they started the oppression Olympics way back then.
Oh my God, is that where, where the current oppression Olympics are going to take us?
To Rome.
Well, no, 20 years from now, there'll be, you know, in charge of the government and
everything or 200 years from now.
But still be like, oh, we're so oppressed.
Probably.
Could be.
I don't know.
It just depends.
And if they, whether they get the emperor to convert or not.
Yeah, we'll have to see.
I actually worry as a sort of secularism gains more power, whether that is going to,
I mean, I think we already see it a little bit in flame.
Like those messages of we're being oppressed are like, people can use them right now to just
like, yeah, win the gold medal for the oppression Olympics.
But you like, no one really takes it seriously.
But they're oppressed.
Like it's not, I don't know.
I feel like if we got like an atheist president or just the demographic started shifting,
it would cause people to like fight more, be more like anxious about.
I mean, I think Trump was basically an atheist president.
But people got to pretend that he wasn't.
Right.
If someone was like, yeah, no, I don't, I don't believe in God.
I don't go to church and they became president.
Then yeah, I think that would definitely galvanize the, oh my God, wearing danger,
you know, not merely from being eaten by these atheists, but our mortal souls
and those of our children, I think would totally galvanize all that nonsense.
Yeah, I think that's going to be like inevitable, but still something I worry about.
But anyway, the fourth thing on this platform was the war on wokeness.
I didn't even have to read any further.
I was like, yep, I'm on board.
But what does he say about the war on wokeness?
Trying to find a sentence or two that captures.
Well, it's hard to, yeah, the first paragraph is a bit confusing.
I'm not sure what this translates to as like, and therefore we will do X.
But it says, why are there, okay.
So first of all, it says that wokeness is a made up mystery religion
that college educated people invented to feel superior to you.
And this is a great way to like to pitch the narrative to somebody.
Yeah.
Why are they so sure that some of my best friends are black doesn't make you any less racist?
Because the whole point is the only way to not be racist is to master an inscrutable
and constantly changing collection of fashionable shibboleths and opinions,
which are secretly class norms.
Which I believe is true on the face of it.
Yep.
There's definitely the like, wokeness is a form of signaling like superiority.
There's a reason the vocabulary has to keep changing every few months
because other people catch on and then they got to change.
Yeah, that's probably part of it.
And then like, just the more terms you can invent,
like the more it shows that you're thinking about it consciously,
the more the more lying to can draw between people.
Like if you don't have the time as a rich person who doesn't have to do anything else
with their time, if you don't have the time to constantly keep up with
what the correct words of the week are and how the opinion on the ground is changing,
then that that that is proof that you are not woke.
It is sort of a class thing because who what person that's working for a living
and has to care about like their kids and their yard and their mortgage and everything
has time to keep up with how all this shit is changing every every few weeks.
Yeah, it's interesting because like I'm trying to I just think about this recently,
like if it wasn't for the mind killers, I would have like not heard of the J.K. Rowling thing,
right? Now, that does that mean that I don't care about trans oppressive issues?
I am trans and my first response to hearing about the J.K. Rowling thing was,
who fucking cares? Oh my god.
She says, well, you're one of the brain ross rationalist ones,
you're not one of the fully woke ones, right?
Yeah, I say that lovingly brainwashed into the right
way of thinking. Yeah, but but like there are people, I mean, I've had conversations with people,
it's like, yeah, sure, that person's trans, but they, you know, they're still against
trans people because they're associated with rationalists, right? Yeah.
There's there's this, you know, mentality that somehow the rationalist community is anti-trans
despite having really overrepresenting trans people in the community, right? Well, they're
they're all just they're drinking the Kool-Aid or they're they're those poor subjugated,
you know, it's like actual trans people that are anti-trans according to the woke people.
Yeah, there's gay people that are anti-gay. I mean, but the thing that this is actually
punching against is like a thing that I feel like I should be able to articulate more quickly,
but you have you caught onto the thing where like woke people tend to like it tends to be white
people saying you can't say that about black people or like straight people saying like you
can't say that about the gate. Like, you know, it's actually like the people who do have the
like sort of the funny like the most privileged people that like I think there's like a
