Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Enya Shbrodsky. I'm Stephen Zuber. I'm Jay Sticky.
And today we are going to talk class, but not until after we have done our two
lesser-on posts like we always do. We're gonna talk class after we go to class.
That's right. And the first lesson into today's class is? Original seeing. Yes,
which is an interesting post because it is entirely just a quote from somewhere
else rather than being anything new or originally written, but on the other hand
like drawing people's attention to one specific interesting thing out of a book
is also valuable. And I've had people recommend this book to me from outside
circles. The what Zen and art or the art and Zen of motorcycle maintenance. Zen and
the art of motorcycle maintenance. It's a good book. Yeah. Yeah. It was recommended to me by
my AP English teacher way back in the day, but I never got around to it. My uncle who
works on motorcycles and other vehicles recommended it. So isn't it about to shake
with air? Um, no, it's maybe I was thinking about the motorcycle diaries. Yeah, that's
okay. That's the one. That's a good movie. Oh wait, is that a book? I think it was
originally a book. It was probably originally a book. Anyway, so this is a
totally different motorcycle with a different dude on it. Yes. Okay. It's also not. It's
just more about Zen. Like from, I mean, this, I think this chapter is probably
pretty indicative of what the book is like. Yeah. I don't know if there's a lot of
like, and here's how to replace your whatever on the motorcycle. Yeah, exactly.
That's what I was trying to articulate. It's like, is there not a lot of
motorcycle maintenance in it? Well, there is, but it's more about like, it's sort of
a story about a guy and, and some topics. And there are parables like the one in
this, in this post. Yeah. I was hoping like to actually be able to learn something
about motorcycle. Like apparently when you read Moby Dick, you learn a lot about
wailing. In general, there's like suddenly, you learn stuff about money pages about
wailing. You learn how insufferably boring it is and how you wish you could throw
yourself off the edge of the boat just from being forced to read it. You know, it
occurred to me just a few weeks ago how fucking bizarre it is to just go and
tether yourself to a giant whale and be like, well, I bet I can float longer than
he can keep swimming. That's fucking nuts. Yeah. The book feels about that smart.
Moby Dick, you mean? Yeah, I hated it. Oh, okay. I hated it too. Yeah. I hated
Old Man in the Sea worse. Yes. Did you also read that in one setting? Cause it's
like, oh, it's a novella. I could just crunch right through this in one set. And
like, I remember finishing it and just slowly putting the book down and then
laying down on the couch. 15 years ago. How I, if I read the whole thing or if I
finished it or not, and I might be conflating the Old Man in the Sea with
the other one that we're just at the whale one, it's really similar. The entire story
I'll summarize it is there's angry fishermen and Old Man goes out in like a little boat
and then he hooks a big fish and it's all about how his life shit. And if he could just get like
one good big fish, then he could turn his life around. But like, he does battle with this
fish and is being dragged around by it. And it's just an entire novel length story about how miserable
this guy's life is. And then in the end, he fucking loses the fish. And then he like loses
everything. And it is just, it's just a like book that wants to just punch you in the face.
Repeatedly. I guess I've read multiple stories like that. I didn't realize they were all like
Old Man in the Sea remixes. Well, I don't know if that was the first one, but... See, I'm bad at
picking up, I'm bad at picking up like lessons and subtleties and morals from stories, but the
moral of that is obvious. His life wouldn't have been any better if he caught this fish, right?
He thinks this is what he wants, but it's not what he wants. Life is just terrible. It's what I
took away from that story. Like, there was no... Don't be an old fisherman is the moral of the story.
Don't live. Life is shit. Just do it happy, right? If you, you know, being old and fishing sounds
tight. If you're into, you know, into fishing. I guess the oldest story is depression is a
hell of a drug. That sounds about right. Yeah. Okay. All right. So the thing with original
seeing is that... And this is my... So like the 32nd version will do the longer version.
Student, it's a parable of a student who's like, I need to write a 500 word, 500 word essay on the
United States. It's like, okay, great. You're going to get through, I don't know, nothing
in 500 words. Yeah. So the teacher is like, how about just like... Just this town that we're in.
Just this town. And they're like, I can't think of anything. And then, okay, how about just Main
Street? I couldn't think of anything again. Okay. How about the front of the opera house on Main
Street? And then that one is like, oh yeah, I started... And then, okay, how about the, you know,
a brick on the top left? Yeah, it starts with the left or left hand brick. Yeah. And then they're
like, they come into the 5,000 word essay and they're like, I did it. I saw it because this,
I saw it with fresh eyes because they were trying to regurgitate. It started with one brick. And
then I wrote about the next one. And then the third. And before long, I was writing about the
entire facade and then the windows and then... Yeah. So that sounds fun. And I like the parable
for what it's going for. But that, like the exact example sounds like complete dog shit.
Because A, what's the assignment if you're getting graded? Like, it can't be write the history of
something. Maybe it was. Yeah, I don't know. You might have just been writing a historical essay.
But then also the, I guess, I mean, maybe they did figure this out, but I don't know how you,
I don't know how you learn the difference of the history of one brick versus the other. And I
imagine they're very similar. Well, I don't, I don't think you actually write the history. She
was just describing what she was seeing. Oh, see, I thought it was a history assignment. I mean,
it probably was, but he said, just describe the first brick. Okay. Yeah. Then, then, all right,
I'm into that. But I'm just thinking, like, I could see, you know, if your assignment was,
all right, write me a history on this, on Main Street of downtown, like you bet. And I give you
the origin of the manufacturing of the bricks on one of these buildings. I'd probably get an F,
right? Because they're like, well, it depends on your future. That would be a really original
essay. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, all right. So maybe the example is less facetious than I
thought. But the takeaway is that if you're tasked with looking at something in a way that is wholly
original, you're somehow, well, not somehow, but you find yourself able to be remarkably inspired
and able to actually generate thoughts rather than just try and find new ways to put stuff
that someone else has already said. Yeah. Yeah. I think the way it ends here is the quote that
I finally pulled out. I'm not going to bother reading the rest of what I pulled out because
you summed it up very well. The end quote was, she was blocked because she was trying to repeat
in her writing things she had already heard. She couldn't think of anything to write about
Bozeman because she couldn't recall anything she had heard worth repeating. She was strangely
unaware that she could look and see freshly for herself as she wrote without primary regard
for what had been said before. The narrowing down to one brick destroyed the blockage because
it was so obvious she had to do some original and direct scene, which, yeah, good parable about
looking at things yourself rather than sticking to cash thoughts and regurgitating other things
people have said. Yeah. And what's fun is this one gives you virtually no instruction on how to
do an original scene. And I feel like it's a lot easier to think that you've done one than
actually have done one. I feel like it's kind of explicitly saying break it down into the
smallest components. Then I think that's one way for sure. I guess, I mean, you could also do an
original scene on the origin of the United States if you just look at it from a different angle,
right? And that might feel like a wholly original thing rather than saying, well, in
16 whatever Columbus found and just start from there. If you were to take it from the whatever,
five, 10, 15,000 years ago of the whatever the ice bridge and start maybe with the
the native populations, or you can even just do like the the history of the geography or something,
right? Like, I guess you can do I guess what I'm saying is you can do original, I would think you
could do an original scene on a big thing. But you're right, being as reductionist as possible
with it and breaking it down. That sounds pretty cool. And hell, if you were to do an original
scene on the bricks, you could get all the way back to the big bang, right? And you could even get
there fairly quickly. And then, you know, you could summarize from there to the actual brick
to bake an apple pie. You must first create the universe. Oh my god, I haven't heard that quote
in at least five years. I used to have this framed that's a classic Carl Sagan. Yeah, I used to have
this frame piece of artwork of Carl Sagan baking a pie with like the galaxy behind him and that
quote on it. I love it. And he was like wearing an apron. And I gotta see if I can find a print
of that again. I gotta say this this whole post is also very applicable to anyone trying to do art,
at least in my experience, because when you're like, I have a blank piece of paper and I can write
anything, or I can draw anything, it just there's where do you even fucking start. But then like
you see a story story contest or prompter, whatever it says, we want 5000 words on mermaids that
kill puppies. And like, you're right away, like, Oh, yeah, okay, I can do something with that,
you know, just putting those restrictions on you, and it can't have the color purple anywhere
in it, you know, something like that. The more restrictions it puts on you, the more you're
like, Okay, cool, I got something to chew on and go with. Yeah. Yeah. And again, force you
into making something wholly original. Yeah. There was, I think it's not active anymore,
but it's called the rattle fiction podcast or rattle fic, where the where the host would read
short rationalist stories. Okay. And it's so you can find that on iTunes or maybe on the website
and I had to find the RSS feed myself. But I listened to the last Christmas on there, and I
happened to discover it around Christmas. I'd had this feed open or had this podcast, whatever,
on my phone for years before I found that. And then I listened to, I think it's called True
Love's Kiss by Elisa Yudkowski. Okay. Classic kind of reversed in the real thing. Yeah. Okay.
But without giving away the ending. It's not like that spoiler, but it's just fun. And it's like,
Oh, okay, now I get it. The girl's fiance or something falls into a magic induced coma,
a la sleeping beauty. And only True Love's Kiss, like uninhibited by anything else,
like just pure love can can wake him. And it doesn't work for her. It doesn't work for her,
for his parents. And so she kind of like soliciting the town. It's like, please, you know, I'm not
ashamed. If anyone loves him, can you guys just try? Even if you don't, can we just line up
everybody in the town and like, they're kind of not into it? Yeah. So that that it was, all right,
how do I do a, I'm kind of guessing on the author's thought. In fact, I think it wasn't the notes of
the story. But it was like, how do I do this story told in an original way? And it's not,
you know, a breathtaking new angle on it, but it's a fun new angle. And it's a quick story.
It is. And it's explicitly rationalist, because yeah, she does start thinking of all the other,
all the various ways she could hack at this problem, which other people are like,
No, man, we're not lining up everyone to kiss him. So do you think that would actually happen
that the rest of town would just be like, no, and not do it? Yes, I think that there's no way.
I mean, we couldn't get people to wear masks during a pandemic.
People these incentives, generally. But like, if it was like a, if it was a smaller tighter
community, maybe, I mean, because, you know, how are you going to line up everyone in Denver to,
you know, kiss an unconscious person? I wouldn't do, I probably wouldn't do it, especially if I
didn't know, but that's part of the point. It has to be, you know, true love or something. Yeah.
But then, you know, given today's limits, you could find like a yogi or something who just loves
everybody, right? And like, I mean, part of the conceit there was supposed to be that like,
maybe someone secretly loved him. And that is why like her kiss didn't work, because someone loved
him even more, but in secret. And so if everyone in town has to kiss him, there's plausible deniability,
whereas if just like one person goes up and kisses him, everybody would be like,
John had a secret crush on him the whole time. Stone him. Right. So yeah, original seeing,
I like it. What I, it's interesting to think about, because I think it's easy to say, well,
I've done the work, I did an original thought on this, but I find that it's easy to encounter people,
including like myself, where it's like, yep, I did it. And then I arrive at the right, like,
the conclusion that everyone else has, or even everyone else in my subgroup. So it's, it's
having stupid epiphanies. I find that like happens a lot in therapy, where it's something that like
you say, and it was the most obvious fucking thing in the world. It's like, I just had another
stupid epiphany. I think that sounds valuable. I mean, I occasionally come to, you know,
realizations that like, oh, I could have realized that five years ago. But hey, better late than
never. So I guess I, what I meant is that it, when I said it doesn't give like instruction is I don't
quite know, other than like having had an original thought, how I would know if I've done this practice
properly. But maybe that's not really the point. Also, it's the short initial post on it, right?
So he gets a bit more into it in the next one. He does, speaking of which, how to seem and be
deep. Yes. Okay, so he starts out with this cool, not starts out, there's a cool quote at the front,
a fanatic, someone who can't change his mind and won't change the subject. He says, I endeavored
to at least be capable of changing the subject. You would think he would also never be capable
of changing his mind, because he's supposed to be a good Bayesian, right? Yeah, it was just a funny
rejoiner to that. Yeah, the fanaticism. Yeah, it's a cute quote. But yeah, he was talking about how
he was at a place where people were just talking, you know, more in deep kind of stuff. And a lot
of people were talking about death, and that death gives meaning to life. And death is really a
blessing disguise. And he was apparently like the only transhumanist there. And he tried not to
be fanatic or something, but would like push back very cautiously sometimes about how generally,
you know, death is not a great thing. And that it's just not not a thing that we should valorize.
He specifically phrased it, he says cautiously, as transhuman is generally positive on life,
but thumbs down on death, which I guess everyone, apparently several people came up to him afterwards
and said it was really deep. Yeah, I like that. Well, yes, I am. This got me thinking about what
makes people seem deep. Yeah, I like to that, you know, thumbs down on death, thumbs up on life is
like a very like soft way of putting it. And that's, you know, a great way to break the eyes
on that subject to somebody, I guess. Thumbs down on that subject, actually. What? Yeah.
But yeah, he, he, as you said, he was like trying to figure out why did people think that he was
really deep? And he was going over some of these interactions. There was one woman who said that
when I have a nice thing to say about someone, now I try to say to them right away instead
of waiting, because you never know when someone's going to die, and then you wouldn't be able to
tell them the thing you want. The last thing they heard from you to be a nice thing, right?
And he said at one point, that is a beautiful thought. And even if someday the threat of
death is lifted from you, I hope you will keep doing it. Which, you know, cool. And then someone
else was spoke about some benefit, X of death, and he doesn't remember what the benefit was.
And he replied with, you know, given human nature, if people got hit on the head with a baseball
bat every week, pretty soon they would invent reasons why getting hit on the head with a baseball
bat was a good thing. But if you took someone who wasn't being hit on the head with a baseball
bat and asked them if they wanted it, they would say no. I think if you took someone who was immortal
and asked them if they wanted to die for benefit X, they would say no. Yeah. And that sounds like
the kind of an application of the original scene, right? Where like, okay, let's take this and remove
the context and just say, is this a good thing? Everything else aside, right? And it's like,
well, and when you phrase it that way, no, how could you possibly sell somebody on an eight decade
lifespan or a, I don't know, I mean, especially when the last three, four decades of that,
your body is slowly disintegrating and getting worse. Yeah, I mean, and then I'm trying to think
of like other non easy targets, you know, like, or even ones that like don't sound deliberately
edgy, but all my thoughts are like politics, right? Is that euthanasia? Yeah, maybe. Or like,
I mean, just the the way that our democracy works in the US or something, right? Like,
oh, sure. It's like, you know, maybe it's it's the canned phrase from Franklin about like, it's
the worst system of government there is, except for all the other ones. But or whether one of the
founders was supposed to have said that. It's just like, I thought it was Churchill. I feel like it
was, oh, no, Franklin said, like, they went allegedly, you know, when they come out of the
