And that's why you have to kind of zoom out once more and add another layer on top.
And that's the reflective self. And also, this is very close to the work by Lars Sandwitsmith
and where he calls this level the metacognitive level or the kind of reflective level.
And this hidden meta-awareness state, we contextualize or disambigrate mental states.
So we can say whether the mental states we infer here, whether they belong to self or other.
And as a consequence of that, that allows us to do a representation or reflection of the self.
Because if we say that here self-inferential processes happen, then this level cannot yet
allow us to make reflections about these inferences. That's why we need the next higher level in order
to be able to model them. And as I've already mentioned before, the whole idea is that the same
thing expands over time, just like any level does. And that we need such a level has already been
argued for in this Lars Sandwitsmith work. But what we are now doing in our talk here is to
kind of use that model and think about how would that change in the case of the psychedelic
experiences and what would be the consequences. Here this attention and attenuation, which is
the top layer, regulate how the deep temporal model are updated by the multimodal percepts.
So basically this inference process. And one thing that I want to focus on in particular
is this parameter here, the precision parameter, because that's where most of our forthcoming
work lies. In this precision parameter, the precision parameter determines how much an agent
updates his beliefs based on some observation. And the idea is that optimal precision control
requires a mixture of volatility and rigidity. And down here, this is just an image. And you've
all seen this. I guess everyone here is somewhat of an expert in Bayesian, kind of Bayesian
brain hypothesis, Bayesian modeling, that we have a prior and a posterior and then make an
inference which lays somewhere in between and how far we are close to the prior or the posterior
depends upon the precision of those two. And this has been kind of explained in great detail in
terms of mathematical expressions. I won't go into that too much. There's great literature on this
already. But the point to get home here is to say, if we have this inference from some
observation to some hidden state, this is guided through a mapping A. The mapping is
influenced by this precision parameter. So the core is this precision parameter determines
how our states S are changed depending on some observations. And now we can think about the
breakdown of this model. And therefore, I refer to Rebus. And Rebus is something that became quite
popular in the past few years. So chances are that most of you have heard it before. It's a
collaborative work between Robin Carteris and Carl Friston. And it's the first big paper on using
active inference to describe the psychedelic state. And the analogy that is used is one of
metal. The idea is that if people take psychedelic substances, this is for the case of no LSD
acid, I think, if people take high doses of psychedelics, then their brain becomes a bit
more flexible, just like metal, the annealing of metal. In that state, you can kind of bend the
brain in new shapes and then kind of hardens again, just like with cognitive mechanisms,
that the top most highest layer kind of weakens a little bit, and that allows the whole structure
to be a bit more malleable. And if you look at these two diagrams in the brain, the idea is that
this is the topmost layer, and this is kind of the sense input. And usually we have strong priors
that determine perception. So we have strong priors, they're strongest on the topmost layer,
and they kind of determine perception all the way through. And if these priors kind of
have reduced precision, the effect isn't that strong. So there's less constraint for perception
based on these priors, and the sensory inputs have a stronger effect on the overall updating
of the perceptual system. And the effects or the consequences that this reduction of precision
in the brain has, is incredibly wide. And especially George throughout his PhD has published on
various of such things, on kind of the ego dissolution state, the solving of the self,
and depersonalization, and basically states where we consider the self or the
agentic experience as the highest inference that we make about sensations in our body.
But if these topmost layers, if they are reduced in precision, and there's a neurophysiological
story about this, of how the five HD2 receptors are kind of blocked, if that's kind of, if
we do some noise, then this inference process doesn't work. And these are just some examples
of applications showing the phenomenological consequences of this sense. And now, and this
is probably the most important slide of this presentation. So if after almost half an hour,
you got a bit kind of drowsy, this is the moment to kind of watch out and kind of
get the gist of this presentation. So this again, and I just say it again, this is the graph that's
already incredibly widely used in the active inference kind of community. And now the idea
is what we possess. We possess this, the function of higher order cognition is disrupted. And the
result reduced accuracy in deployment of precision estimates. So if this highest level, if that
doesn't function accurately, then its role cannot be executed properly. And its role is to deploy
precision on the next lower level. And the reason why the precision deployment is important is
that is the mechanism by which the higher level can kind of constrain
the inference process on the next lower level. So this is one technique array of how
priors can constrain perception. So if we say that the precision control doesn't work well in
this level, then the accuracy of the functioning of this level will of course also break down.
That means that reduced precision deployment on the mid-layer is downstream effects,
meaning that the precision estimates on this next lower level also fails. And if precision
guidance is inaccurate on this next lower level, that means that we don't constrain
the interpretation of sensory data as we usually do, or in the way how we usually train to,
but that now the observation that we have may have a much stronger effect in updating,
and because we're not sticking so much to our prize at this moment. And now we kind of go upstream
and think about the effects that this has. So lower precision on this lowest level leads to
failure in sensory attenuation. Otherwise, attenuated sensations are now attendant. That means
we are now at sense data that we usually ignore has now a strong effect on updating our priors.
The now attended observations lead to a rapid updating of posterior on all levels. And what
that is the case is if they update our hidden states more strongly, then that kind of moves up
all the way. Introceptive, proprioceptive, and exoceptive sensations are less stable and more
volatile. They change more quickly because they are less constrained by priors. The next higher
level, mental states that are inferred based on these volatile sensations are A, also more volatile,
and B, less accurate in inferring mental states of self and other. And that implies that many in
that this may infer agentic qualities in animate things and alterations in representing agents.
So in the story that we told before, this mid-level layer is the level where the first few kind of
hidden mental states and models are built. And if now the data we get is inaccurate, we're not able
to build any accurate models. And may they be models of our self? That's why the perception
of kind of bodily sensations may change. The people may have an experience where they don't feel
certain body parts or feel they can flip into the air or the body expands or construct contracts.
But the same applies when we look out into the world and how world objects, how they are different.
And then on the next level, because the inferred mental states are surprising and unexpected,
the attribution or contextualization mechanism fails to accurately infer boundaries or distinctions
between self and other. And this point is very similar to the conversation we had in the break,
in the lunch break, where we said that on the most highest level, we have models of the world
that are finally attuned and finally interplaying with a certain milieu of a brain structure of
information that we expect to receive. And if we introduce noise in this entire system,
then the data that this highest level model has to interpret or has as an input just doesn't make
sense to that model. And that makes it just hard to accurately kind of then infer states of self or
other or entity or not. And so with this hierarchical structure, the idea is that this middle layer
we infer agentic qualities, that being agentic qualities of ourselves or other people,
like the dread for one, and this next higher level is very then distinguished,
whether these agentic qualities belong to self or to other.
And the idea is that then that allows us to kind of quantify a bunch of different experiences.
And depending on which of these, whether it's the mid layer, the agentic non-agentic layer,
or the highest level that distinguishes endogenous and extogenous causes. So depending on where we
introduce noise into the system, different phenomenologies may emerge.
So that is the model as it stands so far. And this may have a bunch of implications that can be
kind of further explored that we just want to hint at, which is the cultural context that psychedelics
are experienced very differently depending on where they are taking it, the kind of cultural
social environment. And there is something to be explored about the valence and the
insightful character of entity encounters that people often experience these moments as almost
enlightening experiences. There's something about how entity experiences induced by different
psychedelics compare. They're most prominent under DMT, but they're also common on other
psychedelics. And they have different neuropharmacological kind of mechanisms,
so it's worth exploring those. Then it's interesting to compare these models that we have
with entity encounters that are experienced in a religious context, that from the description
sometimes are very similar to what's experienced under DMT and other psychedelics.
There's a bit more comparative work to be done comparing these entity encounters with
other altered self-experiences like the work I hinted at that George has published.
There's something about entity encounters and their link to well-being,
and in particular this idea that I hinted at the beginning that it's the phenomenology of these
psychedelic experiences that may have the, of course, the therapeutic context,
the therapeutic results. And finally, a bit of like a metaphysical question of entity encounters,
are they altered or normal in states? Are there hallucinations or more true perceptions?
And all these points are cool points that discuss further,
feel thoughts on them, feel free to reach out. And that is our little circle,
hopefully making it back to give some intuition for entity encounters. Thank you everyone.
Thank you, Jonas. Thank you, George. That was a wonderful talk.
Does anyone have any questions? You can move now to the Q&A podium.
And if there's no question, then you could also just elaborate on these discussion points a
little bit, maybe George has something to add. Well, I have a quick question if nobody else does.
So how are you thinking of, you know, setting up, because I heard you, you know,
you and Michael are going to be doing EGSA pretty soon. So I was thinking, what's your
experimental setup? How are, I mean, are these things related? And, you know, if what you were
telling me about isn't related to this, how would you, you know, design an interesting task
that might elucidate, you know, the entity experience at least?
One of the things that I'm currently looking into, it's not too much, I guess it's a bit of an
experiment, is that we work with, we have this catamount trial, but that we also have some work
with this charismatic Christian prayers that experience, have an experience where they kind
of are taken up by the Holy Spirit and kind of are moved by the Holy Spirit. And the idea is to
basically do some correlations of their kind of phenomenology or their experience of such
kind of encounters, and in states of entropy in the brain, with the idea that kind of measures
of entropy allow us to piece apart a little bit where this hierarchical structure might be
might be disrupted. And for that, I think the interesting part would be to look into
different measures of entropy. There's, I can mention it in the break, there's
a bunch of different mathematical definitions of entropy. There's various local and global
measures of it. So I think the interesting first step would be to check how could we find brain
measures that are associated to breakdown in hierarchical structure. The next step is using
that and correlating that with phenomenology. That makes a lot of sense to me. Thanks.
Yeah, thanks, Max. Thanks for the input on this work so far. It's been greatly appreciated.
Well, it's been my pleasure. This is a really exciting work to be working on.
I think Marco has a question. Otherwise, I'll go. Go ahead, Marco.
I'm a little on my last legs of her brain. So that was interesting. It's just a small question.
Could you just go back to the slide where you had the nice phenomenological space thing?
Yeah, that was great. So I'm wondering if ego inflation is actually the should be the focus,
because at least anecdotally, sharing in this discussion, so I find it interesting that when
it comes to the agentic endogenous agentic part, the more fascinating thing is the exploration
of the self in different lenses. And I think I wouldn't say it's inflation, but it is more
focused in a particular lens of self. And I think that is simply the analog of the variability of
sensory signals. So the variation of the self model, I would guess, that is simply more
decorated by whatever state one might be in. And I think that is nothing else than, I mean,
I guess I should also share some other assumptions. I mean, I would say that that that synesthesia,
which is also, of course, you know, facilitated in these experiences, is just one particular example
of this cross chat that you see in your energy. And so maybe these egoic hallucinations or experiences
are also a kind of cross chat, cross contamination between the self model and other models. And I
think that might be an interesting lens to also explain the various, so you see in the chats,
like some people see G, like Christian characters, even though I grew up in Holland, went to Christian
schools, I saw a Buddhist characters. And so the cultural, how do you say this, not tainting, but
the cultural coloring of the entities, I think is fascinating. And I think it would be a small
step to incorporate this in the model. I'm not sure what you think of that. But yeah, sorry,
I'm afraid it's dying. So whatever thought you have.
George, if you have something, otherwise I would say a word about the cultural kind of
considerations. Maybe just to address the first point or thinking about like,
yeah, well, maybe this isn't your point exactly. But I guess within this framework,
you could start thinking about conceptualizing like experience and like psychedelic experience of like
experiencing God. So kind of phenomenologically, it seems, you know, people report,
under psychedelics, there's kind of less and less causes. So I understand the kind of sensory
blending to be this kind of story. So, you know, the music and the plants are moving in time together
because there's some underlying common cause causing all these sensations and the more the kind
of pattern matching machine kind of widens his aperture, the more is swallowed up by that. So
once everything is under a common cause and it's all agentic, then you've got something that's like
an experience of God, or if everything's under a common cause and it's like agentic and it's
endogenous, then you've got kind of selfish God or ego expansion kind of story.
Just to clarify, I'm talking about the other side of the graph, the endogenous agentic part,
right? So I agree with everything I'm saying because I think that's a nice explanation for
experiencing God or the complete wholeness or the oneness of the universe. But I think in terms
of, I guess, system neuroscience or inference, it's maybe more interesting to explore the
colorful diversity that occurs in the more endogenous and agentic parts.
Because I think that's also something as underappreciated and in often description of phenomenology
and maybe more practically relevant or significant when talking about the therapeutic effects,
because it seems to me that the effects of the self-muggle might have interesting
relations to the therapeutic effects. Yes, one more point. Yes.
Sorry, maybe the oneness was saying more about this in a second, but I guess then you'll start
thinking about like, you know, people have these extraordinary experiences and they will bring
whatever conceptual frameworks they have in order to understand them. So, you know, DMT in
different cultures can be Santo Daime in Brazil. It's, you know, it's within a Christian framework
or if it's shamanic context, it could be very different or these entities are part of nature.
So I would think that's kind of, you know, just bringing, and that can also be after the fact
or it can permanently experience itself, but it can also be after the fact trying to explain
what must have happened there. I must have, you know, encountered angels or something like that.
Anyway, yeah, sorry, Eunice. One thing just to add, because it has been on me for a long time,
and I keep it like 10 seconds now, is that what we say is that precision on the priors is reduced,
and that is kind of countering this idea that there's a cultural influence, because priors
are a kind of cultural problem needs are stored. But the important thing to take is,
