A note to the listener of this narration.
The humble narrator is unable to read Greek text, and based on the limitation of time
and budget for this project, I have needed to leave a few moments blank and simply said
things like Greek words or Greek terms in place of Greek pronunciations.
Your understanding is much appreciated, and I encourage you, if you are someone who does
read Greek, to seek out a printed copy and find the passages in question.
Thank you.
Saving the Appearances, A Study in Idolatry by Owen Barfield, 2nd Edition
14.
Before and after the Scientific Revolution
For medieval man then, the universe was a kind of theophany, in which he participated
at different levels, in being, in thinking, in speaking or naming, and in knowing.
And then the evolutionary change began.
Not of course, at any given moment, but with anticipation, localized delays, individual
differences.
But no beginning is instantaneous, otherwise the very word begin would be unnecessary and
indeed meaningless.
We need not pay too much attention to those historians who cautiously refuse to detect
any process in history, because it is difficult to divide into periods, or because the periods
are difficult to date precisely.
The same objections apply to the process of growth from child to man.
We should rather remind them that, if there is no process, there is in fact no such thing
as history at all, so that they themselves must be regarded as mere chroniclers and antiquarians.
A limitation which I cannot fancy they would relish.
Moreover, the mental image which they transfer to history of a formless process, determined
by the chance impact of events, is itself, as we saw in chapter 9, a product of the idolatry
of the age of literalness.
However this may be, and whatever chronological limits we choose to assign to it, a change
there certainly was.
Professor Butterfield has commented well on it.
Through changes in the habitual use of words, certain things in the natural philosophy of
Aristotle had now acquired a coarsened meaning or were actually misunderstood.
It may not be easy to say why such a thing should have happened, but men unconsciously
betray the fact that a certain Aristotelian thesis simply has no meaning for them any
longer.
They just cannot think of the stars and heavenly bodies as things without weight, even when
the books tell them to do so.
Francis Bacon seems unable to say anything except that it is obvious that these heavenly
bodies have weight, like any other kind of matter which we meet in our experience.
Bacon says furthermore that he is unable to imagine the planets as nailed to crystalline
spheres, and the whole idea only seems more absurd to him if the spheres in question are
supposed to be made of that liquid ethereal kind of substance which Aristotle had in mind.
Between the idea of a stone aspiring to reach its natural place at the center of the universe,
and rushing more fervently as it came nearer home, and the idea of a stone accelerating
its descent under the constant force of gravity, there is an intellectual transition which
involves a change in men's feeling for matter.
We have seen that this change in men's feelings for matter is merely one aspect of a much
deeper and more fundamental change, and the change in men's feeling for the nature of
words and of thought was no wit less marked.
Thus the polarity of actis and potentia had carried perhaps half the weight of the philosophical
thought of the western mind through all the centuries that elapsed between Aristotle
and Aquinas.
A medieval philosopher would not have put the argument as I was obliged to do when
I said in chapter 3 that there is no such thing as unfelt solidity, just as there is
no such thing as an unseen rainbow.
He would have said that both the unseen rainbow and the unfelt matter are in potentia.
Yet this polarity, taken for granted for more than a thousand years by some of the acutest
intellects the world has ever known, this polarity has become for bacon a frigida distinctio.
Mirror words.
Again, in the Novum Organum he tells men bluntly that they ought not to think of forms anymore.
They are really more like laws.
It may be that nothing really exists except individual bodies which produce real motion
according to law.
In science it is just that law, and the inquiry, discovery, and explanation of it, which are
the fundamental requisite both for the knowledge and for the control of nature.
And it is that law and its clauses, which I mean when I use, chiefly because of its current
prevalence and familiarity, the word forms.
Causa exemplaris is gone, in other words, and mechanical causality and the idols are already
in sight.
If, with the help of some time machine working in reverse, a man of the Middle Ages could
be suddenly transported into the skin of a man of the twentieth century, seeing through
our eyes and with our figuration, the objects we see, I think he would feel like a child
who looks for the first time at a photograph through the ingenious magic of a stereoscope.
Oh, he would say, look how they stand out.
We must not forget that in his time perspective had not yet been discovered, nor underrate
the significance of this.
True, it is no more than a device for pictorially representing depth and separateness in space.
But how comes it that the device had never been discovered before, or, if discovered,
never adopted?
There were plenty of skilled artists, and they would certainly have hit upon it soon enough
if depth in space had characterized the collective representations they wished to reproduce as
it characterizes ours.
They did not need it.
Before the scientific revolution, the world was more like a garment men wore about them
than a stage on which they moved.
In such a world, the convention of perspective was unnecessary.
To such a world, other conventions of visual reproduction, such as the nimbus and the halo,
were as appropriate as to ours they are not.
It was as if the observers were themselves in the picture.
Compared with us, they felt themselves and the objects around them and the words that expressed those objects
immersed together in something like a clear lake of, what shall we say, of meaning, if you choose.
It seems the most adequate word.
Aquinas verbum intelectus was tanquam speculum in quo rest senator,
like a mirror in which the object is discerned.
It happened that, at a time when I was studying the denature of verbite intelectus,
with that peculiar mixture of perplexity and delight which Thomas' sentences arouse,
when his thinking is at its intensest and tercest,
I had the good fortune to receive from a friend the gift of a volume of his own poems.
It seemed to me then, and it still seems to me now,
that in one of them he has managed, without setting out to do so,
to convey more vividly than I could ever hope to do,
the qualitative difference between a participating outlook on the world and our own.
I therefore conclude my chapter with it.
Reflection
When hill, tree, cloud, those shadowy forms ascending heaven are seen,
their mindless beauty I from far admire a gulf between.
Yet in the untroubled river when, their true ideas I find,
that river joined in trance with me becomes my second mind.
George Rust River, Hamilton, The Carved Stone, Heinemann, 1952
Fifteen
The Greco-Roman Age, Mind and Motion
Earlier in this book, and particularly in chapter ten,
attention was drawn to the difference between a history of thought or of ideas,
on the one hand, and a history of consciousness on the other.
I am, of course, aware that the various expressions of medieval thought,
which I have discussed in the last two chapters, are usually explained in quite a different way,
where I have treated them as a rising out of and betokening
a slightly different relation between the mind of man and his phenomena,
and that itself as implying slightly different phenomena,
the ordinary view regards them purely and simply as a different ideology superimposed on phenomena,
which were in all respects the same as our own.
By tracing this ideology through a chain of individual thinkers,
Plato, Aristotle, the Neoplatonists, Galen, Isidore of Seville,
Vincent de Beauvais, Martianus Capella, and others,
the medieval outlook is presented as a stage in the history of largely erroneous ideas.
Now, one outstanding thinker does, of course, pass on his ideas to others,
and especially so in an age when books are few and hard to come by.
There is, therefore, also a valid and significant history of ideas as such.
But the irreconcilable conflict between the two approaches,
if what we are seeking is a fundamentally adequate history of the human mind,
becomes especially apparent when we look back, as I endeavor to do in the last chapter,
on the ideas which the Western mind has formed in the past about this very question
of its own relation to the phenomena, or, in other words, when we survey its theories of knowledge.
We must then make our choice.
The whole basis of epistemology from Aristotle to Aquinas assumed participation,
and the problem was merely the precise manner in which that participation operated.
We can either conclude that this persistent assumption was a piece of elaborate self-deception,
which just happened to last, not only from Aristotle,
but from the beginnings of human thought down to the 15th or 16th century AD,
or we can assume that there really was participation.
I should find the second hypothesis the less fantastic of the two,
even if it were not necessary, on other and quite unhistorical grounds, as I have suggested that it is,
to accept participation as the permanent ground of our collective representations.
It is, to me, rather too flattering a view to take of the philosophers not accepting even Aristotle
to regard them as the efficient and sufficient causes of collective representations
shared by the greater part of Western humanity for nearly 20 centuries.
From the point of view of a history of consciousness,
their writings are rather landmarks to indicate the nature of that consciousness
in as much as they represent the human mind in its most wakeful state.
At the same time, owing to the subtle link between thinking and figuration
to the part played by language in evoking and sustaining the collective representations,
they are by no means without causal significance.
On either view, whether we choose to treat the history of the mind as a history of ideology
or as a history of consciousness, we shall find that the continuity
between Greek and medieval epistemology is far more striking than the break,
and again, on either view, the language and the thought of Plato and Aristotle
are the twin strands about which that continuity clusters.
For the history of the mind, above all, when it is treated as a history of consciousness,
the periods into which it is most convenient and most significant to divide the past history of mankind
will not be those familiar ones which are adapted to a more superficial record.
From the former point of view, the Greco-Roman period is seen as extending
practically unbroken to the end of the Middle Ages.
And beyond it, for the scientific revolution took some three or four centuries to accomplish completely,
and participation died not suddenly but by inches.
It survived, for example, in chemistry longer than in the other sciences,
and after it had vanished altogether, not only from the sciences,
but from the collective representations of the educated,
or at least the urbanized part of mankind,
its echo continues to survive in their habitual use of language for the purposes of thought.
It is indeed only in our own time that we are witnessing its eviction from that final stronghold.
We have already seen that logical predication was based by Aquinas on participation.
It is not apparent to reflection that the validity of alpha thinking,
insofar as it is based on logic, rests on that very participation which it tends by its operation to destroy.
We can continue to apprehend phenomena as participating one another
in a way which renders logical predication meaningful only as long as we continue to apprehend them as participated by ourselves.
When that ceases, they become idols, and idols do not participate in one another,
nor are they connected in any necessary way with their names.
They are simply there.
Accordingly, the names cannot meaningfully be predicated of each other.
In the logic of, for instance, John Stuart Mill,
a certain residue of participation is still tacitly assumed,
where that has finally vanished and idolatry is total,
species, genus, and the rest of them vanish as realities.
Thus, early in the 20th century, formal logic begins to boggle much more heavily at the notion of predication
and really to feel the difficulty of distinguishing it from an assertion of numerical identity.
Sooner or later, a Wittgenstein or an Ayer inevitably arises,
convinced that all predication must be false or tautologous,
a state of mind which was playfully foreshadowed by Plato more than 2,000 years ago in his dialogue The Sophist.
To this point of view, the belief that in the act of predication,
the mind is operating not only on words but on things themselves
can only appear as a kind of survival of totemism.
And that is indeed what it is, if for totemism we can substitute participation.
The aim of the three preceding chapters was to characterize the collective representations of the period
immediately preceding the scientific revolution in the particular respect in which they differed most from our own.
They were mainly illustrated from the close of that period in what are called the Middle Ages,
but most of what was said applies with equal or greater force to the Greco-Roman age proper in which the period began.
As far as participation is concerned, the difference between medieval and Greek thought is one of degree rather than of kind,
and I shall limit myself to a very few observations on the latter.
In the first place, there are strong indications in the Greek language and elsewhere,
apart altogether from philosophy, that the participation of the ordinary man was a livelier and more immediate experience.
