The gods and nature spirits of Greek mythology and, in particular, the whole Dionysian element in the cults
linked man and nature in a unity which, for a very good reason, could not, as we shall see, and did not survive the impact of Christianity.
But apart from religion, if we are attentive to the nuances of the Greek language,
we shall find many signs of a living participation in nature,
especially perhaps the nature of man's own bodily processes, of which we today know next to nothing.
I feel, moreover, that the superlative quality of Greek sculpture at its height must be attributed to that participation
rather than to any mere excellence in the craft of meticulous imitation.
At the philosophical level, we may reflect from this point of view on the very title of that work of Aristotle
from which Aquinas quotes more freely than from any other.
In English, it is on the soul. In Latin, the anima, but in Greek, it is.
Two Greek words and one Greek word translated psyche.
My apologies, the narrator is unable to read Greek text.
Psyche was in Greek the word for life as well as for soul.
Again, there is a sinewee quality in Aristotle's Greek words and, Greek words,
nus poeleticus and nus patheticus, which has already faded somewhat from their Latin equivalents,
intellectus aegens and intellectus passibilus.
The noose of which Aristotle spoke and thought was clearly less subjective than Aquinas' intellectus,
and when he deals with the problem of perception, he polarizes not merely the mind but the world itself
without explanation or apology into two verbs and Greek word, poion and pasheen, to do and to suffer.
In the psychological and epistemological contexts in which he employs them,
these two words alone are as untranslatable as the mentality which they reveal is remote from our own.
It is, for instance, not possible to equate them with the Aristotelian matter and form,
though matter is certainly passive and form active.
For in the process of perception, he tells us, it is the percept which is active and the perceiving organism which is passive.
The organ of perception is potentially what the percept already is actually.
It suffers something unlike itself, but in doing so becomes like what it suffers.
The actualization of percept and of perception are one and the same thing.
When we come to thinking, on the other hand, as distinct from perceiving while it is the passive mind,
noose patheticus, which gives us our subjectivity, it is the active mind, noose poeticus,
which is operative in the act of knowing.
The soul is poion to the body's pasheen, but soul and body together are, except in the act of knowing, noose patheticus.
Unlike in perceiving and in thinking, there is an active and passive movement,
and in both cases the second is the field for the activity of the first.
All these complex movements, which are the very stuff of human nature, may be conceived of as potential knowledge,
actual knowledge occurs when man becomes wakefully aware of them, for then, Greek sentence,
mind becomes what it thinks and may be said to know itself.
If this kind of psychology was really as tenuous, fine-drawn and obscure,
or to use Bacon's word as frigid, as it seems to most people today,
it is difficult to explain why, for so many centuries, so many people found it exciting.
The true explanation is, once more, that we have lost half the meanings of the key words in which it is expressed.
Above all, with the disappearance of participation, words to do with thinking and perceiving
and words to do with movement and space have parted company.
Aristotle's Poyang and Pashain were, for him, not the insubstantial, semi-mystical abstractions which we make of them,
when we translate them active principle and passive principle.
They were, at the same time, respectively, Greek word and Greek word, to move and to be moved.
Locomotion, or traction, was for the Greek philosophers only one kind of movement,
which included also change, growth, and decay.
And the kinesis, to which Aristotle refers in so many different contexts,
was simply not what we mean by movement at all,
who think of it as the bare change of position of an idol in Newtonian space.
If we would gain some idea not only of what movement meant before the scientific revolution,
but also of that, to us, either foolish or baffling tendency to connect pure thought somehow with space,
which we have already observed in the case of Plato's astronomy,
we shall find it more pronounced and explicit in the thought of Plato and his predecessors than in that of Aristotle and his successors.
In the Theatitus, for instance, Plato tells us that for Heraclitus and his followers,
Poyin and Pashin, let me now call them action and passion,
were the two primary kinds of kinesis, and that it is out of them that since perception arises.
Each of the two was again subdivided into swift and slow.
What we call the object was slow action, and what we call the subject, slow passion.
While what we call the quality of the object was swift action, and what we call sensation, swift passion.
It is with such images in our minds that we should read Plato himself when he maintains elsewhere
that through perception we share or participate in the process of coming into being.
It is with such images in our minds that we should seek to interpret, if we really wish to enter it,
the thought of Aristotle and the philosophy and science of the Middle Ages in which so much of that thought lived on.
As to the relation between thought and space,
it is almost sufficient to read Timaeus, which incidentally was the principal channel through which the thinking of Plato
and his predecessors was known to the Middle Ages.
In this dialogue, Plato describes the world as a moving image of eternity.
It is, however, not simply a matter of a few revealing uses of key words, though of these there are enough to spare.
As when he tells us that of the seven different kinds of movement, movement in a circle is, Greek words,
the one that has most to do with mind and understanding.
Or again, that by contemplating the undisturbed revolutions of mind in the heavens,
we may make use of them for the revolutions of our own intellect, which, though disturbed, are nevertheless akin to the former.
It is rather that the whole development and structure of thought in the dialogue is such that celestial astronomy and metaphysics are inextricably one.
In the metaphysical discussion of the problem of the one and the many, of identity and difference, which Plato here names same and other,
the abstract notion of sameness is indistinguishable from the circle of the same, namely the celestial equator,
and the abstract notion of difference is indistinguishable from the circle of the other, namely the ecliptic, where the planets wander and change.
We have already seen that even in the Middle Ages, man's experience of space was clearly different from our own,
and the old tendency to experience as one what we now distinguish absolutely as mind on the one hand and space on the other
still finds an echo in the divine comedy, especially when in the 10th canto of the Paradiso Dante refers to the celestial revolution as
whatsoever revolves through the mind or space.
The impression we get, however, is that it was by then already a good deal nearer to our own than the Greek experience.
It is interesting, in this connection, to observe how Aristotle selects for criticism precisely that astronomical metaphysics to which I have just referred,
maintaining that the oneness or self-identity of noose ought not to be conceived spatially, but only numerically,
and that accordingly the circles of which Plato speaks in the Timaeus must be ruled out when we are treating of psychology.
The proper movement of a circle is revolution, but the proper movement of mind, he insists, is thinking.
This detachment of the idea of thought, first from the idea of movement in space, and then from the idea of movement of any sort,
must have been no small feat. It was the beginning of true beta thinking.
Here we may well pause for a moment to refer back to Harvey's discovery of the circulation of the blood.
It will be remembered from Chapter 12 that this was based on the perfection of circular motion and on the formal relation between microcosm and macrocosm.
Here, then, is a striking example of the diminishing experience of participation.
First, the great circles of the macrocosm are abstracted by Aristotle from the movement of mind and conceived as more purely spatial,
and then, much later, this very abstraction facilitates a mechanomorphic conception of the movement of the blood.
Later still, this conception of the blood plays its part in obliterating from consciousness the whole relation of microcosm to macrocosm on which it was based.
Although Aristotle was the pupil of Plato, there are many good reasons for treating the former as beginning a new epoch,
and the latter as closing an old one, while not forgetting that all such exact limitations of period have about them something artificial and arbitrary.
At some point, a thing ceases to be flour and becomes fruit, but who shall say exactly when?
In Raphael's fresco of the School of Athens in the Vatican, the two figures of Plato and Aristotle stand side by side,
the one with raised hand pointing upwards to the heavens, the other pointing earthward down a flight of steps.
If, in imagination, we take our stand between the two, we can indeed look forward through the thinking which found expression in Aristotle
to the collective representations of the Western world which were to take their course,
through the so-called dark and middle ages down to the scientific revolution and beyond.
While through the other, through the star and space involved thinking of Plato, we may peer backward into the collective representations of the East and of the past.
The cosmogony of Plato was still in the Pythagorean stream, and the tradition that Pythagoras visited India,
whether in itself it be legendary or historical, is a convenient expression of a process which is apparent from internal evidence.
It is many years now since Max Mueller pointed to a number of coincidences between the philosophy of Plato and the Apinashads,
among them the concept of reincarnation, but added that he thought any actual contact unlikely.
But if what has been said in this book, particularly chapter 10, is correct,
the progress of ideas has been as much or more a function of the evolution of consciousness than its vehicle.
That is, of consciousness and its correlative, the phenomena or collective representations.
Accordingly, that evolution is much less dependent on contacts or communications than has generally been supposed.
When we consider, as is here being attempted, the evolution of consciousness as the progressive decline of participation,
the emergence of the Greek from the ancient Oriental outlook is a fact which we can contemplate without being unduly troubled
by the absence of biographical details about Pythagoras.
Anyone who has struggled for a few pages with the Vedas in translation will know that in their language,
the entanglement of subject and object, of psychology and natural history, of divine and human, of word and thing,
is such as to render the thought virtually unintelligible to a modern reader.
Though, of course, he can make some kind of sense of it by paraphrasing it into moralizing abstractions of his own.
To take only one instance, the word namarupa, or name form, takes us back straight away to the stage of consciousness
at which that surgical operation, to which I referred in chapter 13, whereby the thing is separated from its name,
had not yet begun to be performed.
In the measure that man participates his phenomena, in that measure the name is the form, and the form is the name.
At this point, however, that is, with the emergence of Greek thought so far as it was platonically inclined
from the hitherto almost wholly religious consciousness of the Orient,
I propose to end the movement of this book in the direction of the past and turn its face once more toward the present.
To do otherwise would, in the first place, require an acquaintance with Oriental language which I do not possess,
but there is another reason.
The kind of consciousness which I have hitherto attempted to depict, though characterized by a participation which we lack,
is at least, as it were, within sight of our own.
We can, or so I have thought, catch glimpses of it which are describable, though with difficulty,
in the idle infected language which the scientific revolution has bequeathed to us.
But to depict the kind of consciousness which prevailed at still earlier periods requires, it seems to me,
a different method and a different terminology.
It may well also demand the extension of historical imagination into a manner of clairvoyance.
My purpose is the humbler one of establishing, in the language and imagery of every day,
the bare fact that there has been an evolution of consciousness.
And if that is possible at all, it is possible within the limits of Pythagoras and Moses.
