adult cell, you can express four genes mostly, and then it will take on the properties of a
stem cell. Well, some of them will. There's a success rate, not all of the cells end up becoming
pluripotent. But how do you do that though? Do you like have to directly inject each individual
cell? Well, it's often a sort of viral transfection method where you might put the genes in
some genome engineering vector in a virus, and it kind of gets pasted into the genome of the
cell you're looking for, or it might be expressed separately on the vector. So instead of integrating
into the host genome, you just have it present in the cell so it can express those genes, but not
be integrated into the host genome. There's a bunch of different specific methods of how you
might do that, but some form. But that's like individual cells like on a petri dish or something,
right? Is there some way to do that in a human body? Well, only with, at the moment, the most
successful methods are using viruses to introduce the genetic material. But the success rate is
a bit low. So only one in, well, there is a lot by experiment, but one in some number of cells
might be one in 100, might be one in four, if you're really lucky. We'll end up with a copy of
this genes that you want to express. I don't know if anyone's doing this, but with cancer care,
we're taking CAR T cells and harvesting cells from the patient and artificially just reproducing
the ones that had the programmed instructions to kill cancer cells. So you'd, and then put them
back in the person. And then there's a newer version where you take donor cells and do the same
thing. So I have no idea, though. I mean, that's definitely a use outside of cancer care. So I
think the blood's kind of a unique system in that regard. You can take out something that's
going to be a blood stem cell, select for it and put it back in the blood stem cell niche,
and then have it produce new blood cells. Most other tissues don't function in quite that same
way. So it's a much more challenging problem to do the selection outside and put it back in,
because you don't have that same, the same way the tissue works with respect to the
production of the blood cells from a stem cell population. There's not the same turnover rate.
So for example, you know, you can't really do it with brain cells because, you know, like each
individual one, you don't want to replace all of your neurons. If you take them out, kind of mix
them up into a soupy like substance and select the ones that work, then put them back, it's not
going to work. Would I, would I really want all my cells to become plurally potent at once anyway?
No, like that would be very, yeah, you're right.
So one in a hundred times pretty decent as long as they could keep doing it for all, you know,
100 times. Yes. So that is what one of the approaches that people are taking in this kind
of therapeutic area is like inducing them permanently can be an issue. It's the whole sort
of cancer thing. So having a small number of them turned on periodically is approach that
might work. So you can put genes on a, in like an expression cassette is what they call it,
where you have a gene that will only turn on if you're taking a drug that will activate the
transcription sites that cause that gene to be taken. So you can take an innocuous chemical
compound that will turn on a particular gene expression cassette. Now, so I have really
great results for that in mice for eliminating senescent cells. So some of those cells that
do that slightly de-differentiation thing, they kind of end up not quite being
as livery as a liver shell should be, right? It's a little bit more complicated than just that,
but that slightly de-differentiated cell can end up being a senescent like cell. So the senescent
cells have a particular phenotype, they secrete a bunch of stuff that's kind of cytokines and
inflammatory things that cause increased inflammation in the tissue, and they are slightly prone to
inducing senescence in other cells around them. And they're not really doing what is functionally
useful in that tissue. They have what is thought to be kind of an anti-cancer property. So they
sort of, it's a pseudo niche that a cell can become. So instead of being de-differentiated and
becoming cancer, it can de-differentiate a little bit. It becomes senescent. So it's a kind of a
purposeful path. It's like a placeholder cell. Yeah, kind of a little place. It's like, do this,
it's not as bad as this other thing, and it might help a little bit in some ways. So those senescent
cells and their SASP, senescence-associated secretory phenotype, which is the jargon,
the cytokines and stuff. Yeah, they're like their acronyms.
It's producing inflammation. So that has the implications for your fewer immune system as you
get older. But if you target those cells to eliminate them, so one of the things they did was
they genetically engineered mice with one of the markers, so genes that are expressed in senescent
cells. And then once they would have reached adulthood, they gave them the stroke, which
caused all of the senescent cells to basically just kill themselves off. So what you end up with
is a mouse that as an adult can be induced to suddenly lose all of its senescent cells.
That sounds brilliant. Yeah, and depending on how you administer it. Yeah, it's usually
through some kind of programmed cell death like autophagy. It just induces that process in the
senescent cells. Although sort of one of the properties of senescent cells is they're not
great at apoptosing. So you can kind of force and measure it. It seems like it would be really
traumatic for the mouse, depending on how many of the cells were sent. Yes, and I think the way that
they, I forget the exact regimen they used to look some of the stuff up, it's not really my niche,
as it were. But they, I think you can dose the drug, the doctor's cycling is what they usually
use over time. So it's not sort of one acute, no, all those senescent cells die now. It's a bit more
gradual than that. But if you look at mice that have had this done, it's night and day, right?
There's like a perfectly youthful looking, brown, smooth-coated, bright-eyed, perky,
straight-spine mouse. And then next to it is like a gray, bent, kyphotic spine, just generally
decrepit-looking mouse. And yeah, it's a really, it's amazing. At the same age, yeah.
How long can this go on for? Like, because the mouse just keep doing this indefinitely?
Well, definitely, but I think, yeah, not indefinitely. But if increased a mouse lifespan
to like 10 years, right, where normally it would be like three years? I don't actually know what
the sort of record is for mouse lifespan, and it would vary by strain. But yeah, they've done,
there are interventions that have seriously extended mouse lifespan by quite a considerable amount.
I have two questions about this. The first one, kind of sillier, does the mouse get smaller each
time? No, actually, weirdly, the one that's healthier looking is quite a lot bigger, physically.
So those senescent cells get replaced by something else that's
Yeah, and I think that also there's less, yeah, it's a very good question, come to think of it.
I'm not, yeah. Yes, they're also, they're post-mysotic, they're no longer dividing. Yes.
Yeah, that's a sort of self-destruct, yeah. No, no, just a sort of more average-looking
size as opposed to exhibiting frailty, right? As we get older, we get kind of, you know, thinner,
and skin gets looser and, you know, bone density drops and all that unpleasant stuff.
Yeah, it's not like, because they're like the biggest possible people around.
They're like, monsters, they don't get older, they just get bigger.
There is an interesting paradox relationship there, actually, with
size of organisms. So generally speaking, the bigger an organism, the longer it lives.
But within species, smaller individuals of a given species tend to live longer.
Yay. Yeah, so it's a weird thing. I'm like five-two.
Damn it, I'm gonna die soon. So my second question, and I think the far more important one is,
can this be done in humans, too?
The mouse one with the sort of, uh, senolytic thing, where they break down the,
that is, so the particular mouse approach is not really applicable to humans because it requires
genetically engineering from birth with this expression cassette.
Well, can at least our children be made this way so they have better lives?
In theory, if we go ahead with the whole genetic engineering of our kids thing,
and, you know, that's the safety of that.
Yeah, so that's, that's the whole other thing. I think we should probably
pursue the whole German genetic engineering route as a species, but that's like, you know,
another debate. The safety arguments really get to me because if, if you don't pursue it,
you're gonna die anyway. The lethality rate of a typical human is 100%.
So there is no safety argument, right? You don't want to accidentally
genetically engineer kids that like diet six, you know, but that would be kind of a tragedy.
If you die at 66, that's also a tragedy. So, you know, you're gonna die anyway.
The very least society regards it as less of a tragedy. Man, society's a load of crap.
So right now, there's no way to reverse engineer them into living.
Actually, this is one of the most sort of interesting areas of drug development
in the anti-aging space at the moment. So, senolytics, which is a class of compounds
that will cause senescent cells to be broken down as a drug intervention.
A lot of those are being funded as investigations at the moment. So there's
sort of, you know, some preclinical work and stuff going on with a bunch of
start-up companies. There's a lot of Silicon Valley people interested.
Can you get me into one of these trials?
I'm afraid I don't have those kind of connections.
Not yet, anywhere.
If you can get me into one of those trials, I will be your guinea pig.
Yeah, but that is a, that's definitely an area that people are very much looking into.
There's a lot of diversity of senescent cells.
There's a lot of debate around the precise definition of what they are.
There's different sort of subtypes and successfully targeting senescent cells
so that you have a compound that will only kill senescent cells.
It's kind of analogous to the cancer cell problem, right?
You need something that will only kill the cancer cells.
You need something that will only kill the senescent cells.
But in the senescent cell case, you have less of a tolerance for toxicity
because you're dealing with otherwise healthy people.
What the hell makes cells get senescent in the first place?
Yes, so that's an interesting one.
I mean, like, if you want to get only slightly facetious,
now that's a hard word to say, facetious,
then the second law of thermodynamics.
God damn it.
Like, kind of.
So there's this interesting situation we have where we're an energetically open system, right?
So theoretically, that's not too much of an issue because we can take energy
and we can use it to do stuff, including repair things.
But there's an interesting sense in which we're an informationally closed system.
So here, I find it useful to talk about
Nassim Talib's coinage of antifragility.
So you've got this notion of antifragility, which is something which is made
stronger or better by stress in the environment, right?
And then you've got robustness, which is something which is only
resistant to damage.
And then there's fragility, right?
So and the metaphor that he uses is the sort of damocles is fragile,
a phoenix is robust, and a hydra is antifragile.
Because, you know, you cut off a head, it grows another one.
So the genome...
Grows two more.
Sorry?
If you cut off the head, it grows two more.
Yes, two more, actually, yeah.
Getting actively stronger.
So as with, as is usual, we have to talk about evolution a little bit now,
because as Theodosia Stozamsi said, nothing in biology makes sense,
except in the light of evolution.
So in a population, the genome is antifragile because there's a feedback loop
between what the genome causes to be the phenotype and what the genes end up being,
right?
So that's the process of natural selection.
So the genotype causes the phenotype, which is what the organism is and looks like and does,
and then you've got the consequences of that in the environment,
which is where a natural selection acts.
So if a gene has a consequence which is good for the phenotype and therefore is selected for
in this particular environment, you've got a mechanism that can correct what the genome looks
like.
It can undergo what's called purifying selection or other forms of selection, right?
So you can, in the specific case of fixing something that works if it gets broken,
like in maintaining state, that's purifying selection.
So an individual, on the other hand, doesn't have that, right?
If an individual, you're only robust, you're not antifragile because there's no connection
between what your genome is doing to the environment back to the genome.
But I mean, I can see the whole culling and reproducing to drive evolution thing happening,
but couldn't that work just as well if the environment culled people due to them becoming
too unfit for the environment, rather than just having an expiration date on every individual?
So there's slightly different things that I'm talking about.
So the point that I'm trying to make, for me as an individual, there's not a feedback loop
between what my genome is causing my body to be and what my genome is.
But if there's a population of me and there's a selection effect going on,
there's feedback that connects what my phenotype is to what my genotype is.
Yeah, I agree. But I mean, your phenotype or your population would keep getting stronger
through just the natural process of culling and replenishment, even if the strongest one
from the last generation wasn't automatically killed for no good reason.
Oh yes, yeah. But my point is just that me as an individual, I'm robust.
My genome is robust. It's not antifragile because, yeah, because there's not that feedback loop,
which means that if my genome starts going wrong, if I start to accumulate some mutations,
there's not like an external point of reference. I can't go to something else
to appeal, what should my genome look like? Yeah, you can't factory reset.
Exactly. So there's only so much redundancy. You've got two copies of your genome and all
yourselves. So if you get some mistakes, and there's a whole bunch of really impressive and
complex mechanisms for repairing DNA damage, but that's all they can do, right? They can
repair the damage. They've got a finite set of information with which to work.
So when you think about it as a physical system, it's kind of an information transmission
problem, right? You've got a set of genotype information that you're trying to send forward
in time. And the physics of signaling mean that there's a sort of finite amount of energy
that you can expend to maintain a certain probability, right? So if you want to maintain
the state of a particular bit, if you want to know that this bit will always be one,
then you have to expend a certain amount of energy to maintain that state with a given
probability for a certain time horizon, right? So it's primarily that the genome degrades
over time beyond the ability of the cell to be useful still?
That is, it's a little bit more complicated than that, because it's not like we're accumulating so
