many mutations that everything starts sort of breaking down. And that's where the epigenetic
information theory also sort of comes back in, because it's not all of the cells information
is in the genome. A lot of it is and relevant parts of it are. And there's definitely a role for
genetic damage in aging, like you because DNA repair mechanisms come up over and over again
in premature aging syndromes. So these progeroid diseases where individuals age really rapidly,
a lot of those rare genetic diseases have mutations in DNA repair mechanisms. So DNA repair and
maintaining DNA state, definitely important. But it has also there's also implications for
the epigenetic information. So even if you've not accumulated enough mutations to for that to be
catastrophic for your body functioning, you may have accumulated enough epi mutations. So
back to what we talked about earlier with the the epigenetic information sort of encoding
the information about what state a cell should be in about maintaining a particular differentiation.
If you like the same physical principles apply as to the genetic information, right?
If that gets degraded, if there's some loss of information, because there's a finite amount
of energy you can expend on maintaining it, then it you start to get that de differentiation
phenotype. Okay. So it's so it's mostly about the epigenetic information getting degraded over time.
It's kind of a mix of both. We don't really know to what extent it's epigenetically mediated to
what extent it's genetically mediated. It's actually very challenging to characterize
like low frequency mutations, like how often they occur in somatic cells and in the adult organism.
And it wasn't just the genome, right? I don't know if you agree with the like
Aubrey degrees five factors of aging or hever many factors they're worried about like. Yes.
Yeah. It's a bunch of systems breaking down. The whole hallmarks of aging hypothesis. Yeah.
I mean, so all of that, I think to some degree links back to this sort of this
information problem, because you start getting feedback cascades, right? So once you lose a
little bit of that's that you lose a bit of genetic information, right? So you have a mutation
that affects your ability to repair DNA. That means that you have a higher probability of
subsequent mutations, because you've got an impairment in the repair process. And the same
thing can apply in other systems like epigenetic systems. So if you get us, you know, point
mutation that affects your ability to accurately continue to maintain the epigenetic state,
then that can begin to become corrupted over time. So you get these positive feedback loops
where you lose one piece of regulation of one system and that causes some other system to no
longer function as well at maintaining its state and so on. Yeah. And then like, so some of what
causes aging is sort of your body trying to mitigate this damage to extend the lifespan rather than
like the example of the senescent cells. It's sort of, it's like a jury rig to keep the organism
going. And it also comes back to the evolutionary question again, because there is a certain amount
of selection for a given lifespan, or at least a sort of minimum degree of functionality at a
point in time, right? So I mean, evolution's utility function is to maximize for inclusive
genetic fitness, right? That's what it's sort of grinding to do. Reproductive fitness. Reproductive
fitness. Yeah. So if your, if your reproductive fitness is in some degree orthogonal to your
longevity, then it will optimize for the reproductive fitness and not the longevity,
right? Longevity is not necessarily coupled to reproductive fitness. So evolutionally,
to the degree that it is. So there's definitely, there's definitely a degree of coupling, but
they're not perfectly coupled. They're not perfectly aligned. Like there's the thing where
social species, evolution, like humans or elephants live long past reproductive,
like a reproductive age, because having grandparents increases the genetic fitness of the offspring.
Absolutely. And the offspring is offspring. But like with the example of elephants,
it just keeps the elder elephant around long enough to ensure that like the grandchildren
have a better chance at life, but their teeth fall out. Yep. And they just slowly start to
death. It's horrible. Yeah, it's really, it's, yeah, that and humans have this too, because like
having grandparents is super beneficial for us as well as for elephants. Yeah. Well, we can talk.
I mean, elephants can sort of talk, but we can, you know, tell the history of our tribes and explain,
you know, what to do in case of a war or where I hid my cash of gold.
That's right. It can get really interesting looking at model systems that are short-lived.
So there's a really interesting collection of species called African turquoise killy fish
that live in seasonal like lakes. So they have the whole life cycle in a, so in a series of weeks
in the rainy season. So they're in a puddle. Yeah, basically in a puddle, right? On this kind of
these like seasonal lakes that are sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller. And there's a bunch of these
related killy fish species that have slightly different lifespans that are tuned to how long
the water lasts in their particular set of lakes. So you get this effect where if you don't need to
live long enough to, if you don't need to live longer, then evolution stops caring about the
other stuff. You get this notion of the selection shadow, right? So after you've reproduced,
evolution no longer cares about whether or not you're functioning unless that has an impact on
the reproductive success of your kids, right? It's the weight caveat for the oddballs that are
elephants and us, right? So there's this kind of use it or lose it thing in biology where
if those genes are not being selected for to do this maintenance, then if we can get an edge
in reproduction out of changing them, or if we can just save a bit of energy so we can do more
other stuff that's not relevant to living longer, right? So maybe this gene has an effect that would
cause you to live longer. But if you can tweak it a little bit to be slightly worse at that,
but it doesn't matter because you're going to die because of the floods going to be over.
Yeah, big energy to have more eggs. Yeah. So you get this like evolution will cannibalize
longevity in a situation where it's beneficial to spend that energy somewhere else, because you
have always got a finite energy budget. So what I'm hearing is that this is all my ancestors fault
for not continuing to fuck well into their hundreds. That's the strategy that like tortoises
use. Like there's a go apacus tortoise that lives. How old did they live? Very long time.
Yeah, some absurd number of hundreds of years. It's yeah. They stay they continue to be fertile,
right? I believe so. Yeah, for quite a long time. So they long live species that I don't get
like parrots or whatever. Maybe that's just random. Like the evolution didn't cannibalize those
longevity genes. Presumably, there is some environmental factor that makes that work for
them. Yeah, parrots a bad example, because that's also a social social species. Yeah. Yeah. Trying
to think of something else though. I know there's like immortal clams and stuff like that, but
then we may as well just be comparing alien species. Well, the clams presumably get some
selective benefit from living as long as they do. There's this other concept that's quite useful
called antagonistic pleiotropy, which is kind of an unnecessarily complicated name. But so antagonistic
just, you know, against antagonists. And then pleiotropy means to have many functions or multiple
functions. So a gene which has a beneficial effect in the short term for reproduction, but a cost
later on in later life can be selected for because evolution isn't seeing that cost in later life
effectively. So that can mean that you have, yeah, selection for stuff that will be detrimental
later on, but happens to work out well early on. Okay. So maybe in theory, we could be much less
fertile in youth and live to be much longer, but evolution never saw that thing as useful.
Yeah. Yeah. That might be a... So what I have is a pet peeve about how the pop idea of evolution
always sort of almost substitutes it for God. Like, oh, and the power of evolution, like they
characterize it as this beneficial force. I'm just like, no, evolution's terrible. The system of
non-random death. Red in tooth and claw. Yeah, that's not pretty, not at all. So earlier, you
mentioned that synolytics are being worked on, like drugs that would target senescent cells and
misjuvenate people that way. How far out is that? How are things looking? Do you know anything
about that? So the synolytics are still pretty early, as far as I can tell. I'm not super current
in their development. I can probably point to a few new sources, if people are interested,
where you might get more current information about develops there. But there was a pretty
clinical trial that didn't go terribly well, aiming that treating, I think, was arthritis
in the knees with a synolytic compound. But I don't think that should necessarily be read as
being a serious problem for synolytics. It was a small early trial, and more of a safety thing. I
think the efficacy could easily be better than might be suggested. So didn't go terribly well,
you mean it didn't do what it wasn't supposed to, or you mean it like blew up people's knees?
Didn't do what it was supposed to. I think from a safety perspective, it was, if I'm
recalling correctly, it was fine. But I should probably, if we're entering into the discussion
of drugs, so I should probably just like, I am not a medical doctor. I did not take anything
that I say about longevity interventions here as medical advice. If you do anything to intervene
in your medical regimen, do so in consultation with your physician. Do not take advice about
it from random people on the internet, like myself. Right. That said, yeah, do you have like,
what would be your guess as to how synolytics are coming along, how many years or decades or
for something initially functional? I would not be surprised to see some synolytics on the market
for specific treatments like something like arthritis in the next five years or so.
Holy shit. Something, I mean, that's kind of a moderately optimistic timeline.
But for synolytics, particularly for general purpose longevity intervention, I think that
would be a longer time horizon, more in the 10 to 20 year window. And again, the effect sizes
are not necessarily huge. We don't know how much of an impact on lifespan they have.
So even if it's a small one where you're seeing a couple of extra years on average,
they might start using them as longevity interventions. But it depends what your
degree of interest is in marginal gains as it were. Similar with a lot of the other longevity
interventions or supposed longevity interventions that are on the market or that are popular by
people in this space. So there's a few that I mean, you mentioned in the last episode,
NAD boosters, NMN and NR, those are pretty popular. They seem like just a priori, those are
the sort of things you'd expect to be pretty safe because that's a very prevalent molecule in the
body as is. It's a very fundamental to metabolic processes. So from a safety perspective, I take
NMN supplements, I think they're probably like safe as to how likely they are to actually be
effective at lifespan extension. That's yet to be borne out by a good systematic study. Other
popular ones are metformin and rapamycin. Metformin is normally prescribed as an
anti diabetic drug or as a drug to control diabetes. But there's some reasonable evidence
that that has an effect on extending longevity. I mean, it's relatively small effect size, but
it seems to be there. There's pretty strong evidence for that in mice. And there's work in place to
have a large scale human trial on that one because it's metformin. Yeah, righty. That's going in my
black market. I mean, do a lot of research on it because it has adverse effects that you might not
find to be the cost benefit analysis. Absolutely. Yeah. And I made some notes before the show. I
can send you a couple of links for reference. But yeah, this is one of like NADs probably fine.
That's the one I take because I just say probably I can't see much that's likely to go wrong there.
Metformin and rapamycin, slightly different stories.
What are the side effects? It sounds like they're not good. Well, it sounds like you're extra bad
from the hesitancy I heard. So metformin, I don't know much about the specifics of the
side effects of metformin, to be honest with you. So it increases lactic acidosis. If too much
metformin accumulates, you could get chronic or acute kidney problems or liver problems or even
heart failure, which that's like all worst case scenario things. Well, getting heart failure
from trying to not get old sounds like a bad compromise. Yeah. People who advocate for a
lot of this stuff will make the case that getting old is the single largest risk factor for heart
failure. That's true. And for the most part, those risks are like for a lot of drugs,
the added risk profiles are like for kind of rare edge cases. A lot of people won't experience
many of the specific side effects. Sometimes the side effects are very prevalent, but something
that's as severe as heart failure is unlikely to be a very common side effect of a drug that is in
common use. And metformin is used a lot. Stomach effects are a very common side effect though.
So you have to trade off the potential to live two, three years longer than you might have
with just having chronic diarrhea or other kinds of stomach disturbance.
Again, there's a lot of individual to individual variability. Some people will have
very limited side effects, others will have quite severe ones. It's dependent on people's
individual genetics and environment, microbiome, all kinds of stuff. And rapamycin is perhaps the most
controversial potential longevity drug. Some people make a very strong case for it,
but it is used. The mouse that won the Methuselopros, they used rapamycin.
Yeah, it is, it's one that has a pretty reasonable effect from what we can see,
but it is an immunomodulator and is used in immunosuppression in some areas.
So during COVID times.
Well, this is the thing. It's not necessarily, so it's an immunomodulator, not an immunosuppressant
as such. So there's the specific, like, I think it's transplants.
Where it sort of reduces the risk of like transplant rejection. But there are other cases
where it might actually improve immune function in certain areas. So it's not,
it's not a straightforward, like just dial down all immunity drug. There are more nuances to it
than that. So I mean, these are the ones that, for example, David Sinclair has said before,
he takes all three of those as a cocktail.
How did he get prescriptions for them? Or is he also sailing the high seas?
I don't know exactly, but he has, he always talks about having like a sack of rapamycin
in his basement. They just like takes a tablespoon of the stuff. It's like,
I don't know about rapamycin, but I think metformin is pretty easy to get.
Yeah, metformin. Yeah, it's, I mean, it's like, if you do analysis on river water,
you see trace amounts of metformin. That's how commonly it's prescribed these days.
It's all over the place for diabetics.
I guess all you got to do is knock over a rapamycin bank one time and you're set for life.
Yeah, so now I got to hook up from David. Who knows.
So what exactly do you do in the research field in here? Are you working on the,
directly with a similar company?
No, I'm not doing any sort of corporate work. So my PhD work was, well, one of the things I
was looking at was trying to create epigenetic clocks, which actually is a thing that's worth
talking about because, so an epigenetic clock is effectively just a means of estimating how old
you are based on the state of your epigenome. So you take a machine learning model, or it's a
pretty simple machine learning model for those interested. It's just, I mean, barely machine
learning is, they usually use elastic net regression, which is sort of a compromise between
ridge and lasso regression, to pick a set of estimators. So a set of, in the case of DNA
methylation clocks, particular CPG sites, which is where the methylation takes place,
you look at the amount of methylation that's present on a collection of sites, and that gives
you a very accurate prediction of how old someone is. So if I take a measurement of the
methylation state, and then I run this predictor on those numbers, I will be able to pretty
accurately predict how old you are, or at least how old an average of a population is,
how good it is at individuals is a bit variable, but a very good estimate for the average of a
population age. Have you taken the test yourself? No, I have not. Oh, okay. Yeah, that would be fun
to do. Yes, yeah. So in order to actually create one of these estimators, you're doing usually
a DNA methylation assay. So you take some blood, the DNA methylation assay is used,
something called an array technology, which is originally used for doing genotyping. So
you can treat the DNA that you extract from an individual with a chemical process involving
bisulfite that will change all of the non-methylated seeds so that they will pair differently. And
then you run this array, and you can see whether or not, when you try to incorporate a new nucleotide,
if it's changed, so you can infer whether or not a site has a methylation or not. So with that,
each of these probes at a site has a particular location in the genome. So from that information,
which uses a fluorescent probe, so you kind of shine a laser on this glass slide with a bunch
of little dots on it, and each one, depending on the color, tells you whether or not the
particular location in the genome is methylated. So then you have this big list of sites in the
