Hey everyone, quick announcement for this episode. The software we used to record remote episodes
presented an issue for me this week.
It recorded about the first couple of minutes, and that was like the warm-up talks, I don't think that's in the episode, but
didn't record the rest, although it pretended like it was the entire time.
So when I downloaded my file, I got a 2 minute 17 second file while everyone else got their 2 hour in change file.
What this means is that none of my audio will be in the episode, which is going to result in a unique listening experience.
I talk a bit less during the actual
content portion of the episode with Richard. I think it's going to still be a little challenging,
listening to him respond to questions that I asked, but there's really nothing I could do. One alternative
would have been to like listen to it, try to remember what I said and
record that and paste it in, but that would lead to like a bunch of like having to re-sync after every time that I did that, plus
I think it would still be pretty disjointed and it would have taken forever. So we actually recorded this the weekend before Christmas and
I've been reluctantly sitting on it while I attempted to hear back from their support team,
Zencaster, that is the service we use, which is overall great and affordable.
It's just it, I think it's my computer or something, something weird happened.
It also happens during the episode that we did with LAO Zeodkowski for We Want More, the finale episode,
but fortunately I had it back up recording running during that one because I didn't want to get screwed again. So
anyway,
sorry for the sort of jumbled best you can expect to get during this one.
Like I said, there's really nothing that could be easily done about it.
I do need to give a big shout out to John Peterson, our patron for this week since I was the one who named him during the
The Thank a Patron section at the end. So
thanks, John, you rock and you'll be able to hear Inyash and Jace agree, though you won't
It'll again sound a little disjointed. So sorry about this everyone and especially sorry to Richard for
having the episode, your first episode on, be kind of a wreck, but you came through great.
So when you come back on for future episodes, we'll make sure that nothing like this happens again and
Thanks for putting up with us everybody.
Yes.
The Back July
Welcome to the Basing conspiracy. I'm Inyash Brotsky. Richard Aktin. Richard Aktin!
Who are you and why are you on this podcast?
Well, so I am currently a postdoctoral researcher and bioinformatician on the technical staff
at a research institute called CCAD in Cologne in Germany. And I study aging biology.
Nice. So the reason you came was specifically because you heard our launch of the episode a
couple of episodes back and you said you had things to say about that.
Yes. Yeah. I heard you were. Yes. And as a long-term fan of the show and some of your other works,
I thought I'd take the opportunity to contribute. That is awesome. That is the...
Oh, I was going to say that's the best part of having an audience of people who are really into
tech and research stuff that every now and then someone was like, I know something about this,
let me help you guys out. And that's awesome because we learn a lot more and hopefully our
audience does as well. Yeah. And scientists are always looking for interesting outlets to share
their work right now. Because most people, we spend most of our time talking to you know
about what we do because they're like in our niche. Is that probably a little bit boring of it?
Okay. You talk to other people. Then... Did you say... Yeah. Go on. Go ahead. Did you say
bio-mathematician? No, no, bioinformatician. I am not a mathematician. Well, I mean,
that's just as confusing. What is a bioinformatician? Okay. Yeah. So I mean,
a little bit more clarity on what I actually do day to day. So I have a weird split because I'm
50-50 between a technical role and a research role. So I'm in the lab of beyond Schumacher where I do
research work, analyzing data for my own research questions and for others in that group. And then
in the technical role, I'm doing a bunch of research analysis work, a lot of sequencing
data analysis for other people in the Institute and setting up some of the core bioinformatics
infrastructure. So at the moment, I'm trying to learn a bunch of infrastructure as code stuff
like Docker so I can set up a server for running a bunch of bioinformatics tools. But yeah.
What would those tools do? The one I'm trying to work on is basically to set up a tool to let
other researchers with less command line experience use a bunch of bioinformatics tools
that otherwise are very difficult to use. It's called Galaxy. But yeah, we're getting
a little of the weeds there now. So what is the bioinformatics thing? Is that just,
is that information on biological systems? It's data science for biology, basically.
Okay. Yeah. And well, I mean, to be honest, the bioinformaticians came first and the data
scientists kind of in many ways branched out from a lot of stuff that was initially in bioinformatics
because genomic information was kind of some of the first data sets that were really big. So the
sort of the big data bioinformatician, well, the big data data scientists that we know today,
a lot of them had kind of a start as sequencing data really started to get big.
So you guys are like the data hipsters and all these people are like just new on the scene trying
to attend like we're here. We're all writing in Pearl. And
yeah, well, we moved on, but still. Cool. Yeah. I mean, I can, I can offer the perspective of
someone working in the field. So I'm not like, I'm not super current specifically on the sort of,
like longevity interventions that I mean, I could talk a little bit to those, but like,
that's not really my area of expertise. I'm kind of more about the basic biology
underpinning aging and specifically the epigenetics of aging. Yeah.
Okay. Yes. Would you like me to give the spiel on that again? Okay. Sure. So I'm
co-hosting a podcast with my friend, Michael Glinker, where we are talking about a sci-fi series
of books by Octavia Butler. It's the Xenogenesis trilogy. We're talking about the first one,
and it's kind of in the style of we want more or we got worm where I'm Stephen and
yeah, and Michael's Brian. So I've read it and he hasn't. And I get to have fun about that.
Awesome. And what is the podcast called? It's called Xenothesis. You can find it at Xenothesis.com.
Awesome. I have not. Xenogenesis is the trilogy also for some reason rebranded as Lilith Brood
later after the fact in like a re-release. And then I didn't realize those were the same thing.
Okay. Yeah. I've read Wild Seed and like I love that book and a few of her short stories that I've
read. I've loved them. I just, there's so much out there to read. I don't, you know, I've never
had so much time. Yeah. The great thing about this series of books was, we're both biologists,
me and my co-host, and there's a bunch of really interesting biology that gets kind of a much more,
I think, fuller treatment in this particular sci-fi story than it does in many other sci-fi stories.
That's why I picked it. How far through the series are you so far? I just edited on 19th episode.
And how many do you think they're going to be total? Oh, and I forgot to compute that. I should
have checked. How far to the trilogy are you at this point then, I guess? So we're only in the
first book. I think we're probably about two thirds of the way into the first book now.
Okay. So probably about 90 episodes altogether. Yeah. Yeah. If we decide to carry on directly
into the sequels, we might do something else. We're not entirely certain yet. Yeah. Awesome.
I had a suit really exciting. I love that there's more and more of these because like, it's just
more fun reading books when you have these sorts of analyses. Yeah. Yeah. It's a, I loved reading
Worm with We've Got Worm as a companion. It was, yeah. I have a book club where every two weeks
we get together and meet and talk about the book that we all read together over the last two weeks.
And that's like, that really makes reading a lot more fun to have someone else talk about it with
later. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. It's a great excuse to hang out with friends podcasting as well.
Yeah. Absolutely. You have like an external commitment to keep to the schedule.
Which is the older you get. Yeah. The older you get, the more you need that. Yeah.
You no longer feel like it's okay just to like go over to someone's house and hang out for a few
hours. Yeah. Everything's got to be on the clock for something earlier.
Like I could hang out or I could use those few hours to get this done. Yeah. There's always more
to get done. Always. So before we get into the meat of the episode, shall we do our
less wrong posts like we normally do? Just in time. Not by being like in the middle of somebody
talking. Yeah. I'm currently visiting my parents for Christmas. So I'm in Farnham in the UK.
But yeah, I moved to Germany six months ago. So I'm normally in Cologne.
It's awesome. How many time zones different is Germany from Britain?
Just the one. Just the one. Okay. I realized as I was asking that, I'm like, I could just Google
that. I don't know why I'm wasting the time of someone with expertise in bioinformatics on
stupid time zone questions. Well, evidently it needs to be done more because that way I would
get the math right when I did.
Well, it has. Yeah. I was able to get my morning walk. So it worked out fine. Nice.
All right. So as I was saying, the less wrong posts, shall we jump into those?
Absolutely. All right. The first one actually in sequence is Petrov day,
which we are not going to get into because we've spoken of Petrov days several times before, I
believe. I think the one that we had the most to say on it was episode 69. Culture were 2.0,
which was two years ago on Petrov day that came out or close to Petrov day when someone pushed
the button on accident during one of the Petrov simulators, which we had to comment on because
it was pretty awesome. Yeah. We had a really good Petrov day, little rationalist meet up here.
Yeah. We did the ceremony with the candles. Nice. You know what? Next year, maybe we should
have the ceremony and then report back on it afterwards for the episode because this year,
a bunch of us just didn't go due to a combination of COVID and the fires that made the air hard to
breathe. Yeah. Yeah. You know, the pandemic and everything was on fire. Yeah. It's a weird time
to live. So Petrov day came up in our podcast too, actually. It's because it's a post-nuclear
war world. It seemed relevant. Yeah. I love the fact that we've sort of got our own holiday thing
going. Yeah. Nice to have some rationalist rituals, I suppose you might call them.
But yeah, it takes a while. What we really need to do is like be born into rationalism and then
have our parents raising us with these rituals as if they're a normal thing. Well, no, I mean,
it should totally be opt-in. But like Christmas doesn't feel weird because we've all been
surrounded by Christmas since we were born, right? Yeah. Opt-in gets complicated for children.
Yeah. Like if I were to move to a new society where it had something like Christmas, but I'd
never been around for it, I might think it was strange. I still think it's strange. I mean,
I went to Walmart the other day and there was just everything garishly lit and horrible Christmas
music playing and all the employees wearing like... You mean wonderful Christmas music?
It's so aggressive. At least that's actually in December, right? If it's before this month then
it's... Oh yeah. It hasn't even been Thanksgiving and there's like Christmas stuff. Yeah. I feel
like it's like Halloween and then Christmas now immediately. Yeah. Thanksgiving has been
completely absorbed by the Christmas monster. Oh my God.
Maybe there was celebrating to have Petrof Day. That's like the 20th.
The 26th, yep. Yeah.
So... Okay. Well, I think Eliezer put it best. So I'm just going to read his post,
how to convince me that 2 plus 2 equals 3. He starts it off by saying that
rashless but a heavy premium on the paradoxical seeming claim that a belief is only really
worthwhile if you could in principle be persuaded otherwise, saying if your retina ended up in the
same state regardless of what light entered it, you would be blind. But then a poster commented
that I cannot conceive of a situation that would make 2 plus 2 equals 4 false. And so Eliezer wrote
this post in reply, which I just wanted to comment on real quick. This is like the coolest thing
that it wasn't just like a series of missives sent from on high. Like this was a whole community
thing with comments going back and forth and people talking. And this post in the sequences
is a direct result of somebody commenting on something he said, which is really cool. Yeah.
Yeah. It's, I don't know. I think that made a big difference in what less wrong was and, you
know, why less wrong 2.0 is working as well. Because again, it's more of a collaborative
thing with a lot of people working together than than just like, here's my blog about what I want
to talk about. Yeah. I realized I had this thought like I wish I'd been around when they were being
released and when everybody was interacting. And I realized actually I kind of was for silly
start codex, which had a really similar thing going on. So excited to have Eliezer and Brian
interact. It's going to be so hilarious. But he does have some questions lined up.
Okay. So I guess what he draws the comparison to is why you think that 2 plus 2 equals 4
nowadays. And that's mainly because when you have two things, and then you have two more things,
you have a number of things that is, you know, four basically. It's just the way physical
reality is. But he says, suppose I got up one morning and took out two earplugs and set them
down next to two other earplugs on my night table. And notice that there are now three earplugs
without any earplugs having appeared or disappeared. Moreover, when I visualize the process in my own
mind, it seems that making 2x's and 2x's come out to 4x's required an extra x to appear from
nowhere. Also, I would check a pocket calculator, Google, and perhaps my copy of 1984 where Winston
writes that freedom is the freedom to say 2 plus 2 equals 3. And none of these were put like
directly after each other like that. I'm cutting out a bunch of things in the middle for speed.
But what he comes down to is saying that what would convince me that 2 plus 2 equals 3, in other
words, is exactly the same kind of evidence that currently convinces me that 2 plus 2 equals 4.
The evidential crossfire is physical observation, mental visualization, and social agreement.
And yeah, he also talks about like, then he would have to start wondering, why did he
ever think 2 plus 2 equals 4? Was he seen as a simulation as someone like tried to put brain
damage on him? What was it that was so wrong about his viewpoint? But I mean, on the one hand,
I have an incredibly hard time visualizing how you could have two things and two things. And yet
somehow when those are thought of as together, you have three things. But like, if that's the
way reality worked, you can't really argue with reality, right? There's plenty of things that
reality does. Yeah. Well, you couldn't just take, you couldn't take two barrels away again, because
then you would have three barrels again. Because if 2 plus 2 equals 3, then 3 minus 2 equals 2 again.
Yeah. I mean, I think the point that he's trying to make is less about the specifics of
arithmetic and more about radical empiricism, right? I love that the first instinct was to like,
start munchkinning it and start lawyer munchkinning with a rationalist response. Yes.
Well, yeah, it'd be lopsided with only three wheels, but you would have four wheels, so it'd
be okay. All right, let's figure out how we can gain the stock market. Well, why did you only buy
three tires, sir? Three wheel cars would just be those three wheeled cars. I also... Tricks.
It's all a scheme to get you to buy more tires than you need. Yeah. I was reminded before we move on
of a story that appeared in Strange Horizons, which is a cool online magazine that actually
pays professional rates for those of us who try to sell things sometimes. But back in 2000,
there was a story called The Secret Number, which I don't remember too much of, except it was a
detective murder mystery short story, where there's a mathematician that's been killed at the beginning,
and his assistant keeps claiming that it was the secret number that killed him,
because it doesn't want to be found out. And it turns out there's a secret number between
three and four called BLEEM. And obviously, the guy doesn't believe him. There's something like
questioning, how could this work? Blah, blah, blah. He's like, it just does. They're hiding.
And so they arrest him. And the next morning, the assistant is found dead. And he's like,
oh, it must be a suicide. He felt so guilty for killing the mathematician guy. But then at the
very end, there's three jelly beans left on the murder room nightstand. And one of the detective
assistant picks it up and is like, hey, look, free jelly beans. And the first detective is like,
no, don't. And he eats the jelly bean, and he looks down on the night table, and there's three
jelly beans left. Because the mathematician managed to isolate BLEEM jelly beans rather than three or
four. Yeah, it's a fun little story. It reminds me a bit of this is really weird movie about
like the whole P equals NP thing. And some mathematician discovers some like,
hacky shortcut to prove that it's the case. And he can solve stuff in polynomial time. And then
