there's a whole like conspiracy, I can't remember the name of this film, but are you thinking of Pi?
I don't think so. Maybe at the very end.
You know, it's been so long since I've seen it, I can't remember. Oh, and there's like a cabal
of orthodox Jews that are after him in addition to like dog brokers and like all these various
powerful groups around the world. That does sound kind of familiar. Because the number that he
discovered that solves the P and P problem is also the secret name of God that they've been trying
to find forever. Yeah, it sounds ridiculous, but it's really trippy and cool. It's by the
same guy who did Requiem for a Dream and some other like hardy movies. It's like the long version
of that chapter and methods where Harry does the thing with the time turner to do prime factorization
with Shor's algorithm. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it was it was a really trippy movie. And I guess I just gave
away the ending. So I'm sorry about the spoilers. Maybe we should beep that part out. Okay, thank you.
Yeah, the post ends with there's really only two possibilities for a belief effect. Either the
belief got there via a mind reality entangling process or not. And yeah, that's that's what he
was saying. That is how you would entangle your mind with reality by putting two and two jelly beans
together and somehow getting bleamed jelly beans rather than four.
Not everything has to have a beautiful segue, right? Sometimes we can just be like, and now
let's move on to the next post. It's so enjoyable watching him create them. That's true. Keep it
out. All right. There's two sealed boxes for action, A and B. Only one contains a valuable
diamond. And they're all a manner of signs and portents indicating whether a box contains a
diamond. But I have no sign which I know to be perfectly reliable. There's blue stamp on one box
and et cetera. There's some things. Now, suppose there's a clever arguer holding a sheet of paper
and they say to the owners of box A and B bid for my services and whoever wins my services,
I shall argue that their box contains the diamond so that the box will receive a higher price.
And they do that. And the box owner's bid and box owner B wins bids higher, so he wins.
And then the arguer rather starts organizing thoughts. And he says, first thing he does is
write and therefore box B contains the diamond at the bottom of the paper. And then at the top,
he starts writing in all the many factual evidences for why that is. Because there's
many signs and portents that point to one box and the other. Yeah, blue stamp. Exactly.
Yeah. But you know, of key importance is that the clever arguer ignores all the ones that might
argue in favor of box A and only writes down the ones that would argue in favor of box B.
And Alias, yes, exactly. And yeah, Alias asks us to imagine a collection of worlds where there is
some objective frequency when either box A or box B contains the diamond. If you happen to be an
English speaker, you might think that the ink that's on that paper somehow meant that box B
contained the diamond. But within the subset of worlds where the ink says box B contains the diamond,
there's already a percentage of worlds where actually box A contains the diamond. And that
does not change regardless of what's written on the blank lines above. The arguments on the blank
line above are not in any way entangled with what's actually in the box. And he contrasts this to
someone who's genuinely curious and first writes down all the distinguishing signs of both boxes
on the paper and then applies the knowledge of probability. And at the bottom says there for
estimate an 85% probability that box B contains the diamond. Since that one actually has a chain
of cause and effect that causes the ink at the bottom of the paper to say 85%, it is entangled
with the evidence. And so it will accurately reflect reflect the worlds rather than not being
entangled with the evidence at all. This is hard to summarize. Yes. But effectiveness as a
rationalist is determined by whichever algorithm actually writes the bottom line of your thoughts.
Yeah. Is sort of the summary of it. Yeah. And this postlet's become pretty famous. Go ahead. Sorry.
Yeah. All right. But you do. Arya, get out of here. Sorry, my daughter.
No. Get out of here, Stephen, with your logic and words. No. Sorry. No, I guess the thing is like
you do have some evidence. There's there's conclusions you can draw. But the important part
is like, even if the the conclusion is the same similar for both for both pieces of paper,
like with one of them, the conclusion was written down beforehand. So
none of the evidence really matters at all. And and that makes a big difference. Like,
did you write your bottom line after considering all the evidence? Or did you come to it
first and then are looking for ways to justify it? Yeah.
Yeah. This is why it is an excellent idea to publish your planned methods of analysis
in advance when doing scientific research. Yeah. Pre-registering. Exactly. Pre-registration.
Something we really don't do enough of in academic publishing. But like,
we have this exact same issue, right, where we kind of loosely formulate some hypotheses,
gather a bunch of data, and then, you know, the statistical test is definitely the most
applicable to my data because of reasons. Oh, I have gotten the impression that they
that lately become a much more common to do the pre-registering. Is it still not common enough?
Well, so there are specific disciplines, mostly medical contexts for medical trials,
where it's much more rigorously enforced. But there's a lot of subcultures within academia,
different disciplines, and different norms apply in those different communities. So many
still don't have a good norm of pre-registration. How do you feel about bioinformatics?
Well, we have a problem not even with, we have a problem with being able to reproduce our results,
let alone pre-register them. There's a whole rabbit hole that is like another episode's worth
of talking, that I fear we should probably not go down to discuss academic publishing, because
yeah, somebody was saying maybe we can have that episode in the future date.
Maybe at some point, yeah. So it's hard to even get reproductions in bioinformatics? That
because biological systems are so complex or what? Ironically, because computing systems are so
complex. We don't have enough emphasis on sort of like reproducible build environments for our
analyses and not enough norms around publication of code and proper source management. It's a whole,
like most bioinformations are trained as biologists and not as computer scientists or as
software engineers. So a lot of good practice from sort of industry software engineering
is not known to people working in bioinformatics. So yeah, it's a whole kind of a thing. And also
that the incentive structure is not great for adhering to those best practices, because
like the emphasis is on publication. And very few people reviewing publications have the
qualifications to consider those computing aspects of it as well. Like they're interested
in the methods of the specific biological questions, but not so much necessarily in the process.
There's kind of a whole new set of strong norms around reproducibility of code that needs to come
into force that haven't yet. But it takes more time to do that. And that means it takes more
time to publish, which means it doesn't get done. Yeah, because then you will perish since you did
not publish enough. Yeah. Damn, do you think is does the new generation like seem to be pushing
more for that? Or is this just a static problem? Well, there's a few people who kind of there's
enough people who are aware that it's an issue that it's starting to come up. But I think it'll
take a while for people to adapt, right? People just need to know about the existence of these
tools and the norms around that use need to get stronger, which has to come from
reviewers and publishers. And there's a whole process before the culture changes. But we'll
get there. We'll get there. With clinical research, it was having software that had to be FDA compliant
or compliant with like all of the different regulatory. Yeah, that's a whole other
challenge. Similar constraints.
Alrighty, let's, I guess, let's wrap up this post and then actually get into this stuff. Sure.
Let's see. Where were we? Oh, yeah, he brought up the example. I guess Steven said there were some
real life examples. Another one was if your car makes metallic squealing noises when you break
and you aren't willing to face up to the financial cost of getting your brakes replaced,
you can decide to look for reasons why your car might not need fixing.
And then he says, okay, this is really interesting. So I want to talk about this real quick.
But the actual percentage of you that survive in Everett branches or Tegmark worlds
is determined by the algorithm that decided which conclusion you would seek arguments for.
So obviously that's true. But there's a little aside within this, which I found really interesting
that I skipped. He says, but the actual percentage of you that survived in Everett branches or
Tegmark worlds, which we will take to describe your effectiveness as a rationalist,
which I never noticed before when reading this, but which seems to me really huge.
Is this like a good way to, to decide to describe someone's effectiveness as a rationalist?
How many of the multi worlds they survive in? It feels like that might be vulnerable to what
professional poker players call resulting. There's a similar difficulty in like evolution, right?
So if you're only updating based on outcome and not based on method, then in harsh learning
environments, you're, you won't necessarily do as well in compared to like generous or gentle
learning environments. Like the difference between chess and poker, right? Yeah. I mean,
but you can't see the outcomes because you can't see other other effort branches or Tegmark worlds.
True. But isn't, isn't that what he's trying to do here? Like jump, jump back one level and
tot up the number in which you survive? Yes, you're, you are correct. He is looking at outcomes.
Yes. So that there may be, depending on the environment, specific circumstances in which
being systematically wrong, or at least employing some mostly right, but less expensive method
that doesn't necessarily give you the best result in terms of absolute truth value might produce
better survival results. So you'd end up with a higher total, even if it wasn't objectively the
most rational strategy. Okay. I think I see, I think I see what Steven's saying that this is
an application for your, or a description of your effectiveness, only in the case of
whether breaks need replacing or not, not as like a general rule. Because like otherwise,
the most, yeah, otherwise the most effective rationalist in quotes would be the one who
never leaves the house because it's risky to go outside your door, which I don't think is actually
going to be an effective life for very many people at all, especially as we now all have,
you know, some experience with that over the last year. Yes, but it's, I don't think it is the most,
it is not the most effective way to have a world, I think, like it's, you have to
okay, yeah. Yeah, that's a similar kind of thing that produces like the origin of,
like perceptual biases, right? And it's a good heuristic shortcut for getting the answer efficiently
and not, yeah, yeah, yeah, you wouldn't like the optimization procedure is not optimizing for
like accuracy alone, it's optimizing for survival, which may require
sacrificing some accuracy for energy efficiency. Yeah. And then there's also the question of, you
know, is your survival maximized by holding up inside, probably not because then society will
not get to the point where it can overcome aging, and, and you're going to die of old age
eventually, whereas if he took some risks and went outside and helped society progress, maybe
we could get to there. Yep, which is great, great, great to the episode. That's where
the distinction between Darwinian evolutionary processes of the normal kind and memetic evolution
exists, right? That's where, so, you know, evolution is myopic. It only is interested in
what in the past produced successful results. It can't look forward and make adjustments based on
models of what I think will happen. It's only it's limited to its statistical summary of the past,
whereas memetic replicators have got feedback loops and, you know, they can model stuff and
have that advantage. That's why they took over the world. Yes. I was just watching this YouTube
video of somebody who is programming cars to run around a track and using a, what is it, evolutionary
algorithm to just, to get one that could just drive around the track correctly, and just kept,
you know, tagging that one, reproducing the one that got the furthest along the track,
and it was hilarious to watch because there was hundreds of cars just spinning in circles, crashing
into walls, and the one that would like, just by complete accident, like, end up the furthest
along the track would just reproduce that one. And then at the end, they did get like, actually,
it only took a few generations before they got one that could drive around the track.
They pointed out this is all completely by accident, though. The, you know, algorithm
doesn't know it's a car. It doesn't know it's the car in the track represents.
That's one reason why evolution is very good at producing very lateral solutions, though,
because like, have you ever seen the analogous visualization of a learning to walk
simulation? Because in that one, you get some really weird strategies to solve the problem of
get this collection of points to a further distance, right? So there's one where it just
makes a really tall thing and falls over. Okay, I mean, you solve the problem, but that's not
exactly walking. Although it was evolutionary circuit design, where some evolutionary algorithm
figured out how to make a clock without a loop. And it turned out to be exploiting some weird
physical property of the chip that nobody had thought of making a clock out of before because
it just wouldn't occur to you. Yeah, I mean, we don't even have that good of a model of the
weird physical properties of the chip, right? We just expect it to run as gates and don't think
about, you know, the slight magnetic fluctuations on it as bits flip. Yep, we think of it as an
abstraction and not as a physical system and therefore miss the shortcut. Yeah. The, Jason,
real quick, the cars, were these like small remote control cars, I'm assuming? No, it was a
simulation of cars on a track. Oh, okay. It was just a 2D, basically drawing of a track and like
the cars. And there was something, I guess, bounding the, I'm not exactly sure how it was
programmed, but the cars could move and they could only move along the track, and the track was
wavy. Okay, because at first I was visualizing like actual old, old mobiles or something,
you know, just, that would be awesome. Like if somebody programmed a bunch of self-driving cars
to try to, I mean, that there would be a waste of vehicles, but it would be really fun to watch.
Demolition derby. Yeah. That would be awesome. Yeah. If I ever win the lottery, I want to just
fund ridiculous things like that. I wonder if that would be worth it for Tesla to
fund something like that, just as they sort of, I guess it already has enough name recognition
right now. It wouldn't really help that much for publicity. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
you might get some harsher selection pressure on the edge cases, some weird stuff that wouldn't
normally crop up in road situations. You might be able to improve the functioning in those edge
cases from something like this. It would be really great if it was like a whole heap of cars,
and one of them learned to shortcut by bouncing off other cars and running them into walls.
Just got really aggressive. Yeah. It's like, I got my passengers there safely. Yep.
Everything else is on fire.
Elon Musk's marketing person because Tesla, their motto is everything else is on fire.
Honestly, isn't that like kind of the thought behind the family Hummer became really popular
in the US? Oh yeah. It's like bigger and bigger SUVs. Yeah. Brighter and brighter lights blinded
everybody else on the road. Until eventually you're running a tank or down the street. Yeah,
it was ridiculous. Okay. So to finish up, yeah, when he was talking about the algorithm you're
using, he says, in this case, the real algorithm is never repair anything expensive. If this is a
good algorithm, fine. If this is bad algorithm, oh, well, the arguments you write afterwards above
the bottom line will not change anything either way. He does say at the very end as a caution,
this is intended as a caution for your own thinking, not a fully general counterargument
against conclusions you don't like. The world's cleverest arguer may point out that the sun is
shining and yet it is still probably daytime. So yeah, people often have a habit of saying like,
oh, well, you're just writing your bottom line first to dismiss arguments, which, you know,
maybe good arguments after all. So remember that this is more for your own use. Do not be doing
this in your own thinking and handicapping yourself. But do look out for other people who
might be doing it to try to sell you something. Yeah. Now, I always thought this had interesting
implications for investigative as opposed to adversarial legal systems. In what way? In trials,
right? I mean, the normal practice is the adversarial court, at least in like descendants of the
British legal system, where, you know, you've got two sides that advocate for the side and then there's
a few investigative legal systems, I think some of the Scandinavian countries follow an investigative
approach where you don't have the sort of oppositional structure, it's more, there is an
inquiry into the events that took place. But the adversarial system has some merits from the
perspective of potential perverse incentives. There's even like the American versus the British
approach, the adversarial legal system has some interesting differences, because in the States,
