you guys have prosecutors and defense attorneys who are always on one side, always the prosecutor,
always the defense. Over here, we have barristers, they swap, they do both.
Oh, that would be an interesting change.
And then, and it's always that they always have that perspective on it, they're never on the other
side of the table. So I mean, I like that. I kind of like that system because of, you know,
people do just do bottom lining and looking for things that'll support what they already believe.
So having two people that have the bottom line of opposite, of opposite bottom lines, I think will
manage to get all the evidence out. But that's only assuming that they're both competent and,
you know, interested in doing a good job. But yeah, that does lead to problems where the people who
are always prosecutors tend to form like good relationships with the police, and they will
sometimes cover for the police and the police will do them favors and things end up not being very
fair at all if they're in bed like that. Whereas, if you had the barristers, then I'm assuming the
relationships don't get as cozy. Is that the case? Well, there's a sort of slightly different set of
cozy relationships, but it's less kind of tribally entrenched. It's a bit more
the cozy relationships are kind of with the judiciary, I think, perhaps more.
There's, you know, the crown prosecution service has its issues. It's, no, no, it's perfect. But,
you know, I think it's probably better than the American approach, to be honest.
I mean, even like our comedy shows, I've been watching Brooklyn Nine-Nine lately,
and they have the thing where all the cops, I mean, it's a comedy show, it's fun, it's lighthearted.
But every now and then they go to court, and all the cops hate the defense attorneys, because
they're like, yeah, these are the scum of the earth that are trying to get criminals off of
their time and back out on the streets. And that's, yeah, that's an unhealthy tribalism.
Sorry, another tangent. Yes, yes, it does. Nice segue. Alrighty. So, yes, everybody remember
those last two segues that we had that were really good, and pretend we said them right now.
So, Richard, you are in longevity research?
Well, so the, the Green Pie work in at the moment is focused on DNA damage repair and aging,
and the model system we primarily use is C. elegans, which is a small nematode worm.
But before this, I was doing my PhD work in the epigenetics of aging. So I was doing some stuff
with epigenetic clocks. So what does the epigenetics of aging mean? That's the reason that we
start aging due to environmental reasons? Well, to some degree. So back to basics for a moment.
You've got your DNA, you know, the conventional double helix, that's the genetic information
that doesn't change much through the course of your life. And then you have the annotations
to your genetic sequence. That's the epigenetics, right? So the epigenetics are
modifications to the DNA itself, which don't change the way that it pairs.
So I think, for example, DNA methylation, so modification to the cytosine base that
can change the way the DNA is expressed. And then DNA in your cells is packed into
chromatin, which is a collection of proteins and DNA. So it's that double helix structure that
we're all familiar with from the popular meters is wrapped around these sort of disc-like proteins
called histones. And they can also be modified. So modifications to those and different versions
of those are what you might consider to be epigenetic modifications. So they're on top of
the genetic information and provide information about which cell type a given cell might be.
So you've got the same genetic information in all your cells. So you have to ask the question of
how is it that my brain cells know to be different from my liver cells and so on.
And that's what's encoded in epigenetic information.
So it have been my understanding that epigenetics, the epigenetic changes all happen for the most
part, all happen either in gestation or early childhood. Is that true or am I wrong?
I mean, the bulk of the epigenetic program, as it were, it's laid down in development.
And then there are subsequent environmental factors that can influence epigenetic information.
I think so your characterization is pretty accurate. It's mostly like it's most plastic
to environmental influence early on and becomes somewhat lesser with age.
So like by the time you hit teens, are you done getting your epigenetic stuff modified or can
it still happen? It can still happen. Yeah, it's just that there's a like the magnitude I would say
of the sorts of changes that you could affect would be less. So the origin of epigenetics is
actually in developmental biology because it's epigenetics that sort of lay down the specifics
of the developmental program. So you start from a single zygote cell and then as that cell divides
the environmental cues around it influence what the epigenetic state of the individual cells will
be. And there's this sort of self organizing process that controls what many of those environmental
cues for an individual cell will be. So as you develop, there are particular like chemical
gradients that might tell which cell where to start differentiating to become an adult cell type.
So there's this concept of stem cells and differentiated cells that kind of an opposite
ends of this axis. You've got the pluripotent stem cells that can become any cell type that you
start out with at the zygote. And then you've got the differentiated cells which are specific
functional endpoint cells like your liver and cells and your neurons. And the developmental
program kind of dictates through epigenetic information and through environmental cues
which shape what the epigenetic information will be the path that a cell takes from that initial
pluripotent stem cell down to a differentiated cell state. So,
okay, I mean, there's a bunch of different mechanisms associated with that, but many
of them you can kind of broadly simplify. So for example, there's this concept of things
called morphogens. So it's like a chemical gradient in the environment. So let's say you've
got an animal where you've got the head at one end of the tail of the other. And then at the
head end, you've got like a really high concentration of some chemical marker at the tail end, you've
got a really low concentration. So somewhere like a quarter of the way from the back, you want to
start developing some legs, right? So whatever cells are in that area might take a cue from a
morphogen that's at about 25% of the maximum concentration at the head end that says, oh,
okay, I'm in the leg region. So I should start going in the leg direction, right? That's a kind
of slight oversimplification. But those kind of mechanisms are what yields the patterning
of an adult organism, extremely. Yeah, stuff does happen, not maybe that.
Yeah, I mean, it's not always perfect. And there are varying degrees and different organisms to
which it is defined. And to which is stochastic. Oh, yeah, yeah, it is really good. If you remember
thalidomide, I think it was the that they were prescribing for a while, thalidomide for morning
sickness. Pregnant women. That is every single time anyone says anything bad about the FDA,
everyone comes back with a thymidolide. And you're like, what time they got lucky?
Well, there was also the Tuskegee syphilis experiment. And anyway, I can talk about that.
But thalidomide caused, well, it was a good, like, I guess, pain medication for pregnant women.
I'm not actually sure what they were prescribing it for. But it caused limbs to not develop.
And they're in the babies prescribed as an anti nausea modification for morning sickness.
So there's the story there is quite interesting, because it's some
there are different isomers of the thalidomide molecule. They have
handedness, right? So there's like a left handed and a right handed version of thalidomide.
And so one is toxic, the other one is safe. Yeah. But when you synthesize them,
you get what's called a racemic mixture, which is equal parts of both.
And they hadn't done enough work in the synthesis process to ensure they could purify
out the right version. And in fact, you can safely use thalidomide for certain things today,
if you use the right isomer. Yeah, they were still totally using it in cancer care.
Which although if you're in cancer treatment, you're probably not pregnant anyway.
If you're in a clinical trial, you can't be pregnant because of that.
You have to promise that you will use like an effective form of contraception,
and you have to describe it. And they have to ask you about it every time. It's really awkward,
especially when your patients are like 84. And it's like, so you've been using protection,
and it's like, I have 84 and I have cancer. I have not been sexually active.
The government makes me ask you this.
Yes. That sucks. Also, what doesn't like
I wonder, does that have implications for how they do safety assessments for drugs for pregnant
women? Because? Oh yeah, it's like a huge debate. Yeah. It's kind of a between right now.
They went really, the government went really paranoid about it, where definitely like that
you try to err on the side of never giving any kind of drug that could have any potential of
causing like fetal harm to patients who are still of like reproductive age. But there's another lobby,
and it's kind of moving in the direction of well, it should be the parent's choice,
whether they decide to enroll in the trial and potentially to like what, you know,
eyes wide open, sign up for it, take something that could potentially harm a fetus.
I could see how the conservative approach would have better PR value. Yeah.
Doesn't everything potentially harmful to a fetus? I mean, that sounds a lot like California's,
this has been found by the government of California to potentially cause cancer thing.
Oh, well, yeah, no, it's like, unless it's in, there's like various categories, and there's a
few things that have been approved, but like very few. And if it's a research drug, then like,
you just don't know. So yeah, it excludes most things.
So to return a minute to the developmental biology stuff we're talking about before,
there's a useful image I'd like to put in people's heads as a way of thinking about
developmental biology. So there's this guy called Conrad, Conrad Waddington,
who has this notion of the epigenetic landscape. So if you picture a hillside with a valley running
down it, like a, you start with a single valley at the top, and then it branches out into many
tributaries or not tributaries, branches, tributaries should be the other way around.
Anyway, yeah. So if you then place like your pluripotent stem cell at the top of this landscape
and kind of picture it rolling down the slope, you have a bunch of places where you can pick
where it'll go into which branch of the river. And those are like the developmental decisions,
right? That's where something changes in the epigenetic state of the cell, which says,
I'm not going to be in this cell lineage, but I'm going to be in this other cell lineage.
And then once you've rolled down to the bottom, you've got, you know, so each of the different
valleys that the river's run into represents like a differentiated terminal cell state.
And so what, what does all this have to do with aging?
Ah, yes. So good point. We should bring it back to that. So there is, there's kind of a,
there are many theories associated with what, what aging is. There's a lot of sort of damage
based theories like reactive oxygen species, accumulation of mutations, but one that's kind
of gaining a little bit of popularity at the moment is a sort of epigenetic information
theory of aging. It's quite popular with a guy called David Sinclair, who's pretty well known
in the field. It's written a popular book on the subject. I think it's why we age and why we
don't have to is the title, which is a bit of an overstatement in my opinion. But
you got to sell books. We mentioned him on our last podcast too.
Yes. He's, he's well known. There's a couple of, you know, he's very slightly
controversial on a couple of points. Just, you know, he's a, he's a solid scientist in most
regards, but he has a slight tendency towards hyperbole in places. That's just, yeah. So,
I mean, I also would like to not age, but I don't believe I can totally stop it yet.
Yes. It's a, I think it's a slightly more thorny problem than he, no one characterizes as,
and actually the developmental biology picture is a really good place to start on
where I slightly differ with David on this. One of the, so if we return to that picture,
the epigenetic landscape for a second, and we've got these cells in the valley at the bottom of
this hill. So in, when they're functioning well, when they're doing the job correctly as a,
as a terminally differentiated cell, you know, it's a liver cell being a good liver cell doing
liver stuff, right? If it starts to become less liver-like, either by maybe sort of jumping over
to the next valley a little bit, or rolling back up the hill ever so slightly, becoming a bit
de-differentiated, that I think those sorts of properties are what we see in aging cells, right?
They cease to become quite as tightly functional in the role that they were sort of differentiated
to be. They can undifferentiate? Just a little bit, yeah. So what the, the differentiation is kind
of enforced by the epigenetic information. So the particular state of the epigenetic information
in the cell tells it what genes to express, what environmental stimuli to listen to,
how to react to, to stuff in the environment. So if that information over time becomes degraded,
as information does, when there's a finite amount of energy to maintain it, you will lose the,
the precise description of that state, right? So it becomes slightly less
livery than is ideal for a liver cell, right? Oh my God. So I love this metaphor because like,
as I've gotten older, I found myself not giving as much of a fuck about like external pressures
in my environment. I'm like, yeah, I don't really care all that much what you think. I'm okay. I'm
set in my life and I'm just going to ignore certain particularly whiny people. But like,
now I'm feeling all my cells is being like, yeah, I don't give a fuck about what you think. I'm not
going to be that much of a liver cell anymore. Yeah, like some of my cells are literally becoming
grumpy old men. Yeah, pretty much. And occasionally they have a midlife crisis and go off and become
cancer. Oh, there's nothing worse than old people, Jesus. Yeah, but so apologies to any
older. So to return to the point where I think David's a little bit off about this. So what,
so his sort of epigenetic aging hypothesis kind of has this idea of if you take these
terminally differentiated cells and you roll them back up the hill just a little bit,
you de-differentiate them a touch by using some of the factors that you find in stem cells,
and then let them roll back down the hill again. So they'll kind of settle back into the groove.
You can do that. That's the idea, right? So the idea is that you de-differentiate them just enough
that you can get them to start doing what they should be doing again.
But the catch is that the process of deciding in which value you end up is determined by those
developmental cues. So to go back to what we talked about earlier in the conversation,
that gradient between the head and the tail, where you had a particular concentration that
was close to where the legs are, so you should become legs, that information, that chemical gradient,
is present during development, but not in adult mode. So when you roll the ball back up the hill,
it doesn't necessarily know into which groove to roll back down, because there's not the
environmental cues present to say you should be going this way. And you can't give an adult
like a chemical cocktail to stimulate that? Well, that's where it gets a little bit more
complicated because it's a very precise chemical cocktail that defines what particular function
a cell should be doing. And so the idea in this sort of epigenetic rejuvenation stuff,
where you roll the ball back up the hill a little bit and let it roll back down, is that
there's enough information in the environment and in the cell's epigenetic memory to remember
where it should be rolling back to. But I don't think there's quite enough there to get it to
reliably roll back into the right spot. I think we need something like that chemical cocktail
that you described to ensure it'll end up back in the right spot instead of becoming cancer.
And we don't have anything even approaching at that chemical cocktail yet?
We have something resembling it in some areas, but delivering it and the specifics of how
we might go about it, that's still very up in the air. There's a lot of people in the field
of regenerative medicine who are working on figuring out how to cause a cell to differentiate
into a particular type of cell. So if you fuse together those two approaches, if you take this
notion of roll it back up the hill just a little bit and then you add to it some direction with
some chemical information of where you want it to go, then let it roll back down the hill,
that might work. But at the moment, those are somewhat disparate areas of research,
and they're both pretty early on. So combining them is sort of the next step, I think, in both of
those areas. Okay. How do you roll it up the hill? So that's, and what is usually used there is some
subset of what are called the Yamanaka factors. So those are a set of genes which induce
pluripotency, so that ability to become any other cell type in an adult cell. So you can take an
