genome methylated to a greater or less degree in a given tissue. So with that big list of numbers,
but just sort of a proportion that's methylated, you use that as your input to the machine learning
model and the age of the individual from which you took it is the thing you're trying to predict.
And does people's methylated age differ often from their years on earth age?
That's where it gets interesting. So whilst it's very accurate at predicting your chronological age,
the difference between the predicted age and your chronological age is very informative about
your biological age. So if you are older in methylation age, then you are chronologically,
then you will probably die sooner than if you were younger.
That's a bummer.
Yeah. Plus or minus three and a half years ish. Yeah.
So we don't, I mean, there are certain things that modulate it. So like smoking,
you smoke, you have an older biological age by the methylation clocks, which is unsurprising.
And there are a few kind of environmental factors, but smoking, I think, is by far the largest.
We don't really know that well what the things are that modulate it. That's kind of an active
area of research. But one of the challenges in doing longevity intervention research is
it takes a while, especially in humans, right? So if you want to test whether an intervention
works, like it's impractical to give it to people when they're young and wait till they die.
Right. So the good high quality biomarkers of aging, like the DNA methylation clock,
are a great tool potentially to use in that context. So if it's a good proxy for longevity,
then if you give someone a treatment and you see their biological age, according to one
of these clocks come down, then okay, maybe this treatment will work to extend longevity.
So that's one of the spaces where these are looking at being used.
The NMF and nicotinamide riboside, why is it easier to say than the agronome anyway?
Yep. Yes, absolutely. There have been a couple of early trials of this with small numbers of
individuals with longevity-increasing interventions that have shown promising results for this as a
proxy. So it looks like this will be one of the things that is used as a tool in the longevity
extending drug development space going forward. Whereas the ones that have been done so far are
mostly the sorts of things we talk about before with like metformin and repamycin, NAD, that kind
of stuff. I forget which there's a small trial with like 10 participants where they did something
along these lines. And that showed a small effectiveness, but it was so small as a trial
that it was kind of a proof of principle. It wouldn't really say anything strong about the
actual efficacy. So when they go bigger, it'll be interesting to see. But the other thing is
they do know this works in model organisms to a degree because they've done this where you can
show even in like the C. elegans worms that they work on in the lab where I am now that treating
with longevity extending interventions shows decreases in biological age as indicated by a
clock. In the worms case, it's a transcriptional clock because they don't have DNA methylation,
but same principle. Is there any way to get one of these methylation tests like a 23 and
me type surface or? Actually, I believe there is. Yeah. Although I'm not sure I'd recommend it.
Oh, you don't think it's very accurate? There's conditions that could cause poor methylation
and it could tell you if you have one of those. I don't know if it's like you'd have to pair it
though with this machine learning. That's actually that would be very easily done if you got the raw
data, right? It's basically a quadratic equation with a fixed set of terms. Well, not quadratic,
but a polynomial equation with a fixed set of terms. You're multiplying by some defined
certain numbers that's published in these papers and getting out, but it's super simple too.
Oh, shit, I'm going to do it. Well, I mean, you wouldn't recommend it because the commercial
ones aren't very good right now or? So I can't really comment on the quality of the commercial
ones. I think there's no particular reason why they would be good or bad. We still don't know
very well how good a predictor of individual difference this is because we've been doing it
at a kind of population level. We say like the average in these 100 individuals is that this
many are accelerated, this many are less. We don't really know how effective it is at the
individual level. I mean, it might be, it might be an interesting thing to have, but
I mean, but if you've got some 500 bucks, whatever it is to burn on the test, then maybe.
But the other thing to bear in mind is the privacy and data element of it because there's a decent
chance that if you go for whatever commercial offering there is, there'll be some terms and
conditions that say we can use this in however various ways we wish. Like 23andMe has many
of those catches. So it's, depending on your feelings about giving the company information
that might potentially one day impact on your ability to get life insurance. Yeah, that's.
But how could they tell like what your cellular aging is if it was above or below the norm,
if they couldn't tell what it was within the three-year margin?
Well, I mean, you still get, well, yeah, so that's, there's a source of noise there, right?
Yeah. So I mean, you get an exact predicted age with some error bars, right? So we normally just
effectively ignore those error bars, but somewhere in the error is a mix of technical error and
biological age information. So do you, okay. And I was wondering, do you feel like comfortable
giving a name of any service or is this something you'd rather just not?
If I couldn't actually remember any of them, I think there's one called Elysium, maybe.
Elysium is the company that makes NAD supplements. Oh, wait, no, then that's, and they also.
Oh, they do that as well? Yeah, I think they do. I don't know if it's the same company.
Yeah, I've not looked into the commercial offers of the test. Yeah. I mean, so at the moment they do,
that the only commercially available sort of array based profiling one is very expensive,
because it's a whole methylome effectively, well, it's about 450,000 or another new ones,
800,000 sites in the genome, and they do the whole profile, but you only need 356 or so
to run a clock, at least the original one from Steve Horvath from 2013.
Okay, the company Elysium Health is the same company that makes the NAD supplement,
and they do have a $500 home DNA test to tell you how old your DNA says you are,
your DNA methylation. That's much more than the cost of one of those arrays.
There's one called EPIAgingUSA.com, which has one for $169. I don't know why that's cheaper.
Maybe they're not as good.
They might be using a different assay, because you can do a targeted sequencing type one and
run a different clock. There's a whole bunch of different versions of these clocks now,
so some of them use a different technology, which can be run cheaper. Yeah.
All righty. Well, we are getting close to, actually, I think we're slightly over our two
hours. I guess we're getting close to the point where we should wrap up, so I was wondering,
like, what have we not touched on that you would select to touch on?
I think we covered a lot of ground. There's one thing that, so the question that I think was raised
on one of the blog posts that might have instigated the previous episode was kind of what
areas might people be interested in working on in aging biology? What's an area that needs
attention? I think there's a really interesting point at the moment where
a lot of descriptive work has been done in understanding how many of these mechanisms
of aging work, and there's a bit of a dearth of theory. We've kind of gone through a period of,
there was a lot of theorizing, this theory of aging, that theory of aging, and none of them
were quite right, and they were all a bit, you know, they didn't have the whole picture.
Now we have a lot more descriptive information, but we don't have as much theory, so I think
there's an opening for some new overarching theories of the aging process, and I suspect
these will be rooted in the field of non-equilibrium statistical mechanics.
So there's an interesting book that came out quite recently from, what was the author's name?
The title is Every Life is on Fire, Jeremy England, that's the name of the guy,
and he works in non-equilibrium statistical mechanics and non-equilibrium thermodynamics,
that kind of area. So it's understanding how, like the thermodynamics of computation relates
to aging, that's the area that I think is potentially very promising, because we have all
of this information about the way that information processing works in biology now,
but we have a gap in the theory of aging, and I think it's rooted in information theory,
and we have these, you know, our biological systems are these very far from equilibrium
systems that are maintained away from equilibrium by a flux of energy through them, so using ideas
from non-equilibrium statistical mechanics to model aging processes is, I think, something
that has a great deal of promise, but I am nowhere near physicist enough to be actually
engaged in that area of research, but that's something I think is a lot of promise. So if
anyone out there is skilled in the math of non-equilibrium thermodynamics and that kind of physics,
the application of it to biology I think would be fascinating.
That sounds very promising, how would they get into that? I'm assuming there's not like an
application. I mean, to be honest, I think the starting point would be get in touch with people
like Jeremy England, so there's some kind of reading around that area where, I mean,
generally speaking in academia, if you want to get into a particular area, do some reading,
find out who the authors are on the papers in that area, and email them. A lot of scientists
are working in the super niche area, and they'll respond to emails because there's not that, you
know. Yeah, and if they have logs, you can like read them. Exactly, yeah, reading the blogs in
the box. So there's Jeremy England's book, there's a bunch of papers, it's a nice talk from him from
MIT, it's a great starting point with a bunch of academic references in it to some of the work in
this area. Awesome, yeah, we just talked to someone who said, yeah, they got started in Miri by
emailing and asking how can I help, and they're like, well, read all these papers for us, and
they actually did it. Yeah, let's go. Yeah, I mean, it's often that simple,
surprisingly, right? People are sort of far too afraid to just like randomly fire off an email
and see what happens, because it pays off more often than you think it would. Yeah, especially if
you have. Yeah, exactly, yeah, it's hard to get out of that groove though, it's so easy advice to
give difficult to follow. Exactly. And just from personal experience, you know, sometimes they just
don't reply to your email, and you can't say it personally, they're busy people too. Exactly,
they're busy, they have things to do. So there's a certain trade off between putting in enough work
in the initial email to signal to that person that you are interested and competent and
worth their time talking to. Yeah, knowledgeable in the field. Yeah, if you can say to them that
you've read some of the research and have some, like, potential as a collaborator that won't
involve too much, like, additional effort from them, right, it will be a productive relationship
for them to work with you. Like, if you can signal that, do that, because then they'll reply to the
email much more likely than if it's like, Oh, this this guy's going to be a lot of work. Yeah.
All right, well, thank you for coming on with us. I think this has been like,
incredibly informative. And thank you so much for having me.
Yeah, I think this has been like, the last launch of the episode we did was fun and all,
but the true value of that one was that we managed to get in touch with you and get you on here.
Oh, thanks. Yeah, I tend to run my mouth a lot. Yeah, and I'm, I'm prone to going on extended
expositions. So, yeah. Yeah, yeah, great. Thank you. Yeah, true.
Yeah, don't don't read my thesis. That's don't subject yourself to that.
Feel free. But yeah.
Well, the podcast again, as well. So the podcast that I'm running is Xena thesis.
Xena thesis.com. That's spelled with an X in case anyone's unfamiliar with the spending of Xena.
But yeah. And actually, the next week, we're doing an unusual episode. It's a special one.
We're, so because Cyberpunk 2077 came out, we're doing a whole episode on cybernetics and genetic
engineering modifications. And I'm going to talk a little bit about software in that context. So
it's one of the things people don't talk about. Like having software that you can trust running
in implants that are in your body is going to be a really important thing because the internet of
things is a complete chit show. And when we start to start putting those things in our body,
we're going to have a real problem. So the the dystopian aspects of that, as well as the potential,
something we'll be talking about. Well, I mean, there's already Fitbits and like the Apple Watch,
I think, can track like a lot of biometrics now. And I'm wondering, since you mentioned 23 and
me's privacy issues, could like insurance companies deny you based on your Fitbit info? Oh, man.
Yep. That's definitely a possibility. So I mean, if you ever like, I don't mean to
be impertinent and inviting myself back on, but if you ever want to do episodes on the subject of
like software freedom and kind of the that when I have that pertains to those kind of things, the
whole, you know, surveillance capitalism and the like, that area, I'll talk your ears off about
that. And also academic publishing, as I managed to resist going down that rabbit hole right at
the beginning. If you want to hear my like, add solutions to that problem, then let me know. Awesome.
That might be a bit taxing. Yeah, that's a good place to end though.
Oh, that was you. Yep, I did. Yes, a little bit by a little tiny contribution to that to the audio book.
And thank you for that. I don't say this enough, but like the audio book was not just my work,
there's literally over 100 people that contributed voices or music or something. And
it was a very large group project that I could have never pulled off without everybody's help.
And yeah, I really can't take down the opportunity to thank you for that because
I aside from academic papers, I don't read much. I'm dyslexic. It takes me a little
while longer to read stuff. So I listen to stuff all the time. And so without the your podcast
version of the methods of rationality, I probably wouldn't have like read it and then gone down
the whole rabbit hole of reading the sequences and getting into the rationality community.
So thank you for that. Oh, absolutely. I'm glad I managed to have some positive effect on the
world. Yeah, that's cool. HPML was one of few books that like when it got ahead of the audio
version, I would actually read it because I was so interested in the storyline. But yeah, it takes
a bit to get me to read something if there's not an audio version, and it's not a paper. Yeah.
Thanks. Great. Oh, should we do a real quick thing for the patron? Sure, we're thinking today.
Okay, all right. If anyone hears this episode and joins the information theory of aging
effort and then cures aging, this will be in part due to well, all of our patrons,
but specifically John Peterson this time. So thank you, John. You may have saved us all.
That is my form, just hope. All right. And thanks again, Richard and everybody for listening,
and we'll see you all in two weeks. Bye. Bye. Bye, everybody.
