Any, is there any consciousness there?
Or is it just a very good simulation?
Are you talking about philosophical zombies?
If you're using the C word, we're going to have to put this on hold for a while.
The C word?
Consciousness.
Yeah.
I guess it would be a sort of philosophical zombie.
So on that note, let's change to a different commenter.
Okay.
I am up. Okay.
Was I doing honesty for the birds or doing TVC?
Okay.
TVC grid says, it was interesting hearing about arguments in this overall animal segment that continuing to allow the carnival of horrors of life in the wild is not advisable, though nonexistence where you could have existed should count for some extra high negative utility.
Why not mass genetic engineering to essentially eliminate extinction?
Re-engineer food needs to survive off of more efficient energy, such as solar, question mark, and maybe extravagantly hack at the experienced qualia of all beings above a generous minimum bar so that it's significantly less horrible, etc.
My first response to that is that before we get into the mass genetic engineering thing, I don't think that not having existed deserves a higher level of negative utility.
I think that stopping to exist once you have existed is a very high level of negative utility, but never coming into existence in the first place should not be counted as negative utility because then you suddenly have a moral obligation to create as many beings as possible, which is kind of a problem, in my opinion.
That's the next question.
Yeah, that's a great segue to the next question, but if we want to talk about that a bit more, it's a complex question.
You don't know how happy wild animals are.
Well, as Robin said in the podcast, generally they are living at subsistence levels, just barely getting by and often dying of parasites or being hunted.
But Robin's argument was also that they're happy doing that, which is why his argument was that M's would be happy doing that.
Comedian Louise T.K. has this bit where it's only us that our lives don't end by either starving to death or dying.
But I mean, things can be good up until either of those ends, right?
I suppose I personally do not think that that is that great of a thing to be barely eking out existence and then dying in pain.
I'm not a huge fan of that stuff.
But I guess I am imposing my own theories on the animal.
I mean, I don't know.
During the talk with Robin Hansen, I was thinking about my medieval history course back in undergrad and how all of those peasants, they were writing songs about a heaven where you didn't have to work.
And the river of beer and hot people to have sex with all the time.
But not working is one of the things.
Just enjoying yourself at all times.
And that sounds great until you've been on vacation for a month and you're like, I'm going insane, I need to do something.
I'll stack things just pointlessly, something to do, right?
Whatever.
He hits that threshold after like day, he can't handle three day weekend.
So he goes nuts on on vacations.
I like vacations as long as I have some structure things to do.
If I were just left on my own, I would not be not very happy at a vacation.
Take me on a vacation.
We'll go scuba diving and see some awesome animals and it'll be so much fun.
That would be awesome.
You have to pay for it there.
I'm tagging along.
You see even god damn it.
Invite all your family to while we're at it.
Yes, we have such an amazing time.
She's like, I'm ruined.
I'm going to start having to collect the vacation tax from all you guys.
Think of all the books you can read.
I can't read very many on vacation.
I don't read very much.
What do you mean very fast?
This is going to be a long vacation.
I don't know.
I don't know if I gave TC grid TV TVC grids question the time that it deserves.
What about the second half?
I mean, can so the second half is more or less can why not massive genetic engineering or why not massive genetic engineering to essentially eliminate extinction.
By storing all that information and.
I mean, I mean, I think that we probably should store the genetic epigenetic.
As much information, you know, ecological as much information as we can about all sorts of different animals before they're gone forever.
And so that they can potentially be brought back.
It's just they're so complex.
Yeah, it's not a replacement for having them around.
Yeah.
Well, not a replacement for us, not a replacement for them.
And also, as I was, and I think saying off air, there's all the amazing network of interactions both within the body and outside the body of an individual animal.
You can't reproduce or so difficult because it's it depends on the individual.
Right.
And when he said like re engineering them to be on more efficient sources of energy, solar is actually not that efficient of a source of energy.
It's the I remember reading a XKCV does a what weekly what if and one of them was what if we made our cows green and fill with chlorophyll so they could run off the sun.
And as it turns out, you could not produce enough energy from the surface area of a cow to run and then something the mass of a cow.
You would need to make the cow very thin and stretch it out very over a large surface area to collect enough solar power.
And he said the surface area would need is approximately about as big as the field of grass needed to feed the cow.
So a cow basically is running off solar energy.
And that's no coincidence, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Animals already are running off solar energy, it turns out.
And it turns out that if you want a more efficient form of fuel, eating things like plants is more efficient than solar and eating things like the flesh of animals is more efficient, more calorie dense than plants.
So you'd be probably going the wrong way if you're trying to go for more efficient fuel.
That's just the one thing of saving all the genetic information and as much as much as much as much genetic information as we can just in case it goes extinct so they're not gone forever.
That sounds like a good idea.
Let's start doing that.
It's also a bit of a question like do you still have the same animal if you're hacking it?
Like if you change a leopard so that it doesn't eat its prey anymore and instead it eats plants, you have to change its stomach so they can process plants.
You've got to change its teeth so that it choose the plants and its habits so that it eats the plants and pretty soon you'll have a deer instead of a leopard.
Or you could just...
You just don't have a leopard anymore if you change all those things.
Or you could just introduce it to Soylent.
I literally just meant the first sentence of saving all that information somewhere, just in case.
Yeah, as far as re-engineering them, that sounds like a different order of problem.
And like you said, you'd have to change just about everything about a leopard that makes it leopard-y to make it be able to eat plants.
I think a possible good solution would be if an animal is going through pain and about to die, cut off all its pain receptors and let it die quickly.
If there was some genetic trait that could do that.
That's actually on my short list of things that should be introduced when we get super-intelligence-driven data tech.
Pain management?
Like how cool would it be if like the second that a leopard sinks its teeth into the gazelle, the gazelle just gets rushed into orphans and it doesn't feel anything as it's getting eaten.
Like that's kind of a win for everybody, right?
But then it won't get away.
Let's say there were programs falling off and it's a fatal blow.
Here's the thing about pain.
It develops because it's incredibly useful.
We all feel pain because it helps us actually survive and live another day where we can crawl through the fields of grass being a gazelle.
So we need some sort of monitor as in the culture series of books that can tell whether this is a lethal wound or not.
And as soon as it's lethal, then snap on the endorphin.
Science fiction sounds like it beat me to it, but that sounds perfect.
It would have to be basically a machine god looking over the world.
That sounds doable.
That's totally plausible, yeah.
It's not impossible, but this is what the world would look like if a happy god, if a benevolent god actually existed.
Right. And that you could even imagine a world where pain didn't hurt so much, but you had like this kind of red flag, like a siren going off in your head that didn't like hurt forever, but it just was.
Yeah, but the fact that it hurts a lot is a very strong motivator.
I feel like there's another way to go about doing that.
That didn't have to hurt so damn much, right?
It should be something that hurts.
It should be something that hurts that much initially, but then stops.
I mean, what's the point of continuing to have this deep ache through your leg weeks after you got mauled and it's still healing up?
It's so that you don't put pressure on it.
Always with your answers.
Thanks, Katrina, for being right about things.
That's actually a good answer.
I was going to say the same thing about like getting a burn or something, but yeah, there's another knockdown point.
Next time I want to know the right answer for something, I'll just ask you.
I'm so flattered.
So we did get a lot of good questions, but we did a long episode of the Robin and there's too many to get to.
So we kind of picked one each and honesty for the birds asked us.
Honesty is for the birds.
What did I say?
You said honesty for the birds, which I have to say that's very admirable.
Yeah.
My bad.
I'm asking once we can run a complete simulation of a worm, is it okay to kill off these roundworms?
Adding a very happy roundworm increases the total and average happiness of the planet.
If the cost of running simulation is negligible, should we try to run as many or distinct and or maybe even identical instances of it as possible?
So let's take this in two parts.
Okay.
First off, would it be bad to kill simulated roundworms?
In my opinion.
How happy are they?
Random, not a happy one.
Just any random simulated roundworms.
It's about the same as an average earth roundworm.
So an earth roundworm.
Are you talking about earthworms?
Those are analysts.
Yeah, thank you.
Understood.
I won't go into that.
So in my opinion, it would be if it was a, you know, a sufficiently detailed simulation to the point that they're basically indistinguishable.
Then yes, I would consider them of equal moral worth and stepping on one is just as bad as turning off the other, which is to say my opinion, not.
But that's just my opinion.
I was going to say pretty much exactly the same thing that turning off a simulation of a happy roundworm would be just as bad as stepping on a happy roundworm.
Living aside how bad that is, I think that would be equivalent.
But okay.
So we just talked again to Robin Hansen who just wrote a book in which he predicted that in an emulated intelligence economy, you would wake up in the morning and create a thousand copies of yourself, have them go do different tasks and then delete all of them except for one.
With consent is the key thing there though.
Yeah, if you're okay with it, then it's okay.
I see.
Learns can't give consent.
Right.
Okay.
That is a good reason.
I think I'm going to take that out.
No, no, no. Keep it in.
It's really interesting.
It's the best reason I think.
That is the best thing that you could have said at that moment.
All right.
The second part about...
Katrina never answered.
Oh yes.
What what?
Is it okay to kill off a simulated roundworms?
It's as okay as it is to kill off actual roundworms.
We are in agreement.
We are in agreement.
Let it be known.
We have to creed.
So I can't really see how there'd be any opposition to that, right?
As long as you're saying it's a perfect simulation.
Right.
Like it's the, then for all intents and purposes, it's the same as a meat space one.
I mean, there could be the argument that a meat space worm is doing useful work in the environment.
Oh, sure.
So it would be more, yeah, it would be more useful to us.
That is a good argument.
Yeah.
Thanks for bringing that up.
Sure.
But aside from the use to us just on its own merits, I think that's the same.
Fair enough.
That works.
And that is a good point.
So yeah, the other question, the other additional question was about maximizing the number of
happy flatworms you could simulate.
And you could even do this to like people or something too.
But it brings in the, the question of, or brings in the point that yes, that would raise
the total and average happiness of the world if you could just add more.
Well, I guess it depends on how happy worms could be versus happy people could be or something.
