No, no.
I myself as an expert in the social analysis of these sorts of scenarios.
Okay.
Have you happened to produce any peer review publications?
Well, this book is peer reviewed.
And so this is my, you know, my large product.
I am in a field where people tend to do articles and books are more rare.
But I like books, especially when you are trying to introduce a large new topic and a article is not quite enough for it.
So I think that is more true here.
I did need a lot of setup in the book to sort of set up the situation and to make the analysis concept plausible.
And so I do think this is a topic that is better suited for books, at least the initial presentation of the idea.
Once people accept the basic idea, then you could more write articles on it.
But the first thing I think more needed to be a book.
What kind of people do that peer review for you?
This is such an unusual and common subject to follow.
What kind of people are they?
Economists or computer scientists are reviewing this.
It makes it expensive, basically, or hard.
That is, when your book or article is within a standard narrow field, then you just go look for people who are experts in that standard narrow field.
When your book covers a wide range of fields, then there are not pre-existing experts in that set of wide range of fields.
Then you more need to get experts in each field and ask them just to judge the parts of the book that are overlapping with their field.
And people actually are more uncomfortable with that.
When you ask a reviewer to review a book, they would rather have an overall opinion on the book and to judge that based on their expertise.
And if there are big parts of the book they feel they can't judge, they are more reluctant to give it any review at all.
So it's more work to find people who are willing to just review the parts that they know.
And then you have to collect more of them so that you can cover the range of topics before you could have that.
So that is what you and many others face as a problem when you say, read reviews of my book.
Each review of my book is by someone in a particular field.
And the reviews that I want to hear are people who say, well, the things I know, check out here.
But there's these other things I don't know.
So I can't really endorse it that well because I'm not sure about these other parts.
I have a question from a listener again.
Is there another time for that?
Yeah, you can ask Holger's question.
Yes, I am.
Okay, go for it.
So you were talking earlier about economy doubling times on the order of possibly a month or less.
Our listener Holger says he doesn't understand the basic assumption of why growth is happening at all in the world.
Because the amount of resources needed to sustain an M are presumably much lower.
I believe that is one of one of your assumptions as well.
So demand in general goes down a lot and that indicates that supply should also go down.
And the economies should shrink, although not necessarily with the loss of quality of life.
So what are the products that are being produced and consumed other than electricity in the M world?
So this is definitely a very basic economics question.
And so I feel very confident stating the very basic standard economics answer here.
But let me show you analogies to make it clear.
Until a few hundred years ago, pretty much everyone on earth lived at near subsistence levels.
And that was the way humans lived four millions of years before that.
And pretty much all animals on earth who have ever lived have lived near subsistence levels.
So the scenario where people living near subsistence levels, i.e. having a wage or income or source of food and sustenance that's just barely enough to keep them alive, is the usual case in history.
It's not a strange unusual case.
We have seen it over and over again and we understand it in some detail.
I am saying that that usual case will return.
And so if you think about a thousand years ago, subsistence farmers, they were pretty poor.
They didn't need that much.
They just needed some clothes and some shelter and some heat and some food and that's about it.
But nevertheless, they needed to work most of the time just to produce those things.
Why?
Well, if there were vastly fewer of them, they wouldn't have had to work nearly as hard.
If instead of, you know, a hundred million farmers, there were only one million farmers around the world.
They could have lived lives of leisure.
They could have focused on the few plots of land that were the most productive for fishing or farming.
Only worked a few hours a week and lived lives of leisure.
But because they kept increasing their population every time it was possible to increase the population, they stayed at near subsistence level.
And that's just what we understand is the standard Malthusian was the first person to give a clear statement of this argument that as long as the population grows faster than the wealth,
wealth per person is pushed down to a near subsistence level.
So that's the key story in this future.
Yes, M's can live very cheaply compared to humans, cheap by some objective sense.
Nevertheless, if they grow their population really fast and they can grow it faster than the economy can grow, they will fall into the same Malthusian trap or subsistence level income equilibrium that we've seen in history,
which is where there are so many of them that on the margin their productivity is low enough that they need to work most of the time to survive.
And again, this is not a strange hypothetical. This is the usual case in history that we understand pretty well.
Right. But what are they producing?
So a thousand years ago, what people were producing was the minimum they needed to survive.
They were producing shelter, clothing, food, heat.
These were the main things that people were producing a thousand years because that's what they mainly needed to survive.
So in an emulation dominated future, the main things they are producing are the things the emulations need to survive.
They need computer hardware. They need energy to run it.
They need cooling to cool it off. They need structural support.
They need real estate. They need communication lines.
They need repair. They need national defense and police.
These are the various kinds of things they need to make this economy function.
And that's what most of their time is spent doing.
At what point do they institute a one copy per couple policy, like a one child policy to prevent everybody from living on a subsistence level?
So this comes back to one of my key prior assumptions that you could gain, which I'm saying in history so far, nobody's been running the world.
All the way in the past up until today, technologies have mostly arisen whenever somebody in the world wanted them.
And if other people didn't like it, that was tough.
So we haven't been voting on or taking some grand global decisions about which technologies to adopt, including which kinds of population growth to allow.
We have just not had global coordination on those things.
When we've regulated regulations have been local, and they've been subject to the fact that if a local regulation hurts a local area too much relative to its global competitors, it loses out.
So I'm just projecting that same situation into the future.
I'm just saying, in the age of M, we have not yet achieved a strong global government.
Therefore, the world is not voting on what happens, what happens as the result of decentralized choices, supply and demand.
And technologies arise whenever somebody wants them.
And there is not a grand global regime to prevent population from rising.
Now, at some point in the future, it may well be possible to have a strong global government.
My guess is that would be past the early age of M, but I could be wrong about that.
And perhaps if people dislike the age of M scenario enough, they would be spurred to try harder to create a global government to be able to enforce things like that.
But local population restrictions would just not be sufficient.
Again, it's very likely that the age of M will not be equally distributed around the globe.
A great many, probably most places will look at it as scants, be reluctant to allow it, at least fully.
They will ask for review and commissions and studies.
And then a few places will perhaps even not a neglect, just let it go wild.
And that's where the new era will be focused.
Do you think we should try to prevent the sort of M scenario?
Again, I want to be clear about my expertise because there really is a risk in a lot of futurism that people like spout off on everything.
And then because you kind of know they can't be expert on all those things, you just don't trust them.
So I'm trying to make a bid for being trusted about the things that I can credibly claim expertise.
And therefore I really want to distinguish where I'm claiming expertise from where I might just might have personal opinions.
So in the book, I'm not focused again on the expertise of whether this scenario happens, but it's about the consequences.
And I'm focused on the just predicting the consequences if we do a little to stop it.
And I'm not focused very much on whether I like it or not and evaluating it and on policy recommendations to change it.
I do have some comments about that toward the end, but the focus of the book is just to try to give you your first cut analysis.
In my experience talking to other people about it, I have no doubt and no fear that people will lack and fail to evaluate the world and have opinions about whether it's good or bad.
What I feared is that people would have opinions so quickly that they wouldn't actually take into account a lot of detail about this world.
You know, if your distant ancestors had heard about your world, they would have loved or hated it based on the first few things they heard, which could have been gone in either direction.
Because your world is just complicated and messy and weird relative to your distant ancestors.
And that's how you should think the future would be too.
So again, whenever I've described this to people, even a small number of quick descriptions, people are very fast to evaluate it to have an opinion whether they love it or hate it.
That just seems to be a very natural thing for humans to do.
So natural that they have these evaluations, I think too fast too early.
You should really immerse yourself in a new strange world before you decide whether it's a heaven or hell and whether you're going to fight it or join it.
And so I recommend that you say, read my book.
Something long and detailed that tries to give you a much fuller description and then try to evaluate it.
But again, I have very little fear that other people won't try to evaluate it, so I feel very little need for myself to evaluate it.
I'd rather take the stance of being this neutral analyst who told you about this world and what's likely to happen if you do nothing and let you think about whether you like it or not.
So is that one of the reasons that you went into such extreme detail in your analysis to try to help people immerse themselves in the possibilities of this world?
That was one reason.
The other and perhaps bigger reason is that people tend to think that you can't do this sort of thing.
So 20% of the books on Amazon.com have the keyword history, but about 1% of the keyword future.
And if you ask people, but isn't the future much more important than the past, they'll tell you, well, we can study the past because we have all these artifacts and we can't study the future.
That's why we study the past.
And I think that's just wrong.
I think we have a lot of theories that we've abstracted from all the data we've seen and all those theories can be applied to future scenarios and therefore we can study the future via the process I used in this book.
And so I would like to inspire or shame people into studying the future more.
And part of that is to show that you can actually say a lot of detail about a particular scenario if you're just willing to sit down and pull up your sleeves and do the work.
I have a question about you were just saying now you'd like to present the scenarios to people and let them decide for themselves, whether it's good or bad.
Scott Alexander at his blog wrote a review of the book, and one of his intentions was that it didn't seem you were providing the most honest view of what the future would be like.
I'm paraphrasing entirely he did not use these words at all.
But for example, you said that a person could be go on vacation, for example.
And then the next day make a thousand copies of that person so there's a thousand people who are all energized and refreshed from having just been on vacation.
They work really great.
Then the next day one of them is sent on vacation again, and a thousand copies are made of that one person so subjectively it feels like you are constantly going on vacations after one day of work and you're always happy.
But in the outside view, this could be one person who is basically always only in this state of flow.
And perhaps it's been said before that athletes and other people who enter this deep state of workflow that they almost don't feel like they are entirely conscious anymore.
They're just doing their thing and they become the work.
And if the world was composed of those sorts of people, particularly if maybe they were emulated just after having taken some Adderall and gaining that really hyper focus that the drug gives you, that at some point isn't a world that is entirely populated by Adderall taking in the flow people and almost nothing else.
Is that even humanity anymore?
Or is that just work producing algorithms with a little bit of human flavor to them?
Well, obviously the essential question about this different future age is to look at the typical person in that world and ask what you think of their lives.
So it's a perfectly valid question, I think, to point out these, there's some sort of description of a typical person and ask what you think of their lives.
I don't think that's dishonest or anything that Scott has a disagreement there, I think, although I'm not entirely sure, but let's explore it.
In our era, as I described in the book, we have moved from farmer to forager values and one of the main forager values that we love is leisure.
Most of our stories take place in leisure, very few stories actually take place at ordinary jobs.
And we tell ourselves that we don't like work and we tell ourselves that we love leisure and we celebrate leisure anonymously and we are very proud of the fact we've had increasing leisure,
so much so that we are tempted to think of worlds with a lot of work as some sort of hell.
A terrible, horrible thing because people are working instead of being at leisure.
But in fact, most people in our society that we admire the most, the people that we most celebrate, the people we put up for awards and celebration, those people are usually working a lot.
Authors and musicians and politicians and business people, all the people we most celebrate are actually very hardworking people.
And most of the people that listen to this podcast are probably relatively elite people, well-educated, highly high incomes.
Most of you listening to this are people who actually work quite a lot and you get a lot of meaning for your job.
It's not that you think all of the time at work is just a wasted loss relative to, you know, kicking off time until the weekend.
There are some people of that attitude, but not most of you.
Most of you get a lot of meaning out of your jobs.
In particular, Scott Alexander is one of those sorts of people.
He is remarkably very hardworking.
I doubt he spends very much time on leisure at all.
And nevertheless, he finds his life worth living and he's productive.
He's an ideal candidate for being an emulation.
So, you know, people who in academia and elsewhere who actually sit down and study like meaning of work and the value people get out of work, they say people do get a lot of meaning in their lives from work.
Work is important to them.
Work feels valuable and real and humans while they're working are quite human.
They're often the epitome of the sorts of human nature that we celebrate and look up to and point to with pride.
So, I think in fact, even though it's not part of our standard cultural story, we find a lot of meaning for work.
We are proud of our product at work. We are proud of who we are when we are working very well.
So a future world of emulations who are working most of the time and doing a spectacularly high quality job of that, I see them as valuable.
But again, that's just me.
I'm not sure I can be expert in saying that they are valuable.
It's hard to be an expert in what to value, but we can at least talk about these considerations and see where it goes.
So a not uncommon trope in science fiction is that consciousness is cognitively expensive.
For example, aliens that are not conscious tend to be able to outmaneuver humans in anything that requires a lot of anything very competitive.
This has been going on for decades, but it's really become popular over the past five, 10 years.
And I think probably because people are scared of these future scenarios as wouldn't there be a great amount of economic pressure on em workers to strip out anything that makes them inefficient such as need for love or even eventually the point of consciousness itself.
So it's sort of an economy without any humans in it anymore just running for its own purpose.
Well, let me make the analogy to middleman and business.
For a very long time, a wide range of the population has thought that the only real value that happens in industry in business is the line workers making things and the final customer buying them and everything in between is just parasites.
Marketing is a parasite and distribution is a parasite and design is a parasite and management is a parasite.
Everybody else in the process of parasites all that really should be given credit as the guy on the assembly line or the guy digging out of the mind and everything else is something that should go away.
And people have somehow the intuition that if only we could get our economy organized better and we could think it through better, we would eliminate all these parasites and just have the real jobs happening.
So then things would be vastly more efficient because in fact, it's only a tiny fraction of people who work at these supposedly ideal real jobs and most everybody else is doing other things.
That's I think the intuition that comes from not appreciating that, well, a lot of stuff has to happen for products to get made and for it to show up just in the store where you want it such that you have an idea that you want it, etc.
And most of that stuff isn't superfluous parasites, it's real things that need to happen in order to make the whole system work.
I think that same sort of attitude is showing up about brains is somehow people have gotten the impression that surely our brains are just this horrible inefficient mess where the vast majority of stuff happening there must be just useless and spinning of wheels and random throwing of circuits around
because surely that's not how you would organize something that was efficient.
But of course, we've been going for a long time people trying to write software that competes with the human brain, then they are just having a very hard time of it and have for a long time.
It's really hard to make flexible software that's remotely as capable as what human grades are capable of.
So I think you got to give brains credit for saying they're not just a random assemblage of weird, stupid stuff that'll all go away when people get their act together.
It's actually a system with a lot of insight embodied in its design.
There's a lot of useful thing that's not to say no changes will be made in it, but that's also like saying, you know, that I'm not saying that no changes will be made in the way we do distribution or marketing or management in our firms.
But still, the claim is that most firm structure is there for a reason and it's doing useful things. Similarly, most brain structure is there for a reason and doing useful things.
Well, I know that makes me feel better about myself.
