I've destroyed at least one just by carrying it back and forth without putting proper padding on it.
I mean, it took a lot of driving to get it to where the quality was significantly lower,
but I did just through not being ultra-gentle with it ruin one.
Microphone research can be our next episode.
I guess I could have done that.
I am excited about getting into Age of M though, so who wants to take us there?
Do you want to just, I guess.
Age of M.
Do you want to just, I guess, give us your quick thesis and go as long or short as you want?
No, no, no.
Or not.
Could we get a quick summary about the book from here?
Yes, of course.
Thank you.
So the subtitle is Work, Love and Life When Robots Rule the Earth.
So it's like a science fiction novel, except there's no plot and there's no characters.
All there is is the setting, but the setting supposedly makes sense, which to you, if anybody
who's ever sat and thought about their favorite science fiction novel and realized that it
doesn't really make much sense, this is for you.
So I've taken a very particular scenario in science fiction, a particular technology that's
been often discussed in science fiction and futurism, and I assume that particular technology
is realized and pretty much nothing else, and I just try to work out in great detail
all the consequences in 350 pages to prove to you that it's possible to work out a lot
of detailed consequences from one of these standard scenarios and have it make sense.
And the particular scenario that you're talking about is mind uploading, yes?
That's right.
Also known as brain emulation.
The standard story where you make a computer model of a particular person's brain and now
it can live on a computer, it can be sent at the speed of light through telecommunications,
you can make copies of it, all those sorts of things, and I work out lots of consequences
of that.
Okay, there are some priors that you come in with.
Could you explain those?
I am an economist, and so I'm going to use standard economic tools.
I'm going to use supply and demand, which is our standard first cut analysis, which tends
to assume there's a lot of buyers and sellers of most things and there's not that much regulation.
I assume some rough equilibrium that it's after the early transition to this era.
Transitions can be rough and hard to predict because during transitions, people aren't sure
where they're going.
So, but once the world is there and people are used to it, then it's easier to talk about.
I also presume that these brain emulations are relatively simple and which makes sense
in the early era and make less sense later.
So, a brain emulation, again, you took a particular person, you made a model of their brain and
you now have it on a computer, you can turn it on, turn it off, copy it, erase it, run
it fast or run it slow, and that's about it.
You can't do lots of other fancy, you know, stick a probe in and make somebody like chocolate
ice cream or combine one person's music with another person's Christmas vacation memory
and you just can't do all those things.
All you can do is this limited set of actions.
I have a question about that prior.
So, you mentioned that this is a time period that could potentially be a thousand years
for the uploaded minds.
So, after the first couple hundred subjective years, is it reasonable to think that they
are able to appoint, if they're being very productive, that which I think is something
that you also assume that the economy is doubling very quickly, that they are able to do that,
that they are able to go beyond being simple emulations?
So, today and for the last few centuries or even thousands of years really, growth has
primarily come via innovation.
So, the main way we are able to double the economy is by innovating enough in a wide
range of technologies.
That's where growth comes from.
So, growth is so far typically rising up a ladder of innovation and if we rise that
ladder faster, we still might rise at the different ladders of technology advance at
a similar relative rate so that we still have to go so many steps up the ladder before
we can reach certain achievements.
So, if today, you might say we're doubling our economy every fifteen years, if there's
some advance you think would take another hundred and fifty years to get to, then you
are thinking it's ten doublings of the economy, say let's call it ten steps of the ladder.
We have to go ten steps of the ladder up to get to that achievement because it's hard
and we're a long way off.
Now, if the M economy speeds up and grows faster, then we could reach any particular place
in a shorter amount of time but not necessarily a smaller number of doublings.
We still might need to rise this ladder of technology in order to make these developments
so that we can achieve various things.
So, if you want to argue that some kinds of technological developments will become easier
relative to others, that would be an argument for saying we'll go up some ladders faster
than other ladders once the age of M shows up.
That's an argument you could make, but if you're going to think that we just rise up
all these ladders at the same relative rates as we did before or the same relative rates
as we would have without the age of M, then you should expect we would reach any particular
level in the same number of doublings of the economy, which might happen in a lot shorter
time but still a lot of distance in terms of economic growth.
I've got a question about what happens to the humans in this M economy.
It seems that in your writing you emphasize that the people who are most likely to get
emulated and to have many, many copies of their emulations running because employers
really like employing them are people who are very uniquely suited for their jobs.
They really enjoy that sort of work.
It is their goal just to do that work.
That's obviously not a huge portion of the population.
What happens to the humans who are not suitable for becoming a standard worker?
The key parameter is because it's so easy to copy emulations, the emulation economy
will focus on the few hundred best.
Whether they're best in terms of being workaholics or whatever it is, doesn't really matter that much.
The point is the M economy mostly looks at the few hundred best and the other 7 billion
not best are much less in demand.
That's a bust feature of just having a very small number of the best that you can make lots of copies of.
What happens to those other 7 billion people who no longer have jobs because of the 100 best people
and all their various clones have taken them?
The age of M plausibly only lasts a year or two in objective time.
That is, if the economy doubles every month and the age of M lasts through a similar number of doublings
as the past few eras have, i.e. the industry and the farming and the foraging eras
then it would be over in a year or two and something else might happen.
So the entire age of M may only last a year or two in objective time.
So there's not a lot of time for cultural change of humans.
A small number of big things happen to humans and then they're pretty much what you would think humans would be like
given those changes without needing to think of anything else because there's not much else that can happen.
So the two enormous things that happen to humans are, as you indicated first, they lose all their ability to earn wages.
They're just out of jobs. They must all retire.
The second big thing that happens to humans is humans start owning pretty much all this new economy.
If it doubles every month, their wealth doubles every month.
So collectively, humans are getting really rich really fast.
Collectively, humanity would be yes, but there are a lot of people out there who have no net assets at all
and so their wealth would not be doubling because they have zero and they couldn't just retire because they don't have anything to retire on.
I think that Robin says they're SOL. Is that a good prediction?
Just to be very clear, very straightforward, if you lose your ability to earn wages
and you don't have assets or insurance or sharing arrangements, you are in trouble.
There's just no escaping that.
Isn't that kind of a recipe for worldwide revolution though?
Because I know a lot of people can't go two years without any income at all.
So the obvious prediction is that this will vary from place to place.
That's what we've seen in the past. We've definitely seen in the past the degree to which people have assets, insurance or sharing arrangements has varied a lot.
And so I just predict it will vary in the future.
I don't predict the age of M will be uniformly distributed across the globe.
Most likely, emulation economy is concentrated into a small number of very dense cities, which could fit in a very small part of the globe.
And the nations and areas that encompass those em-cities can get rich, but the rest of the world not necessarily so much.
So there are global risks here.
These insurance or sharing arrangements need to be global if they're to be effective.
If you and the people in the few hundred miles around you decide to share with each other and you don't end up actually being something this new economy makes much use of,
then you're not actually insuring against the real risk here.
So I definitely recommend and I've tried to make this clear in all the talks I've given that one of the most obvious policy recommendations I have is that people should try to set up,
you know, diversify their assets and or buy insurance and or set up sharing arrangements so that they can deal with the sort of risk and those things need to be global in some indirect way at least.
They need to have access to assets and resources that would be valuable in an age of M that is not at all equally distributed across the globe.
You were talking about how these emulated minds would be only have a few people and then maybe only have a few hundred very productive people.
And I was wondering Robin, what you think of the value of diversity in work?
This is a question that comes up often.
I think if we look at most product markets and most industrial markets in our economy, we see a relatively low demand for diversity.
That is, most product markets, say toasters or whatever are supplied by a relatively small number of producers.
And that's how most people seem to like to buy most products from a relatively small number of producers.
If you even look at employers, you see that when they're looking at employees, they tend to prefer employees that come from relatively standardized sources like elite colleges that produce a relatively standardized product.
And they're not that interested in variety, honestly, and in fact, variety they often see as a cost.
Now there are some professions, say advertising where they put an especially high value on creativity and variety, but in most industries, they don't.
So most employers have to accept a lot more diversity today than they really prefer because that's the product they're stuck with.
These humans that actually vary quite a lot, but most of them don't really want that much diversity.
And in the age of them, they will choose employees the way most of us choose toasters and everything else in our lives with a limited amount of diversity.
Now we have a literature on productivity and diversity of teams.
And so we know that there are some kinds of diversity that are productive on teams and presumably a competitive economy will look for enough of that kind of diversity, but other kinds of diversity are actually not so much.
So in fact, the main kind of diversity that is useful is different ways of thinking and especially different sources of information or kinds of analysis.
So it's good on a team to have people who come from different professions, different disciplines, different styles of thinking in terms of their background, that is useful.
But holding that constant actually teams seem to do better when most other demographic variables are not diverse.
They do better with common ethnicities, genders, ages, all the other sorts of variety. Most teams are actually more productive when those other parameters are more common.
I have a question about to go back up again. If I don't trust my local government area to provide me with that income over the few years, which I don't.
So I'm trying to pick up assets right now. What would you recommend as the assets in particular that you think are best to purchase to go through this to get through this phase of human history?
You actually looking up yourself.
Yes.
It's most likely to be useful in this.
Back on what I call, I may have a section on policy, which I talk about what we should do together that would be good for all of us. And then I have a section on success, which is about what you should do to be good for you.
So I do try to address both of those.
So the standard economists answer, which I think is roughly right, is that you shouldn't make bets unless you actually know better. So index funds are ways to just diversify your investments without really betting on which classes of assets will perform better than which other classes of assets.
So I do recommend that you mainly purchase index funds.
If you happen to know something about a particular asset relative to other people, then that might justify you speculating on that asset, but that's obviously not going to be a general useful advice for me to give people here in an interview.
The only variation on that I'd say is if you could construct insurance that was targeted to this particular rich risk that would be more useful than just generically having assets.
So if you could convince an insurance company to actually offer a product, which was it we pay in this situation, but only in this situation, then it'll be cheaper for you to insurance sure against that risk by buying that insurance paying that premium.
As long as we're in back peddling mode, I wanted to ask about there was another predicate or there's other, I guess, yeah, prior to the age of M that we didn't talk about yet, which is you predict that it'll happen before strong AI.
And there was a related point which we can or cannot get into depending on whatever you prefer that you're a proponent of slow take off as opposed to fast take off of, say, super intelligence.
So I think the future is important enough that we should explore a lot of different scenarios. So for example, the future is important enough to be worth having 100 different books that explore 100 scenarios, where mine is just one of those scenarios.
That's how important the future actually is.
So into that case, it would be worth having a book on a scenario that had only a 1% chance of happening if they were mutually exclusive.
I certainly think my book rises above that 1% threshold.
I happen to think it's more likely than others, but I do want to be clear that my book is presenting itself as being expert on what happens in this scenario.
I'm not really presenting myself as an expert on the likelihood of this scenario relative to others. That is, I have some comments about it, but it's not an emphasis of the book.
So clearly I'm not presenting myself as being very expert on that.
I would rather we had prediction markets on these various scenarios and by that we could then decide which scenarios are worth exploring, but it is worth exploring a lot of different scenarios.
So that's my prelude to say, yes, I have opinions on this, but it's not the focus of the book to argue about which scenario is more likely.
I was an artificial intelligence researcher for nine years, a while ago, from 84 to 93.
And I've been in the habit of asking AI researchers that I meet at events who have been in the field for at least 20 years, how far have we come in the last 20 years in your field of expertise relative to the goal of human level abilities in that field?
And they usually say something in the range of 5 to 10% of the distance with no noticeable acceleration.
So at that rate, we're talking two to four centuries, which is short in grand historical times.
It's definitely the sort of thing that's coming and one should think about.
But emulations seem like the sort of thing that could happen even faster than two to four centuries.
And that's a reason why we might at least consider this scenario that emulations come before other forms of artificial intelligence.
And yes, my book does assume that at the time when emulations are feasible, just before that time, humans are still very valuable.
Humans are getting a lot of income.
Humans are very useful.
Almost all jobs have not been automated.
It's still only a small fraction of world income is going to pay for automation of computers and most income is paying for human workers.
When you talk to neurologists and scientists and computer scientists who are doing emulations of living organisms, what did they say about their rate?
What did they say about the rate of progress?
I'm not an expert in that field, so I do not meet those people at conferences.
So I'm not in a position to ask them that.
I would love to hear that.
I hear these things more indirectly.
In the field of artificial intelligence, it is a standard trope that the field is trying to achieve human level abilities in these fields.
So it's a question that everybody understands and is familiar with.
I don't think that in the fields of neuroscience, the question of, you know, when will we be able to emulate a whole brain is in fact a standard question that they ask themselves and that they frame their field as producing.
You would have to introduce the topic to them a little more before you ask the question compared to an ordinary AI researcher for whom that's just a natural standard question.
Okay.
So for emulated minds and these futurist ideas, do you also publish peer reviewed papers?
Or have you?
I'm an expert in neuroscience and I'm not presenting myself as an expert in neuroscience.
If that's what you mean.
