Saving the Appearances, A Study in Idolatry by Owen Barfield
Second Edition
6. Original Participation
It is characteristic of our phenomena.
Indeed, it is this above all which distinguishes them from those of the past,
that our participation in them and therefore also their representational nature
is excluded from our immediate awareness.
It is consequently always ignored by our common sense
and sometimes denied even in theory.
For this reason it will be best to begin the brief series of observations
that is the history of the familiar world
from the present day and to work backwards from there to the remotor past.
Our first step then is to trace the last stage of this development
which has led up to the collective representations with which we are familiar today.
Participation is the extra sensory relation between man and the phenomena.
It was shown in Chapter 3 that the existence of phenomena depends on it.
Actual participation is therefore as much a fact in our case
as in that of primitive man.
But we have also seen that we are unaware whereas the primitive mind is aware of it.
This primitive awareness, however, is obviously not the theoretical kind
which we can still arrive at by beta thinking.
For that presupposes some acquaintance with the findings of modern physics and physiology
and can only be applied to the kind of collective representations that go with this.
The primitive kind of participation is indeed not theoretical at all
in as much as it is given in immediate experience.
Let us distinguish it from ours by calling it original participation.
It would, however, be cumbersome to add the epithet every time the word is used
and I propose very often to omit it, having first made it plain here and now
that by participation I shall mean original participation
unless the context otherwise requires.
There is another difference between sophisticated and primitive participation.
Hitherto we have spoken of representations and of the unrepresented
but we have said nothing of any represented.
This raises the question whether representation was the proper word to use at all
or whether it is merely misleading.
If an appearance can properly be called a representation
it will certainly be a representation of something.
Just as the particles then, the name here chosen for all that is conceived to exist independently of consciousness
have also been called the unrepresented.
So whatever is correlative to the appearances or representations
will here be called the represented.
This is, of course, a mere name and gives as yet no clue to the nature of what is meant.
I hope that further light will be thrown upon it gradually as we proceed.
Meanwhile I must use the name, leaving the reader to make up his mind,
ambulando, whether it was justified or not.
We have seen that a very large part of the collective representations
is found by beta thinking to have been contributed by the precipian's own activity.
Beta thinking therefore inevitably assumes that a very large part of their correlative,
the represented, is to be found within ourselves.
Consequently, if our participation, having been first understood and accepted by beta thinking as a fact,
should then become a conscious experience, it would have to take the form of conscious
instead of as now unconscious, figuration.
This is because for us, the represented is conceived as within our precipiant selves
and it is only an unrepresented physical base, particles, which we conceive of as without.
Not so for primitives.
For them, the represented too is conceived as outside, so that there is no question of conscious figuration.
It may also sometimes be detected within, but it is detected primarily without.
The human soul may be one of the stopping places for manna,
but what differentiates the primitive mind from ours is that it conceives itself
to be only one of those stopping places and not necessarily the most significant.
The essence of original participation is that there stands behind the phenomena
and on the other side of them from me, a represented which is of the same nature as me.
Whether it is called manna, or by the names of many gods and demons, or God the Father,
or the spirit world, it is of the same nature as the perceiving self
in as much as it is not mechanical or accidental, but psychic and voluntary.
I have here assumed that what Levy, Bruel, and Durkheim and their followers say
about contemporary primitive man is substantially correct, and it seems to me likely to be so.
But whether or not it is correct for contemporary primitive man,
it is certainly true of historically early man.
All the evidence from etymology and elsewhere goes to show that the further back we penetrate
into the past of human consciousness, the more mythical in their nature do the representations become.
Moreover, there is no evidence to the contrary.
I shall say something later on of the testimony born by etymology.
Here it must suffice to affirm categorically that, for the 19th century fantasy of early man
first gazing with his mind tabula rasa at natural phenomena like ours,
then seeking to explain them with thoughts like ours,
and then by a process of inference, peopling them with the airy phantoms of mythology,
there just is not any single shred of evidence whatever.
I do not mean by using the word fantasy to imply contempt.
If great scholars like Max Mueller and Sir James Fraser in seeking for the historical origins of myth
made the same mistake as the early anthropologists, it will, I hope,
become apparent in the course of this and the ensuing chapters how inevitable it was that they should do so.
Today, on the other hand, partly thanks to their work, any little man provided he is not hopelessly prejudiced
can convince himself of the contrary.
The point is not to find someone to turn up our noses at,
but to grasp the fact that alpha thinking, when men first began to exercise it,
had to be directed upon that kind of collective representation, namely the participated kind,
and not on the collective representations resembling ours, which, as we shall see,
are a later product of that very alpha thinking.
For alpha thinking, as I have defined it, is a thinking about collective representations.
But when we think about anything, we must necessarily be aware of ourselves,
that is, of the self which is doing the thinking, as sharply and clearly detached from the thing thought about.
It follows that alpha thinking involves pro-tanto absence of participation.
It is, in fact, the very nature and aim of pure alpha thinking to exclude participation.
When, therefore, it is directed, as it has to be, to start with,
on phenomena determined by original participation, then, at first simply by being alpha thinking,
and at a later stage deliberately, it seeks to destroy that participation.
The more so because, as we shall also see, participation renders the phenomena less predictable and less calculable.
The history of alpha thinking accordingly includes the history of science,
as the term has hitherto been understood and reaches its culmination in a system of thought
which only interests itself in phenomena to the extent that they can be grasped as independent of consciousness.
This culmination appears to have been reached about the close of the 19th century,
for along with the recent tendency of physics to implicate the observer again in the phenomena,
there goes the tendency of physicists to give up alpha thinking about phenomena
and occupy themselves as mathematicians only with the unrepresented.
Systematic alpha thinking appears to have begun with astronomy.
Whether this was because the movements of the heavenly bodies display a regularity
which is mostly lacking in sub-lunary phenomena, and which would be the first, therefore,
to attract the attention of minds beginning for the first time to interest themselves in regularity,
or whether it was for some other reason we need not consider.
Astronomy is generally regarded as the doyen of the sciences,
and at a glance at its history from Greek times to the present day or thereabouts
will afford some insight into the development of that exact thinking about phenomena which is called science,
and the effect of that development on the collective representations of western man.
I say from Greek times because although the Egyptians and Chaldeans appear to have kept astronomical records
over a very long period, we know nothing of any avowedly speculative thought earlier than the Greeks,
either on this or any other subject.
That the collective representations to which this speculative thought was applied
were of the kind already indicated, i.e. participated, is obvious enough.
Apart from speculative thought, it would never have occurred to an ancient Greek to doubt
that the heavenly bodies and their spheres were in one way or another representations of divine beings.
Such a doubt was, in fact, voiced occasionally, simply because the Greek mind was of such an incorrigibly speculative nature
that there was very little that did not occur to it, as a purely notional possibility.
But the point is that, in the early days of alpha thinking, any such notion was a secondary speculation
and rather a wild one about the collective representations whose character made the contrary representational view seem the obvious one.
The systematic alpha thinking exercised only by the thoughtful few is applied to the phenomena,
i.e. to collective representations which they share with the many.
And we are left in no doubt by Plato's dialogues and by the whole language and literature of Greece,
what these, in general, were like.
There it was the materialist who looked like a Berkeley, and the Greek equivalent of Dr. Johnson
would return from speculation to common sense, not by kicking a stone,
but by appealing to collective representations made obvious by his upbringing,
the language he spoke and heard spoken all around him,
and by the active cults which were his daily matter of fact experience.
Even the atoms of Democritus were, of course, not atoms as the word has been understood in the 19th and 20th centuries.
They were imagined as components of mind no less than of matter.
In other words, they were the only sort of atoms which alpha thinking about participated phenomena could present to itself for the purpose of speculation.
It is in this light that we must approach, if we wish to understand them,
not only the speculations of Plato and Aristotle, for instance, on the nature of the stars and planets,
but also the meanings of common words like noose and logos,
and the whole apparatus of language by which they expressed these speculations.
If we are content to translate and to think mind for noose and reason or word for logos,
we are in continual danger of surreptitiously substituting our own phenomena for those which they were in fact dealing with.
It is not only that they speculated on whether the planets were visible gods or only images of the gods as statues are,
on the nature of the fifth essence and its relation to the earthly elements,
on the anima mundi, on whether or not the ether, which is the substance of the spheres, has a soul, etc.
The very meanings of the incidental words with the help of which they did the speculating implied participation of some sort.
Whereas the words into which we struggle to translate them imply the reverse.
Some examples of these words will be considered in a later chapter,
when it will be seen that original participation survived in an attenuated form even into the Middle Ages.
It may remove the risk of misunderstanding if I mention at this early stage that it is no part of the object of this book to advocate a return to original participation.
7. Appearance and Hypothesis
According to Plato there were three stages or degrees of knowledge.
The first and lowest amounted to no more than observation.
Since all that we perceive is continually changing, coming into being and passing away,
this kind of knowledge grasps nothing permanent and nothing therefore which can properly be called truth.
At the opposite pole, the highest degree, which is the only one that can properly be called knowledge, is wholly extrasensory.
It is the contemplation by pure intelligence of the divine ideas and above all of the supreme good.
The union of these two, that is, of pure intelligence and sense knowledge,
gives rise to an intermediate mental activity which Plato stigmatized as bastard,
although he insisted on all his pupils studying it as a preparation and a means to the true knowledge.
This intermediate activity was geometry or, as we should now say, mathematics.
These three degrees of knowledge correspond with three different levels of astronomy.
The astronomy of observation merely records the movements of the stars, the sun, the moon, and the planets
without attempting to account for them or reduce them to any system.
From this we can rise to the second astronomy which seeks to account for the apparently arbitrary movements of,
for instance, the planets, by supposing regular geometrical patterns to underlie them.
By the exercise of this celestial geometry, we can render ourselves capable of rising eventually to the third and highest,
that is, to the only true knowledge, which is an unobscured participation in the divine mind or word itself.
The real wisdom, as distinct from its not wholly unworthy outcome in the permanent truths of geometry,
manifests itself only to him who participates in, however slight, a degree in the pure and divine intelligence.
This intelligent participation, the privilege of philosophy and in the last resort of initiation, was not mystical,
for mystical experience is essentially other than ordinary experience.
But the Platonic or Aristotelian participation, which was true knowledge,
was simply the half-conscious participation of every man, the participation by virtue of which he was a man,
cleared of the gross and bewildering mutability which is plastered over it by the other approach through the senses.
Plato further laid it down orally, as we learn from later astronomers,
that the science of astronomy properly lay within the middle one of these three spheres of knowledge.
In the first place, the phenomena, or appearances, that is, the apparent movements of the heavenly bodies, could be watched by observation.
In the third place, the true knowledge, since it was acquainted with the divine spirits who insold or guided the heavenly bodies,
had already laid down certain fundamental principles not derived from observation.
It was for the science of astronomy, in the second place, to save the appearances,
that is, the apparent movements of the heavenly bodies, and particularly of sun, moon, and planets,
which were the most difficult to account for, by devising hypothetical patterns of movement
which would account for the appearances without infringing the fundamental principles.
Later on, I shall say something of the mental-spatial experience which claimed to determine the nature of movement out of the nature of pure thought.
It appears as a mere confusion to the alpha thinking of today,
though that too is beginning to talk without appreciable discomfort of space-time.
Here it must suffice to record that the prescribed movements were, among other requirements,
perfect circles at a constant speed.
There is perhaps more of physics than of astronomy in Aristotle's Decaylo,
but as far as the three stages of knowledge and the fundamental principles just referred to are concerned,
he was substantially in accord with Plato.
The phenomena of which the astronomy of Greece and of the Dark and Middle Ages spoke
were, of course, not quite what we today mean by phenomena,
a word which, outside philosophy, has come to be practically synonymous with objects and events.
The middle voice of the Greek verb suggests neither wholly what is perceived from within themselves by men,
nor wholly what from without forces itself on man's senses.
But something between the two.
This is also fairly suggested by the English word appearances,
