which is generally used in translating the once hard-worked phrase to save the appearances.
This phrase, used by Simplicius in his sixth century commentary on Aristotle's Decaylo,
continued to dominate astronomy down to the time of Copernicus.
When we hear of saving appearances today, we are apt to think of a society hostess at a dinner party
where something has gone wrong in the kitchen.
It was not so in the 17th century.
Although he spoke of God's laughter, Milton was not himself laughing at the astronomers
when he wrote in the eighth book of Paradise Lost.
Or if they list to try, conjecture he is fabric of the heavens,
hath left to their disputes perhaps to move, his laughter at their quaint opinions wide,
hereafter when they come to model heaven and calculate the stars how they will wield,
the mighty frame, how build, unbuild, contrive, to save appearances, how gird the sphere,
with centric and eccentric scribbled ore, cycle and epicycle, orb in orb.
Nor was he suggesting that desperate expedience were being resorted to in order to save,
in the sense of rescuing, the Ptolemaic system, which incidentally he had made the framework of his own poem.
He was introducing a learned cliché.
The same passage from Simplicius contains the Greek verb from which we derive the word hypothesis.
The spheres and orbits by which the appearances were to be saved were normally hypotheses,
in the strict sense of the word, that is, assumptions made for the purpose of a particular argument
and by the same token not posited as true.
A brief digression on the almost lost distinction between the word hypothesis
and the word theory may not be amiss here.
The Greek word theoria meant contemplation,
and is the term used in Aristotle's psychology to designate the moment of fully conscious participation,
in which the soul's potential knowledge, its ordinary state, becomes actual,
so that man can at last claim to be awake.
This is no guide to its present or even recent meaning,
but it does emphasize the difference between a proposition which it is hoped may turn out to be true
and a proposition the truth or untruth of which is irrelevant.
The geometrical paths and movements devised for the planets were,
in the minds of those who invented them, hypotheses in the latter sense.
They were arrangements, devices for saving the appearances,
and the Greek and medieval astronomers were not at all disturbed by the fact
that the same appearances could be saved by two or more quite different hypotheses,
such as an eccentric or epicycle or, particularly in the case of Venus and Mercury,
by supposed revolution round the earth or supposed revolution round the sun.
All that mattered was which was the simplest and most convenient for practical purposes,
for neither of them had any essential part in truth or knowledge.
Unless we realize, with the help of a little historical excavation of this kind,
what from the epistemological point of view astronomy then signified
for about 2,000 years, we shall not understand the real significance of Copernicus and Galileo.
The popular view is that Copernicus discovered that the earth moves round the sun.
Actually, the hypothesis that the earth revolves round the sun
is at least as old as the third century BC, when it was advanced by Aristarchus of Samos,
and he was neither the only nor probably the first astronomer to think of it.
Copernicus himself knew this.
Secondly, it is generally believed that the church tried to keep the discovery dark.
Actually, Copernicus did not himself want to publish his derevolutionibus orbium
and was only eventually prevailed on to do so by the importunity of two eminent churchmen.
The real turning point in the history of astronomy and of science in general
was something else altogether.
It took place when Copernicus, probably it cannot be regarded as certain,
began to think and others, like Kepler and Galileo, began to affirm
that the heliocentric hypothesis not only saved the appearances but was physically true.
It was this, this novel idea that the Copernican and therefore any other hypothesis
might not be a hypothesis at all but the ultimate truth
that was almost enough in itself to constitute the scientific revolution
of which Professor Butterfield has written.
It outshines everything since the rise of Christianity and reduces the Renaissance
and Reformation to the rank of mere episodes,
mere internal displacements within the system of medieval Christendom.
When the ordinary man hears that the church told Galileo that he might teach Copernicanism
as a hypothesis which saved all the celestial phenomena satisfactorily
but not as being the truth, he laughs.
But this was really how Ptolemaic astronomy had been taught.
In its actual place in history, it was not a caustical quibble.
It was the refusal, unjustified it may be, to allow the introduction of a new and momentous doctrine.
It was not simply a new theory of the nature of celestial movement that was feared
but a new theory of the nature of theory.
Namely that, if a hypothesis saves all the appearances, it is identical with truth.
Geometry, applied to motion, produces the machine.
Years ago the Arabs had used the Ptolemaic hypothesis to make machines or models
of the planetary system purely for the purpose of calculation.
Our collective representations were born when men began to take the models,
whether geometrical or mechanical, literally.
The machine is geometry in motion, and the new picture of the heavens as a real machine
was made possible by parallel developments in physics where the new theory of inertia,
in its early form of impetus, assumed for the first time in the history of the world
that bodies can go on moving indefinitely without an animate or physical mover.
It was soon to be stamped indelibly on men's imaginations
by the circumstance of their being ever more and more surrounded by actual artificial machinery on Earth.
The whole point of a machine is that, for as long as it goes on moving,
it goes on by itself, without man's participation.
To the extent, therefore, that the phenomena are experienced as machine,
they are believed to exist independently of man, not to be participated,
and therefore not to be in the nature of representations.
We have seen that all these beliefs are fallacious.
All this is not, of course, to say that science today conceives of nature as a machine
or even on a mechanical model.
It is to say that the ordinary man has been doing just that
for long enough to deprive the phenomena of those last representational overtones
last enchantments, as Matthew Arnold called them,
which still inform them in the Middle Ages and to eliminate from them
the last traces of original participation.
In doing so, he has produced the mechanomorphic collective representations
which constitute the Western world today.
