you know, confirm it. And, and yeah, maybe there's another system that will not let us be
getting knowledge so slowly, because if everybody just agrees on something,
we teach it to everyone, and we confirm the model, and then we just try to look for evidence for
that model, then we go slowly if there's any better thing or better model that comes along.
Yeah, a lot to say about that, like, if we believe that trees exist or that people exist,
and then we come to see them. So there's kind of this sense where problem
confirmation bias, which I think it's a great term, a great topic to bring in with definitely also
what's called like the golden nail syndrome or something. If all you have is the hammer,
then everything's a nail. And there's definitely a tension there, because it's like,
how much of what you can do, are you supposed to do something that you can't do?
Or, but then at least you could do what you needed to do to get there. So that's actually
within your scope of what you can do. So it's not that there are things that you can do that you
can't do, if just from measurement perspective. So like, how does it look? Or how do we recognize
across systems? Or how do we have awareness in situations as limited individuals who do have
all of these cognitive phenomena, how to make decisions or sense making or infrastructure
or whatever it is, the socialness, the system of interest of the social sciences, make that
and then dot dot dot normatively what?
I think there's some protection built into the problem of confirmation bias because
all knowledge generation is happening in an open system. And so there's always going to be an
agent outside of your own mind and what it's perceiving that can then challenge or add to the
you know, like the LK-99 semiconductors that have been all the rage recently and how
other scientists have now kind of discredited it quite convincingly. And it's because of this open,
they might have had degrees of confirmation bias that they were egging each other on,
but it's ultimately been refuted, which is this built-in kind of protection because it's all
operating in an open system, fortunately. Yeah, a lot to say there. Monday morning, reviewer doing.
How do we again go from any given description of a communicative event like the kind of specific
unfolding of the LK-99 narrative as yet uncompleted in the minds of some, which is real enough
to be real socially. And so how do we go from any descriptive anything about that?
Total observation to core screening. Then how do we come to work with that interface with
what whatever that is hands that to us?
What is the social behavior or some some classic or some novel social behaviors?
Maybe ones that seem pretty obvious, due to recency bias.
I'll just mention one aspect that Andrew and I have also talked about is the auto-poetic
nature of information systems. Andrew, do you have any thought on this?
Or about where auto-poesis comes into like social sciences or these kinds of models?
Daniel, Andrew just left a note that he needs a... Okay, okay.
Oh, totally. He just wasn't looking at the time. Funny stuff.
Anyone else have a thought on that?
Okay, just to kind of carry forward then. Basically, the ability of social systems that
include written niche modification, cumulative culture, their increasing extent of control.
As discussed earlier, that definitely is a bit of an overloaded or at least doubly meant term
in different settings, because it can just simply mean modeling it with control theory,
which is a pretty limited philosophical statement relative to any statistical method,
or control like the kind that people are unhappy with and the kind that's described in
thinking like a state. A lot of other works that I know, Mao and Lorena and Avel are going to be
definitely going into more detail on... So when societies can model
and introspect or self-reflect formally, much better.
And that can happen through anything from free and open source,
better aided protocols. There's many limited formats of self-meaning making, but cryptography
definitely allows those explorations. And that doesn't necessarily mean computer cryptography.
That could also be like linguistic encoding and all these other ways of niche
sub-differentiation in multi-scale systems. You just do not see a system that is cookie cutter.
It's very rare in ecosystems. There are algal blooms and things like that.
So when we really think about the developmental and the cognitive and the selective niche,
which is a concept that Axel Constant and others have differentiated in some of their
like ecological active inference work, like that niche is very embodied, extended in culture,
et cetera, et cetera. It's just like a kind of cool direct way to open up to that challenge of
modeling and just bring some closures with different accounts or compatibilities with
different accounts. So like all, just to give one right of example, but maybe it'd be interesting
what other people think, all the expressions that people make in social settings can just simply
be their expressions or modeled as such. That is in one way implicitly what was always in play,
but now it's describable and legible and autonomous. So how do we take this active
inference collective behavior crossover and think about what it really means
in how we're going to be like thinking differently, even just this discussion forward
or like more locally are our understandings with collective behavior or with behavior.
Yeah, and you can you ask the question again. I didn't actually catch the
question. How do we start to adapt some of these general comments or frames that are
in some ways disconnected from descriptions of real systems? How do we think about that
and and what it means now?
Do you mean on the document in front of us? These disconnected things in front of us
there on the document? I don't know whatever you think or whatever you want to say.
Yeah, I think there's a lot and again I hope I'm not
fully understanding the question. I hope I'm not steering away too much, but I had a general
sense of what I think you were saying and I think it's an enormous problem with the amount of
information sharing just in a with let's just take the generative models of
social media and all of the platforms that are available to us. How much information we are
privy to in any given moment and I'm kind of forgetting the question that you asked.
It's almost as if there is such a high rate of information and data flow that it's really
hard to know what to do with all of it and at least as a human being I'm not saying from machines
but as a psychologist I'm certainly interested in how humans are able to tolerate and respond to
the amount and rate of information that's out there.
I mean this is not the first time this happens right? Like when we went from talking to writing
information then everyone wrote their information and then we have books and then we have libraries
and that's all available and again we have access if you can read right to all the information in
the world so we adapted to I don't know to get careers so we could specify in which type of
information you are going to know more so maybe we need some sort of new career types I don't know
more specification with more information. But is it not is the rate of information
uh flow and increases are not is it not exponential is it not um I don't know it's a crazy amount
on our brains cannot do anything about it so we have to do multidisciplinary things and work
together with others if we want to make something but yeah I don't know maybe we will die of excess
of information
how do people feel like active inference brings something to the discussion relative to
how they want to work towards
answer yeah well isn't that the provocative question too but like any system that's that
that's the question everyone is going to have their own memes and themes and and systems that they
have spent time with and did fieldwork with and all this other like
particularity because a system that doesn't have particularity is just not going to be
hosting a broad enough niche for for phenotypic diversity it's just riding on the edge of a
razor instead of more like a fabric that continues to unfold I think
there's a lot of work to do with the social sciences and active inference just from what I was
like reading trying to find things for this
um discussion and just I personally wondered what is is meaningful or interesting
or useful what's epistemic and pragmatic value for different audiences how does it go from kind of
bringing citations that were not linked together in some more theoretical or more
generative model oriented work in active inference like epistemic foraging or the
inference model or any other kind of specific model what what are these different kinds of
scientific artifacts do
for who
I guess I'm still learning very
very
kind of crudely ploddling along here Daniel with to try and answer that because it's
quickly realized that the field is it's so multi-nodal it has so much
and the free energy principle the Bayesian brain even just to psychology has so much
applicability and everyone seeing everyone I meet at these discussions is coming at it from
a different angle and it can be a bit confusing to hear how other people
are applying it how other people are making use of it
in all manner of ways and so I'm still learning how to apply to kind of ring fence the free energy
principle and connect it to psychological processes including collective behavior
and because there's a lot of psychopathology in group think in collective behavior but I'm also
very very interested in its application at the interface of
what happens between a a therapist and a patient and I'm often unlike other
professions who seem who are just by nature of the scientific method are able to extract
a lot more data to work with to analyze to you know in a that's very hard to do I feel very limited
other than just making kind of theoretical leaps and inferences about how to apply
the free energy principle to psychology. I can't have a session with my brain hooked up to
an FMRI machine to get data and to see when a patient says Google bar that's a spike on the
spike trains which represents you know surprising and we can then solve for that in some way and
I don't have access to that sort of data flow so it feels limited but I'm still learning how to
apply it and yeah and trying to collaborate with colleagues on that the influence group.
What are people wondering about collective behavior even if we're totally of course not
going to address it but just what what are the kinds of things that people
what makes you look up collective behavior instead of just behavior or individual behavior.
For me it's about safety and need to belong.
For me it's
I think that it depends where you come from and in the country you are but
there are places that are more collective and there are places that are more individualistic and I
think mostly non-western countries have a lot of collective behavioral knowledge and
spirits already right that they're already new these things that we think are new for us right how
the collective thing works for example I don't know you don't make a decision for yourself
you make a decision for the group like marrying you marry because you want an addition you want to
interact with someone or other group and that's something that affects the the collective not
just you so arranged marriage makes sense something like that right so for me making that
distinction about individual collective comes from understanding that I don't know there are
other places that are already ahead in what collective means in terms of human beings and
how to interact and the worst through all we have all this individualistic thing which is
very interesting because why do we have a same species and then we have very different approaches
of how to understand ourselves in terms of what the individual is and why it matters
yes there's so much loaded on different understandings among people including
even the the essence of the social which is who are people and what is the
the obligation and how do we view that that relationship that's a very very deep area and
and again the part that just kept returning to me in the lecture and when I was trying to think
about how to how to even reflect part of this very large area is like what is the adjective doing
and what what is what's the reference point by which this is being said in the speech acts
like people often will dismiss I don't mean to you know straw people but dismiss collective
behavior by saying well we are explaining individual behavior what are you explaining
beyond the estimates in the colony and then the exterior like that is it and so that can feel
like looking at the same thing from two different sides and there are different methods like some
methods blur over individuals a lot more like statistical methods that might correspond to
demographics and then on the other hand like more agent-based models
but how much variability in what shared variability in white general
synchronies amongst different quantum reference frames all these nested
if these possibilities that are grounded in wanting to explore mathematical and scientific
possibilities as as the literature of linear regression is full of so many incredible
extensions and and and similar and then that's I think what the course is even beginning to
to try to express and what what I understand in the works of the the other teachers and
like a lot of your backgrounds and and everything like that is where is that
moment where it is not only science because science is not simply the social
so science has an activity and then as there's a diffusion away from science
and and I think that or or at least that relationship between social and science is
right there in the title maybe that's kind of like a science major's take but but it is itself
in a way a um presenting a dilemma with what science means there and then that's the frame game
who's doing social science who's doing not social science and that's that's where
in in the culture I'm sitting in slash in the technical side of that it is related to statistics
and formality it's the xkcd comic and the way that formalisms and and details are taken as
under some regimes of attention basically definitive and yet there's like a yearning
and a counter balancing that's expressed also in many ways and so that's and science maybe
some people feel like certain social scientific methods that's like not far enough in this dimension
and then the others feel like they're too far in this direction but it's like just like any
like that academic field let alone any other community of diverse agents like of course
there's going to be distributions of perspectives at different times and and at takes rate of
uptake by those different perspectives and no yeah Daniel do you think uh these first principles
would be able to explain why uh an ant colony exists uh I know that was your um a kind of
area of interest of study uh why an ant colony exists uh in in the way that it is as a kind of
operating as a collective and why um another animal is able to survive and achieve its goals
as an individual only relying on the environment and its actions and sensations to get its needs
met and to no doubt minimize its free energy but could first principles explain why the one
has to survive as a group and the other has to survive or is able to survive um and the different
conditions yeah that's a super interesting question it's it's very core to this individual
individuation and multi-scale individuation concept like is the nest made the individual and
then the colony is the social because then for sure it's super collaborative or is the colony
the organism and the nest mates are tissues and then are they social across colony boundaries
not where I was in Arizona but they're often friendly across different species and they
avoided conflict more often than not so it's like well and then go it why does it even matter
what's happening on this plot of lands in this in this area from like a biomimic
perspective we might learn new algorithms it's a sandbox for learning new techniques and
observation all these other like richnesses so it's to say though like what comes away from that
science that makes it social science and I think there's a lot of disciplinary ways of
understanding that which which I'm definitely not expert in in in the um professional fields like
counseling but probably in in all the different humanities and histories and all these other
fields all these different maps the kind of social um the epistemic organizing question
