have I just moved downtown, but because Phoenix is allergic to everything, we have like three,
like high volume air filters. So I'm actually curious how much you could actually mitigate
some of those effects. And also, yeah, what what the data is, my anecdotal data is that just I
used to work in the middle of downtown, like in the whatever two blocks, the actual tall buildings
in Denver. And I just I feel grimy, just from the few block walk from the light rail station of the
building. And I just noticed when I got out of the shower, like I felt clean, whereas like now
showering is like a luxury, because I don't walk through the heart of downtown every day.
Or not a luxury, but it's a it's optional. But yeah, I mean, I just felt slick and probably
probably just psychosomatic. But maybe yes, I will look up the data and put a link on the website.
I don't have it here in front of me, unfortunately, should have thought to do that. There is one
other thing to mention about this data. This data is incomplete, because due to international
treaties, no country has to report the emissions of their military. Since that's considered like,
you know, essential for the existence of a country, the secret. Yeah, we knew how much they were
emitting, we might be able to discern how big the military was or something or something. The US
military is the largest military in the world by far. And the US military is the single largest
user of petroleum in the United States. So this is definitely understated for how much we emit in
the US since we don't count any military emissions. Interesting. And the military in particular does
not give a fuck. They're like, yeah, we're here to not get killed and to kill others as
most efficiently as possible. We don't care about pollution. I mean, my brother told me when he was
in the military regularly and he's trash that they had, they were just to pile up in a big heap,
throw some gas on it and then put a thermal charge in it and just burn it all down. They're like,
you know, we're not a trash service. We're not environmental service. We're here to get shit
done. And I mean, probably a good attitude to have for your military, but overall bad for the planet.
Yeah, it'd be weird if you had, you know, 30 of your troops carrying trash back to be, you know,
processed comfortably if you're at war. Yeah. You know, but if you're just at the, I'm not sure
what the situation is like on bases all over. It's like, all right, it's not wartime. We can
recycle or some shit, right? I mean, it was, it was in Afghanistan. So technically some sort of
war footing, but it's not like there was like a hot firing war happening at the time. You know,
it was more like going on patrol every now and then getting shot at coming back to a safe zone.
Yeah, I still get not making garbage trips in that situation. But yeah, I don't know. It's
interesting. Like I'm obviously from my armchair and I'm not whatever running the world's economy,
but like, I don't really care how much it costs. You know, like when it was discovered that chlorofluor
carbons was destroying the ozone layer, there was just a worldwide ban basically, implemented
fairly quickly. And the ozone layer is now doing great. Yeah. On the other hand, it's also much
easier to ban that than it is to ban the use of burning things. Totally. Yeah. So I mean,
it was a lot easier to do and there were, there were suitable replacements and that sort of stuff.
There's arguments that we've already done enough damage that we're going to have to do a significant
amount of damage reversal. And I'm worried about things like plastics in the oceans and
endangered species kind of cascading. And yeah, although fun fact, species extinction.
If you like looking at fires, wood is the dirtiest fuel by quite a large margin that is used still
in the, in the world, like coal is better, anything is better. So you are sitting on a couch right
now that is in front of my fireplace because I never use that fireplace. And in part, it's because
of the polluting nature of wood burning, even though it is beautiful and we all love it due to
our evolutionary history. It's really bad. Fire is so nice though. They have one of those fake
like propane based fireplaces at the Smoky Hill Library here. It's not the same at all. Actually,
I thought that was really cozy, but I was kind of sad because yesterday after work, I was running
around doing errands and I had to return a library book and the library that was near where my old
house was that I still had the book from was closed for renovations and they had taped over the book
drop. So I had to go to the Smoky Hill Library, which was like an hour away. And then I got there
and it was like cold and it snowed the other day and they had this fire. So I was just like dropped
the book in the book thing, went upstairs, like grabbed a magazine set in front of the fire and
I was like, Oh, this is so nice. And then an employee came and shut off the fireplace. It's
like, Yeah, we're gonna we're about to close soon. We shut the fireplace off a few minutes.
Propane and natural gas so much cleaner. I've got a fake fireplace that we almost never used
just because it's a energy suck. But there is something fun a friend of mine has. I don't
know one of those outdoor cage fireplaces. It's not it's, you know, like not a pit. I got a door
and he's got he chops wood and it's it couldn't be more like rugged. But you know, the the crackling,
the sparks, all that. That's that's a lot of fun. But yeah, it's one of those things like I'm
willing to give that up too. Like, there's the the benefit it's relaxing and cool. It's like,
you know what, I can, I'll put on like Netflix has like fireplace things, right? I'll put that on
and put on a blank, you know, just wear a blanket and just pretend. And yes, I only I get a third
amount of the, you know, you know, make the number up, I get like a third amount of the fun or
something. But like it's so much, it's greener that way, right? Yes, it is. Yeah. I don't know.
I feel like on the individual level, it's the same thing. I was like, if you personally decide to
take 10 minute showers and compost your extra vegetable bits and, you know, like one person
deciding to make a bunch of sacrifices isn't really going to does almost nothing. Yeah. Compared
to I was even going to say like manufacturing. I get so frustrated. I didn't think about the
military. I get so frustrated by people who are like are switching straws and putting so much
effort into like the plastic straws. I'm like, really? The few dozen plastic straws you use in
your life compare at all to a single industrial company out there? Yeah. Jesus man. Just like
one one load of trash versus their lifetime consumption of straws. Right. Yeah. Yeah,
I've got a coworker and it's laudable. There's nothing against doing that, but they take it to
a pretty high degree as well. You know, we're like we went to like a company barbecue and they
brought their own plaster silverware so that they could wash it and not throw it away. I'm like,
that's dedication. Right. And, you know, again, good for them, but it's and it I can't say anything
bad against it. You know, if you want to go nuts, if everybody that if everybody did that would be
great. But like you said, it's but it's everyone that would make almost no difference. This isn't
the level that we're going to solve the problem at. We can all buy energy fission bulbs and it
won't make it. I don't think it will make a very marginal difference. Yeah. I think if everyone
used energy fission bulbs, it would make some difference because there are so many in the US.
Yeah. But that wouldn't that would hardly solve the problem. Right. Right. Right. If everybody if
every citizen did like basically everything that they could, it would still be a gigantic problem.
Right. Yeah, I think we're at the point where we're going to need to bioengineer trash eating
nanos. Oh, yeah. I am terrified of of what the Greg. Well, no, of creating something that can
eat plastic and gets out in the wild because one of the points of plastic is it doesn't decompose.
You can use it to store your food. You can, you know, use it to protect your
delicate parts of the stuff that's out in the wild because nothing's going to get through it,
you know. And now, all of a sudden, it can decompose just like any sort of paper or cloth
bagwood. It loses much of the utility of having something that is completely
inevitable. It's fun that we've reached the point and I
I guess our history, although I think of that as being like a retrospective word,
but we've reached that point where now these are things that we have to actually start thinking
about like we can crisper mosquitoes out of existence. But there's a bunch of debates about
should we like we've never actually intentionally just made an entire species extinct. They don't
seem to be keystone species of any kind. Nothing like relies on them for predation or pollination.
But we don't exactly know what would happen. I totally think we should just go for it.
So here's what we do. We save a few mosquitoes and like crowd preserve them or, you know,
whatever their larva or something in the event that this is a disaster, we just reintroduce them,
right? There, problem solved. I'm actually good with that. Yeah. Honestly, yeah. I mean,
when you weigh it against the number of people that are killed by malaria and other
mosquito-borne diseases, I feel like the risks, I don't know if they outweigh or the benefits
outweigh the risks, but it's a lot of people. As far as we can tell, the risk is really,
really low. Yeah. And the benefits would be huge. Well, as far as we can tell a bit again,
we haven't done it before, so we have no prior to. That's not like we haven't wiped out species
before. I know. That's another thing, though, that we kind of, I said we never intentionally
wipe them out, but we're unintentionally wiping them out left and right. We just have the safety
switch if we can put them back if we want to, but I say we just throw science at the wall and
see what sticks. I like that. That was a Cave Johnson quote from Portal 2. Oh, nice.
Steven, you got a feedback for us? Yeah, I'll read it. It sounds like
Jess is going to be the best one to quit to answer it, but this was from Babel on Discord.
I'm listening to the Replacing Guilt podcast, and it seems to be a given that bad things happen
when people don't rest. There have been people throughout history who, we have evidence, literally
did work all day, excuse me, did work all day long, no restful breaks, et cetera,
and work-life balance wasn't a thing either, and they seem to live lives as long as people did
back in the day. If they didn't, it was often due to worse conditions and nutrition like slaves,
and not necessarily because of their long hours. I remember watching this conversation
back and forth on the Discord and it was happening, and I feel like you had some
disagreement there. Wait, was it you? I had an agreement. Someone else had disagreement. Someone
was saying, show me an example of people who are working 16 hours a day, and they were like,
well, servants and stuff, and it's like, no, they would rest and they would take breaks,
whatever. Yeah, I mean, I was going to say historically, my understanding is medieval
peasants, for example, actually had a lot less strict work days. They had a lot of holy days.
Yeah, I don't know. Today is St. Yogurt's Day. Nobody works. I think we can find probably
current examples of people working 16-hour days in factories, but I don't think they have great
quality of life. It's not just about their longevity either. I mean, I worked 14-hour shifts for six
weeks at one point in my life, and if that was going to be my life, I'd probably get why they
put nets on those factories. This was only two floors, so the fall wouldn't have killed me,
but I would have found some way to get the hell out of there. If I knew that was going to be my
life. Yeah, I think you want to maximize not just for longevity, but also for quality of
life. How much are you achieving your goals and feeling fulfilled, having family and friends,
and good experiences? I think Babel's point was that with the whole bad things happen in quotes
is that it seems to be a lot of people say that if you don't get regular rest and if you're really
working that many hours, you die from overwork after a while, or your productivity just goes down
the tubes, or various other bad things happen. I think your productivity does go down the tubes,
and then it varies with individuals. There's definitely people that need less sleep than
other people or have the ability to focus on things much longer than other people. A lot of
the most productive people, I think, have borderline or actually just outright mental disorders,
usually bipolar. A lot of inventories and great artists, I think, were bipolar.
So you do have this incredibly prolific period of your life where you sleep four hours a day,
or you just don't sleep at all, and you're constantly working on this thing, and maybe you
improve humanity a lot, but I don't think you have a great life after that. I personally agree
with Babel based on what I've seen in my own life, that probably if you're working in a factory or
something, it gets really demoralizing, and it's awful and people can't work that long just because
it is bad. But in my own experience, the busiest times of my life were also a lot of the happiest
times, and it was mainly because I was working for myself. I would some work for the man as well
to pay the bills, but I'd wake up, I'd go to work. In my spare time, I would work on the podcast.
In other spare time, I would write. In other spare time, I would be fixing up my house or
buying this place and getting it gutted and fixed. For the first week, it's really hard.
You're fucking exhausted. You're like, oh my god, I can't do this. But after about seven to ten days
of doing this, it just becomes normal, and you get sort of a flow state. I've gone entire months
where basically I was working every waking hour with occasional breaks for food and to rest up,
and I stayed just as productive and I was really happy for the most part. The real downside is that
my social life went to hell. I lost touch with a lot of people because I was constantly working.
I remember when you were putting this place together and I would come by and help move the
occasional thing or whatever, and you were always like, you never like, I gotta keep doing this.
You were like, all right, cool, we're gonna put the floors down now and get the cabinets and shit
up. At that level of work though too, you're doing it, like I said, for yourself. You can see the
fruits of your labor, which to me was a big part of it. I think it makes a lot of difference how
much you actually are working on things that are personally fulfilling to you.
Yeah. For even just having something to show for it, I remember the difference. My first job
worked at a trophy factory. Yeah, it was silly, but it was in high school and it was one of those,
you know, someone wants to order 60 soccer trophies. It's just, I don't know, I thought it was funny
that you said that you have something to show for it. I'm imagining you having a trophy at the end of
the day. What I would have at the end of the day though is I'd start, I'd go upstairs and I'd get
all my shit, like all the bases and all the columns that you make these things out of. Then
at the end of the day, I've got this gigantic stack and I'm like, hey, that's the big pile of
stuff I built today. Whereas at McDonald's, you're just there, you know, like I think I mentioned,
my job was what they called fry bitch for a month. Yeah, you may or may not see your productivity
metrics or it may or may not matter to you. Well, yeah, the metrics, I had no discernible way of
A, knowing them or B, giving a shit. But at the end of the day, like the place looked the same
when I left as did when I got there. Whereas like, I didn't get to see what I did. At my current job
too, I'm stoked because we're going to merge all the stuff we've been working on for like the last
month. And since we've touched every file in the in the app, basically, of this, you know,
100 million line app, my name is going to be all over it. And like, sure, it's not a pile of stuff,
but my name is going to be all over the history of this thing. So that that's kind of fun. Yeah.
Yeah. I was going to say I find some amount of competitiveness to actually be motivating at
work too. Like, if it's just your mindset is kind of, okay, I just need to like make the fries
and like, not fail at making the fries and get yelled at. But like, if you kind of are looking
at like, oh, man, like, Steve's really good at making fries, but like, I'm going to make
fries better. I don't know, like, at any job I've worked out, I've always kind of been able to,
like, if I'm really trying to motivate myself, like, just try to find some kind of metric to
measure myself against and then try to beat it. Yeah, there's definitely part of that. I mean,
so I delivered pizzas through college, and more or less, it was luck of the draw and who got more
deliveries, but it was always fun to have more, especially if you got more tips. And so it was
never like an official thing where we'd, you know, put money on it or something. But it was like,
hey, I got five more than this guy, and we were the same number of hours or something, right?
And then at my current job, it's like, I try to keep up with my co workers, the ones who started
to ride around when I did. And so like, as long as I'm not my own personal metric for like, job
security and for like, self affirmant and growth is like, I'm not I'm more productive than the
least productive person on the team. So as long as I'm not that person that I'm then I'm feeling
good. So it's a low bar, but I'm that's one I can jump over. Yeah. I'm back in the ancestral
environment. I think all the work mattered. You always, you know, got some reward for what you
did. Everyone depended on you. It was important. And even I think in the pre industrial age,
that was the case, like you could see what you made. Other people knew that like, that's the
guy who's really good at making shoes. Or if you were a servant in the house, the running of the
household depended on you. Everyone could see like, if you were doing your part or not, and we all
had to live in this giant manner together, whether you were one of the upstairs people or the downstairs
people, it was it was like a group effort. And I don't think it's been until until the industrial
age came around, and people were just grinding down into like, so this one helm for 12 hours or
sharpen these needles for 12 hours and do nothing else that it's just, that's what really wears away
