Together, I want you to be able to fucking code. It's like, okay, well, they didn't teach me that.
They taught me Alan Turing's favorite birthday cake flavor. So like, I mean-
Probably even go quite that far. But yeah. And I'm being, my hyperbole is for comedy. I'm glad
it landed. But the point is, it's like, that really pisses me off. I can't think of, if you
want to get into a job, go learn how to do that job. And yes, you should have a well-rounded
education, but you should be A, getting that earlier on, or B, doing that for free in your
own time. There's some jobs I don't even know how people get into, because I know that this is
a common joke among millennials, where they want you to have a certain number of years of experience
in order to get into various fields. And it's like, how do you get those years of experience?
Basically, like a lot of companies, you have to do free internships in order to get the experience.
It's a fucking racket. First, they want a number of free years out of you.
Yeah, three years of experience for an entry-level job. And it's like,
where am I going to get an entry-level job without three years of experience?
Yeah, nobody will hire you unless you've got several years of experience doing something,
but you don't. You just graduated school. And then I know a bunch of people from
New Jersey, like a bunch of my friends, very used to deliver people that have
a college degree and have just been working as a waitress for two years, while trying to apply
for some job for the degree they have. They're working several part-time jobs.
Yeah. Why aren't millennials buying diamonds? Oh, because I'm bagging groceries and I'm having
to fill out applications that make me upload my resume and then enter it again on the next day.
Walking dogs, direct to cash. Delivering meals on fucking Uber Eats and like...
Yeah. And that's just the nature of how it is.
So... Do you have a feedback?
I'll let just take the next one.
There was somebody complaining that the Discord killed the Reddit and I feel a little bit
bad about that, but not that bad because I'm on Discord a lot more than I am on Reddit.
I'm kind of okay with that too. Like Reddit's great, but I only see some of the posts that
come up on there unless I go manually check the subreddit, which I almost never do.
I just scroll through the front page. I'm not nearly as okay with it, but...
I'm just wondering how to resolve the situation.
Oh, well, I don't think there's anything you can do to resolve the situation, but
I really, really like Reddit and those sorts of forums because you put together an entire
coherent thought with some thesis and you have a maximum of like three, four, maybe five paragraphs.
If it starts getting more than that, it's like long form. So you try to limit yourself to that.
And it's preserved. There's an archive. There's a back and forth that you can do.
It feels very structured and I like the historical archive aspect of it.
And you don't have to be sitting there to have the conversation.
Exactly.
You can hit send, leave for two hours, or a day and come back and reply and people still be there.
And Discord is much, first of all, intensely time consuming because you're going back and
forth one line at a time. And since you're only doing one line at a time and you're going back
and forth with someone, it can take hours to go through a conversation instead of just putting
forth your thesis and someone putting a counter thesis. And you have to be really involved in
it. And I mean, I understand this is what builds communities because people sacrificing their time
to interact with each other is that sort of thing that you need. But God, not only is it a huge,
much bigger time investment, it's also ephemeral. It's like...
Really? Because it's archive too. It's actually like really pretty searchable.
It's disgustingly hard to catch up if you like even leave for an hour and a half while there's
a conversation going on.
Yeah. It's searchable, but only if you want to, if you know what to search for. Whereas with a
subreddit, you can look at the title, the post, and then scroll through.
Because in subreddit, if someone is kind of succinct and on topic, it doesn't take nearly as
long to catch up. Whereas the Discord is like going back and forth and there's a change and
people go off on for 15 minutes. And then they come back and you're like, I just read all that.
It didn't matter. And you have to do scrolling instead of having these replies and reply to
replies. It's just a constant scream of consciousness scroll. And the whole thing I find
very community building, but also it's not good for the conversation of the type that
I prefer to have on these things. So I really miss the subreddit. But I mean, it's not entirely
gone. But a lot of the energy has been pulled into the Discord instead.
Yeah, I totally feel we're coming from. And if I said I was fine with it, replacing it,
I'm not. I guess what I meant was, well, I guess I hadn't fully thought it through because you
make perfectly good points and they're all entirely truthful to me. So I think
what would be ideal is that people like, hey, slow discussion on Reddit, hang out
sessions on Discord. Because that's basically all you can do.
On the other hand, I mean, it's really engaged people. People like are on there all the time,
including myself. There's a ton more going on on Discord than we got on even our busiest
subreddit threads. So I mean, it's a good thing too. This is the sort of thing that
sucks people in. Yeah, I feel like it's got a lower entry barrier.
Yes, absolutely. Because with the subreddit, you do feel some pressure like put together a
good paragraph form short essay sort of thing. Whereas on Discord, you're just kind of chatting
with your friends. Like we're doing now. Yeah. And you don't have to, I guess this is kind of
the same thing you said, but write a whole long thing to get involved. You can kind of just
very easily slip into a conversation like, oh, that wasn't my experience. I went there this year
and that thing happened. And I guess it kind of feels less intimidating, especially for people
just starting out or who aren't really comfortable with the long form post style. I think that maybe
as time goes on, the community might kind of divide itself into the
here's where the people that want to write essays go, and then here's where the
people that want to chat go. Well, I think I kind of suspect they already did. I think you go to
the SSC subreddit. I don't know. I think just if the Discord's new. So maybe it's just kind of
people are playing with it and eventually like, I don't know. But the basin conspiracy subreddit
was never all that big, especially when you compare it to something like the Slate Sarcotic
subreddit. Yeah. That thing's huge. And all the people who like that sort of thing go there.
And with us, it seems to have been really the Discord that took off. Like the subreddit was
always interesting and we had some good comments on there. You know, we always had something cool
to read, but it never popped as much as the SSC one did. I mean, but to be fair, SSC also has
about a thousand or at least 500 times the readership we do. I think there's a Discord too,
and I'd be curious to see how many people are on the Discord versus their subreddit.
I can tell you how many people are on this Slate Sarcotic subreddit really quick.
The problem is you don't want too many people on a Discord because once it gets up and the
hundreds of people all trying to talk at once, it's like everyone trying to talk in the large
cafeteria to everyone else. I'm on a couple like that. And I'm never, well, let me rephrase that.
I've been on a couple like that. I'm never on them. Like the Doof media, they've got 40 different
channels, which is nice because everyone can actually keep their conversations in there.
And I think it's necessary because it's insanely active. You can't talk with 12 people at once.
Right. So they make it work, but I will occasionally go there to skim,
but I've never participated there because like you said, unless I'm ready to sit down and
have a conversation, which I never am, I'm ready to leave a comment and leave,
which is what I do on the Discord, on our Discord too. But yeah, Slate Star Codex has
21.6 thousand subscribers, and the vision conspiracy has 480. That said, I brought
this up because somebody posted what's Rosie Roseman posted on our subreddit.
Did you read the essays? I read the essays and I got involved in it to our conversation.
Oh, I haven't seen this. Not on the subreddit. Oh, on the subreddit. No, no, no. He apparently was
told, hey, go to the Discord and put it up in the Discord. Oh, by you. Yeah. Okay. Well, I had said,
thanks, Stephen. Well, now I need to go find this in the Discord, which sucks. Wait, no,
you gotta send it to me and I can, I can lose two hours too. So, yeah, well, I can send,
it's on the base, it's on r slash the vision conspiracy. But no, that doesn't suck because
now you've been left out of the conversation and it's almost impossible for you to get into it.
Yeah, I can go, I can go see what happened, but I can't get involved. That sucks because I would
have liked to because I just got around to reading the one on death today and it was,
it was nice. I loved the references, hashtag wheel of time, but I disagreed with it and I thought
that that had been a fun conversation to have, but now it's already been had. So.
And, and once, yeah, like once the conversation moves on and moves on, whereas on the subreddit,
you can come back, you know, days later and add a thing. I can ping, ping Rosie on the, um,
Rosie, Rosie might not want to interact with you after, um, how, how I interacted with Rosie.
I will, I'll mention that. I gotta see what this is now.
Oh, basically, I was like, there's a deathist in my house, GTFO, motherfucker.
Which is, first of all, it's not my house. And second of all, as a good rationalist,
I shouldn't be all like, get the fuck out of here with your deathism. But, uh,
but that's totally what I did because I was, I was grumpy. I was in pain and I was like,
fuck deathists. In, in, in your defense, Rosie said here, and I keep saying Rosie,
I'm pretty sure it's a guy, but Rosie Roseman is their, um, yeah.
You weren't saying. Well, but I'm short, I'm shortening it to the first half.
And I don't know if they want that because too many syllables and talking. Anyway, um,
I really do feel like I want to start a debate here or excuse me, I really do want to start a
debate here. I feel like I'm in the right, but the only way to test a sword is combat. So fight
me please. So they, they totally wanted whatever they got. I assume you don't go into fight club
to get your, you know, you go into fight club to get into a boxing match, not to get your shit,
you know, he's knocked out. Right. But every now and then you go and look,
expecting a boxing match and someone like brings a shiv and puts it in your testicles.
Like this is, I didn't think this would be fighting. Right. So if you, if you shiv their
testicles, then maybe they weren't expecting it, but if you just, if you hit them in the face,
I think that's what they wanted. I, I did like the post. I, their essay in the sense that I enjoyed
reading it. It was well put together. I just didn't agree with it. Um, but yeah, it's worth,
it's worth checking out. You can find the archived version on the subreddit r slash the
basing conspiracy, but I guess or search deathist on the discord and see if it comes up. I'm not
sure I actually use the word deathist. I'll see if I can find, like I'll just search the word Reddit
and see if it comes up. But yeah, I don't think that's going to happen. I'll find it. Reddit.
I read first. Search. Hey, Rosie Roseman. I'm new here. Perfect. Found it. So do I just click
this thing and it takes me to that chain? Yes, it does. Oh, this was like a five sentence thing.
Like, like a five back and forth. This wasn't that long or does it go on? It goes on. How
do I get to the rest of it? It just keeps rolling down. I did. It didn't, it's gone. Oh really?
Let me try again. All right, I'll figure this out later. It goes on and like three other people
jumped in as well. Oh man, this did go on for a long time. Oh yeah. It went on until I left work
at 530 and then it went on a little bit longer. Oh no. Yeah, people got mean. Yeah. That's sorry,
but sort of not sorry also. Well, I will, I still want to read this song. Oh yeah, I can't wait to
read the drama. Hey, Thanos Gif. Yeah. I can't wait to see how this becomes relevant. You're
right. This is going to take forever. We're going to get cut off. Cut off. Uh-huh. 275 new messages,
through any new messages. Yeah, see, this discord is impossible. It's fun. I'm glad it's a place
to hang out, but it does not replace long form chatter. Yeah, I think that's just, they're just
different styles. Yeah, they do different stuff. And I am also sad that the one of them has suffered
due to the other one, although I don't think the subreddit is killed, killed. I just think it's
anemic now. Yeah. So I guess this is our way of saying, hey everybody, do more subreddity stuff,
or once you're done talking a whole bunch on the discord, copy it all into a single
file and put that on the subreddit as a comment. Yeah, maybe we could try to norm people taking
any long form comments that they write on discord and cross posting them. Or maybe there's a bot
for the, there's probably a bot for the, some kind of scraper. Yeah, I don't know. But that also
took away part of the point, right? Yeah, and I know that I would have, if it was on the subreddit,
I probably would not have been nearly as tacky as I was on the discord. That's because you're
kind of like, I need to reply while they're at their keyboard, rather than like, they'll see
this in two hours, right? Yeah, and I can take some time to compose a, to calm down. Yeah, basically.
Okay, I had two short ones that I think I just wanted to say because they made me happy.
Bio Pudin, or Pudin on Reddit said, just to put it out there, grammatical genders in Spanish
follow the final vowel of the noun, such as A for feminine and O for masculine, 99% of the time,
rather than just following social conventions about gender, which is not to say that there aren't
gender stereotypes in Spanish speaking countries, or that language doesn't affect the way we think.
Native Spanish speaker here, by the way, if you want to talk about wacky, check out German
grammatical genders, there are three, and there are a ton of fairly inconsistent rules. I still
love German, though. That's fun. I like hearing from people who actually live in those cultures,
because obviously, I'm familiar with some language structures that are different than mine,
but I don't know what it's like to actually have grown up speaking that language. And whether or
not you are aware of how much it changes, you're thinking about different things. I'm curious
about the three genders in German. I'm guessing there's one that's neuter or okay.
Well, my family lived in Germany for a few years, so I had up to a kindergarten level of
learning German, which isn't very much, but yeah, they have the neuter gender, which is generally
only used for certain objects. I'm reminded of the Ancillary Justice series, where I remember
the point of that book for people that aren't familiar with it is there's a future society
where everyone uses the word she, because humanity's been taken over by this.
They never really specified whether it was a future human subspecies or actually just an alien race,
but it was humans. Okay, it was humans. So anyway, the dominant culture just uses she as a
the standard gender, and then they don't have gendered language really, and to represent that,
everyone in the book is she. Yeah, except for when they would, because it was from the point of view
of a character coming from this dominant culture, but they would interact with people from other
cultures that they had colonized who would still sometimes use their gendered languages,
and then this character is thinking like, oh, I realized that I messed up and I'm supposed to
say he for that one. And now they're looking at me weird, like, I gotta remember to do that.
Why do they do that? That's weird. But I also remember that they were talking about
trying to get the same effect when they translated this book into other languages, and it being
really interesting and difficult, but having different different difficulties in different
languages, like the ones where they don't have a bunch of gendered pronouns, you lose a lot of
the effect. So they had to find other ways of making things like default feminine in order
to give you that kind of like, this is another culture. But then like, German, for example,
it's like, Oh, no, no, like, this is going to mess things up because there gets to be a point
where things stop making as much sense. If you're not using the correct gendered word. Yeah. So
do you, the God, Terra Ignata series by Ada Palmer, did you ever read that one?
No, I haven't. It's an interesting society where the there is a social norm against using any sort
of gendered language at all. And so everyone is just referred to as they them. But the person
who's telling the story, the protagonist and the narrator is slightly mentally unhinged and also
gives zero fucks about social norms. So he goes around gendering everyone, but he genders them
the way he wants. So there's this one female character who's like an aggressive assassin type,
and he always refers to her as he, because he's like, obviously, you know, this is the violence
