at the soul. Even back on like the savanna, you know, if you're if you're sharpening spears all day,
might be super boring. But you know that this is crucial to the lifeblood of your tribe. Yeah.
And it's like, yeah, all I have to show at the end of the day is this big pile of sharp sticks.
But we're going to use those to kill our food. And that's fucking cool. Yeah. Yeah. I remember my dad,
he's a carpenter telling me that he found his job really fulfilling, because he was supplying one of
the like three necessities of life, you know, like food, water, shelter. And any gosh, when you were
talking about like that really productive period, it struck me that you're working in a lot of different
types of work. That's true. Like, mixing it up, I think, between intellectual work,
like writing or like accounting, and then physical work, like, renovating a house,
I think has a refreshing effect on your brain, where like, it would be much harder to work for
14 hours straight on just writing, you'd burn out. But I think probably switching tasks like that.
I know some people, not personally, but people generally in the medical field tend to spend
their entire lives just working with, you know, occasional breaks for food and sleep. And that's
it. And they seem entirely happy. Like, I think, I think humans easily can adapt to working basically
all their waking hours with, you know, occasional holidays and stuff.
Hmm. Maybe. I think it depends on a lot of things. It depends on the individual.
Some people just don't have as much capacity. Some people have extra capacity. I know Elon Musk works
like a machine. And I need typical minds of the shit out of that, too. He's like, oh, I just figured
I could get twice as much work done if I didn't work twice as much. And it's like, yeah, sure,
but that's not how the rest of us work. You're free, which is awesome.
Even that kind of, I remember what you were saying, your secret to exercise is that you
give yourself two choices, exercise or exercise. And that works for you. And it's just like,
yeah, well, that must be nice. I mean, also, I should point out that anyhow,
she seemed like in the upper percentile of productivity and ability to focus.
I will definitely. I am not there.
A test of that. I took, I don't know the name of the test. I've still got the results for whatever
reason, floating around the trunk of my car. But one of my old jobs from like five years ago,
I had to take a personality assessment. Oh, yeah. And I got this like long printout and
I had a vitality score of zero. Well, what's vitality? Were you dead when you took it?
It was like, I, it sounds like a video game style. Well, it was things like, you know,
I'm not sure what all the other metrics were. I just remembered that because I talked about
that in my sort of exit interview. What was your dexterity? I'll have to check not as high as it
should be. But yeah, I spend more or less all of my free time like recharging and doing nothing,
which I like doing stuff. When I don't have stuff to do, I get depressed. So yeah,
so it's not like you're doing like, it's not like you're lazy because you don't like working.
I think that's the definition of acracia, or I forget if it was even a procrastination, but
the metric really, or if I keep using the word metric now, I hate when you get a word stuck in
your head. It was, you're lazy if you can just sit on your ass and play video games or watch like
Netflix marathon all day and just feel fine. And you probably have a procrastination or a
crazier issue if you're doing these things, but you don't want to be and you feel terrible.
That I'm just lazy. It depends. But for the most part, I can just, it depends on what I
guess I did with the rest of my day. If I did something productive, then I can live with it.
But I'm totally fine. All right, cool. It's 4.30. I'm done with work. I'm going to go home and
watch TV. Yeah. And that's also healthy attitude. I have a really hard time making myself relax.
I've had like, I'm at the point where I have other people in my life checking in on me like,
like once a week, like, Hey, have you had any solo time this week at all? Or like,
have you been sleeping at least six hours? And I have to ask people to check in on me out with
that because I will try to, you know, take a step back and look at my week and be like, man,
I really didn't sleep great. I should probably sleep better next week and then I will be happier
and more productive and not have mental breakdowns and stuff. But then that next week comes around
and it's like, Oh, but I've been invited to this party that's really late and this person wants me
to stay up and help them with this problem. And I need to, you know, get all the safety
data into this study before the safety cut off. So I'll just work on that. And before you know it,
it's like, Oh, I've given away all of my time. So we got sort of on a tangent there. But I think
that was a good discussion. I agree. Yeah, no, that's interesting. Luckily, I have a small circle
of friends and not a lot of people are urging out to me to help with things. So I also don't think
I'm in the top whatever percentile of productivity anymore. For the past several months, I've just
been not doing things. I think you think you've earned it. Which makes sense. I don't know.
According to my hypothesis, I don't need to recharge.
Doesn't mean that you doesn't mean that it's not good. Just means maybe you could get by without
it. Or maybe you just need it less frequently than other people. Yeah, I've got another comment
on replacing guilt. This was on the actual website, again, BayesianConspiracy.com and
tepid gruel. What's the username? They say, I think this is your best episode yet.
It's starting that the replacing guilt series has already had a positive impact on my life.
And I plan to read it several times over. These days, when I hurt or offend someone,
I write about it. First, I write a letter of apology. It's uncomfortable, but a therapeutic
exercise, similar to how Lincoln wrote angry letters and kept them secret.
Only this time, whenever it's appropriate and I can work up the courage, I actually send the
letters and make amends. Second, I write down a list of things that I learned and the ways I can
use the experience to become a better person. The writing helps me move on. I have tangible
documents at the end of the process, so I'm no longer afraid of forgetting what I learn.
This usually stops the recurring loop of lingering guilt. I find that journaling in
general helps move my thoughts along. It's like doing math on paper instead of in my head.
Totally agree with that. Anyway, when I first started this exercise earlier this year, I was
only writing apologies. After I read the Updating from the Sucker Punch post, I started writing lists
of learnings too, and it's already helping. So thanks for introducing me to Nate Sorer's work,
and I think that was a really great reply to the post. I'm glad that that was helpful to other
people to learn. I wish I had found it earlier in my life too. I like the suggestions that this
person has about writing the apology letters. I want to try that. I also like the idea of Lincoln
writing angry letters. I didn't know that, and I always find it really funny to think about
historical figures like Lincoln, who you think of as being these kind of monastic people,
kind of coming home being like that fucking bitch. I can't believe that. But then he gets it out,
and he's like, oh, I can't even get back to being chill. I was just going to say, I'm wondering
what it says about myself that I never feel decapulsion to appall it. I guess I don't hurt
people. If I do, I'm not aware of it. Partly it's me because I minimize my interactions. I work from
home three days a week, so I don't even talk to people most days. But I don't know. If ever I do
hurt somebody that I'm aware of, I usually try to reach out and fix it. I can't think of
anything that I've done where I'm pretty sure someone was hurt by something I did,
and I was just, I'll leave it alone. Unless it was like 10 years ago, I'm not going to like
find something to call them, right? Anyway, what we're going to say?
I sometimes, I don't do this like to apologize because, I don't know, I guess I'm a bastard who
doesn't apologize for things, but I have on several occasions written long emails listing my grievances
or how I think something, how I think I was wronged and why I'm angry about something.
And then I generally do not send those emails to the people. Sometimes I will, if it's a more
generic complaint about society, sometimes I'll put it up on my blog. More frequently,
I'll just show it to like one or two close friends and get their input on things. But
just writing it out and like maybe letting one or two other people see it really makes a huge
difference. Yeah, it's really cathartic. And it does actually have this feeling. I've been
noticing this too with going back to writing on paper. It feels like it gets it out of your brain
in a way that feels like it actually like lifts a weight off your shoulders in a way that I think
talking about something hard often doesn't give you that same feeling of closure as like having
written it all down or that feeling of it's like now somewhere where I can manipulate it in some
concrete way. I don't know if this makes sense, but yeah, I find writing about stuff to be
a more productive way of thinking about things sometimes.
And sometimes it helps me to articulate things in a way that I didn't even realize
before I started writing it. Yeah. Like, oh, hey, I see that thing now that I wasn't thinking
before. Yeah, I think the process of translating it into actual words. Because often you feel a
certain way, but it's not actually been put into sentence form. And having to actually like
put it down in a form that somebody else could read makes you have to articulate it to yourself.
Here is a comment from Orb Father of Autumn, who in this case is... It was other David. It is
other David. Yeah, David Youssef. It's also worth noting that they changed their handles on Discord
at least once a month. So maybe once every two. But yeah, it's pretty frequent. And it's sort of
become a thing. I am glad that the avatars at least stay the same because GSV recently turned into
Giant Science Vehicle or something. Science Vessel. Giant Science Vessel. Which I actually like,
because now I know what GSV stands for. That's not what GSV stands for. It's from the culture
series. General Systems Vessel, I think, something. It's a generic term for these giant ships that
do most of the stuff in their society. Okay. Well, GSV, Giant Science Vessel also works.
Yes. But Orb Father of Autumn says, this is kind of two parts. The first part is an article I read
posited the theory that part of the reason that rural and small town America is dying
is that there used to be a structure where almost every small town had a few wealthy
individuals who acted not only as major employers for the area, but also helped shepherd the town
through bad experiences and put down roots there. The other side effect was that these
liberal elite in small towns used to go to college and then come back and they would become more
liberal as a result. And because they ended up being leaders of their community, they ended
up pulling the entire town in the course of a generation or so to a more liberal equilibrium.
But with the flight of young people to cities, a lot of towns no longer have this. And I think
that this is tend to gentile, but related to the topic of the rich abdicating responsibility,
which was during that. We did that. Was that the show where you were post? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah,
the Yale episode. And I think I also heard that somewhere. But yeah, I got a lot of small towns
tend to have like, like one major employer, one kind of like head mayor, small cabal of people
that are sort of like the leadership of the area. And they're really looked up to. And the
townspeople generally both follow them and expect them to help, you know, help shepherd the town
through through bad times, be like, you know, leaders of a tribe. Yeah. And and like he said,
the rural America has been being gutted out for the past at least decade or so,
because they're just ain't shit there for young people anymore. They're on the way to the cities
and the towns die. I've seen there's some, I forget if it's states or specific cities,
but they're like actually paying people to live there or giving them certain types of
discounts on things. I forget what exactly the deal was, but I remember hearing one that was
actually really tempting. It's like, if you if you just want to move to like North Dakota or
something and have your own comfortable house, like this, there was this place that was
a some city that would have actually like subsidized your mortgage. I heard an interview
with a doctor who the the town sent him off to college and helped pay for his college. But
the deal was he comes back and he does medicine there and they gave him like great great rate
on his house to like all sorts of perks. But on the other hand, he also doesn't get paid shit.
And he has to live out in this rural small town where he doesn't have a lot of peers and
doesn't have access to like the cutting edge technology. I know like I I have a hard time
thinking about what we should do. I think this is definitely an issue and it's like related to other
similar issues, but like rural America is kind of collapsing. You can't like force people to
stay somewhere or like you it's not it seems like it would be bad too. If they're like they're
leaving for a reason if there really is nothing for them there. And it is making city life a
little bit uncomfortable to like costs and all the cities that people are moving to are skyrocketing.
Yeah, and they're getting kind of crowded are to navigate. Yeah, and I have heard some people
complaining about the like that this was like, you know, a liberal city and now you get people
moving from all these small towns and it's changing like the politics and the social norms and
ways that city people aren't appreciating. But yeah, what can you do? I don't know. It's
it's interesting and I'm really curious how where people live is going to evolve as
the future goes on, especially if we end up like we're on the cusp of developing
synthetic drugs that might increase people's lifespans to like 110 115. And it's somewhat
frustrating working in clinical research because you get to see all this cutting edge stuff,
but it's not available for the general public. And I don't know how long it's going to take before,
you know, because generally have to go through three phases of trials. And then maybe the FDA
will approve this as a treatment or not. And then maybe it's going to be incredibly expensive and
unavailable or not. But CAR T is I knew it was on the horizon people are thinking about developing
CAR T for solid tumors because right now these are for blood cancer because your blood goes through
your entire body and circulatory system. So you put a bioengineered cell and it's going to be
transported where it needs to go. It's a little bit harder to make ones that are targeted towards
solid tumors. But they have already started working on one. I was talking to a doctor from New Jersey
actually when I was at the investigator meeting in Dallas, who knows of a trial for brain tumors
using CAR T. I didn't even know that that was in the worksheet. And like, that's really cool.
And I've also heard about I actually heard my coworker like laughing and saying like,
did you hear somebody like is injecting their own CAR T? There's these people called biohackers
and like, man, they're crazy. And then like, I go on Facebook and one of my friends is talking
about doing this. And I'm just like, Oh, yeah, he would do these things, certainly not me and my
friends. But what weirdos are these? You're secretly sneaking stuff out of the lab in one of
those fake shaving cans. I would not be able to. Their security is pretty tight, actually. Damn.
The guy to do is cut the power to the fences. Oh, I think I forgot to send you guys photos of the
cryo preservation. They did a little cryo demonstration at that. I did send that. Yeah.
Yeah. So you see that they've got them in these like things that look like bunkers.
Insulated really like heavily and locked up. Mostly that's just so they don't get damaged
and transit because these are incredibly expensive to make and they have to be delivered to the person
whose body they were taken from bioengineered and then like put back in them quickly. So it's not
even so much a security thing as it is like a it's not like somebody's going to steal the CAR
T. It's we need to get it to this patient and quickly. But you were saying something about
longevity and how it affects your cities or small towns? Well, I'm curious how it's going to affect
society as far as people living in family groups, people living in like,
I mean, we've already got we were just talking with Drake. We might have ended up cutting that
part out. But we're talking about his mom had just sold her house and she's moving into one of those
older folks community things. I forget what the politically correct term for that is. My
grandmother's in one of those two and it's like really nice. It's got like a pool and a salon.
There's also different kinds of places. I'm not sure what this is if it's like an assisted
living or if it's an retirement community or something. Yeah. Or if it's just like a 65 and
up community that otherwise is pretty much like any other apartment community. But if you think
about like age 65, if people are living to like 120, that's like half their life. Then they've,
you know, if you're retiring at that age already and then like moving into one of these retirement
homes, like, maybe it's good if you've only got a, I don't know, if you live to 80 and you retire
at 65, you've got enough time to enjoy your grandchildren and live comfortably. And you're
probably not like going ice climbing in the winter or anything like that, you know, like
you're going to be like kind of sticking around your house doing low effort things, maybe walking
your dog. But like, if you stay young and healthy or like, even if we make kind of moderate advances,
but like, so you're still intellectually as curious and as motivated and able to work. I mean,
