Yeah, you could find the keys that spell out the word soccer on the keyboard.
Yeah, I'm basically imagining where, you know, you grab a bunch of random people who don't speak,
you know, Arabic or something. I'm just picturing something, you know, non-NATO
phonetic alphabet even. And you put them all in a room with no outside resources. Of course,
they'll be able to figure anything out. I think basically just saying is that
never happens in the real world. Everyone has some society.
I was trying to stand up a straw man. So yeah, anyway.
We've been here for a while. I have one last one that we can hit if that's okay.
Totally. Yeah, let's wrap it up there and get on to the sequences though.
Okay, within reason, back on the discord says, and this is back on our episode on conflict theory
versus mistake theory, within reason proposes an identity theory. Identity theory says that
people will only change their minds about things that do not imply anything strong about their
identities. I think it tracks because it predicts how and why people have such trouble
changing their minds in the face of evidence. Conflict and mistake don't address that.
Conflict just says that it's all about power, but people should still change their minds if
they're given evidence about who has the power and who the bad guys are, but they don't. Mistake
says that everyone is trying to reach the right answer in good faith, so people should change
their minds when confronted with evidence about any beliefs, but they don't. Identity theory says
that they'll change things when it doesn't imply things about their identities.
Keldini talks about this in influence. He explicitly connects it to a person's self-conception
and shows how one of the most effective ways to influence a person is to do something
to facilitate them forming an identity where they are the kind of person who does that kind of thing.
Commitment and consistency. Yeah. I thought that was an interesting thing to point out.
I forget if Scott says this openly, but when he writes essays like Conflict versus Mistake,
I think he is pretty open about saying that this is a fake model, that I am kind of constructing
in order to use it as an analysis tool. I'm not saying that literally there are only these two
styles, but I do like the addition of identity theory that tracks with some conversations I've
had with Wes, who's a within reason. I also want to link to Wes's blog. He has a good rationalist
blog. Do you know Wes Persona? Yeah, that's my partner from New Jersey.
Oh, Meet. Oh, hot damn. I didn't know that. Cool. I'm hoping that if he visits Denver again,
I can bring him to one of our Western Meetups. That would be awesome. He was here when we went
to Valley View, but we were up in the mountains, so I didn't get to introduce anybody though.
Is Wes out as within reason on their internet handle? Yeah. Okay, cool.
All right, let's move on. I'll just say that I like that analysis too.
It was cool. Yeah. Before we get into the less wrong posts, do we want to do a quick recommendation
of things? Because I actually have things to recommend for the first time. Sure.
For the first time, but I don't very often. Yeah, please, no. Recommend stuff.
So, the first thing I have to recommend is Raw by Sam Hughes, which I have to think-
Oh, that's been on my reading list for a bit. Yeah, I have to thank Zeke for getting me to read
it again. Way back in the day when it first came out, I started reading it. And at this time,
I think I had just finished up HPMOR. And I heard, oh, more rationalist fiction. I'll check it out.
And it's so stylistically different from methods of rationality that I got two,
three chapters in and I was like, I'm not really interested in this. And I dropped it.
And really what mainly what I remembered was like, this was something I wasn't really interested in,
right? But it's been like years since then. And Zeke was like, really, check it out. I think
you'd like it. It's pretty good. And I was like, okay, fine. So I went back and yeah, I think it
was just because I was in a different mood for a different style at the time when I first picked
it up. But now that I started it again, I was like, oh, this is really interesting. And I read
through the whole thing and I really liked it. Cool. Yeah. What's it about? Oh, what's it? Okay.
It's basically a world where magic exists. And it was discovered in 1970. And now,
as in any world where real magic really exists, it is a branch of applied engineering. There's
like college courses on how to use magic and how to use it to get these industrial facts and stuff.
And since it's only been about four decades, they're still learning new things about it,
you know, it's like learning a whole new field of physics and like, they're experimenting with
it and seeing what it does. And I mean, that's, that's, that's how it starts out. It's not all
that it's about, but it's interesting where it ends up going. Okay. Yeah. So I definitely recommend
it. It has two endings also, notably the new revised ending is in my opinion, a much better one.
Okay. To the point where definitely read the new one first. I would say you don't even need to
bother with the old ending. If you want to read it anyway, just for comparison sake, go for it.
But you can tell that many years have gone by and he, he's not only did he get better at writing,
but he managed to make it a emotionally complete fulfilling ending in a way that the original
ending was not. So yeah, sounds awesome. And it sounds like a really fun premise too.
Yeah. And it's a great rationalist work. I mean, Sam Hughes has written a lot of things. I've read
some of his short stories back on the HP more podcast when that was a thing. So which one
do you remember? Yeah, the one that I really liked was humans and transit. The one about an AI
who's basically staying on the down low while human society is evolving when an asteroid
smacks into Australia. And it has like what eight, 10 minutes to get everyone on the planet
uploaded and then shoots them via radio transmitter out to Alpha Centauri. And it ends with, okay,
now that I've saved as many people as it is physically possible, I need to figure out a way
to travel faster than light so I can get to Alpha Centauri and build a receiver. And yeah,
it was so good. It just fills you with this warm feeling when you read it.
That's the kind of safety net that I'd like that I think that must be what it's like being religious.
Yeah. It's the things that if you got really bad, God would step in and save us.
There was a message like that in Cosmos Carl Sagan's book. I don't think it was in the TV series.
Probably not.
There is no one outside to come help. This is on us. And that's empowering, but also tenuous.
It would sure be super cool if we, I guess the short story maybe didn't talk about the origins of
this dormant AI that was hanging out. I don't think it's that much about it. So maybe they just
built it and like, all right, that'll keep us safe if something happens and that's something
did and it kept them safe. That's so cool. Yeah. All right, so.
And I actually have a second recommendation which is just shocking because I normally don't even
have one, but this is a thing I saw yesterday. So this is a fresh recommendation. I did not
know I was going to be recommending this. Had off the purse. Had off the something.
Yeah. This is a hot take. I just crapped this out. Anyway. Paul Rudd, Ant-Man? Paul Judd?
Paul Rudd. Paul Rudd is Ant-Man. I can name the Avengers. Okay. Yeah, that's that's my
list of actors. But he's not an Avenger, is he? Ant-Man's an Avenger. Okay. All right. I'll
give him the title. Okay. The extended Avengers family. But he is right now in a Netflix show
called Living With Yourself. It's good. Oh my God. Oh man. We were literally just a week ago,
like discussing one of the main topics of that show on in our discord, like a lot contentious.
This is the thing that many transhumanists, even just many sci-fi nerds talk a lot about,
and they did a great job bringing it to life. And it's fucking, it's, it's smart and it's hilarious.
I would say it's like the good place in the fact that it both tackles interesting cerebral subjects
and it's really funny, except I think it's better than the good place. On the other hand, I've only
seen two episodes so far. So I don't know if it like stays this good all the way through, but
I like it more than the good place. I think it addresses smarter issues and it's more funny
when it's funny. And there, it has like a few like dark things too, which is fun. I enjoy this.
Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, Living With Yourself. It's great. I'm stoked. I saw him pitch it. He was on
Hot Ones a couple of weeks ago. Cool. We'll talk about it briefly. Yeah. Hot Ones is this YouTube
channel where this guy will eat increasingly hot wings with a guest. Does he eat them too?
Yeah. Oh, okay. I thought he just made them eat it. No, no. He eats them with them. Oh, wow.
Which is insane because he's eating, you know, bowel destroying hot wings a couple of times a
week with famous people, which is the funny thing. Yeah. Anyway, Paul Rudd crushed it on that show
and he showed me a fun trick where he's, he can, you put your fingers in a certain way in front
of the camera on your phone and it looks like you're taking a picture from between somebody's
legs and like your fingers folded just right. So it looks like there's like a butt crack.
And so my brother told me to watch that he's like, Hey, Paul Rudd's on Hot Ones. And so while I'm
watching it and he shows you this trick, I take a picture of the TV from between, looks like,
looks like between somebody's legs and he got the joke because I showed Rachel the, I'll show you
guys, you know, I'll post the picture on the, for this because it was hilarious because I showed
my wife and she was like, he knows what this is, right? Cause it looks distinctly like, like you're
taking a picture from a human from behind. Cool. Anyway, so Paul Rudd has a bunch of pictures
of celebrities like that on his phone and this isn't a perfect picture, but you can kind of see.
Oh, so Paul Rudd shows you how to do this.
So yes, in addition to him being an Avenger and able to crush the Hot Ones challenge,
I heard the show was good because he pitched it and he's a great guy, it seems like. So I'm all,
I'm all in, I'll check it out. Yeah, it's fun. It's also an amazing, they did an amazing job of
having the same actor portrayed two different people and they look so different even though
it's the same actor. Awesome. Yeah, it's great. Oh, I love when people are good at that. So the
good place was great through the first season, I think, and that's about it. I think I'm, I saw
all of the second season, which I thought was pretty good. The second season was pretty good,
but not, I didn't like it as much as the first. Okay, yeah, yeah. And then the third season kind
of is just like, what are you guys even trying to do? And the fourth season, I think they're
bringing it home in a way that will land well, but it's week to week and it's not that much fun
for me, but I'm still watching it. I enjoy it. It's just, it seemed like they had their big idea
the first one. Yeah. But that said, I think it's in the third season. Darcy, fuck, I figured her
name, the person who plays Janet. Okay, yeah. They, she, she, she plays all of the characters.
Oh, neat. And they're dressed like themselves, but she's, she's playing all of them. And she's got
their mannerisms down and their, their reactions to everything perfect. And it is one of just the
best pieces of acting that I've ever seen. She's playing five characters in the room at the same
time and she's nailing all of them. So it was, it was really fun. Okay. I'm looking forward to that.
Yeah. So that happens at some point, but as far as, so I bet the, yeah, this was just you saying
one person looking different, playing two different roles at the same time. Yeah.
She managed to do five. Yeah. Nice. But it was, it was for basically one scene, not a whole series.
Right. So, yeah. Anyway, cool. No hot takes from the Stevanator this week. So I've got,
I've got a few. One is actually this cartoon that Autumn, who hosts our
last round meetups and was McGonagall in the methods of rationality podcast
showed me this cartoon called infinity train. Okay. I remember when the, when the trailer for that
came out like a year and a half ago. Yeah. They've got like 10 episodes. I think that they didn't
end up picking it up. Although like people are trying to campaign to get it, to get more episodes
made. How is it? Is it as good as the trailer looked? Yeah. If I hadn't heard of it until
just yesterday, but if you like adventure time and like Steven Universe and the kind of
the cartoons that are coming out now that I think are pretty like suitable for adults to watch as
well, well written, well animated. The story is a girl from Wisconsin is trying to go to coding
boot camp, but her divorced parents can't get their schedules together. So she's wandering around
angry and steps onto this train that magically appears and then each car of the train is a
different universe. And she's trying to figure out what the hell is going on. And she's got a
number counting down on one of her hands and keeps hearing different rumors from different
like wacky characters on the train that like when it gets to zero, you die or various. So it's
basically you're just in this universe. You have no idea what the fuck's going on. And I really
like this style of storytelling where a character has to persevere through wits and maybe just hard
work. So quick two questions. One or one clarification that I think the first three seasons,
the good place are on Netflix. And that's also where Paul Rudd's show living with yourself is.
Where can I watch Infinity Train? I think that was on Cartoon Network. Let me make sure. What if I
don't have cable? I mean Cartoon Network.com. Like their website. I have to watch my computer then.
I can cast it to my TV. Yeah, it's on Cartoon Network. You can watch it for free on there,
or you can stream it for free from other places. I liked that show. I watched the first season,
but not that closely. I think Disenchanted was that the one by the end of the future drama?
It had a very similar vibe. Excuse me, let me rephrase that. Completely different vibe,
different show entirely, same animation style. But the same kind of like there's lots of
low level background things and like you can rewatch ability. I'm looking forward to rewatching
this show because I only paid half attention the first time. I saw the first episode and I just
didn't get into it. I didn't like it either the first time. It took me a few episodes to get
into it actually. I had the same reaction where I was like, ah, it's like The Simpsons, but in
like a fantasy RPG land, okay. It gets a bit better. I'm not plugging it nearly as hard as
you guys are. I was just thinking of cartoons. That doesn't go on my official recommendation list.
It's well produced. I haven't been up to shit the last few weeks. I don't know what else. I've
watched Killing Eve. You don't have to watch a new thing every few weeks. This is my first
recommendation like half a year. I know, but I'm going to take that super seriously. I'm going to
go and watch that episode before this party tonight. Cool. I forget if I have recommended
this one already. If not, I'm going to plug it again. Another rat fic that I've been enjoying,
the Pokemon Origin of Species. Did you mention that? I did mention that. Okay. I'm just going
to plug it again. And also, I'm thinking about reaching out to the author and seeing if I can
podcast it. I think I don't know. You may have just mentioned it personally to me rather than on
the podcast. I don't recall. No, somebody wrote in on Discord. I forget if it was actually on an
episode or if it was on one of our Patreon snippets. It might have been like some pre-episode chat,
but yeah, somebody replied and said somebody's recorded up to episode nine, but they haven't
updated it in like nine months. Yes, I was going to mention that. Patreon posts are public,
right? So I can read their name. First name only just in case. Luke wrote in and said,
you may already know, but Mars Oliva has done the first eight chapters of Pokemon on the Origin
of Species, but they started two years ago and they haven't released chapter nine for months.
Yeah. So do with that info what you will. Yeah. I'm assuming that it's abandoned at this point,
and I would be happy to pick it up. Do it. I know Mr. Oliva can put you in contact with him. Well,
don't know personally, but I have his email. Talk to him once or twice. Nice. I assumed Mars was a
woman's name. Is that reverse sexism? That's she default, I guess. What did you call it before?
You said he was the default. Something, there was a word for that. I mean, Mars is also the name
the Roman God of War, so I don't know why there would be a female name necessarily. I guess I've
got a co-worker and what, Mara? Yeah, and I call her Mars. Okay. Mars bars, which I'm amazed that
she made it into her 30s without anyone calling her that, so. I've never even seen a Mars bar.
Do they still make those? Do they? I don't know if they do. I don't know if they do either.
Were those actually a thing or were those in a cartoon or something? I remember my dad talking
about them being a favorite candy of his. I knew I hate one when I was a kid.
All right. Well, before we forget, we've got two last wrong posts to get back on.
What could I do by other recommendations? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. One is a book,
I've been trying to learn more about cancer. The book Emperor of All Maladies by Siddhartha
Mukherjee is a very well researched and put together. He calls it a biography of cancer,
writing it as though cancer were a person. I don't know, it jumps back and forth a bit,
but it ties everything together in regard to what we know about the history of cancer,
how long people have had it, ways people have tried to treat it, what they thought caused it,
and then the evolution of modern cancer remedies. It's been really fun and horrifying to read about
early discoveries in cancer therapy where it was just very experimental,
