people might just keep working. A lot of people still are working into their,
I don't know, the neuropsychologist that I saw is definitely past retirement age. And he was even
saying he's like, this guy lives in Hawaii, and he flies to Boulder to do neuropsychological exams
on people because he likes it. He just didn't want to retire. And he keeps his practice open.
And he makes just enough money to pay for the building and the licenses and then like his
plain fare. So he's not actually even like, he's retired, he's just doing this for fun.
And like, there's a lot of people that I think are like that, you know, I know,
my parents aren't going to retire until they're physically unable to move.
My parents could be retired, they could have retired 10, well, not 10 years ago,
they could have easily retired five years ago at least though, but they just keep working because
they enjoy it. Yeah. I mean, I know that there's also a lot of concern on the other side about
people, we're going to acquire all of these non productive citizens. And it's whether that's
ages or not. I guess you can be non productive and young. So I know a few of those. Yeah. Well,
I think there's already countries that I know, like a lot of Asian countries have this rapidly
growing older population. Japan is really bad. Yeah, because nobody's reproducing anymore,
because they really need to like make a lot of social changes to make that seem attractive again.
And a lot of like the most developed wealthiest countries are experiencing the same kind of shifts
where people are waiting longer and longer to get married and have kids or they're not,
they're deciding to have careers instead or have dogs. And people are living longer and
they're dying less. So we're having this kind of worldwide shift towards more elderly populations.
And it's interesting to see, to think about like, how are we going to rearrange ourselves around
this? I wonder if that's one of the reasons our population is less violent. Like Peter
Singer has talked a lot about the reduction of violence and Stephen Pinker. You're right, Stephen
Pinker. I said Peter Singer. Yeah, similar names just swap some of the syllables. But
but yeah, you know, I wonder how much of it is just the fact that people are less prone to violence
as they get older and there's a lot more older people now. They have more to protect, less
impulsive. That's interesting. I had never heard that as a hypothesis, but it makes a lot of sense.
Should we go into the second part of David's thing here? Go ahead. Okay. The second part was
that the first part was the whole towns are being hollowed out and the educated aren't coming
back anymore. The second part was we're having a major internal crisis society about what the
purpose of college is. David says the tradition of college was never meant to prepare you for a
job. It was assumed that that would be learned on site, or that you would get a job through family
or social connections. And the purpose of college instead was to make you well educated and well
rounded member of society. I would like to add also I recently read a interesting, I don't know,
position hypothesis that a lot of college was about a culturating people into their social
class, which was one of the reasons why if you were someone from a lower social class and you
got into an Ivy League college, you did so much better in your life afterwards because you were
taught how to be in that social class, all the norms and mores of that one. So you could interact
with those people and work with the extremely rich in a way that you can't if you aren't part of that
class. Anyways, he goes on to say that David goes on to say that middle-class America uses
college as job preparation, but since the colleges they're going to are modeled on the ones that have
very different expectations of how students will get their first job, it's very ineffective. Although
modern colleges seem to be becoming wise to that problem. For example, I'm 30, I'm now going back
into college and the colleges I go to actually require that not only do you have experience in
the lab or making products, you are actually required to do at least one internship. They
encourage to. We have an entire class called Stepping Stone that's supposed to get us ready
for the workforce by doing stuff like making us work on our resumes and interview people in the
industry and work on how to give a two-minute elevator pitch. Man, I wish I had that. Yeah,
I had that at my boot camp, but that's what school I felt was missing.
It seems like college is starting to bifurcate. Bifurcate? Yes, thank you.
Into the ones that are more the traditional, introduce you to a social class and teach you
how to be responsible and ones that are like, here is your job prep. We are a very long training
camp. I'm like, if colleges actually combine to both of those, maybe they can have different
splits at the percentages, 60-40 or whatever, but I feel like having someone get a well-rounded
education and the social stuff is also really important. I feel like that is true even with
the, I mean, I think less so even with college. I think that's really important in middle school
and high school that we don't teach kids about social interactions or how to manage your emotions
or any kind of like self-care for mental health issues. You were expected to pick that up from
your society and your culture, but I think you're right. You're not taught it though.
Yeah, it would be good if we had a more... I mean, I know I've complained about this before,
but we don't have any kind of coming of age. I keep wanting to say ceremony or ritual, but like,
I don't know, there's no process really. I think a large part of the problem is that America has
so many different cultures within it. Yeah. If anything like that was implemented on a
national level, it would be extremely, I don't know, insulting, not just insulting,
but like trying to force people into taking away their culture and imposing a different
culture on them. I don't even know what the culture would be. I mean, even if you
go smaller, like, I never felt like there was a culture that I belonged to
when I was living in Ocean City, New Jersey. There's not a Ocean City culture. It's made up
of a bunch of different groups of people who maybe had their own cultures like...
But you're definitely more of the like liberal, educated social class.
I came from the lower middle class. My parents are actually pretty anti-education
or like anti-intellectual. And I don't think that that was exactly the norm in the location that
I lived, but... How did you get out of that?
Because generally, kids tend to follow their parents.
I'm not exactly sure. I almost feel like my parents were outliers in their families.
My dad had two sisters who both married up. And so I have two aunts and uncles on my dad's side
that are very wealthy and my cousins who have gone to Harvard and shit. And then on my mom's side,
they're much more of the lower class kind of, I don't know, my grandpa was a mailman.
Marrying up is a good strategy if you can get away with it.
Not for everybody, but if it's a good plan, if you can and you're okay with it.
It's been one of the classic strategies. Even half our fairy tales are based on that, right?
Yeah. Maybe it was actually the culture that had the impact on me and my sisters,
because I'm thinking like all three of us kind of... My sister's a veterinarian,
my other sister is a school teacher, and I'm like a cancer researcher now. And they're all
probably not professions that would have been predicted based on my dad being a laborer,
my mom being a preschool teacher, you know, all the teacher thing. But also we were like,
I was the first one to get a college education in my family. And then both of my sisters also
went to college. So it might have just actually been, yeah, that like the people, the place that
we lived was more upper class than my family. And us kids ended up kind of following our peers
more than our parents. I don't know, that's interesting to think about. I think I'm like,
so David's experience of having basically useful college classes, I think is probably
not specific, but constrained by what he's studying, right? So like, I got a squishy science major,
and it's like, oh, squishy, I guess soft science, squishy science, I call biology.
Wait, what was your major again? Psychology. Okay. So like, there was, there was no such thing as
like, here's how you get a job in the field. It was very well understood that like, you're not
getting a job in psychology with a bachelor's degree. Yeah, like you technically could, some people
might, but not as psychologists. I'm not really sure. Yeah, I mean, my sister did education and
psychology together. I think that's a pretty common, like you want, yeah, yeah, I think you
want a psychology education for teaching, but then you also have to have the education degree.
I think for me, I'm pretty, pretty vehemently anti college in that the things that you're supposed
to get from it, primary school should do better. You know, like social skills and all that stuff.
And to the extent that it doesn't, you can read a book and figure that shit out yourself if you
need to. I gotta take this. No worries. All right. So this is disjointed because we got a phone
call distraction. But I think I was railing against college that my main thing is that
the social things and the networking, I guess networking is something that some people can
do it some depending on your discipline. And if you're actually going to school for a job,
but most people, I think you go to college aren't going to college to go to college,
or they're going there because they feel like they're supposed to, or because it's a stepping
stone to like an actual degree that they want to go towards or something. But I think for me, it's
just like, like Jess said, it would be cool if they had like a hybrid of like, you know, 60, 40,
where like part of it was like more boot campy. I'm kind of putting words in your mouth at that
point. But I think that's what I was saying. Like, yeah, for me, it's just like, if you're going to
have that, I think it'd be really hard to sell the rest of the college, right? Hey, do you want to do
this 20 week program or this four year program that costs five times as much and gets you
a third of the same, you know, job marketability? I don't know. I think
if you're going to get educated for a job, there are ways to get totally fast track that and save
yourself tens or many tens of thousands of dollars. And like, yeah, coding boot camps don't give you
big O notation and a large background on like the the large
history of computer science, the history of computer science, I was going to even completely ignore
that part. But I was just thinking like algorithm design and stuff and design structures and all
that. Well, that's not even all you get. You also get, you know, some exposure to the classics of
literature and stuff. That's the other thing that really bugs me. And like, so I mean, I,
and I get why that's valuable. I really do. I don't get why that's valuable at $8,000 a semester
for the non essential classes, you know, like, if you're if you're an in school tuition student,
I think college is like $15,000 at a state university, at least I think at CSU years ago.
And like, that's a stupid amount to spend on, you know, being forced to read Moby Dick.
So I can fucking rent that book at the library, right? I believe it's called borrowing, because
they don't charge you money for it. Right. So whatever. It's public domain, probably, right? I
could read it online for free. Like, so why am I paying you $7,000 to explain this book to me?
And why do I have to pay you $7,000 to explain this book to me when all I want to do is fix cars?
Right? No, let me just go to an automotive school. And I can learn how to fix cars in six months
and go get a fucking job. I can't think of what the steelman version is like, no, you should go
to college. That's that's an important life step. Some of it was the scarcity of education. But like,
just in the past 10 years, you can learn anything on YouTube now. Like, it used to make sense for
you to go somewhere specialized to learn special, you know, learn from experts about a bunch of
different subjects that are culturally or historically significant. Historically, yeah.
But like now, anything you want to learn about, yeah, you can go to the library.
I have two comments about this. The first one being that historically, this came from a time when
less than 10% of the population went to college. And if you were going to college, you made it.
And so everyone knew if you want to get a good job, like be one of the smart educated people
that are looked up to you, go to college. And that's done now that, you know, a much larger
percentage of the population goes to college. They don't even really know what the college
is for. They just know all of society is saying go to college if you want a good job. And
the message has not been updated for how things have changed.
Right. And it definitely wasn't the case 10 years ago, 12 years ago when I was graduating
high school, that was still drilled into you like you need to go to college and that'll get you a
job. And that's really important. And we're still at the age where that's changing slowly now.
I think it is. But even now, I think 18 year olds, I went to a high school graduation last year,
my cousin graduated high school. And she's doing a smart she's going to community college first,
which is if you're going to go to college, that's the way to do it. I should have done that.
It's the it's the same books. And like, you're getting the same credentials.
Oh, you're getting you're getting different credentialed. Like here's my certificate. Yeah.
But it's it's the same. We can also knock out a bunch of your requirements to that aren't really
related to your subject. Like I was going to school for illustration and literature, but I had
calculus and for some reason, like rhetoric and persuasion and like that there are a bunch of
required classes that are kind of general. That's what I did for community colleges,
not got the core credits that are expandable to whatever degree you're getting. But my point is
you could knock those two years off any off of any education. Yeah. And, you know, if you want a
major in literature or philosophy or psychology, let me just go to school for two years and get
the degree for that. Don't make me take underwater basket weaving and art of the 1600s. And I basically
agree with you. And our society has swung too far to the, you know, just get general education
and everything in my opinion. But David Youssef did point out on the discord. So I'm bringing
this up now. It can get too specialized. He said that in Egypt, both his parents are highly trained,
highly educated professionals. I forget exactly what he said they do. But like his dad is in a
very prestigious position, doing something really fucking complicated with engineering, I don't know.
But he said, and he doesn't know who Napoleon is, despite the fact that Napoleon invaded Egypt.
Like there is just all sorts of basic common knowledge that his parents don't know at all.
And generally, people in his society don't know at all that he thinks people probably should know.
I can see that. Like their, their specialization starts in fifth grade.
Yeah, what I was gonna say, I could feel that, like, I could see that being the kinds of things
they teach you in the lower levels. And then by the time you, I think, probably by the time you
get to high school, that much money per year of college, you probably don't want.
I think even in high school is the point where like, I think that's a good point to start specializing.
But I think specializing by fifth grade is a bit extreme.
And I get historically where, you know, this is how colleges came about. And I can only speak
to how things are done in the in the West, like, or at least in the United States. But my,
my thing is, yeah, I was talking with one of our frequent visitors to the local meetups about
Hannibal, the military leader. And I had no idea what, you know, what age this guy was around.
I was like, was it 2000 years ago? Was it 1500? Was it 500? And like,
but if I, if I was curious, I could watch a history lecture on YouTube, right? And granted,
I should probably know this, but I don't. But I mean, you knew at least that it was before gunpowder?
No. Okay. I know, I knew that there were elephants involved. So I figured if you could
shoot the elephants, they wouldn't have been half as scary. So okay. Yeah. But my, my thing is like,
yes, I think there's definitely an asset to having a modestly rounded education so that
you're familiar with, you know, you shouldn't be able to enter society without knowing what the
word utilitarianism is, you shouldn't be able to not be able to like basic math and spelling and
yeah, science facts, all the core stuff. But yeah, I think the annoying part for me is that,
all right, cool. No, but you have to do that at college where you're going to spend twice as much
as what your parents bought their house for. And you'll be paying this off for 35 years at 9%
interest and go fuck yourself. Is it 9% interest? I think seven or nine. It depends on where you
get it. I thought student loans had a really good interest rates. I think it depends. It might be
new. Also, like they might have been trying to improve more recently. My point is it's insane.
Student loan debt is the largest debt deficit in the country. And that's including all the
mortgages and credit cards and, you know, combined. And that blows my mind. Combined.
Wait, combined? Wait, whatever. But student loan debt outpaces both of those. And it's like,
and I know I sound like- And it's put disproportionately on the young
who are making the least. Yeah. And then you go, you spend $130,000 getting your education,
and then you're told, oh, you don't have any life, you don't have any experience,
we're not going to hire you. And it's like, oh, so you want me to be able to do my job,
not just know, be able to set off facts about, you know, the origin of computing.
