that a male would do. So he's a he for me. And anyways, it's really interesting. But one of the
interesting problems, Ada, I read some interviews with her, one of the interesting problems she
ran into is that in Poland, there's, you know, they have their own culture wars right now. I
did not know any of this because I don't keep up with my own country. So I learned it from reading
her interview. But in Poland, the far right is pushing for gender neutral, everything more or
less. Whereas the far left are the ones who say like, no, I'm a doc dress. And this is a, you know,
like pilotess and all that. They're very much pointing out that women can do these things
just as much. So acknowledge that they're women when they, when they have the job, you know,
don't call a woman, sir, if you're addressing her, and don't call a captain, captain, if it's
a woman captain, use the correct turn captain s or whatever the Polish equivalent is. And,
and so she said, so when it was translated into Polish, it looked like in my society, the far
right had one, their view of society, when in fact, the exact opposite is the case, you know.
And so they had to like redo it for the Polish version, which I was like, that is, that is just
like shockingly interesting. How translating things into different cultures can drastically
alter what you're saying in the book. That is interesting. Yeah, the thing that strikes me
is interesting about that is that it's kind of the way we have the weird, like red, blue tribe
things where things that aren't necessarily even related to your being conservative end up getting
lumped there. And that ends up being like, you would think the like flying the American flag,
that should be a thing any citizen could be proud of. But it's very much associated with the red
tribe. That makes sense from a conservative perspective, though, I'm thinking even like
things about like gun control. Wait, how does how does that only red tribe gets to fly American
flags makes sense? Well, because of, I want to say jingoism, but like, oh, nationalism, nationalism.
Yeah, because the blue tribe wants to change the nation and make it better. Whereas I think
the blue tribe has just as much right to be part of this nation as anyone else. I totally agree,
but I'm saying where I think it comes from. Okay, no, actually, yeah. Now that I'm thinking about
it, like the nation as a whole is more left than it is right. Yeah, flying a Confederate flag,
definitely signals that you like losers. Yeah, that just shows how ingrained it even is that I
it's like, well, obviously, flying a flag is red tribe. And now that I'm thinking about it's like,
oh, no, I could easily like, think of an opposite world where fly it like, you know,
maybe conservatives are disappointed with the direction the country is gone. And
it's all on a fly a flag. They're the ones arguing in favor of burning flags and stuff.
Yeah, or flying Confederate flags instead. Yeah. Yeah, maybe the original flag with only 13 stars.
Right. There was a, oh, I remember this was back to the gendered language. So
my first piece of like, feminist literature that I read that I actually liked the first one I read
was like, it was the last chapter of the God Delusion. It might have been the last chapter.
Anyway, Dawkins was talking about how, you know, like he is the default and everything and that
he now makes an effort to use she for the default for everything, which I'm now it's 15 years later,
maybe now it should be neutral for every everybody instead. But I like that. So, and I noticed this,
it jumps out of me like on Brian Dunning's podcast, he's like, you know, a lot of it is like medicine
and you know, woo or something. So yeah, when you see your doctor and he says this, and I'm like,
you could just say she or they the doctor. But my default for years was using she. And I liked
that unless you're talking about a bat, you know, an individual or a group of deplorables,
then you could just you could use he's right. Women can be just as deplorable as men sir.
Right, right, right. But I but this way, if someone was just reading the one thing I wrote
and say I was talking about, you know, whatever, speech or terrorism or something,
in which case, it's still men dominated go us. Not hate speech terrorism.
I hate that personally. I was kidding. Okay, what do you think I was actually happy about that?
It is the way things are, though, like it is always men when it's a group of bad people. And
usually statistically, that's also true. Yeah, white guys are crushing it in the
mass shooting category, right? You know, so there's other factors that
by all means, I'm trying to take that mantle from us. I'm, please, I'm not I'm not attached to
the to the people I guess I'm not I don't feel any attachment to the very first school shooter
was a woman though. There we go. Yeah, I was interesting when I found that out. Cool. Oh,
I didn't know it. Yeah. Well, what was the body count, man? I don't know. Well, then, you know,
I'm just kidding. Okay. Yeah. I and I feel no attachment to being a white guy. So like I don't,
if someone's like, Oh, you know, this is associated with white people, I'm like, Oh,
that sucks. Like, I but I don't feel anything personal about it, other than the fact that I
know that some idiots in the internet will assume the worst in me because I the color
of my skin. But by all means, you racist, you racist pricks go forth and be that way. I remember
in the early 2000s, a lot of gaming materials that were coming out rule books, role playing
rule books in particular, since they have to use like a lot of examples of this player does this
and you know, he does this, she does that. One of the ones I read was really interesting,
they had all odd numbered pages using he pronouns and all even numbered pages using she
pronouns. Nice. Which was really cool. And a different one had like odd numbered chapters
with were he's and even numbered chapter for she's. That's fun. Yeah. It'd be fun with it'd
be even more fun with the just doing web page. It's like part of the tutorial. Like it's the
same paragraph going on to the next page. Yeah. I could see that being distracting though.
Totally. Yeah, I don't have to be intentional and hilarious. And generally, they always keep the
examples in like little letter boxes. So they're contained on one page.
Okay. Yeah. Like here's a little insert that's on this page. I like how this thing happens.
Yeah, it sounds more inclusive. Granted, it's less inclusive than we are now in 2019. But
but I love I love the need to say that was in the early 2000s. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
that's that's forward thinking. Well, it was already a big thing back then. Yeah, but it was
less heard, I guess, right? Like maybe, I don't know. It was already pretty, pretty big. I was
young in the early 2000s still making efforts or some of the earlier feminist waves.
They were already, you know, trying to fight back against the he is default and come up with
new ways of like for a while it was he or she and then that's incredibly clunky.
The singular they is a more recent solution to this problem. But I have seen a lot of the
just occasionally switching from he to she. And I use they almost every time now.
I've seen singular they I think my entire life. Yeah, like in official manuscripts,
it was always he or she because they was considered ungram ungrammatical,
grammatically incorrect. I don't know. Yeah, but that was a more recent decision. Yeah. But in
in casual conversation, they was used all the time. Yeah. I mean, it's again, it's older than
singular you. Yeah. All right. Do we have more feedback? I got a quick one and this should
have gone right after the college one. Closed limelike curves wrote in and said, or I'm not
sure where this came from. I think the discord. Probably. Yeah, all I have to say is that I'd
bet my ass off that if colleges were teaching stuff like what the right thing to do is there'd
be a lot of complaints, probably including from this podcast on how colleges nowadays are just
brainwashing and they've abandoned their original goal of actually teaching people or helping them
acquire knowledge. I think you're probably right. I think I think a mandatory philosophy like rough
rough overview of philosophy should be included. But like, but if it was, you would complain not
in college. Okay. I frankly, like again, my so I think this is consistent with my anti college
rant. But just like put this in high school. Okay, everybody should get through school,
you know, knowing what an atom is, you know, what evolution is, what
how sex works. Yeah, how sex works. Try to get a big discipline. They should know their numbers.
They should know you can't get a man pregnant. Basic history. Yeah. I remember in BBC Sherlock,
I think about it in the second episode of season one back when they were still good.
There was this whole wasn't the second episode. It doesn't matter that like Sherlock didn't know
what where the earth was in the solar system or something. Right. How does that help me be a
detective? Yeah. You know, so he's like, you know, why would I know that I can identify 19
different types of cigarette ash? I don't need to know. I think it was that he, he didn't know
that the earth revolves around the sun or something. That might have been it was some glaring
thing. Yeah. So you shouldn't be able to graduate high school not knowing that. But you shouldn't
have to pay. But he also had a good point. But that wouldn't help him solve any mysteries ever.
Yeah, exactly. So to the extent that you just really care about your one thing, that's fine.
But Sherlock also strikes me as the kind of person who didn't pay attention in school if you had to
go to school, right? I'm not sure what BBC or these Sherlock canonical upbringing was like. It
doesn't really matter. But I think they have some episodes where like, when they meet Minecraft,
they talk about it. And yeah, I feel like they kind of made that character is like a Asperger's
is like slash autism walking stereotype character. Totally. But that does also ring true with a
I know a lot of people that have autism or ADD like tend to not do well in the conventional
schooling atmosphere. I mean, myself in particular. There's a thing of being able to hyper focus on
your favorite thing forever. And then maybe that person just ends up being a geologist because
they love rocks. And yeah, I kind of everything ever can also make you enough money to live on
then go nuts. Yeah. And I kind of want to push back on I was leaning into the, yeah, like you
should be able to learn these things at these grades and whatever. But actually, like, I am,
if I had a kid, I would radically unschool them. And I think that
I don't think that it should be necessary for someone to know something maybe in order to be
in a certain job. Like if you want to be a healthcare professional, you should understand
evolutionary biology, like on a basic level, like cellular biology stuff like that. But
I strongly disagree. Okay, I think to have a functioning society, you really need some things
that everyone in the society has to know. Everyone needs to know how to read.
To the point of enforcing it, though. Yeah, everyone needs to know how to do some basic math.
Everyone should know the at least the most basic laws that we live by. And a few things like why
medicine works, what vaccines are, those sorts of things that are important to a society running,
I think, should be if you haven't taught your children this, not only are you doing them a
disservice, you're making society worse off and hurting all the rest of us.
Yeah, unfortunately, most people don't learn these things from their parents. These are things you
learn from school. But then like, most of what I learned was not from school or my parents. And
the reason I am less paranoid about the world becoming idiocracy if we get rid of the school
system is that people do really well in radical unschooling environments. They tend to pick up
everything they need to know anyway. And that I think encourages kids who are lifelong learners,
because they don't learn to hate learning. Right. I think you guys aren't disagreeing as much as
think you are, but I was going to push back with the same thing just as hard with reading.
Because that is the one thing that you need to get out and do whatever. You can't self-educate
on your favorite subject if you can't read. And if no one made you learn, and your parents were
like, oh, they don't need to read. You don't have to make kids learn. They teach themselves.
They many do. I guess I can imagine circumstances where it's like, no, we just work with,
or you know, you can even just rule out the whole religious fundamentalists,
but they don't want them to learn how to read because it's dangerous and they could read the
wrong book. But fuck it. Our family has been craftspeople for 500 years. You don't need to
learn how to read or you don't need to read any of the classics of literature to be a good wood
worker. So you're going to just, I'll teach you how to work wood. You can read a tape measure
and that's all you'll need to learn how to read. I could imagine.
You're still thinking of an education system where it's being handed down to the child by someone.
This is like radical on schooling is the child directing their own education. The parent wouldn't
be able to say like, we're craftspeople and you're going to be a craftsperson too. The point is
the parent helps the kid gather whatever information they're interested in or help them
if they get stuck. But otherwise, like minimal intervention.
Then I guess I'd mandate that the parent actually do that. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah,
I guess I don't know what radical on schooling was. How many children can we
so I don't know very much about children at all having not ever had one and having not been around
very many for at least a couple of decades now. But how many children can we actually trust to
learn how to read on their own? Because if it's less than 98%, I would be for, you know,
forcing them to learn how to read. I don't know how you learn to read just by looking at
swiggles. Someone needs to show you how to read. There's I'm remembering this. I don't even know
whether to call it an experiment or an intervention or what, but somewhere in Rwanda, I want to say
some humanitarian group just built a bunch of community centers and put computers with internet
access there. And the kids educated themselves to the point where some of them were sending
themselves to college overseas. And nobody was teaching them how to do anything, but they
by messing with the computers, talking to each other and trial and error,
were able to teach themselves to read, to speak multiple languages, all kinds of, you know, like,
all the information in the world is now at your disposal. And if you're a kid who lives in a
village who maybe has fun by like kicking a ball around or like playing with a cat,
you're going to fucking love to learn. I mean, like, it's also probably really like
an environment that pushes home how important being educated is and how much you can,
you know, improve your life circumstances. That is interesting. I wonder, like specifically,
because I don't know, I mean, if I was, if you locked me in a room with a book that was written
in Arabic, I could spend the rest of my life in there and never understand a word of that book.
Right. It's just squiggles on a page. I would need someone to show me what squiggles
mean what, and then I could piece together the rest.
Well, you can do that with the internet, because the resources are out there.
Right. But that's what I mean, like just basic literacy.
And so if these kids were really just given a computer and like just, you know,
you can figure out the mass works, you can figure out how to play with the computer.
But if they could figure out how to Google, teach me English, and without being able to
read anything or write themselves, I mean, you would just be striking keys that all look like
just, you know, elvish to you, right? Well, apparently, the first thing these kids did when
they watched them was look up soccer games. I don't know if they knew how to spell it or if
they were kind of just clicking around and like navigating by images, I'm not sure. I actually
want to, I'll see if I can find the article about this and link to it, because I'm curious to follow
up on that more detail. And I'm really curious about what their baseline was going in. Yeah.
Yeah, you're right. You'd have to know something. You can't even Google soccer.
I think it's very hard to like, get to a certain age and not have learned anything.
Yeah. That's true. Even if you go to a soccer stadium, you'll see the word soccer on like,
these are places where they didn't have public schools. So these kids hadn't been to school,
but you do still learn from your peers and your family and your society around you a certain
amount. Yeah, you're right. I'm picturing something that can't really happen. The kids actually
learned to read in school because I learned to read before I started school. And I basically
taught myself to read. I mean, my parents would read me bedtime stories and then I would be able
to link, this is the page where this thing happens. And I guess eventually like,
enough repetition of kind of getting to the point where I'd memorized some children's books. And
I don't remember though, like my memory is not good enough to
remember what kind of mental notions I was making when I was learning to read.
But I know that like, I just became such a voracious reader that I just taught myself to
read from then on. None of the instruction and reading or anything was very valuable to me in
school. Yeah, I'm not saying that you need to go to a classroom and have someone do this. And so
I think I'm imagining a scenario that can't really happen where you can't lean on up here.
So somebody in your group has, like I said, been to a soccer stadium, seen a soccer ball at a store,
and it says soccer on the package and you're looking at the ball. So that's what it says.
