Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Inyash Brotsky. I'm Steven Zuber. I'm a flying
squirrel. You did it. I did it. I just re-listened the last episode and it's a good thing I did
because I was like, oh yeah, I'm supposed to be a flying squirrel this time. Awesome.
And before we begin, Steven has a awesome announcement for us. Oh yeah. I have recorded
the first episode of the We Want More podcast. Hell yeah. And it is not out yet. I think
it'll be out, well, when's this coming out in a couple weeks? It's coming out in just
less than two weeks, yeah, a week and a half. I think the precursor episode will definitely
be out by the time this one comes out. So check it out on the Harry Potter and the Methods
of Rationality podcast. Yeah, we'll cross post it. Oh yeah, I guess we can cross post
on it. Yeah. Certainly at least the preamble one. Maybe if there's any interest, we can
just do both on both podcasts. It couldn't hurt. Actually, it might. I'll have to think
about that. Or at least stick it out. Do the first episode or something. Yeah. I'm gonna
be like, if you want more, go back to the HP More podcast. Perfect. If you want more
MLO. Yeah, I think if you want more, we want more. I think we can think of puns to do
for most of the episodes that involve the word more. Okay. That we're gonna do. It's
not that hard to come up with something that uses the word more. No, it's gonna be great.
So puns. Yes, should be punny. It was fun. Brian's great. It's fun. So the premise of
the show for those uninitiated, it's ripped off the name and the inspiration from We've
Got Worm, which was done by the previously the Daily Planet, whatever incorporated, they
have like a whole suite of podcasts, now they're the Doofcast or Doof Media. So Matt Freeman
had to read Worm and Scott Daly hadn't. So they basically went more or less arc by arc
where they'd read and then they'd talk about it. And Matt would kind of just let Scott
think about and talk about out loud what's going on and try not to, you know, spoil anything,
try to be careful with all that stuff. And did such a good job. Yeah, it was amazing.
So it's at a really high bar for this one. But I think this is an easier work to analyze.
There's a lot less like character motifs and that sort of underlying, I don't know, thematic
development going on. Well, this is more directly trying to teach you something. Yeah. So like,
you know what the theme is, you don't have to go hunting for it because it's in the title.
Yeah, it's like the methods of rationale. Yeah, well, I meant like even the individual
chapters were like the whatever bias or the fundamental attribution error. Yeah, a lot of them
are fairly straightforward. And so I can learn stuff. What I can't do is read something and
discern like, Oh my God, I totally am seeing this message. I don't have that at all. But
if if the character is literally spelling it out for me, I can at least read. So yeah, it's
fun. Yeah, I'm just like one third the length of work as well. So that makes it easier to do.
I think it's like a million word store than worm. So one third. Yeah, I guess you're right.
My bad. They're both really long. Yeah. Yeah, one or three times as long. But that's what I love
about web fiction. It's not constrained by needing to be the size of a novel. So I'm somebody that
just crunches through text. And I love having stuff that updates like often enough that I'm just
able to feel like, I don't know, like I'm not just burning through it and then kind of sitting
around waiting for more. Right. What's crazy about worm or especially Ward as they're going
through it is like, it's a first draft every chapter that they're reading, and they're all so
good. And I don't know what it would be like to be able to sit down and not have a review, not have
whatever you call like a pre publisher reading editor, thank you. Some people don't need them as
much. I don't know, I edit the shit out of my writing, because my first drafts come out really
bad. But some people, their first draft comes out like basically what they want. I think that's
maybe they need to do a couple of grammatical and like spelling error checks. But
And audiences, for the most part, don't care all that much. If there's some typos, if there's, you
know, it's not a perfect draft, they really want more, more than they want pristine quality
generally. Yeah, I mean, I really enjoy reading fan fiction, which isn't written by professional
writers. But some of the it's the same thing with art too. I really like looking at fan art or
amateur artists. I love fan art. Because a lot of people, even if they're not like as technically
skilled as someone who's been doing it for 20 years, have really unique ideas. Yeah, one of the
things that I'm afraid to break conventions in ways that are kind of cool. And one of the things
I really like about fan, well, fan art, any sort of fan works is that it always comes from a place
of love. Oh, yeah. This is like something I love and I'm passionate about it. And I just wanted to
do it for its own sake. It'd be interesting to read like a hate fueled fan fiction. I have read
some of this. If anyone could point me to a decent one, that sounds hilarious. I'm not sure if there's
any decent ones because they are hate fueled. I don't know, like I almost feel like worm to some
extent. Is it not necessarily a hate fueled fiction, but like one of the things that I enjoyed
about it, though, is like you would never be able to publish this in in like a conventional format
is that you're rooting for a villain, you're on the side of the villain and like the author could
just really like get really violent or really disturbing. No, there's lots of stuff like that
has been published. Yeah. Like the Joker, the movie that we just, I mean, the Joker is like a small
example. There's there's works out there where there's a violent rape in the beginning by the
protagonist. Oh, man. Yeah, I was gonna say this doesn't cook it that bad. She does shoot a baby
in the face, but it's a baby in the face. It was the right thing to do. It's complicated. It makes
sense in the moment. Are we talking about the Joker? No. Oh, we're talking about worms. Yeah. Oh,
okay. Yeah, I can totally see that in the world. I almost feel like I wonder if we should honestly
wind up that you want to like get them in the brain. It doesn't specify the face. Okay. Okay. I
just sort of assume that it wasn't actually in the face like because they said it so many times,
I think when we've got word as a joke, like a shot of baby in the face that
okay. I actually like my memory was up her shooting it in the face.
All right. So yeah, that is coming out. I don't know soon after you hear this, we will have the
not we Steven specifically as this is his baby. We'll have the first episode up.
Well, Enios is helping to nurture it. We're going to publish it on the methods of rationality
feed. So go back if you're not still subscribed to that, like I am. Make sure you click that
like and subscribe button and or yeah, that's subscribe to podcasts. Yes. Yes. I've thrown
myself through a YouTube loop now, but they also call it that there. So yeah. All right.
Fantastic. There should be a lot of fun. Hell yeah. All right. Today we are doing mostly
listener feedback so we can get caught up because we have been running behind.
How would I start with this one from Ray from the last episode because that was a nice
this is a really nice comment. Actually, one of you emailed it to me.
I did. Yeah. Thank you. That actually cheered me up a lot. So Ray posted this both on I think it
was was it just on the basic conspiracy website or did he cross post it? I only saw it on there.
Yeah. Ray wrote, I know Steven uses the intellectual dark web designation somewhat
jokingly, but if there is such a thing and it's a positive designation for long form
content and thoughtful conversation, you've earned the designation for this episode.
In my opinion, this was your best episode ever. I don't know about that.
Special thanks to just for intelligently articulating their logic.
Yeah. Did you listen to the one that I wasn't on? That one was really good.
But we missed you though. Yeah. We needed Steven to bring us on tangents.
I've seen Jordan Peterson rail against pronoun abuse, but haven't ever heard the other side
articulated in any reasonable way. I've seen lots of illogical stuff on Twitter that has really
turned me off. I had no idea zero of the distinction between gender and sex. I could go on but
suffice to say I learned a lot from just as logical arguments. Just as personal anecdotes
are excellent too. The anecdotes are relevant without being overly emotionally expressed.
That's not how I thought they came out, but which helps someone like me understand a bit more.
Overall, I'm still sympathetic to any Ashes views. Getting used to this is just hard,
especially because I don't know any non-binary people. And if I've ever met, or and if I've
ever met one, I didn't know it. However, understanding the argument along with a bit of
what it feels like to be non-binary, I'll do my best to be empathetic and try to get the pronouns
correct. That was really cool. I'm really happy that that conversation ended up like getting
generally a really positive feedback. I was worried that there was going to be trolls and
people getting offended, as often tends to happen when you get into culture war stuff, but really
like happy with our audience. Yeah, we've got a cool audience. If this was on YouTube, that'd be
different. Yeah. I was really scared. I don't know. There'd be denunciations, all kinds of awful
things. Oh, God. All right. Here it goes. But yeah, it turned out great. And for what it's worth,
like again, from my long view, you guys, from my long out view, you guys don't really seem to
the disagree on really that much core stuff. It's really just about like nothing about like the
experience or the... Yeah, it feels like March. It was just a kind of, we have different preferences
on how to express things or different, maybe strongly held ideas of what the definitions
of certain words should and shouldn't be. And I don't think that's things to end your friendships
over. Apparently, to some people, this is a major transgression and then to other people,
like how dare you try to use pronouns in this illogical way. And it's really rare to find
people that are actually kind of in the middle of it. I would prefer people use these pronouns,
but if they don't, then whatever. Yeah, I was at a thing last weekend where
someone got extremely upset and pre-offended. Like no one had said anything, but there was
very much a, you know, if you don't respect my pronouns, get the fuck out of this convention.
I'm not sure if the word fuck was used or not. It may have been, but the the emotion was very
much there. There was an implied fuck. Yes. And there might have been a said fuck.
Yeah. We're all adults. We don't really care that much about language. I've seen from
from the left. Yeah. No, like I've seen people that there's people that have such strongly
held views about stuff like that, that it almost feels like I'm not allowed to say I prefer to be
called they them, but I don't really care. And it's not a big deal because it's such a big deal to
other people that it feels like I should also acknowledge the fact that like in general pronouns
are a big deal. And I don't know. And then it also feels like there's some pressure to
maybe there's like a competitiveness, maybe a like oppression Olympics,
things sort of going on between people talking about like, I need to also, you know, give my
oppression cred. Like, oh, somebody said something racist to me, like, oh, yeah, well, you should
see how hard it is to be this oppressed class. And it's, I don't know. It's not great to
define yourself by like, what did they call that? Identity politics. I don't know why I
totally escaped my memory. But the identity politics thing I think is
fractious. I've been willing to just understand that from my point of view, the, you know,
the white guy that my identity doesn't really need representation or like need an identity
behind it, because it's sort of like what people picture with a default. Like people have straight
pride. Right. Yeah. But the, so I've come around to just understanding the fact that like, if
someone's proud that they're black or proud that they're gay, it's to me, I've never understood
that just because like, I might as well be proud to have brown hair or like, you know,
whatever color my eyes are, like, for me, you should be like proud of accomplishments, like
things you've done. Yeah. But I understand the difference. I'm now I'm that was years ago. Now
my current my current position is like, I get where it's not so much that like, I did it. I was
born black. It was like pushing back on the people who said I should be ashamed to be black.
Exactly. And I've never felt that way. So I have no idea. I've no nothing in my life really to
compare that to. So I just totally get like, Hey, I'm, you know, that makes sense. Go for it.
But I used to be really confused by that. Because I'm like, how, you know, like,
I don't know, any sort of like national pride too. It's like, you don't pick where you're born.
You can be proud that like, Oh, yeah, you know, I, me or my family or something, you know,
grabbed our shit and emigrated or something like that's, that's actually cool. That's hard,
right? But be like, yeah, I, I, I worked hard. I buckled down and I got born in Colorado. It's
like, great job. You did it. That was some hard gestating you did. I actually feel proud that
I escaped New Jersey. But that's something that you did. Yeah. Yeah. I was watching Stephen
Universe and I forgot that they have this like, short reference to New Jersey in there and it's
fucking great. What was the reference? I don't remember. You don't remember this. It was when they
went to Empire City, which was clearly just like their metaphor for New York. But Stephen was flying
around on one of the gems backs and like explaining about the earth is like, and there's the city.
What's that over there? That dark place. That's Jersey. So it's like, what are you doing flying
in our skies? Get out of here. There's just like smog and filipids.
I was like, ah, somebody, somebody on this animation team is from Jersey.
Someone gets it. Or know someone from Jersey. Yeah. Or just saw their license plate, which I think
is the garden state. Yeah. If you're growing smokestacks, sure. There's actually a lot of
farming that goes on in New Jersey. There's what? There's a lot of farming for such a small state.
It's got a lot of it's got the pine barons. It's got like the whole side of it that borders
Philadelphia and New York. That's all like sub city. George Carlin, you must let me. It's got
beach and it's got farms. All right. All right. Who else has the feedback? I have one from David,
the Anarch of Fairfax. So this is the UBI David or I guess NTI David, since he was specifically
NIT. Yes, for NIT rather than UBI. David said, I appreciate your bit about the Koch brothers
back when I was, you know, saying they did some good things too, you know,
although they didn't say that global warming isn't real. They just said that's mainly being driven
by China, India and the developing world at this point. And that radical social reform in the
developed West to fight global warming would do more harm than good in all but the most catastrophic
scenarios. That could be the case. I don't know. I know that they were pushing towards the, well,
like he says, it would do more harm than good, except in the most catastrophic scenarios, which
I disagree with. I think we should be doing something to reduce carbon emissions. But
significantly, he also added this. He said that it's mainly being driven by China, India and the
developing world at this point. And I thought that sounds really very different from what I've
heard. I mean, yes, I know about China, India, India becoming big polluters recently, but
and the developing world struck me as not true. So I pulled up a list of total emissions by country.
And the United States is number two just below China. And China is almost twice as much as us.
Then India, Russia, Japan, you keep going down the list. Every one of these countries is a developed
country with the possible exception. I don't know if like Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia is a developed
country. Every one of these countries is a developed basically first world country, first world ish.
There's no developing countries on this list. So I do not think that is the case, at least in terms of
carbon emissions. I also thought it would be important to point out that China has a per capita
emissions. They're number one, but their per capita is only 6.6, whereas ours is 15.5. So even
though they are emitting more than us, we are emitting more than twice as much as they are per
capita. Yeah, they've got a billion more people. Yeah, a lot more land too. Yeah, I mean, so per
capita, I think I'm scrolling through this this table you brought up, I think the winner is Saudi
Arabia, with Australia as a close second still beating us. You mean the winner being the one
who's emitting the least or the most? The most. Okay, so Saudi Arabia is the worst? Because they
have all their oil subsidized massively by the government. Yeah, so I guess they don't give a
shit about just burning oil. I always like the joke of like, you know, what if all this, you know,
global warming, you know, stuff as a hoax and we clean the air and the world's rivers and stuff,
and, you know, for nothing. Yeah. What if we just live more sustainably for no reason? I think
there's like some kind of counter argument that it's going to cost a lot more than you think,
but I don't know what that counter argument is. And I also like the fact that I do not choke on
the air outside my house. Yeah, that's very important. It apparently particulates in the air
have a noticeable reduction on both intellect and longevity on all humans, where even if you live
downtown, you are going to be one or two IQ points lower than if you were to live out in the suburbs.
And if you live near a busy street, you get the same effect rather than if you live out, you know,
in a cul-de-sac somewhere. So I mean, I'd be curious to see your sources on that. Okay, I do
