minutes, you know, present or writing that analysis for it to present the next day or
something, right? And then if you have a doubt of some kind that it's that strong, maybe the doubt
will motivate you to find out whether you should revise it down to 60%. And it doesn't be capable
of doing that. Whereas if you, maybe this hypothetical TV pun doesn't have any real
vested interest other than not getting fired, but like if you really cared about the outcome of
something, you're ready to accept that, all right, here's my assumption that this will work and
here's my confidence. When you're thinking about it in those terms, rather than I believe this,
in the colloquial sense of I believe this, then you're open to chasing that doubt and
changing your mind, right? Updating more up or down.
I guess I dislike how dissonant these two posts are in tone. Like the first one is very much about
holding probabilities and not, you know, you aren't 100% sure of things, but here's how you can
think about your uncertainty. And then in this one, it's very much like
doubts exist to annihilate a belief or to annihilate themselves. And a doubt that does nothing
is worthless. And that's very much a black or white thing. It either annihilates itself or
the belief. And that just feels like so, that black and white is so in contrast with the
spectrum thinking of before. I think I had a similar reaction to it. I actually wrote
a doubt that neither destroys itself nor destroys its target might as well have never existed.
And I wrote, is this a good way to think about doubt? It seems kind of extreme. And then I wrote
under that, well, actually, like, if I try to liken this to the scientific method, it actually
makes a lot more sense. Right. That the doubt should motivate you. Yeah. Or like,
there's no point in doubting something that like, if you discovered that it was true or false,
like it wouldn't mean anything, I guess. There's no point in doubting something if you're just
going to hold on to the doubt and like reify the doubt as something valuable, as opposed to as a
motivator. Right. Or if you're not actually open to the possibility of changing your mind, which
is what he accused the quote, doubting on quote, Jesuits of doing. Yeah, pretending to doubt.
Well, the Jesuits, you know, they can, they have no intention of pursuing the doubts. The doubts are
just there in their minds. And that's what's bad about them, that they're going to hold onto their
beliefs without following the doubts. Because I don't know, maybe they're scared of what the
doubts will find. Yeah, we're just curious to look up. I don't know very much about Jesuits,
but like how that's actually structured. Like, I just actually like psychologically find this
fascinating somebody who, okay, I'm required to sit here for 10 minutes and do a meditation on
how much I doubt this religion, but then at the end of it, I'm supposed to actually not doubt it.
What does that look like on the inside? If anyone was raised Jesuit and actually has first-hand
experience, I'd be interested in reading about it, or rather hearing about it, if you want to write
in. So I'm just like, how much work we have to do to make these two things like feel like they
cohere? Even though I think I know what he's trying to get at, I think it could and should have been
written clearer. I can dig it. Yeah. Although in this vast of a body of writing, it's not surprising
that not everything's perfect. Yeah. And I think that these weren't originally written to flow
together. So probably the way that they rearranged them for... We're reading them in the order that
they were put online. But I mean, like, I don't think that Eliezer was actually writing one after
the other kind of sequentially. Right, right. Like it was more like, okay, today I'm going to write a
post about this thing, and it wasn't really meant to be read as a book. They do often jump around,
yeah, in topic. And sometimes in tone too. I like that he was kind of experimenting with the way that
the kind of tone, the kind of structure that he used for some of these, and then also it makes
it a little hard to read sometimes too. I like that I think methods of rationality
pulled it all into one tone. So that stops kind of being distracting when you're trying to figure
out what kind of like literary narrative trick things going on in this one.
Yeah, I don't know. I don't think it's necessarily a flaw of the writing either though.
Just that sometimes it maybe it can be a bit distracting when you come across something like
this where... But then again, we've also thought about it more than some of the others because of
that. So shrug. Okay, for next time we have the virtue of narrowness, you can face reality,
and the apocalypse bet. So three for next time because one of them I remember was really short.
Okay. Also really quick again, just plugging Stevens, we want more podcast coming out very soon.
And I wanted to ask, I found when I was making the podcast, after I was done with it, you know,
I went and uploaded it and typed out the title again, like looking at the title of a chapter
again, when I got to the end of the chapter, often like reinforced what that chapter was about.
I was like, oh man, I now see now that I'm done with the chapter, how this title showed up a
number of times throughout that chapter as themes. Do you guys do that at all?
We've only done the one episode so far, and we sort of, we didn't put together enough notes for
the first episode to really, like I did because I have a stupidly encyclopedic memory of what
happened when, but I will make a point to do that for every ongoing chapter, because you're
right, the chapter names aren't arbitrary, they're not chapter one. Yeah, I'd be curious to also hear
from, who's your reading partner? Brian. Brian, I'd be curious if you asked Brian, like,
could you, after having read this chapter, tell me in your own words what the fundamental
attribution error is, or whatever the subject of, because I mean, I remember when I was originally
reading Methods of Rationality, before I'd had any exposure to any of these ideas, and I think
I went and tried to read the sequences a couple of times, and I found them to be
too confusing, or the wording to be, like, if you aren't familiar with any of the
rationalist jargon, it can be really hard. If you're just jumping around, it can seem like,
you know, some of these are building off of other things that came earlier,
but I don't know where to go. I just, I don't know. I found it to be too intimidating at the
time, so I never really got into reading the sequences until I was, like, more comfortable
with a bunch of the other rationalist writing out there. But I do also think that it's pretty
clear in some chapters what, like, the moral of the story or the lesson was, and some of the others,
I don't know if they're as well explained. So. Cool. Yeah, no, I think that'd be a really good
exercise. Yeah, and it's hard to go back and think of, like, put myself in the place before I knew
what these things meant. Yeah. So to ask, basically, do you understand what science was presented in
this chapter? Yeah. Or what kind of technique is trying to teach you? Or do you understand why
this chapter was named what it was named, even? Yeah. Okay, yeah, I wanted to do the first, yeah,
the first chapter was, or the first episode was sort of a rough draft, but one that's going to
be published, we're not going to redo it. But yeah, there are sections of things I want to,
as we go through it, especially, cover the rationalist techniques that Harry uses
in each chapter, you know, some of them are couldn't be more in your face, like there's the whole
basically explaining of Bayesian probabilities when they're doing the hypothesis testing.
I remember there were a few chapters that when I read the title, I was like, Oh,
not only are there multiple examples of multiple characters doing exactly what the chapter title
was, there was even in one case, like sort of a meta narrative of this whole thing happening. And I
wish I could remember which chapter it was. But it was, it was like, Wow, that was fantastic.
All right. Anyways, sorry, we got off topic again. We have to think of patron. This is
an interesting one. Our patron this week is progress.fm, which is that like a
that's the name that showed up on Patreon. Interesting. Now I kind of want to go to
progress.fm and see if it's a thing. But progress.fm, whether you are a person or an organization
or an FM station, we thank you for your for your patronage. It helps us bring us bring you all
this stuff. And hold on a second, I'm going to Google this right now. I'm already there. Oh,
what is a lot? It's assuming this is the same person. Progress.fm takes you to a page that's
just says launching January 1 2020. Oh, interesting. Well, now my interest is piqued. Yeah. If you are,
what was it? Practice? Progress. Progress. Progress. If you are progress.fm,
and you're listening to this, maybe tell us if you're working on something cool.
Because I would like to check it out. Oh, that's a good logo. And if you are not affiliated with
progress.fm that we just Googled, thank you very much, sir, or ma'am, or whatever. Thanks, fucker.
Thanks, Comrade. Yeah, we appreciate it. And it really does help us. It does. Thank you very
much. All right, see y'all in a couple of weeks. Perfect. Good night, everybody.
I'm okay with keeping this a little bit shorter than ever.
