this short and nice introduction.
So my name indeed is Petro Fedichev,
and I had a decent job.
I've been doing theoretical physics.
And then something happened,
and more than 15 years ago,
somebody showed me that there are mammals
that do not age,
and I got really interested into this situation.
So when I was small,
I was reading about primitive creatures that are not aging,
but I didn't care because I had high esteem
of our mammalian ancestry.
But since then, I learned that in 21st century,
there appeared to be first experimental evidence
suggesting that certain mammals do not age,
and as we speak, more and more animals
of that kind showing up in databases.
So on this graph,
I mean, that's what brought me into the field.
So on the left, you have mortality,
not your usual log plot.
I mean, actual mortality is a function of age in humans.
So note the huge dynamic range here.
So humans exhibit a huge variation of mortality.
This is almost unprecedented among other animals.
And then on the right, you have naked mole rats.
So this is a picture from paper by Kalika, by Google.
So they published a new life
because I think they wanted to insist on the title
that says that these guys are defying the Gompert's law.
There is no log on the vertical scale.
You can see that over the long, very long time,
there is no appreciable change in mortality,
measurable mortality in these animals.
So my question was always like,
if I want to do something about aging,
I should be looking at the largest effects possible.
So to me, the difference between these two curves
is the largest effect possible.
So if we ever want to increase human life
by a large margin without doing trials and errors,
which I think is visible,
we should have a theoretical framework
to understand how the curve on the left
is different from the curve on the right.
And this is quite a multi-year journey
which I want to tell you about.
So my interest was two-fold.
So I learned about these creatures.
And at the same time, I was reading works
by Stuart Kaufman.
I was doing physics of strongly correlated systems.
And when I was a student, people were telling me
that young men study physics
because there are physicists turning biologists,
but there are no medics or biologists turning to physics.
This is the counter examples.
So Stuart Kaufman is the guy who was trained as a medical doctor
who turned out to be a very decent theoretical physicist.
So when this guy is writing something,
he's very old right now, but I'm reading.
So the work that essentially started Jira is this.
So the guy in 2008, I believe,
the guy took kind of first transcriptomic data
that was available en masse.
And he tried to reconstruct regulatory networks
from transcriptomics.
And to his surprise, he found that with experimental accuracy,
he couldn't see if those regulatory networks are stable
or not.
So it looks like almost all living creatures
operate at the boundary between stability and instability.
And when I learned about that and when
I learned about naked mole rats, at least as a guide to eye,
I started thinking that maybe those guys who are unstable,
close to the boundary, and unstable
are those who are, let's put that in quotes, normally aging.
And those guys who are stable are presumably
those guys who do not age.
So I have never presented this talk in the way I'm doing now.
So please don't look at these questions too carefully.
These are kind of metaphorical ideas.
So usually, if you want to approach these kind of things,
you can do it formally, but I like model problems.
So the first model problem that I tried to solve was this.
So I presumed that every living creature
is a very sophisticated soup of things
that are there in the right time, in the right place.
So assume that there are certain number of errors,
for example, missing or overpresent proteins,
like EE with the index P. And there
are certain genes that are working correctly or dysregulated.
So these are errors in the proteome and in genome.
So I simply asked myself a question.
So if I have an error somewhere in the protein,
probably this missing or overpresent protein
is deregulating a certain gene.
So if it's not removed, it will deregulate a bunch of genes.
At the same time, if there is any deregulated gene,
it would produce a bunch of misregulated proteins.
And if it's not removed, it will produce a bunch of proteins.
So you can, in fact, write those equations.
And they are so simple that you can actually solve them.
So you would find that depending on the parameters like this C
is the rate how errors in proteome are removed.
Delta is the rate how the errors in the genome are removed.
This beta is the rate how quickly proteins are translated.
And G is the number of genes, whatever.
So if you solve this very simple problem,
you would find that depending on the parameters of this very
simple network, this is what's called a mean field solution,
you would find that if the repair systems are working very well,
if C and delta are very large, then you are in the stable mode.
If any error appears, it's extinguished before it
manages to produce more errors.
So error amplification rate is below 1.
And if your rates, extinguishing rates of your errors
in proteome and in genome are not large enough,
then you are in the unstable mode.
So what's interesting is the number of regulatory errors
in the unstable mode is going up exponentially,
which is what is looking like aging in this system.
And if you are in the stable mode,
and the number of errors doesn't grow,
which means that you can live forever in these situations.
So probably that corresponds to non-aging individuals.
It's very simple, but it simply gives you an idea
that without inventing any superstructure,
normal biological mechanisms, just by changing parameters
of this system in a continuous way,
you can actually cross between stable and unstable regime.
And that's what evolution is probably doing all the time.
So just for fun and scientific curiosity,
let me just give you the flavor of the language
that could be used if you want to solve the actual problem.
So, well, actually we have lots of variables.
We have much more variables in living systems
that we can ever measure, which means
that we always look at subsets of variables.
Let's call them X.
It could be dynamic relation, protein level, protein levels,
transcript levels, whatever you want.
So obviously they satisfy some kind of dynamic equations.
So if one is changing, then other things
are changing at a certain rate.
And it's not unreasonable to believe
that there is some kind of a steady state, X naught,
and you can actually expand all these equations
in linear regime.
So they're there where you would have this connect
on whatever metrics that tells you how changing
one transcript or in one protein level
changes all the other.
In the language of dynamics system theory,
that's called Jacobian.
So this Jacobian is one of the most important objects
for any dynamic system.
And depending on the spectrum of this Jacobian,
you can have totally different dynamic properties.
So on the left, I wrote, I actually
plotted in a schematic way, the eigenvalues of this Jacobian.
So it's a huge matrix.
Nobody can even write this matrix.
Nobody can measure all the matrix elements of this matrix.
So we should think about it in the language
of statistical mechanics of matrices here.
So definitely somewhere on the left,
on this eigenvalue complex plane,
you have lots of eigenvalues with large real eigenvalue.
These things correspond to over-damped stress
responses, right?
So you distort the system, and it's going back to the node.
And then close to 0, as I have just shown you in a model
example, and that's what Kaufman has demonstrated a while ago,
there would be a few eigenvalues of this matrix
that are very close to 0.
They correspond to long responses or slow dynamics
of the system.
And the agent is definitely one of them.
Now, if you know the spectrum of the matrix,
if you know all the left and right
eigenvectors of this matrix, you can always
expand the solution in the right eigenvectors of this matrix,
as it is called, as it is written below.
And then you can write the effective solution for the,
so once again, these are multidimensional vectors,
lots of variables to measure, but they
are moving due to a finite number of mode variables.
So the eigenmodes, eigenvectors that are close to the 0,
close to 0, are called critical.
They're also called central manifold, whatever,
there is a lot of nasty language there.
But what's most important is that all the motions that
are quick to relax, you don't see them in the data, right?
Because you distort the system, and the system is going back.
You don't have even time to measure them.
So you always measure very few that dominate the motion.
That's, by the way, the reason why the dimensionality reduction
works in systems biology very well.
