because, well, second law of thermodynamics
is a very interesting fundamental physics question.
It's a foundation of physics question.
People are testing it all the time,
so we have now since a few years
in gravitational observatories
that are observing collisions of black holes.
With black holes, it's simple.
The entropy is area.
And what people are doing,
they are comparing the area of black holes
before the collision and after the collision.
So before the collision is black, after collision is red.
And you can see that for all collisions observed,
the entropy after the collision is larger
than the entropy below, before the collision.
I believe that we should make this same graph
for aging experiments.
Our predictions are such that the linear feature,
the entropic feature will always go up.
I mean, if we don't see it's going up,
it's just because we don't have statistical power,
but it's not going to get down.
That's important.
So that brings us to a very nasty conclusion.
We believe that well, aging in mice and humans
is kind of not very different.
You have the entropic feature
and you have the dynamic feature.
The problem is that the dynamic feature
in mice is exponential,
so that's why you only see the dynamic feature in mice.
And you test interventions against the dynamic feature.
And they work in mice.
They can even rejuvenate mice.
And we also produced a bunch of experiments.
I've shown you some results or rejuvenation works.
We do time-resolved experiments always
because this is the right way to prove
that a certain intervention acts against aging.
Unfortunately, the, oh, fortunately,
actually we are very successful ages.
We don't have exponential features, humans.
We are stable.
Which means that now we have a linear link.
We have a linear entropic feature that dominates aging,
that destroys our ability to recover,
destroys our resilience and kills us eventually
over a very long time.
So we don't have an exponential problem.
And this thing is unfortunately entropic.
Which means that over the few next years,
there will be infinite number of papers rejuvenating mice.
This will lead to development of drugs
that will help people late in life
when people are already unstable.
This is, of course, a huge,
most humanitarian achievement and lots of money will be earned.
Lots of money are going there, by the way, right now.
Lots of people are working on those drugs.
But that's not the way to extend human lifespan
by two falls, let's say.
That's a way how to extend last 10 years of life
into last 20 years of life.
I mean, that's cool, but that's not what I was thinking about
when I came to the field.
There will be another bunch of therapeutics
that will be working to reduce rate of aging.
Remember, naked more rats.
These guys managed to stop their rate of aging.
They are not destroying their regulatory potential
at the rate that we have in humans.
Which basically puts me two slides and I'm finished.
It puts me into my understanding
of the current longevity biotech situation.
So basically everyone is separated by ambitions
and by beliefs.
So on the horizontal axis, I see beliefs.
So everyone on the right believes
that aging is not reversible.
Pharma believes that aging is not reversible
and they don't care because it's not reversible.
They regress it out and do drugs against diseases.
And by the way, they extend human lifespan.
They also longevity biotech, right?
And then on the left, you have guys,
let's say, less ambitious guys
who are doing incremental things
like hallmarks of aging, things like that.
And then there are dinosaurs,
people who believe that aging is reversible
and they're channeling billions of dollars
in order to revert it in humans.
So as one gentleman from Texas said that physics is the law
and everything else is recommendation,
which means that most of these guys will become pharma
because aging is not entirely reversible.
There will be very few people, I believe standing
in a few years from now,
still thinking about radical life extension in humans
with some sort of scientific rationale.
And I believe stopping human aging is a hefty goal
that has to be achieved.
And I'll thank you for your attention.
