That means that our regulatory potentials
are becoming shallower, right?
If this is a continuous function,
most probably it means also that the height
of the protective barrier that protects us
from disintegration is also going down.
In the linear approximation,
if we are linearly shallower,
it means that we are also linearly less protected,
which if you read any textbook on physical kinetics
would tell you that if your protective barrier
is going down linearly,
your probability to get activated over this barrier
is going up exponentially.
So that's why this coupling between regulatory potentials
or dynamically stable modes in humans
with something else that is linear aging
is actually the mechanism
that generates exponential mortality
and morbidity in humans.
And just to tell you that I'm not totally wrong
with this idea, on the right, you have graph.
This is actually from variable devices.
You cannot get this kind of data anywhere else.
That's why we actually put up a Gerasen's app
that has zero user value,
but it collects data of people
that are happy to help aging research.
So we measured on the right,
we measured the fraction of people
who have long autocrelation times,
meaning that they cannot recover quickly.
And you can see that the fraction of people
in the population, in the actual population
having a long autocrelation time larger than six months
is going up exponentially with age,
with the exponent that is exactly
the mortality rate doubling time.
So actually any population of people
is actually a mixture of two populations.
There are stable people, make it more red-like people.
And there are people who cross the barrier,
activated into unstable state
and start in developing disease.
That, by the way, maybe explains why, for example,
the chances to die from COVID
are the same as to die from surgery.
They are going up exponentially in double every eight years.
Probably those people who are dynamically unstable,
they had just very less, much less chances to survive.
So that's a catastrophic event.
So now, what I have presented to you was phenomenology.
Phenomenology is the funny science
that is telling you how things go without telling why.
You may know that from history of science, for example,
that the phenomenology of superconductivity
was discovered immediately
and was given a Nobel Prize or given for that late, actually.
And then it took more than 20 years
to find out how superconductivity works mechanistically.
So there was another Nobel Prize given to a bunch of people
who actually discovered the theory,
explained the mechanism, how superconductivity works.
So what is important is that phenomenology
is a very harsh science.
I mean, once established,
it doesn't care about the mechanisms.
So it tells you there could be multiple examples in nature
where these different mechanisms
are producing the same phenomenology.
So now I'm trying to cross from how things happen
in humans from phenomenology to mechanistic explanations.
And for that, I'm going to molecular level signals.
So remember, my quest was to explain
how molecular level changes that are not exponential at all,
generate exponential morbidity and mortality,
because that's the thing that we need to find out
if we want to live much longer than we're living right now.
So here on the left, I present you an example
of a simple principle component analysis
of DNA mutilation in human samples.
So the first principle component on the top left
is linear in time, very interesting, linear in time.
So the variance of the first principle component
is also linear in time.
I mean, think quickly,
what kind of processes generate linear mean
and linear variance?
And that's a Poissonian noise, right?
This is a pretty good indication that this linear feature
is actually a contribution of infinite number
of microscopic insults, independent events
of all probability that occur independent of each other
and mounting up as a linear heap with increasing variance.
Then the next principle component is not linear,
not exponential, I can fit exponent there,
but the exponent would be one order of magnitude smaller
than it's required to explain mortality.
And what's most important, the inverse variance
of this principle component is actually going down
linearly to zero and diverges at the same 120 years old,
now in DNA mutilation.
Remember, I told you about the regulatory potential.
If your regulatory potential is becoming shallower,
your variance is going up.
So that's exactly what we see here.
So the second principle component is now
as stress response is a dynamic process
that has less and less recovery force as we age.
The weak nonlinear shape of this potential
is a good indication of nonlinear coupling.
So most probably the linear feature
is the driving force of human aging
and it mounts the stress.
I think I have a picture.
Yeah, well, I'm sorry for that complicated picture,
but I'll try to, this is really the thing.
So think about human body as many, many, many systems
that are interacting with each other.
So imagine that these systems could be in kind of healthy
and pathological state each.
It could be mutation, no mutation,
epimutation, no epimutation,
diabetic state, non-diabetic state,
innate immunity activated state,
innate immunity deactivated state.
This is a very sophisticated nonlinear system.
So imagine that I could try to classify
all these systems in our body by putting the soft systems,
the systems that can change a lot on top
and the hard systems that are not changing much on the bottom.
So what would happen is that those soft features
are changing all the time.
As we speak, for example, they are changing, right?
Because for me to generate sounds,
I have to activate lots of pathways.
All these things are just moving back and forth
all the time, right?
And then there are things that are not allowed to change.
So on the bottom of this slide,
I have things that are protecting me
from mutations that would kill me, right?
Maybe those cancerous mutations
that come together would kill me.
So what happens is that I have one trillion cells
and even those things that are not very probable
still happen, which means that those rare events
are happening all the time
and I have a linear increasing heap of those rare events.
Those rare events are mounting.
They go up linearly with age.
They increase in variance with age
because this is a Poissonian noise.
But what most important is that
since all of them are essentially benign,
but since there are too many of them,
they produce this heap of micro-insults
that are destroying the regulatory potentials
for the soft systems, right?
So by central limiting theorem,
the net effect of those independent events
is a linear stress that is linearly affecting
any regulatory potential in your body.
And that's what exactly we have seen
in blood samples and DNA mutilation everywhere.
So biological processes are stressed
by the compound effect of these rare events
that appear in microscopic numbers.
So you can actually, you can frame it
in machine learning language as usual.
So on the left, we have systems that are training
in tens of millions of electronic medical records.
So we slice electronic medical records.
We use encoders in order to produce
a bunch of observable states.
We also track biological age as a quantity
that is keeping track of non-observable entities, right?
We can never see all the damage that is in the body.
We train these systems along life histories of humans
across tens of millions of people.
The systems are generating on the left
a nice poissonian biological age.
So this is the distribution of the biological age
in these systems in subsequent time frames, right?
So each two time frames are separated by 10 years.
And they also produce probabilities of failures
in individual systems that are affected
by this biological age variable.
And these systems are clustered in unsupervised ways
into ICD-10 chapters, right?
It's called in physics, it's called in fields.
So you have a bunch of systems
that are almost unrelated to each other.
They vote.
If one such system fails, it increases biological age.
And the biological age helps other systems fail, right?
So they are talking to each other.
The effect of one failure on biological age is negligible.
But together they produce an emergent variable
that is biological age.
