So for those very few, you can generate these very few mode
functions like this ZA, and the slow dynamics of very complex
systems is actually dominated by very few of them.
So let's think about one for simplicity.
So this mode function undergoes dynamics,
stochastic dynamics, and an effective potential,
and a regulator potential, that can have actually just two
forms.
It could be stable, close to 0, or unstable, close to 0,
depending on the sign of the leading hydrogen value
of the Jacobian matrix of this system.
And believe me, this is probably the most complex slide here.
So what's most important is that by small variation
in the systems' parameters, without inventing any systems,
you can actually cross, remember by Kaufman,
you are close to stability in stability range,
which means that you can cross from stable to unstable.
And as I said, that's what evolution is apparently doing.
So for example, if this small variable belongs
to the unstable regime, then you simply exponentially
disintegrate.
That's what most probably small creatures are doing.
And if on the other side, the dynamics of the system
belongs to the stable regime, then you
can oscillate in this stable, near the stable basin
of attraction for a very long time,
unless fluctuations would throw you away
over the protective barrier.
And that would correspond to H, independent mortality
in this system.
So well, very simple approach actually gives you
the description, at least theoretically,
how the same system, the same mammal,
can be evolutionary driven from aging to non-aging regime.
What's most important is that when this hydrogen value is
very close to 0, which means that the aging is very slow,
much smaller than any molecular scales,
then the motion is dominated just by exactly one mode.
And this mode variable is approximately given
by the principal component.
So that's the reason why principal components
is very successful in generating biomarkers of aging.
So this idea of small central manifold
of these dynamic systems is very well suited
for modern machine learning.
So as I said, close to this criticality,
so this regime where this hydrogen value is
crossing between stability and instability,
it's called critical regime.
Close to criticality, there are very few important variables
that are described in long term dynamics of systems.
And that's what we can exactly study
with modern generative AI very well.
So here is the example what we've done in mice recently.
We took longitudinal medical, let's call it medical data
from mice, these were readouts from blood variables.
So we used a network in order to predict
very few latent variables, central manifold of this animal,
and then use them in order to predict
the future state of health of this animal.
And if you train the simplest model,
that trains just one critical variable,
it's shown on the right,
you see that this variable is going exponentially up with age
and the red dots here are the animals of all ages
that are scheduled to be killed in the lab.
So you can literally see that in a lab,
mice die of let's call it advanced biological age, right?
So we really discovered the variable
that controls the health of these animals
that is exponential in age.
The exponent is by the way is the same
as the mortality rate, doubling exponent
from the Gombert's law,
which kind of bridges what I've been telling you theoretically
with what I can see practically,
because in mice, you can literally measure variables
like molecular factors that are exponential
with the same exponent as the mortality rate acceleration.
Just to give you a flavor, in this model,
in the model of this kind, there is no chronological time.
So mice generate biological time
due to dynamic instability, right?
So they develop exponential amplification
of regulatory errors.
There is no chronological time.
I mean, the errors simplify errors.
That's how you get exponent.
And on the right, you can see the actual experimental data,
how the total number of senescent cell measured
in the animal by Lucifer's reporting model
is actually better correlating
to the machine learning conferred critical variable.
It's also called the parameter in physics.
Then to chronological age,
we really can get biological time
from longitudinal measurements
with a little bit of physics
and not to sophisticated network.
Now, in practical terms,
if you don't have stability, if you are unstable,
that means that if I take you out of equilibrium,
you will never get away.
You wouldn't know what is the equilibrium situation.
You will never relax back to the equilibrium,
which means on the left,
if I track this biological age,
whatever they saw the parameter in mice,
and if I apply in intervention, a short intervention,
hit and run intervention at some point in time
that reduces this biological age,
by nature of not having stability,
these mice will always be below.
I mean, they will keep aging at the same rate,
but from a lower base.
They wouldn't know how to catch up with the control
because there is no stability,
which means that in unstable systems,
you can produce rejuvenation.
And that's what exactly we see in experiments.
So on the right, these are our experiments.
You can see the biological age on the vertical axis.
You can see the horizontal axis,
that is the age of animals in weeks.
And you can see that the first two points on the left
are untreated animals.
And then we have an experimental intervention
that reduces this order parameter
that acts against aging in mice.
And you can see that for the rest of their lives,
in situation where there is no therapeutic intervention
present in these animals anymore,
the treated group is always below the control.
So this is very,
to my taste, powerful demonstration
of dynamic instability.
Dynamic instability means that there is no equilibrium,
no kind of static equilibrium,
which means that you can rejuvenate.
You wouldn't be able to do that in dynamically stable animals.
Now, I think there is a very interesting,
you know, formal mathematical,
but also experimental information of this theory,
because it turns out that in animals
that are dynamically unstable,
there is no Gompert's law.
So in fact, you can solve this non-linear
Alangevian equation to obtain analytically
the mortality in these model animals.
So on the left, this is the theoretical curve.
So you can see that the mortality is first exponential
up to the average lifespan.
And then after average lifespan, the mortality saturates.
It saturates at the same level as the Gompert's exponent.
So on the right, I have actually the analytical solution
for the survival curve in these animals,
which is remarkably can be confirmed in experiments.
We've done these experiments ourselves
just to test the theory.
So on the left, you have C elegans.
These are worms.
This is from our paper.
As you can see, these are the survival curves.
You have lots of mutants here.
The range of lifespan is huge.
This is 10 times variation in lifespan.
And on the right, you have on the vertical axis,
you have the plateau, the mortality at the plateau.
And at the horizontal axis,
you have the exponential feed of the mortality
before the plateau.
So remember the theory was promising
that these two quantities will be the same.
So the level at the plateau is the same
as the mortality Gompers exponent before the plateau.
And you can see that in experiments
that are engaging worms
with one order of magnitude difference in lifespan,
there is a pretty strong correlation
between these two things,
which is kind of a good validation
that at least worms are dying
because of a simple dynamic instability.
Not only worms have this problem.
So on the left, this is also,
I mean, we are checking this
because we want to be sure
that these models are not just metaphorically correct.
They also should be quantitatively correct.
So on the left, you can see the data
from a mouse testing program.
These are controls from mouse testing programs.
These are thousands of venomous.
Of course, to look at such small effects,
you should be looking at very large number of animals.
You can see on the left that the dashed line
is the Gompers law,
assuming that mortality accelerates up to infinity.
You can see that there is a deficit in mortality
late in life in mice.
