So the mortality is going to the plateau
instead of going exponentially.
In humans, and that's now the biggest point,
what's wrong with humans?
In humans, there is no any sign of saturation of mortality
at the average lifespan.
In humans, mortality is well exponential.
It was established in 1825, I believe, by Gompers.
Already in his times,
when people started living for a long time,
the exponent is going up to more than 100 years of age.
There is no any sign of saturation of mortality
at average lifespan.
So that tells you that human aging is something else.
And that's pretty disturbing, I would say,
because we're using mice as a preclinical model of aging.
So what's wrong with humans?
So I will try to list you first all the things
that are wrong with humans.
First, if you do principle component analysis
of all any signal you like,
it could be a signal from variable devices,
it could be DNA mutilation,
it could be transcriptomics, whatever.
You would find that if you plot every dot here
is an average for a certain age group,
you wouldn't find a straight line.
Remember that for dynamically unstable animals,
the first principle component
always gives you the biomarker of aging.
It's not at all like that in humans.
In humans, you can see different live staging.
So if you project it to one axis, like on the right,
you would find that there is definitely growth,
I don't know, 25 years.
There is, by the way, a theory by Jeffrey West,
so we checked it in humans.
There is this universal theory of growth in animals.
So they trajectory how markers like body weight
or blood markers are going up or down with age
at the time of growth.
There is an analytical equation for that.
So we checked it, but it's not ours.
So we just make sure that we understand
the left part of this curve.
Then, definitely, something is going on
after, let's say, 50 years old in humans on average.
That's important that this is on average.
But this is not exponential.
Think about it, think about your faces.
Think about faces of people you saw aging.
There are two kinds of features.
I mean, face is a great omic.
I don't know, face, omic, signal.
There are two kinds of features on your face.
So first, there are features that are only changing one way.
For example, size of your nose,
distance between your eyes, size of your ears,
they're only growing.
Then there are features that are changing all the time.
For example, the aspect ratio of your face.
If you are tired or sick, you look older.
If you sleep over, you look younger.
So there are features that are associated with aging
but reversible.
And there are features that are associated with aging
but apparently irreversible.
What's most important is that there are no exponents there.
If you fit, I mean, think about face features.
Mortality rate doubling time in humans is eight years.
Imagine what would happen to your face
if, let's say, a distance between your eyes
would go up exponentially and double every eight years.
This would never work.
I mean, our faces are much more stable than that.
So trust me that if you look at other signals
like proteomics, transcriptomics, mutilation,
you would not find any molecular level feature
that has exponential dynamics
at the exponent that is matching mortality rate doubling time.
Think about that.
It's a huge problem because in biotech,
we are acting at molecular level or at cellular level.
If we don't, I mean, we have a problem.
We have exponential mortality.
We have an exponential risk of diseases
but we don't have molecular level handles
that follow the same dynamics,
which means that we're in trouble
if we are trying to actually intercept this dynamic.
So we need to find an explanation
how exponential dynamics of risks of diseases and death
comes out from sub exponential.
Let's put it like this,
dynamics of measurable factors or actionable factors.
So I cannot show it
because there is no longitudinal data of that size
but since we do have longitudinal data,
for example, we acquired longitudinal datasets
from lab diagnostic companies.
So we were acquiring the readouts from their blood tests
for tens of thousands of people over 25 years
for the whole duration of life of that company.
So what we found, remember in mice,
I was showing you that there are factors
that are going up exponentially
with the right exponent in humans.
That is not the case.
If you measure anything, remember your weight.
I think everyone,
almost everyone has an idea about the trajectory of weight.
You should remember that when you were younger,
you had some equilibrium weight
and there were fluctuations of that weight
and if you were dieting or if you went to a gym,
you would be going down,
but once you stopped doing that,
you would go back to the norm
and once upon a while,
this equilibrium position of your weight
would be changing most of the time
or the bigger or the larger weight.
It's like an earthquake.
So it's like a reorganization in your body.
Something happens and then your equilibrium position is new.
Now, whatever you do, if you diet,
if you go to a gym,
you go down with your weight,
but you never go back to the previous equilibrium position.
So humans actually exhibit stable fluctuations
and then once in a while,
you have earthquakes
and you change your hemostatic equilibrium level,
all people at different time points.
So that's why cross-sectionally,
you have these smooth, nice curves,
but longitudinally, there is nothing like that.
You have equilibrium, quasi-equilibrium fluctuations
that are damped
and then you have this kind of catastrophic events.
So if you can do, I mean, if you have,
if you are metastable, if you have fluctuations,
what you can do is that
you can try to measure your recovery rate.
So what is the recovery rate?
So when you have a variable like your body weight,
if you overeat, you will get larger,
but if you stop eating,
you will get back to your norm and that will take time.
So you can actually measure
by observing out-of-the-care relation times
of your fluctuations of your body weight
or selective protein level, whatever you want.
You can actually measure the recovery rate.
So this is on the vertical axis on the left.
So the recovery rate that you measure
from longitudinal fluctuations
of your organism state variables,
the rate is inverse time, right?
So when the rate is going down with age,
the inverse time is going up.
So you can see that the recovery rate
is going down linearly as we age.
And it doesn't matter what you measure.
So one of these set of points
was generated from variable devices
and another was generated from blood markers.
I mean, how do I know that this recovery rate
is actually recovery rate?
This is just the out-of-the-care relation time.
So on the right, you have a result
of less human experiment.
This is the ultimate measure of your recovery time.
This is inverse hospital state.
So this is direct measure of recovery time
after a catastrophic event.
And you can see that the recovery rate measured,
let's say, legally in a hospital
like your inverse hospital state,
is also going down as we age.
And it crosses zero at about the same 120, 150 years old,
meaning that due to aging,
we are about to lose our dynamic stability
at about 120 years old due to aging.
We are born, we are born,
naked more rats, we are born dynamically stable.
There is something else that is aging in humans
that is not dynamic in stability like in mice
that destroys our ability to recover.
And once this ability is destroyed,
we start disintegrating like mice,
generating lots of, whole much of aging
contributing to diseases and all.
So the metaphoric representation
of this process is on the left.
And once again, this is not just a metaphor
because every piece of this animation
is actually tracked in the data.
So you could have seen that our recovery time
is going longer.
