That is a total damage in the system.
And that damage helps to flip other systems.
And this is a very nice description of human health.
These phenotypes can be used
for whatever molecular level association studies,
if you like.
You can study, for example,
everyone now is mad about metabolic diseases.
You can find lots of targets for metabolic diseases.
We're working with Pfizer and other companies.
So I'm actually using these models.
But once again, these models were created
for one reason only.
I didn't care about metabolic health.
I cared to produce this Poissonian noise biological age.
And we are looking for factors that are controlling the rate
of the accumulation of biological age in human systems.
Now, if biological age in humans is a result
of many independent events,
it's time to read statistical mechanics.
This is the best statistical mechanics introduction
that I have ever seen.
That's, let's say, people talk a lot about quantum mechanics,
about general relativity.
There is a kind of public discourse about that.
But I think that thermodynamics as a second law
of thermodynamics is the best probably a piece of science
that has happened over the last maybe 200 years.
Remember, people who invented thermodynamics
didn't know about atoms and molecules.
So the power, the universality of that science is so huge
that if you see features of entropy
or thermodynamics in systems, most probably you,
I mean, you have very good priors
and you have very good textbooks.
So let me show, I mean, that will be the last part
that will kind of, hopefully will be the last piece
of the puzzle.
So look, remember, we have this linear feature
Poissonian feature.
So what is that?
I try to convince you that this is a result
of multiple independent, individually rare,
but microscopically present insults.
I mean, how do I know that?
Of course, I can either think that it's true
or I can try to prove that this is true.
Unfortunately, we have what people didn't have
when they built this team engine.
We have single cell omics,
which means that I can literally track
that the entropy is going up
and the linear feature is indeed a Poissonian noise feature.
So this will have written lasting implications.
So let's switch back now to the language of thermodynamics.
So what living systems do?
So obviously living systems, what do they do?
They burn fuel, they produce heat
and that heat is used to produce work.
And in this kind of systems work is activation of pathways.
We have all these correlated dynamic systems
within our bodies that are stress responses
that are required for us to respond to whatever stresses
just to survive.
The problem is that we want our pathways
to operate like heat engine,
meaning that the pathway is activated when it is required
and then it has to go back.
And we know that if we want to make it like a steam engine,
like a reversible steam engine,
we have to wait, there is no way
to use all the heat that is produced.
Some heat will be dissipated in a useful form
that is entropy.
And these high entropy products will be either excreted
or some of them will stick.
So the high entropy products that stick are called damage.
So let's have a look at the damage in single cells.
So I'll try to be quick.
And this we have just put online because we had to prove.
So let me think about aging
and regulation of pathways has been pure epigenetics.
It's not, but for simplicity,
let's think about the epigenetics here.
So we know that in order to activate a certain pathway
to do work, what they call in thermodynamics,
you have to activate a certain pathway.
So certain ventilation sites have to change their states
and this is now yellow changes.
So that produces heat.
And by law of thermodynamics,
it means that this heat cannot be zero.
So this heat now as noise comes back into the system
and tries to activate your DNA in indiscriminate way.
So when you pump this pathway many times,
as the time goes, you will find that your DNA ventilation sites
in some unpredictable places will change their states
in unpredictable manner.
So your pathways will go back and forth
but those low probability events
in the rest of your DNA will just keep mounting up.
So we predicted a while ago
that those stress responses like regular motions
like your piston in your steam engine or pathways
that are going back and forth are the yellow states
would be highly correlated low entropy
because you have lots of control there.
You can go up and down, up and down.
You can do whatever you want.
And we predicted that there will be a bunch of features
that are showing up as you live, as you work, as you progress
and they will be accumulating linearly with age.
So we were thinking that the yellow features
would be those hyperbolic nonlinear coupled stress responses
and the red features would be entropic
and linear Poissonian noise and that was the idea.
So first, we were, I mean,
if just go to DNA ventilation in mice,
why mice?
Because we have got a simple cell ventilation
dataset from mice.
You will have the same situation as with humans.
So in mice, if you do just principle components
on DNA ventilation, you will find that there will be one feature
that is exponential.
So we believe that this is a pathway
and there will be another feature that is linear with age.
So we were hoping that this thing will be
Poissonian noise populated,
bunch of DNA mutilated sites.
So now, if our prediction is correct,
then the sites that are involved in exponential dynamics
in the pathway should have high mutual information
about each other, right?
Because they're changing together,
they are part of the pathway.
If one of them is activated, others are also activated.
Normally the pathway have all the information
about how to switch it on and off if required.
It's just a problem that mice cannot switch it off
and that's why they're exponentially unstable.
But technically, this is a low entropy state,
no matter how large is the range of the dynamic variation.
And then if we were correct, then the linear feature,
the sites that are involved in the linear feature
should be the sites that have low mutual information
about themselves.
So what I have now on the bottom of this graph
is that we took the DNA mutilation sites
and now in single cells,
we computed mutual information metrics,
one side to all the other sites.
Then it's a noisy data, we averaged it
over all the other sites.
So we've got just one number that is telling
how much this site knows about other sites,
about the change of states of other sites.
And all these sites are now average, sorry,
ordered from left to right,
from low mutual information states
to the high mutual information states.
And now the barcode, I mean, the black lines
are all the states that participate
in the exponential motion.
So you can see that even with the terrible noise
that we get from dynamic relation,
all the sites that are exponential, that are dynamic,
are the high mutual information states.
So the states that are co-regulated
and the states that are likely to belong
to the linear feature are the states
that are changing independently,
which means that they're just spending
an exponentially increasing volume
in the configurational state,
which means that this is pure entropy.
And you can actually go to experiments
and show that the dynamic features, the yellow features,
respond to caloric restriction, I'm not showing it,
respond to parabiosis, these are the results
from Vadim Gladyshev's lab.
You can see here, for example,
that the young animals have low pathway,
exponential pathway activation than the older animals,
but once you do the parabiosis,
on the left, right after the procedure,
the biological age, the exponential feature is lower.
And two months after parabiosis, it's still lower.
Remember, germination, if you are unstable,
there is no way to catch up with the control,
which means that you will be always below the control.
And that's what this thing is showing.
And as nasty as it sounds, the entropic feature,
the linear feature doesn't care about parabiosis
or caloric restriction, why?
Because you cannot revert it,
you can only slow it down if it's indeed
the entropic process.
I'm going to finish now, maybe I have a few slides,
I'll just want to put you in a general context of science now,
