you don't look at it anymore. But it like, sort of turns off that familiarity feeling.
So like you can be on psychedelics and look at a blade of grass and be just like
brought to tears by how amazing it is. I think that's like a cool and important
thing to feel and to remember. And it doesn't have to be if you're on psychedelics. I was
totally sober just like riding a motorcycle through the mountains yesterday. And
which you should only do totally sober. Yes. Yes, indeed.
And I think we're getting way off top. We are, we are. I don't know. I just, I like that about this
this sequence though. Yeah. Where it's like, or rather the idea of the semantic stop signs and
the idea of mysterious answers is actually kind of bullshit though. Why is that? I mean,
you know, the Richard Dawkins book. I haven't even gotten to what mysterious answers are, but
yeah. Well, maybe I'll save this. I want to talk about Richard Dawkins book,
Richard Dawkins book, Unweaving the Rainbow. Shout out.
So it's like fist bumping. Okay, let's, let's talk about that after we describe what this is.
Okay. Well, as per the last line that you quoted, they came up with this theory of vitalism,
which I guess theory is a bit of a stretch here. This was the eldest days of science.
Yes. That the mysterious difference between living matter and non-living matter was explained
by Elan Vital. It infused living matter and caused it to move as consciously directed.
And, you know, as, as you pointed out, the secret of life was infinitely beyond the reach of science.
All we knew was that there was this Elan Vital that did things. But he points out that that,
that really isn't an answer at all. Yeah, I like that he says calling Elan Vital an explanation,
even a fake explanation like flogistan is probably giving it too much credit.
Yeah, I like that. And this is the line that I'll never, that I always remember.
It's the secret of life was infinitely beyond the reach of science. Not just a little beyond,
mind you, but infinitely beyond. What does that even mean?
I think, I think the next line was Lord Kelvin sure got a big kick, emotional kick out of not
understanding something. And it's the, the, just the idea that I don't understand this. And therefore,
it must be infinitely beyond the capacity of all human understanding. Yeah. But like you said,
it's not even as bad as a, as a flogistan explanation. This is just like pure magic.
The cool thing about vitalism is that like, if, if you think, oh yeah, well, if the whole thing,
it just needs to be like, you know, some of a magically organically imbued or whatever,
the idea of like controlling a golem with your mind makes kind of perfect sense. You just give
it whatever Elan Vital juice. Yeah. And you can control it with your brain,
which is how we control our golem bodies, right? So why can't I just control a human shaped golem?
That sounds like the kind of thing that would have been in theory.
Wait, so when you like put your blood into the
Yeah, you could squirt your blood into it to try it. That'd be a good test. You could
fuck it. That's another way to put DNA into it. I was thinking to get more morbid. I mean,
you could like, I don't know, cut off an arm and take the skin off of it.
I'm thinking just peel the skin off and then put that over like the glove,
like the hand part of a golem. A really cool idea for like a really morbid fantasy.
Magic system. But in those limited senses, it is in theory testable.
Yeah, kind of. I mean, I wouldn't want to be the first in running these tests,
or at least the guinea pig. But yeah, right. Eliazer does say that. And this is one of the
things that I am. I have really internalized. I don't know. He probably has to repeat this
other places in the sequences for me to remember it as well. Or maybe I've just read this post a
lot, but that if I am ignorant about a phenomenon, that is a fact about my own state of mind,
not a fact about the phenomenon itself. Yeah, I said the same thing when I was actually like
reading these a lot with Phoenix this morning. And I said that exact thing. I was like, for some
reason, this phrase always sticks with me. In fact, I've used it on people when like they've
said, man, this is a really mysterious thing. And I was like, it doesn't have a mysteriousness
property. You just don't understand it. Like, that doesn't make sense. It's your brain that's like
currently not understanding the thing. The thing itself is not mysterious.
Yeah. Yeah. It has this quote, A, I find it very vulnerable as well and B is often repeated throughout
the sequences. Okay. Yeah. Cool. He also mentions that to worship a phenomenon because it seems
so wonderfully mysterious is to worship your own ignorance. Yep. It's sick burn, man.
Okay, so he says vitalism shared with fly just on the error of encapsulating the mystery as a
substance. Fire was mysterious and the flogiston theory encapsulated that mystery in a mysterious
substance called flogiston. Life was a sacred mystery and vitalism encapsulated them sacred
mystery in a mysterious substance called along the tall, neither answer helped make some outcomes
easier to explain than others. So yeah, just took the mystery and kind of made people not
notice it's a mystery anymore by saying that it's the answer. I kind of brainstormed on
a way to check if something is a semantic stop sign is like why does this work? If you can say
it in this voice magic or aliens or along the tall that it's probably like it has a higher
probability of being a semantic stop sign if it's like gravitational forces, it doesn't sound right
though like gravity. But you can't say it for that like you can't give a long winded explanation
at that voice to run with the idea. So like, oh man, why does this happen? Why do when I
whatever insert chemistry here, I was going to give out some lame example. If the answer is like
why did that happen? If someone asks why did that happen and you say chemistry, that's not really
an answer. Right, yeah. So like you're on the right track. Although it is a really funny like
snark. Yes. We used to have a joke at work where like, we'd be discussing a problem.
And then we'd be like, oh, yeah, you just got to code it. That was our go to like mysterious
answer to mysterious question. Have you tried coding it yet? That might help.
Yeah, he says the deeper failure behind all this was supposing that an answer can be mysterious.
If a phenomenon feels mysterious, that's a fact about our state of knowledge,
not about the phenomenon itself. The vitalists saw a mysterious gap in their knowledge
and postulated a mysterious stuff that plugged that gap. And that is ultimately that is the
ultimate and fully general explanation for why again and again in humans, humanities history,
people are shocked, shocked to discover that an incredibly mysterious question has a non
mysterious answer. I added that second shock there. It wasn't in the original text. Should
have been I liked it yet. Mystery is a property of questions, not answers. Good. Very good. Yeah.
And that's why he says that these these things are the mysterious answers to mysterious questions
things that we got to watch out for because they they can hijack our thinking stop it too early.
Yeah, did you read the signs of the mysterious? Yeah, should we go over the signs? Yeah, let's
there's let's see four things that are signs of mysterious answers.
If the explanation acts as a curiosity stopper rather than an anticipation controller,
by which he means a if you couldn't guess a bunch of answers. And but like some of that
you're like, Oh, but that one couldn't be true because this or if you're if you make a theory
falsifiable, you are controlling your anticipation in some way. Well, just to keep like, you know,
the the whatever politically charged train rolling that that doesn't explain, you know,
like a cab doesn't explain why cops are shooting tear gas people and not beanbags, right? So it
doesn't it doesn't it's not doesn't contraint if I if I say, Hey, what do you think will happen here?
The like the the quote answer, all cops are bad might say, Oh, they'll do something bad,
but it doesn't give you like a way to constrain your your your guesses, right? I think very
importantly, it also doesn't tell you why some bad people shoot pepper spray. Well, some bad
people who aren't cops don't shoot pepper spray at people. There's lots of bad people out there,
but most of them are not going down lines protesters shooting pepper spray at them. So
what the hell did that label help you anticipate differently? Nothing.
Disagree that people are bad. I think there's definitely some bad people out there. I think
there are people who do bad actions. I don't think from the inside anybody is actually twirling
their mustache going, Well, haha, no, pour this chemical into their water supply. No, no, no,
of course not. Nobody thinks that they are a monster. Very, very few people think that they
are a monster. But that doesn't matter to me. I don't care what people think about themselves.
I care about whether their actions are negatively impacting me and my loved ones. And that sounds
like a conversation more suited for the rest of the conversation, actually. So let's put it on.
Yeah. Second, the hypothesis has no moving parts. The model is not a specific complex mechanism,
but a blankly solid substance or force. The mysterious substance or mysterious force
may be said to be here or there to cause this or that. But the reason why the mysterious force
behaves thus is wrapped in a blank unity. Chemistry did it. Yeah. Third, those who prefer
proffer the explanation cherish their ignorance. They speak proudly of how the phenomenon defeats
ordinary science or is unlike merely mundane phenomena. Crystals did it. Yeah. Science can't
explain the vibrations of my crystals, man. Man, we were just talking about those Himalayan salt
lamps that people think purify negative energy. Yeah. I kind of want to get one just because like
they're pretty. I got one. Well, I got one as a gift, but it's pretty and it looks great.
There's a little alcove in my kitchen like wall. I keep wondering if you can lick it though. You
probably can't lick it. You can lick anything, but it doesn't taste like salt. That's going to say.
Yeah. Like they probably put some kind of like coating on it. Yeah, enamel or something. It does
not taste like salt. So I kind of just want to get a big chunk of Himalayan salt that's a salt
lick that like looks pretty as a lamp that I can occasionally also just break a piece off of and
put in my mouth. Ew. Ew. Why would you just put raw salt in your mouth? Because it's delicious.
No, it's not. It's salty. Well, that means you're not salt deficient. Oh, wait. Real quick.
Life hack. If how to know if you're salt deficient, put a little bit of salt on your
finger and lick it. And if it tastes delicious, you probably need more salt in your diet.
If you're eating ash, you're probably good. Anyway, I do eat a lot of salt. So yeah, you're
probably good. Okay. Fourth, even after the answer is given, the phenomenon is still a mystery and
possesses the same quality of wonderful inexplicability that it had at the start.
So, yeah, if you're thinking something might be a mysterious answer rather than a real answer,
run these criteria by it. So you had a bunch pick with mysterious answers?
Oh, no, the thing I was saying before was just that I was agreeing with the premise of the
sequence, which is that answers are not mysterious or questions are not mysterious. The
property of mysteriousness is the property of the fact that you don't understand something.
I think a good candidate that's not politically charged, and I make a joke about this, I think
I must have read it somewhere because it's too funny to have come from me, where this was in
the one of the, we want more discussion threads I was on or discussion channels. Someone was
talking about consciousness and etc. And I was like, oh, you're using the C word.
In philosophy, I use the C word as consciousness. And it's like, that can't be your answer.
Consciousness isn't an answer. And not because it's a mysterious phenomena, because we don't
have a good distinct explanation for it. We've got a volume of like, yeah, this is basically
kind of what we're talking about. It's kind of like what people say, maybe it's string theory. And I'm
like, don't talk to me about string theory. Yeah, I kind of feel that way about all the
fundamental physical forces. But I strongly suspect this is just because I don't know enough physics.
Maybe I don't know why gravity makes things move things with mass move towards each other
or exert forces upon each other at all times. And it just like,
the answer gravity tells me that and I guess that does drastically change what I expect to
happen in the universe. But it's still, I still want to know like, why, why do they do that? And
I feel like there is an answer and I just there is I recommend reading a brief history of time
by Stephen Hawking. I've read a number of things about gravity and some of the other fundamental
forces, but it never quite sticks. I don't think I really grok it. Maybe I'll try it again someday.
Oh, man, the word grok is such an interesting history. And I'll post it in the show notes,
if I remember, because I will not, I will talk about it for a long time.
It was invented by Heinlein and Stranger and a stranger. Yes. And then it became like the
programmers who had who were nerds and had read Heinlein when the internet happened made made
it a word again and brought it into the common lexicon because they love that word. Yeah. Well,
and it made all it was a really good word to use for programming things. I think it's a good word
in general to have because it's like, it really highlights the difference between like really
understanding something right knowing a fact and really understanding all the components of that
fact. Yeah. Being able to reverse engineer like having a model in your head that has moving parts,
I think because I forget if that was how you described it in here, but that's a really good
way to kind of visualize what it feels like to know a fact as like something I read in a textbook.
And I trust science, which you should trust, and textbooks are generally like a pretty good
source of info. But versus like, I can actually imagine every step of the process of tectonic
plates like separating and and how that causes mountains to form and see fishers and affects
the migration of animals and early humans. And yeah, there's like nothing mysterious about it
anymore. Yeah, which is good. Yeah. Oh, can we real quick rant about unweaving the rainbow, Steven?
Yes, but I'm going to plug instead of a brief history of time, we should do a
briefer history of time the most recent edition because I found it much more accessible and
actually just a better read. So if you're going to read one or the other read read the newest.
I think they're both very good. They I think they are but a briefer history has more new stuff in it
and I think it's just for me it was just more succinct. Is it actually briefer? Yeah,
there's more stuff and it's briefer. No, no, did I say more? I think that I mean it's shorter.
No, you said newer. No, they added a few updates to models that had since been like
new discoveries. Right. Okay. So it had some what is it called addendums? Not the word addendums.
It was addendums it was it was adjustments and just like
like I said as far as briefer I just if you're going at it from like a
I want to know about this. And I want it now. Yeah, and I want it now and not in three hours.
I don't know. Anyway, yes. So I've talked about unweaving the rainbow before so I'll let you
give yourselves pitch or your whatever you're going to do. No, just my response really is that
a wait who wrote unweaving the rainbow the original Richard Dawkins. Oh, the poem Keats.
Okay. Yeah, that's it. Keats. So this dude Keats writes a policy.
This dude Keats writes a poem about rainbows being. Yeah, it's like science is like
taking apart beautiful natural phenomenon like the rainbow separating into its base
components and then like making it boring. Newton destroyed the beauty of the rainbow
by reducing it to prismatic colors. Yeah. And like yeah. So like the book on weaving the rainbow
is just a rebuttal to this this guy this guy this poem specifically but that concept in general of
understanding things makes them ugly and boring and not like you know like no longer inspiring
and majestic and beautiful like Richard Dawkins takes apart a bunch of things in this book and
down to like and screams about like isn't this cool. Look if you can keep you can keep going down
more and then there's quarks and quarks are cool too and then oh my god look at this evolutionary
biology things that did you know that it's just every every time you start to understand something
then it becomes more complex and then that then you want to understand each of these new phenomena
and then they all become more complex it makes everything like more I don't know more of a
moving a model in your head with moving parts and more often than not the real explanation
well more often than not I think every time the real explanation is
more satisfying not just like intellectually but more interesting than the fake explanation
you know more about how the world works now if you know how prismatic colors work then
now you can create eyeglasses you can um I don't know you can do you can make an led you can start
like because we invented all this shit from knowing about colored wavelengths and and how that works
and I think just on a it gives us more power I think just on an aesthetic level I find things
more beautiful and I appreciate the more when I understand just how crazy complex
they are and I have more understanding like just just looking at a tree is like you know it's a
cool tree it's a pretty tree I've evolved to like trees but like thinking about the whole evolution
