Welcome to the Bayesian Conspiracy. I'm Inyash Brotsky. I'm Steven Zuber. I'm Jay Sticky.
We are here to give you another episode that's for the first time in like what two months that all
three of us have been in the same room? Maybe three. Has it been? Huh. Well, it's been a while.
Time is weird. It's nice to be back together again. Oh my god, yeah. It's so nice to be able to interact
with human beings. Yesterday I went out to a restaurant and I was able to sit down in the
restaurant. Oh, they're letting people in? And they were letting people in. They were like doing,
you know, people had to wear masks at certain points and then they spaced everybody the correct
amount. So they're good. Even the people waiting outside, they had placed chairs in the correct
a distance apart that people needed to wait for their table. But at one point this like older
man got up and just like, I was like, you're all beautiful. It's so wonderful to see human beings
again. Everybody was just this really like sweet moment because everybody was like, oh, thank you.
And they're like, yeah. Have they increased prices in the restaurants? No, seems the seems
like it's the same prices. They got to be running at a loss. Oh, you know what happened?
They did replace menus. I don't know if this is anything across the board, but
they're starting to I think replace menus that you could get your hands all over and stuff with.
They had a QR code on the table. You scan it and it pops their menu up. Huh. That should have
been a thing already. I know. That's kind of one of the things that I mean, I hate to say there's
things I like about coronavirus, but it's forcing people to like adopt optimization
things that they should have been doing already anyway, like wearing masks when you're sick.
They do that in Asia. I don't know why in the Western world it's like you could just cough
all over everybody because I've got I've got my rights, my rights to infect all of your children
in my preschool by bringing my like kid with the stomach virus. We want to breed strong kids.
So yeah, I guess. Shall we jump in then? Yeah, we're doing our sequences. Yes, we are. And the
first one is semantic stop signs. Very sneaky. It's sneaky. It's just got lots of s's in it. Oh,
oh, okay. Oh, sneaky. Yeah, I think I guess that came out of sneaky. Well, you don't know
Semantic stops up. Semantic stop signs are kind of sneaky.
Who wants to kick us out? I realize I've not said this out loud. I probably shouldn't have
practiced. So, and the child asked, where did this rat come from? I chipped it off the big
boulder at the center of the village. Where'd the boulder come from? Probably roll off the huge
mountain that towers over our village. Where'd the mountain come from? The same place as all stone.
It is the bones of emir, the primordial giant. Where did the primordial giant emir come from?
From the great abyss kingdom gap. I can't say that word breaks character for a moment.
That thing. Where did the great abyss that word come from? Never ask that question.
Funny thing about that is something very similar happened to me when I was a child.
Yes, me too. Yeah. Well, if God made everything, who made God? And I was told, don't ask that.
Yep, I was in a catechism because I was Catholic. I was the little asshole kid that was like,
well, the evolution's not true. How come we've got bones from Aeohippus, the dawn horse?
Good lord! What age were you in? I was a little nerd kid. I liked, okay, I loved dinosaurs. I
loved horses. I'm just curious what age you were. I discovered Aeohippus and all the early
horse morphs before horses started looking like horses. And I was like, it's a dinosaur horse!
And then I was really happy about the fact that it existed and would talk to everybody
that I knew. Did you know that there's this horse that existed that was the size of a pig
and it had toes in it? But couldn't the answer just be God made it? No, they didn't believe. Well,
I think that hasn't the Catholic church actually come back on its views about evolution? Now,
they're like, yeah, evolution happened, but God did it. I mean, that is one of the things. I don't
know if the Catholic church specifically has grabbed that one probably. I think they have,
because they have like a Vatican and they have people in authority who are able to say the
new official belief is that purgatory does not exist. They did that recently too. You can only
deny, you know, the existence of evolution for so long. You know how we kept saying that purgatory
exists and that like you have to pay people money in order to get your loved ones out of that?
Actually, those guys were wrong. Wait, wait, wait, purgatory isn't the thing anymore?
It hasn't been for decades. Yeah, you're talking about limbo.
Hitch talked about how they got rid of purgatory. I think there's some distinction between limbo
and purgatory, but I don't actually know what it is. Do people just go to hell for a period of time
then? I don't know. I don't think they do. Like, it's all bullshit. Well, I know, but the official
Catholic doctrine was that no one goes straight to heaven because no one's good enough to that.
You can tell if someone's made it to heaven or not when they can start appearing and doing
miracles. I don't know. I haven't been in the Catholic Church since I was little.
Like, that's what a saying goes for saying to someone who has gotten out of purgatory and into
heaven and now they have access to the Jesus power so they can, you know, grant miracles and shit.
My parents used to bribe me to go to church by buying me a box of cracker jacks and they would
have these little resin animals, you know, like the cracker jack prize. So I would like
grumpily shove myself into this horrible dress that I had to wear,
made of curtains and horrible stockings and shoes that don't bend.
Made of curtains? My grandmother made me church dresses out of some old curtains.
That's awesome. That's like a total sand of music thing.
It is, but it wasn't good. Kernelin is scratchy.
Or like the Avengers when Tony meets, or when Iron Man meets Thor and he's like,
what is this, Shakespeare in the park? And he's like, Dothma, mother no, you wear with her drapes.
So anyway, I used to eat the cracker jacks and then Neil on the floor in front of my chair at
the church and like play with the little animals on the seat of the chair while completely tuning
out whatever was going on in the church, except occasionally singing one of the songs that I liked.
So, semantic stop signs is basically says why ask, it asks why would anyone accept God as an
uncaused first cause? Because as any child will tell you, it doesn't make the paradox seem any
less paradoxical even if it's true. Right? Right. Yeah. That's the conundrum that every child stumbles
upon at some point. It's like, yeah, okay. So why does it stop there? So this was just an example
of a semantic stop sign, which he used to make it make the point valent. Valent? Is that the
right word? I think so. Okay. For us, because he's using, I believe that's Norse mythology.
And so we don't have like, in case Christians are reading it, and they have personal experience
with this, they're not reading themselves into it, personalizing it until he mentions that,
and this is also what we do with God. And then the, you know, mysterious answers that comes after
this. Yeah. But his main point is that there are semantic stop signs in the world, which is,
I guess, not at all controversial, which are just there to stop questioning and not really
serve much other purpose. Yeah. It seems like most, maybe all cultures have this sort of thing,
because we as humans just, we don't know everything. We don't know everything now.
We knew much less back then. And maybe it's just a shut up annoying kids. My parents called me
Jesse YY when I was little. And that served as my semantic stop sign to shut up. Oh,
I'm annoying people. I guess I shouldn't ask questions.
Well, and I think it's like, not just even a cultural thing. I think people do this all the
time without thinking about it. That's the broader point. Like, just a few days ago, I was talking
with somebody about, we mentioned the protests at the beginning of the episode. And I was,
someone had brought up the point, like, I wonder if like, this will lead to a big spike in corona
infections. And like, it almost certainly will. And, and then I was thinking, well, you know,
if you think conspiratorially, this might be why they're being so liberal with their use with
why the police are being so liberal with the use of tear gas and other like things that make you
cough. So they, you know, like, they could be just standing, you know, you watch videos of
people standing on the sides of roads with signs and then just like cops roll wind down and just
spray mace at the crowd. Oh, my God. Yeah. And so it's like, why would, so if you're being
conspiratorial about it, it's like, oh, it's this way, they'll cough on everybody and get,
then they'll all get sick. And the, and then so I was mentioning that to somebody that like,
oh, I think it's just a cab. And so then I got to Google an acronym, which is just short for
all cops are bad. And I'm like, that doesn't actually explain it though. Like, so in this
particular case, a cab was a semantic stop sign for over as talking with. I was perfect example.
And it, it's the, the general rule is that it's, it's, it's very common to find people who will
use whether it's, and he uses like the example of like liberal democracy, that's the answer or
whatever, but pretty similar to that. Yeah. But I mean, all the time people will just be like,
oh, well, what about this? Or social justice people? It's a systemic inequality. Yeah,
the patriarchy or whatever. But that doesn't actually get in this will tie nicely into mysterious
answers to mysterious questions, but that doesn't actually give you an explanation. And so certainly
not for a particular behavior. In the case of like, you know, cops macing people standing there.
And I don't, I think it's probably, there's probably better reasons than probably less
well thought out reasons than let's see if we can get them to spread COVID among themselves.
That's why they're macing random crowds. But like the, the general thing of you've got it,
you've got an answer that's cashed somewhere that you just, you toss out and like, yep,
that sounds like an explanation I'm done. And it doesn't actually give you any new information.
I think in those two cases, particularly the all cops are bad and the, what was it, social democracy?
Liberal democracy. Liberal democracy. It's also sort of serving as like,
those sound like somebody's sacred cow or somebody, you know, like somebody's pet theory.
Maybe it's just a kind of a combination of let's stop this line of inquiry because it makes me
uncomfortable and also say it's like, Jesus did it. I mean, Christians want to bring up Jesus as
many times as possible. And it seems like serving some kind of dual purpose there. First of all,
inserting your pet theory anytime this kind of thing comes up. And secondly, like stopping those
frustrating children who just want to understand how things work.
He does end it by saying be careful not to create a generic counter argument against things like,
oh, that's just a stop sign. And what distinguishes a semantic stop sign is a failure to consider
the obvious next question. Like why all are, why are all cops bad or why would being bad make you
do this particular action? Yeah. Yeah. And of course, you know, you can question the
the assumption behind that too, like, is this even true? But the the semantic stop sign,
in particular, is like, like it just said, it's it's the failure to consider the next obvious
question. And so well, why would liberal democracy solve that problem? Not like, why is that the
solution? You know, well, why? Why don't women's pants have pockets, the patriarchy? Well, like,
that's not why would the patriarchy not want you to have pockets, right? Well, big purse market,
I get, you know, whatever, right? So it's all big purse. Exactly. So it's this this is less.
And we chose a lot of charged examples. But it's those are the easiest ones to think of. But
I'm noticing like the urge to explain the whole history behind why women have
no pockets, because it's interesting. But it's also total sidetrack. I've got mainly because
it fucks up the silhouette. If you put bulky things in, yeah, okay. Yeah. And that would be
my guess. I mean, it's funny, because I've talked to the women who have both said, I wish I could
put my phone in my pocket. And oh, I can't wear those pants. They're they're too baggy. And I'm
like, you don't get it both ways. Like the reason I can fit my phone, the reason why it used to be
I could ride my bike to blockbuster, which is a very old sentence. And ride home with a DVD in my
pocket was because my my pants, my pants were huge. And I could put a whole DVD in my pants
pocket and still ride my bike. And the reason I could fit them is because my pants are big. Like,
like that, that you can't have, since we don't have, you know, what are they called hammer
space where I can put big things in small places hammer pants, which have hammer space.
Exactly. So in the 90s, I was totally wearing those like UFO pants, like the the rave kids are
all wearing got to make your own hammer space in today's fashion. That was the first time I had
realized how pathetic the pockets of every leg garment I owned were because those are just
pockets like that. They're just like, I think they called them parachute pants or something.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they were just covered in like, unnecessary amounts of like cording and
almost like cargo pants or utility pants for like the military or EMT's would wear, but
they were just fashionable. And I'm with a final fantasy throws belts on everything.
What are those belts holding up? More belts.
Bells really weigh you down. I mean, if you think about the fact that you do have to like put
crystals and a bunch of accessories in order to get your abilities. But anyway,
moving on to the next post. Let's see, did we say everything we wanted to say about this?
I think so. The main thing I think it was doing was setting up the next post.
I was going to say like my my go to for what's this less wrong website about what it what is
the the sequences you guys talk about. This is the one I sent to people who asked me that I
was serious. No, mysterious, mysterious answers to mysterious questions to me is the
it you know, there's there's more to the volumes of the sequences than just like the main point of
this. But I feel like this is the easiest way to get stepping stone. Yeah, I feel like it it's
my favorite stepping stone to be show people like if this is what it's talking about. And if this
kind of captivates you at all or speaks to anything that you've noticed. And you know,
if you enjoyed reading this and it got your brain engine going, you will enjoy the rest of this
stuff. Excellent. Yeah, this is this is the real meat of these three posts. So I'm assuming we're
going to spend the most time on this one. It starts out with a quote from Lord Kelvin, was it? Okay,
who obviously the guy behind the Kelvin scale for temperature and a bunch of other things.
He did thermodynamics, right? That's a bunch of stuff. Yeah, it was a polymath. Also, I don't
know if we said the title mysterious answers to mysterious questions. Yes. Yes. But it starts
out with a relatively long quote, not relatively long, with a quote from him about the Alon Vital
stuff. Because back in the day, people didn't know why, when you moved, you could move. Like,
they could see there's muscles attached to bones and stuff. But why do the muscles contract when
you want them to contract? It is nobody knows. It's a long quote. I want to just read the last
sentence. Modern biologists are coming once more to affirm acceptance of something beyond
mere gravitational chemical and physical forces. And that unknown thing is a vital principle.
I want to I want to quote a few things from from the here that he said just to like,
point out the this this line of thinking. He said, life's power, well,
life's power of directing the motions of moving particles in the demonstrated daily miracle of
our human free will, and in the growth in generation after generation of plants from a single seed,
are infinitely different from any possible result of the fortuitous concourse of atoms.
And also later, animated creatures have the power of immediately applying to certain moving
particles of matter within their bodies, forces by which the motions of these particles are directed
to produce desired mechanical effects. So like, DLDR, they got livers. What the hell is that?
Livers are weird, though, you can cut them up and then you can put a small part of someone's
liver into someone else's liver transplant, it'll grow back into a full liver.
Yeah, but no, the I mean, the really interesting thing about that quote is like,
it really points out just how fucking mysterious this thing was, he was like,
to him, yeah, like, apparently, living things can just move particles,
as long as those particles are inside their body at will. Can I tell you a hilarious thought that
I had? If you say it into the microphone, yes. Can I tell you a hilarious thought that I had?
Indeed. When I was in the shower, so of course, this makes it a shower thought,
the beginning of this sequence is, imagine looking at your hand and knowing nothing of cells,
nothing of biochemistry, nothing of DNA. And I was just thinking, imagine being really high on
weed and looking at your hand and going, whoa, and then turning it over and going, whoa. But like,
actually, yeah, I mean, it's kind of like one of the cool features of weed,
awkward, is that it does kind of create that child wonder about everything again.
And I think that psychedelics in general do that, weed is a psychedelic.
They kind of turn off your, you know, how the decor of your house just becomes invisible to you
because you don't see it anymore, because you see it every day, you know where it is,
