anymore because the wheel was still there. So there's a little more than just spatial location.
Yeah, they're lovely old, old experiments by Elizabeth Spelke, her various collaborators,
with infants in the kind of three to six month old range in which they
glue various parts of things together or detach them in ways that lead to
surprising conjunctions of things or disjunctions of things following manipulation.
So for example, they have a toy person in a toy car and they manipulate them separately.
And then they present the infant with the toy person glued in place in the toy car
so that if you pick up the person, the car comes too. And at three months old,
that doesn't surprise the infant at all, but at six months old, they're very surprised and react
in a stereotypical way. So they've developed this concept that these are two different things,
whereas before, it was just all one connected sensory mess. Yeah, that's nice, that's nice.
So you can actually see these capabilities developing in real time.
So I should say then a little more about what I think a property is because that might
sort of be relevant too. So the properties I think of as two entities in the relationship
between them. So like if you're trying to define a snowflake, it's going to have
like six fold symmetry and blah, blah, blah, and it'll be cold and it'll be white and so forth.
But all those can be expressed as two objects in a relation and two entities in a relation.
And each of those entities is in turn defined by two entities in a relation.
And so you get this hierarchy. And then if you take the specified and substitutable thing,
where that sits is in the relationship rather than in the entities. Now the entities have their
own specified relation, but that's inside them. So then what happens, for example, is if you say,
okay, I'm looking at two things out in the world. One of them has exactly the same parts,
the same component entities. But the relationship to the world differs. You would say, oh, that's
particle motion. But what happens if you have the same relations, but different entities? Oh,
well, that's what a wave is. Because you've got the same relationship, but it's made out of different
particles of water. And then what happened with language is that one day I said, oh, well,
does this work for language as well? And are we thinking entity relation entity in our language?
And the answer is in English, yes. But you don't notice it right away because we leave out most
of the system component relations. And so you have data compression that makes doing chompskin
linguistics, which I think is basically correct, very, very hard and complicated. And then other
languages like Japanese or entity entity relation. But again, you have this like reading frame that
has to be imposed externally. You know, it's external because words are, you know, both words
have multiple meanings, we can still understand it. So it's imposed externally. So it's again,
a macroscopic constraint that's sitting on this and imposes this pattern.
Yeah, another form of stipulated relational information at the high level.
Yeah. Yeah, I would say it's wired in your brain. But a, we can't talk any FMRI people into letting
us do the experiment or NSF into letting test, you could test it with, you know, like these
iFlash kinds of experiments, but you can't get NSF to pay for it. Actually, so that I wanted to
ask you guys, so for a paper like you've been doing on the pre-energy stuff, I mean, it can't be easy
to find reviewers for a paper like that, right? Never mind a publisher.
It seems to take a lot of the editors a long time to find them, that's for sure.
Okay. Yeah, well, it's, I mean, it's, yes, it's hard. It's, this is a generic problem now anyway,
finding reviewers for anything is really hard now. Oh, you find that, really?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, even, even relatively mainstream things that are not nearly
as interdisciplinary as, you know, straight up biology papers that we put out, it's brutal.
Yeah, finding people willing to review things is really tough, for sure. And yeah, I've been editing
a bunch of guests, you know, guests, I guess, editing a bunch of issues and whatever. And so,
so I see it from the other end. It's like, yeah, it's very hard.
Is that because people are so busy or because they don't want to deal with new ideas?
I think it's mostly because they're busy. I, you know, but, but we, you know, we've got,
we get, I mean, that's what happens, right? So, so a lot of people are busy and eventually,
you end up with a kind of a self selected group that either that wants to review it,
why do they want to review it, either because they're really into it, or and if they're really
into it, they may have an axe to grind. And so they may not like, you know, your view on it,
they have their own view on it, right? Or there's some other reason why, why it's, it's, it's, it's
gotten way harder. You know, it's gotten way harder. Publishers is easier. I like, we've had a couple
of a few things in places like entropy, which it's, it's nice because biosystems, entropy,
like these, these, a Royal Society, they're good with really interdisciplinary stuff that,
that would be hard for a conventional journal. Yeah. Well, society, we finally tried and they
were quite nice, but they couldn't find any reviewers, which I was surprised, but you're
saying I shouldn't be surprised. You should not.
