I have often said that in a materially constrained future, a great simplification,
we are going to have a simpler society, and with that a return to living in a more integrated
way with the natural flows of the land. With me today is Oregon State Professor Andrew Millison,
who is an expert and an educator in the field of permaculture. Permaculture is a design system
which focuses on doing just that, working with the land instead of against it.
Andrew founded the Permaculture Design Education Program at Oregon State University,
where he is the education director and senior instructor with over 25 years of experience.
Andrew also has a very popular YouTube channel, travels the world documenting
epic permaculture projects in places such as India, Egypt, Mexico, Cuba, and throughout the
United States, which he shares on his YouTube channel. In a world that often feels out of our
control, permaculture design offers a way where we can work with the land and see improvements
right before our eyes in food, water, social capital. This podcast is mostly so far talking
about the constraints that are leading us in the destination of a great simplification,
but increasingly I want to have guests on, like Andrew, to talk about responses,
especially things you can start doing right now in your own community wherever you live.
Please welcome Andrew Millison. This was a great conversation.
Hey, Andrew. Hello, Nate.
Great to see you. Good to see you as well. The last time we spoke a couple of months ago,
you were about to head to another trip to India. How was it?
It was unbelievable, I've got to say. It's hard to give a short synapsis, you know,
a few words without just being like, incredible, mind-blowing, crazy, but it was really,
I'll just say, I felt my brain shift at some point, and I don't know exactly how,
but I felt like things change inside my head, taking in the amount of incredible information
that I was witness to. So I'm really excited to share the trip with everybody. It's going to be
14 episodes. Wow. So I want to get into that a little bit with you. I've never been to India,
but you and I talked about a mutual friend, Vandana Shiva, who is inviting me to go there and make
a movie on yoga of the earth, which is not yoga, the postures, but yoga is in the daily practices
of being in community, working with the soil, regenerating the land, and the holistic
experience. And I've never been to India. It boggles my mind that there's five times the
population in India as the United States, and in many ways, their practices are ahead of where
we are and where we need to be heading in the future. I assume that's why you're going back
there so often. Yeah. I'm going and I'm focusing on these very progressive visionary projects,
and India has problems that are multiplied from what we have as well. So it's a mixed bag,
but it is, I believe, this year becoming the most populous country on the planet.
And so my feeling is there's two things. One thing is, if this revolution, the ecological
watershed revolution is going to happen somewhere, it looks to me like it's going to be India. And
if it doesn't happen in India, then it's going to be great tragedy because of the population,
water, climate pressures that they face there. But I see a lot of tipping points being reached
there that we can speak more about. Yeah. I'm really interested in that. You are the first
guest of Seventy that I've had on the show who's a permaculture expert. So let's just take a real
brief background. Can you briefly describe what is permaculture? How did it come to be
real briefly and how did you get involved in it back in the day?
Yeah. So permaculture is a design system. Many people think permaculture is a gardening technique
or a set of techniques, but it's really not a set of techniques. It's really a way of seeing. It's a
particular lens and it's a particular design protocol. It's a series of steps that you follow
in order to originally design landscapes, properties, watersheds, farms, villages, homes,
suburbs, urban areas. And then as it evolved, it has expanded into social realms.
Some people think that permacultures can be used to design everything. I tend to keep it still as
mostly a land design and stewardship system. And it was developed in the late 70s, early 80s
in Australia by this guy, Bill Mollison, and he was a professor and he did all sorts of things.
He was a trapper and a logger and a jack of all trades. And he had a student, David Holmgren,
and so actually the entire design system, as he explained in his autobiography, it came to him
in a flash. It was like a revelation that he had. Like he saw the whole thing all at once and saw how
he had to spread this system around the world. And so, you know, when we look at traditional
people, we look at people that are living in place without import of resources,
living within their means, and we look at the different patterns and systems that people
have used to support themselves, water, food, energy, medicine, housing, materials, all these
different things. Permaculture is the system in which we would design sustainable human settlements
that take care of all the different needs that people have. And so, at this point,
we're far enough in where it's a very established system. People have been testing and improving
and figuring out this protocol. And it's a pretty advanced design science at this stage in the game.
So, is it designed with a goal of being more sustainable or permanent permaculture?
Why would someone choose that and why was it designed?
Yeah. So, one thing that Mollison recognized was the destructive nature of conventional
agriculture for starters. And the impermanence of conventional agriculture, logging, destruction
of watersheds, destruction of water cycle, erosion of soils, extinction of species, how
human sustenance, our sustenance was on a large scale degrading the landscapes. And he said,
this is very impermanent. We need a system that actually has a permanence to it. We need a system
that supports our needs, that also improves ecosystems, improves water tables, improves
soils, increases biodiversity, increases resources as part of the design of the system.
So, is permaculture synonymous with regenerative agriculture?
Well, not really, because regenerative agriculture is the agriculture aspect. So, permaculture began
as permanent agriculture, but it really evolved into permanent culture. So, regenerative agriculture,
you don't look at the architectural planning of a village, a city, a town. You don't necessarily
look at road orientation, transportation, energy systems. It's really farming where permaculture
is the whole system. And the agriculture portion is just one aspect of it.
So, you have a very popular YouTube channel devoted to permaculture practices, especially water.
Is there a growing subculture in the USA aware of the importance of land and systems and permanent
agriculture and related skills to our future? Or is it still a pretty fringe thing?
It's definitely growing. And if it is still a fringe thing, then I would say that those fringe
people are finding themselves in positions of influence. I mean, partly because I do
have a lot of visibility out there. I mean, I am contacted by different people in different fields
almost daily, whether it's people that are in universities, people that are working for municipal
governments, like venture capitalist billionaires who have some project that they want design help on,
like the span of people who are interested in this, at least from who are contacting me,
is like, it's really broad. And I don't want to confuse my own success with the success of
permaculture. I don't know if it's just that my profile's risen, so people are contacting me or
those people were always around. But at least from where I sit, I am seeing a lot of people,
a great deal of interest, and it's not just the fringe.
The same with my work, Andrew. It seems to me that we're approaching a biophysical
phase shift where the cultural stories are about money and technology and efficiency.
But Ukraine, Russia, last week, the Silicon Valley Bank, these are like warning shots across the
bow that our system is complex and maybe fragile and unsustainable. And I think there is this natural
deep human connection to the land and the biogeochemical or physiological processes of the sun
and the rain and the soil. And it just feels kind of like home to us. What do you think about that?
Absolutely. I mean, there is what I would hope would be the natural evolution of our species
towards a higher thinking organism that actually can live harmoniously with the planet.
I would hope that we're getting there. But there's also just the fact that anybody
can access this information, that they just have to have a thought about it and get on the
internet and start typing out some words and they will be brought down this rabbit hole
that will give them this huge body of information and this whole paradigm, really.
So I think there's a lot of different things going on simultaneously.
Yeah. So your work and others are kind of acting as an overton window to stretch the minds and
skills of the scout team of humans that do want to approach that larger, longer-term human,
sustainable cultural evolution. I think that's awesome. So you're known as a water expert,
but how did you're starting your education in your practice of permaculture? I think I read
that you started in the hot, dry, arid climate of Arizona. How did that affect the way that you
approached and understood permaculture? Yeah. So I studied permaculture when I went to Prescott
College back in the mid-90s. Prescott College at the time was probably the only college or
university in the United States that had a permaculture class. The class was held in Southern
Arizona. I took my permaculture design course in 1996 with Barbara Rose and Brad Lancaster,
and then I took an advanced course with Tim Murphy down in the Chiricawas back in 97.
In an arid climate, when you learn permaculture, it's all about water. I mean, the patterns of
water flow are very, very stark. The landscape is very clear. The atmosphere is clear. You can see
the mountains. You can see the watershed. You can see the patterns. And when you practice water
harvesting and permaculture in a dry climate, the ecosystem, the landscape is so responsive. I mean,
in an arid climate, things are so responsive to just a little bit of extra water. So it's really
easy to see the effects of permaculture in that kind of landscape because it's like the color
green on the color brown. And you can watch the green part grow, basically.
So at various timescales, Liebig's law of the minimum could be finance and trust right now,
and in the next decade could be oil, a cheap oil. But in the next century, where humans live,
it may be water in many places. I mean, water in the long run is way more important than oil, yes?
Yeah. Well, I mean, it depends where you are, for sure. There's a lot of places where we're already
there. I mean, it's interesting when you look at places like, oh, the Gulf states, and you find
out like, oh, wow, there's a whole desalinization grid linking the Gulf states, this water grid
to supply water to places where there just is not that water. And, you know, of course,
the desalinization is very much dependent on fossil fuels. It's high energy intensive. I mean,
you look at places like India, it's like monsoonal rainfall. I mean, the whole civilization there
is dependent on this particular rainfall pattern. And there's lots of places where we can see,
you know, the roots of many conflicts between nations, we can see that they start with water.
So, I mean, I think, like, I don't think it's in the future, I think it's just in the background.
So, with climate, and this is going to be a 75 to 90 minute podcast, it could be five hours,
because I have so many questions for you. But with climate, there's going to be a higher standard
deviation of rainfall. As evidenced by this week, there's huge floods in Monterey, California, etc.
Does permaculture deal with only arid, dry? Like, how do we get more watered? Is it also
deal with too much water issues and how to deal with that? Yeah, I mean, permaculture deals with
the whole range, basically. Permaculture is a design system. It's a lens. It's like a pair
of glasses that you could put on. And you can basically put those glasses on, and you can apply
this permaculture perspective to any situation, any climate zone. And so, like, the permaculture
designer's manual is divided into, there's the arid chapter, the tropics chapter, and the temperate
chapter. I mean, that's kind of a simplification, oversimplification, you might say, of the wide
variety of climate zones in the world. But yeah, but definitely it's not just dry areas.
So, it's a design lens. Is permaculture then a one-size-fits-all concept, or is there something
that needs to be heavily adapted based on the specific land and environment you're working in?
Yeah, I mean, permaculture is a site-specific design system. Meaning that this lens is a way
that you would look, you know, analyze each individual site and come up with a unique design.
So, it's kind of like, it's, there's art. There's artistry to it, right? Where, I mean, Bill
Mollison said, every permaculture is different, you know, and it becomes a unique expression of
the landscape and the collaboration between the people on that landscape and the natural forces.
So, there's like a Bible or a set of design principles globally, but then there's going
to be little specific guidebooks that have to be developed locally based on the conditions of that
watershed or area of the planet, yes? Yeah, there's a lot of, I mean, there's the permaculture
designer's manual and there's a lot of other kind of well-known books, but then there's some really
great, very specific books like the Tropical Permaculture Guide, for instance, that was written
by a guy in one of those islands right by Indonesia. I'm blanking on it. So, you know,
and then there's specific, a lot of people have written, you know, articles and looking at
particular tree varieties in Colorado and, you know, everywhere you go in the world,
you have a different palette of plants, you have a different dynamics, even though you might be in
arid climate, things are tweaked a little bit more, so, you know, differently from each other.
So, you know, when someone basically, when someone goes and creates a permaculture system in a
particular area, then they become the researcher in that area. They're testing out plants, they're
testing out different systems and they're coming up with the pattern language of appropriate systems
for that place. And is there a network that people can learn and share and collaborate
globally or regionally on these individual designers that you just described?
Yeah, I would say that there are just, there are many networks. The permaculture system was set up
not as a top-down organization, but more of a mycelial network. So, there are independent
institutes spread all over the world and those institutes are usually, you know, the place where
both social communication and as well as techniques, skills, workshops, resources
are concentrated. And there are different levels of functionality depending on where you are.
Is that something that could really be improved to help knowledge spread and get this, you know,
one to two orders of magnitude bigger if there were more resources and strategy and how to share
information around the world? Yeah, I mean, there's certainly a lot of people who have focused on that
and there's different, there's like the Permaculture Global, which is a website put together by the
Permaculture Research Institute, you know, and then, I mean, my, I have my own networks of my
alumni and such and, you know, there's various different organizations around the world, but
the point of not having as a top-down organization in its outset, you know, why Bill Molison
basically designed it as a mycelial network, part of that was so it could never get taken down.
It could never be destroyed by one particular hub. So there is no one centralized,
encompassing network by design, because if there was only one centralized, encompassing,
encompassing network, then there, there is one potential point of failure.
Wow. So it's one of the original pillars of decentralization, if you, if you will.
Yeah, it's been decentralized from the very get-go by design.
And some people say it's actually the largest aid and relief organization on the planet. If you
actually took all the decentralized people that are working for disaster relief, refugee relief,
you know, helping people in need around the world, that it would, it would surpass the
surpass the largest any organization that existed out there.
Wow. Yeah.
Wow. So you just got back from India. You said you're making 14 videos for your channel.
Those are videos of, of Indian people working on water and permaculture related issues that
you're going to share with US viewership. Yeah. Well, interestingly, the first series that I did,
India's Water Revolution, which I published in 2020, which is seven episodes,
I thought I was making it for the US population. But once I put it out there,
it actually had as much or more viewership from India itself than from the US. So this time,
I'm not sure that I'm making this for the US population. I'm making it more for the world
population. And the main person that I'm working with doing the editing, I edited the first one
completely myself, but is a guy by the name of Ashok Meena, who is Indian. And he's in Jaipur.
And he was actually filming with me on about half of the trip. So I'm really happy actually that
it's going to be edited in India, because it's going to have a much more cultural sensitivity
and nuanced understanding in the production. So I'm not sure that it's for the Americans,
actually. That's awesome, Andrew. Seriously, I mean, this is a species level moment.
