And I think we get so insulated looking at the bizarro situation in the United States on so many
levels. We forget we're only 4.5% of the world population, and there's lots of other countries
that are adapting and responding to world challenges. So good on you for doing the global
story. So some of those videos, could they be applicable to US watersheds, or is the situation
in India really quite different? Well, you know, on a physical level, it's all very applicable.
I mean, the watershed perspective can be applied to anywhere in the world, because it's how the
landscape is divided. And it's the basic management unit with which we need to heal the planet with.
I mean, that's how we restore the water cycle. That's how we restore the forest. That's how we
restore agriculture. Everything is on the watershed level. But it really became clear to me this time
around the advantages that India has and the disadvantages that the United States has in
just very basic, base level legal and infrastructure level structures that it makes it really challenging
to do some of the things here. Could you give an example, like you mentioned legal? What do you mean?
Well, so basically, the average Indian village that I visited, so I'll give you an example.
I went to one of the most wonderful villages I've ever visited in Maharashtra,
a village called Pemgiri. Pemgiri, we were actually, my wife and I were the first foreigners
to ever enter Pemgiri. We were told and they greeted us absolutely splendidly with dancing and
parades and it was a wonderful experience. And in Pemgiri, they have a banyan tree.
It is a huge, huge banyan tree. It covers an acre and a half and they say that they believe
that it is the second largest banyan tree in India. So I'm like, wow, I'm like, how old is this village?
They're like, well, we don't really know how old this village is. The closest thing we could
tell you is that there were texts that 500 years ago mentioned this banyan tree. They're like,
this banyan tree was big enough 500 years ago to be mentioned in some sort of scriptural text.
They're like, beyond that, we have no idea how old this village is. Now, because these villages
are so old, they are working on the old patterns. And the old pattern, which is the pattern that
I am promoting, is that land management is based on the watershed. So these villages, the boundaries
of their villages are the ridges, mountaintops, hills that divide drainage basins, one from the
next. And so when you go and you look at all these villages in, say, rural Maharashtra where I was,
but it's pretty much everywhere that I've gone, their commons, their land units that the community
is deciding what's happening within their area is a watershed. So when the community decides to
fix their watershed, to fix their land, they are fixing their hydrologic unit. And so the results
are complete. In juxtaposition with the United States, where we have an arbitrary grid of property
ownership that's just been superimposed on a non-gridded landscape. So the land management
units are very typically arbitrary compared to water flow. So that's like, when you talk about
legal, that's the legal property boundaries is like a huge advantage that you have when you have
an encompass, when your boundaries encompass a watershed. Yeah. So our cities and villages
and counties, etc., were made for political expediency or other reasons, but you're advocating for
some sort of a watershed democracy or something like that, where from an ecological standpoint,
the most important thing to our forests and our soil and our sustainability is the water.
So we should be making decisions based on the watershed that we reside in, yes?
Absolutely. And I don't know, it sounds like maybe you watched my video called America's Big Mistake.
I didn't watch the video, but you and I have talked about that before. And the former governor of
your state, John Kitzover, is a friend of mine and he's talked about, we need to redistrict our
cities based on watershed. So talk more about that. What is watershed democracy and geomorphology?
Yeah. So I mean, it's not just our cities, it's our cities, our counties and our states. So watershed
democracy was a concept put forth by John Wesley Powell, the early American explorer,
Lake Powell, is named after him. And he actually suggested that we divide up states boundaries
in the air and west based on watershed boundaries, the ridges, the waterways, the hills. So a state
would be a watershed basin. And then the counties within that state would be smaller micro basins.
So your political administration corresponded with drainage basins, with watershed administration.
And so that's, you said, that's basically watershed democracy. And then you asked about
geomorphology. That's my favorite word. I always tell my students this, is geomorphic. I'm like,
if there's just one thing I want you to learn in this class, if you'd like never come back and
you're just here like the first two days of class, geomorphic, conforming to the shape of the land.
This is, in my opinion, the fundamental flaw of our civilization is that our political boundaries
and our land management units, property boundaries, are not conforming to the shape of the land.
Because if we, if they did, then decisions we made would have an integrated holistic
landscape scale impact instead of a fragmented or fractured impact. And that's where when you go
to India and you see actual political boundaries based on water, bet shed boundaries, and then you
see people who have gotten together and fixed their watershed and have very rapid positive
results. It's like, it makes me pine for that system when you actually see it functional. Yeah.
So are the areas in India based on geomorphology and watershed, like the political
boundaries of communities and such? Well, the village boundaries, yes. I mean, for what I see,
and I've seen a lot of them. And this has been this way for a long time, presumably.
Because it is the natural, logical way to divide landscape. This is how humans have
divided landscape for millennia. Was there something like that that existed
in when Native Americans were the only ones on this continent?
I'm sure that that was the case in, you know, I mean, you could look at Native American land
divisions, watershed, language, eco zone, you know, there's a lot of like, there's a lot of
different things that you can look at, you know, one difference in India is that agriculture,
settled agriculture existed for a very long time. And so these village locations, because of the
way the climate is and all that stuff, are not nomadic, right? You had nomadic peoples there,
but these locations I'm talking about are not nomadic. And so it's a little bit different
than prehistoric. I mean, I don't like that word prehistoric, you know, because that's,
it's kind of like assuming that like history started when white people started, you know,
keeping track of it, right? But, you know, on this continent, there are certainly places where
there's long term established villages, you know, I spent a lot of time on like the Hopi,
Hopi land and the Rio Grande River Valley, for instance. But there's also like a lot of nomadic
people moving around. And so it's a little bit different when you're a settled agricultural
society versus nomadic society and the like established, like, like in India, there's been
people on the land doing agriculture for so long that like all the space is filled in,
right? There's not a lot of wild areas at this point. I mean, in the mountains, like really high
up where things are so wet or very steep, but pretty much all of the land that can be settled
has been settled with old established villages for a very, very long time. And so
it was long enough for like the land boundaries and land divisions to become very clear,
you know, for a long time. Yeah. So two questions there. Presumably,
soil health and soil regeneration and along with it, replenishing the water table
are primary objectives there. If everything is full, there's nowhere else to go. So you have
to take care of your place, number one. And number two, when there's a young child growing up in
these places, is it natural generation after generation for that young Indian human to learn
about permaculture and I mean, it may not be called permaculture, but how to take care of the soil
and how to do the right practices to have proper water table management, etc. Whereas a young
American child doesn't learn those things. Yeah. I mean, it's really easy for Indian child to get
the watershed concept because it is their village boundaries. So there's no, there's not a big
leap there. There's not a big learning curve that has to take place, right? And I mean, that's a
that's a real advantage in making the shift, you know, because that already exists. And I want to
say another thing that is a huge advantage there is the continuity of management, the unbroken
continuity. So I told you, these villages, they don't even know how old these villages are. These
villages, thousands of years old, the people that are living in those villages, their ancestors
are the people that have been living there. Like they have no question that that is their place,
that their ancestors have been there for a long, long time, and that their descendants will be there
for a long, long time. There's no question about the continuity of landscape management. So when
they make a change there, it's a permanent change, right? We're here. Well, first off, you know, back
to Native tribes for a minute, like I feel like I didn't give a good answer because I don't totally
know how Native American people had landscape divisions, in part, because there, there was a
great fracturing, you know, like the sacred hoop was broken, right? Many, there was like a genocide,
basically. And right now, the Native tribes that still exist are, you know, they had this
deep disruption in their history not too long ago, right? So that's probably one reason why
I don't know. Yeah, the knowledge might have been lost. I mean, there's, there's lots of places where
the knowledge is still there, you know, and I've been to a lot of those places and talked to a lot
of people. But I'm just saying, in juxtaposition in India, you have these villages. I mean, yes,
there's been wars, there's been conquering, there was the British colonialism, right? But
it wasn't like a continent, continental wide disruption,
genocide, you know, of like everybody there. There's a, there's a real continuity in many areas.
No, when you say many areas, like the majority of the land in India, like over 50% is kind of
managed and looked at this way or pockets. Well, I would say, I would say more than that. I guess
when I'm saying many areas, I'm in my mind, I am separating rural and urban areas. Because the
urban areas have a lot, a lot of people and they've grown very extensively. And in many of the urban
areas, the old systems have been paved over and polluted. And one of the projects I looked at
was actually in Coimbatore. It was a wonderful group that was taking, that was in the city of
Coimbatore. I think Coimbatore is maybe a couple million people. I have to look real quick. It's
not like a mega city. It's a fairly big city compared to America, you know, American cities.
But they were identifying the old water system that was put in 1000 years ago by the Chola Dynasty,
right? So the Chola Dynasty, they created this series of check dams and diversions and lakes
and created a really, really large-scale water management system that only in fairly recent
times went into disrepair, neglect with the industrialization of Coimbatore. So this group
I was with, the KKPA, that I'm going to put a video about that was just absolutely wonderful
group of people, they basically were remapping, re-establishing the old canals, cleaning out
these old lakes. And when I say lakes, I mean, like lakes like 200, 300 acre lakes, right? This
is in Tamil Nadu, South India. So they get a lot of rain when they get rain. And in restoring,
in locating, it's like archaeology figuring out and re-establishing this old system within this
city, they are recharging the water table on a very grand scale and re-establishing water sources
for farmers in the area. So even in the cities, we see this restoration and we see this watershed
scale management that's been taking place. But I would say to answer your question, I would say,
and like, you know, I've traveled, I've spent six months of my life traveling in India. So
I've only been to, you know, it's a huge country. So I've been to a lot of places
and I haven't been to a lot of places at the same time, right? But I would say that when you look
at the rural landscape, which is really the vast footprint of the country, the rural landscape
is segmented by watersheds. So I would say it's pretty like you could say, you know,
I would have to get actual data to give you some sort of percentage. But you know, you could safely
say that like the overwhelming majority of the country is managed by villages at the watershed
scale. Not to give you too much information, but with my right hand, I'm petting my 13-year-old
black lab and every time I stop, because I want to write down a question to ask you,
she like nudges me and I can't reach my pen. So I'm just going to go off
free flow asking you questions because my dog is attacking me. So let me ask you this, Andrew. I
don't know how much you know about my work, but I generally forecast what I refer to as a great
simplification where the energy subsidy that has supported our lifestyles and the financial
claims above it are going to de-complexify just by physics in the coming decade and we're going to
have a more local and regional economy with less energy and throughput. And based on what you're
saying, India relative to the United States is a poor country, material speaking, but they may be
way ahead of us and we can learn way more from their practices than they can learn for us on
what's ahead in coming decades. What are your thoughts on that? Yeah, I would say again,
it's hard to compare because there's so many people there that they actually are
they're people rich. I mean, as far as labor goes, most of these really large-scale
watershed restoration projects and everything I'm looking at are done by hand. I mean, you see
things that are done by hand there that are just not done by hand here and we just, we don't have
the demographics in this population to be able to do what they've done people-wise, you know,
in the kind of low energy system. But the advanced situation there in their capacity for community
effort, their capacity for community-wide cooperation, I mean, I feel like that's the
thing that can really teach the world. Because like you look, you're like, wow, yeah, you had
like 3,000 people show up to dig these structures. Like you have to have a pretty harmonious
social system to be able to pull off some of the kind of things that I'm looking at. So that's
another thing. I guess I get pessimistic about the United States because I come back here and
I'm not saying India is not socially fractured. I mean, there's like, I'm not even going to get into
it. I mean, people, anybody that follows, you know, knows about the deep divides and rifts in Indian
society. But it's not that far back that Mahatma Gandhi was walking the earth and did the salt
march and they had the charka and everybody started spitting their own thread. Like it's not
that far back that they had really massive, massive communal cooperation to put off the
British colonization. So, you know, they're only a couple generations back from like a nationwide,
you know, communal effort. So they have that memory. Yeah. There's a cultural memory of that,
yes? Cultural memory, exactly. Where like, in the US, I mean, you know, we don't have a cultural
memory. We start talking about the civil war. Right now, people are, when you look at the
political discourse, there's a lot of discourse about, you know, like a lot of people are upset
that the civil war, you know, turned out the way it did, right? And so like a lot of the fracturing
in our society, you know, like we have that, that's pretty recent in our cultural memory as well,
that we were actually literally at war with each other. So, yeah, it's tricky.
So, let me ask you a really hard question. Jason Bradford is a mutual friend. He and I teased
around this. Vandana Shiva is a mutual friend. She and I talked about this. My core thesis is that
energy surplus has enabled this moonshot of consumption and population in the world the
last couple hundred years, because there's a 10 to 14 to 1 energy input for the whole
growing and processing and packaging and delivering and storing our food. And it used to be
back in the day, our energy systems were a food, a calorie source and not a sink.
So, as fossil fuels decline, a lot of people think that the natural gas fertilizer and pesticides
and herbicides and the energy for tractors and all that is going to mean less food for the world.
But Jason and Vandana have suggested that, yes, while that may be true, if we substitute human
labor, which you just mentioned, there's a lot of in India, for some of these fossil inputs and we
instead look at resiliency instead of efficiency, and we maximize the nutrition per acre instead of
the dollar profits per acre, that the sustainable human population may be a lot higher than people
think with a big asterisk. Human population doesn't just eat food. We also do other things like watch
TV and fly and whatever. But what are your thoughts on that from a water and soil and permaculture
perspective of substituting fossil mechanized fertilizer agriculture for permaculture practices
with more human labor? What are your thoughts on all that?
Yeah. Well, first off, I'd like to say I don't actually know Vandana. She I've met her a couple
times, but I wouldn't necessarily, she's like a mutual friend. I think if you told me, if you
mentioned my name to her, I don't think she'd know who I was. Okay, fair enough. But I know of
her, I'm actually going to be interviewing her. Great. But that's another story. So maybe she
will become a friend, hopefully. She's a global treasure, I think. Yeah, I have a lot of respect
for her and I've watched a lot of her stuff and heard her speak a couple times. So I saw first
hand the proof that well done organic agriculture can be more productive than chemical agriculture.
And I saw this in India because right now the Pani Foundation, who I did a couple of videos
before they had the water cup founded by Bollywood star Amir Khan, who's like, you know,
