he's very, very famous Bollywood star. And the Pani Foundation had a competition where about
8,000 villages worked on their water problems through watershed restoration. And at least
1000 of those villages fixed their water problems. Okay, like permanently fixed the hydrology of
their watershed. So now they have abundant water. So then the Pani Foundation, they had the next
iteration of this competition, which is they call it the Farmer's Cup. And the Farmer's Cup,
which I was just there for the last four days of the competition, I visited four villages that
were participating, farmer's groups in those villages were participating the Farmer's Cup.
And they had the opportunity to talk to over zoom and it happened a lot during the pandemic to
educate themselves and talk directly to some of the top experts from universities,
natural farming experts in India and in the world, one on one group to group educating
these villagers. And so many of these groups they had, I don't know how many groups they had
competing, they had, I need to find out many hundreds, maybe thousands of these groups competing.
And they were using the, what we would call best practices of organic agriculture there,
they call them SOPs or standard operating procedures or practices. And so they use these SOPs
to the letter from what these experts in organic agriculture, university people were telling them
and widely these farmer groups, widely across these farmer groups who moved from chemical
agriculture to organic based agriculture, biopesticides, the neem tree, all these different plants that
they have are pesticides, caldung, fertilizer, fertilization, using good soil conservation
practices, cover cropping practices, appropriate irrigation, how much water do you apply? When
do you put on irrigation? When do you do a bug treatment? When do you thin the plants? When
do you thin the fruits? And across the board, they slayed chemical agriculture in their productivity
levels. And I did not expect this subplot of investigating these farmer's groups, the subplot
was like, oh my god, well done organic agriculture beats out chemical agriculture like many fold
in these cases and they don't have chemical residues, they have higher prices for their goods,
the people are healthy, the water is healthier, the soil is healthy, all this stuff.
So it was very convincing and I'm going to be sharing that in my video documentation,
some of these stories. But a lot more human labor required, like the hours of human labor per
x amount of agriculture would be 2x, 5x, I mean a lot more than we use in the United States, yes?
Yeah, but all of these groups actually ended up having decreased labor costs
because they were extremely efficient, they were heading off problems before they arose,
and they also formed cooperatives between farmers and that was another one of the purpose. So
every one of them had, well, not just farmers cooperatives, even when I went and I, when I
went with the Isha Foundation, which is Sadguru's Foundation, I went all over and looked at their
agroforestry project in the Cauvery River Basin, the Cauvery Calling Project, where they've produced
84 million trees that have been planted in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the southern Indian states.
And even single farmers there who were using organic methods and interplanting
agroforestry trees saw a reduction in labor when they stopped using chemicals and started
using integrated organic practices. So I actually think that that runs contrary to what we are told
in western agriculture. For sure. So of the things you learned in India and what you were just
mentioning with this competition, what practices, two-part question, what practices that you
discovered and observed might be transferable right now to places in the United States and what,
in the intermediate term, what sort of things could make our agriculture more sustainable,
more resilient, healthier. And by the way, the thing you didn't mention that was implied is
it probably improved social capital a lot because people are working together and they're talking
to each other and getting their hands in the soil instead of on their iPhones, et cetera.
Yeah, that was huge. And you'll see a lot of that in the videos. The social capital that
has been built is very evident in the celebratory nature of the whole thing.
So one thing that was very ubiquitous, I'm going to tell you like general themes because there's
lots of specifics, but general themes, bio fertilizers from cow dung and cow urine was like
exceptionally potent fertilizer. And this is something where, I mean, we have a big problem
with factory farms polluting, like nitrate pollution from excess cattle manure and feed
lots and all this stuff. We could really be connecting the dots between animal manures
and the need of fertility needs. The answer there would be decentralized cow ownership.
Well, then you wouldn't be shipping stuff everywhere. So partly there is there's cows,
people, there's there's small scale animal husbandry that is mixed in all over the rural
landscape. So nobody is far from a manure source, basically. So that's one advantage there.
What's fed to the animals is probably better for the manure than all those giant factory farms.
Yeah. And people are doing basically they're growing crops. Funny, they grow corn there.
They grow corn for animal feed. You barely see corn like in a dish, you know, kind of thing,
but they're growing animal feed and then they have animals foraging, you know, so they don't like,
like nobody has a weed whacker. Like there's no mowing. There's no weed whacking, right? There's
like the animals are managing the landscape in that sense, you know. The other thing was just
incorporation of trees and perennial plants on property boundaries on margins like his hedgerows,
right? So boundary, boundary plantings of trees and other perennial plants
had a has a great effect on retention of soil moisture from blocking the wind, partial shade,
all the organic matter, material that comes off of a tree incorporates into the soil.
The changes in soil underneath trees for water retention, you know,
then of course, the yields that you get from hedgerow planting. So I mean, I really saw that
just when you have a one dimensional annual agriculture or crop agriculture landscape,
there's so many advantages to adding a three dimensional element to it, tree based agriculture,
at least just on the margins. There's so many residual positive effects that people seem to
have from that. So those are two just like real basic ones that are pretty easy wins.
Here's my view. I think people like you are going to be rock stars, movie stars in the coming
decade because these are the skills, this is the knowledge that our country is going to need.
In your opinion, you're kind of a scout leader, scout team, figuring this stuff out on your own,
you know, this is your passion and this is your vocation and you're a teacher at Oregon State.
What is it going to take for more people in our country, leaders, politicians,
civic engagement to wake up and do some of the things that you've been talking about?
Are we going to have to hit rock bottom and oh my God, there's a crisis or could there be a ground
swell of movement in this direction? What do you think? Well, you know, a wonderful thing is happening.
It's an unavoidable, unescapable thing and it's the passage of time that's seeing the baby boomers
retiring, you know, opening up positions to the upcoming generations. I'm a big follower of like
Peter Zines demographic models. I don't know if you've seen his work. The end of the world is
just the beginning, but you know, he just talks about this demographic shift that's happening
and I'm witnessing this because I love millennials. I love Gen Z people because I'm seeing these young
people coming up and finding themselves into sort of influential positions. This is like
really starting to happen now and they're going, we don't need to do that anymore. Like, okay,
let's take a rethink at this here. I'm very optimistic. I work with young people at the
university, but now that I'm almost 50 years old and like a lot of people that I'm working with
these days are like in their upper 20s, low 30s and they have a different mindset and I'm like
real optimistic that we're going to see that the generational shift that is going on, you know,
that the baby boomer retirement peak began in the year 2022, you know, according to Peter Zine,
right? That when this wave comes that we're going to see like a lot of transformation of
institutions because the old guard is just leaving. I actually agree with that and until
recently I was also a college teacher and what you just said resonates with me, but Oregon State
is kind of a unique agricultural learning hub. If you're a young person and you read the tea
leaves about it, the biophysical phase shift and you want to go to college and learn something that
helps your future, there really aren't a lot of universities that are really diving into the level
of your work. Is it possible that we will have more holistic undergrad or forget what you call it,
17 to 21 year old education of humans for a future that they will face? Is that possible to scale in
universities where universities teach permaculture and have a mandatory six months on the university
farm or something like that? What are your thoughts on that? I mean, that's certainly growing in
different places and like OSU has some cool stuff going on, the organic growers club run by
the sky James Cassidy, really great programs and that kind of thing, but I think that there's a
different trend going on. I call it the university of YouTube and I think that people are out there
this is why I'm putting it out there because people are out there educating themselves
independently. You have millions of views on some of your videos. Yeah, I have like almost 25 million
views on my channel. I mean, some of this stuff has gotten pretty far out there and it comes back
to me in very interesting places and ways that I hear about some of the ripple effects of putting
this information out there. I'm feeling optimistic and that just like feeds me to do more of it
because I'm like this India series and I'm putting together now, I want this to just
rock everything else I've ever done be a whole nother level. Let's keep on taking this to the
next level, but I think that education just like social media and YouTube is like surpassing
mainstream media, surpassing Hollywood figures. I think that the free education that people can
get there is just kind of lapping the pace at which universities move at and so, you know,
universities have to have to catch up in a sense. It's kind of funny actually coming for me because
I do work at a university and I am, you know, also actively working to transform the university
curriculum as well. What do you teach at Oregon State? I teach permaculture. Okay. So I teach in
the horticulture department. I was not hired as a permaculture teacher. I was, I student activism
is what got me into the position that I'm at. So the student said, we want to have a permaculture
class at Oregon State University and one student in particular got signatures and she said, and
this guy right here, Andrew Milsen, he's going to be the teacher. Wow. And I had to make my own way
and support my position by creating a whole online program. So, you know, yeah, go ahead.
You look like you've been doing that. How long have you been doing that? How many years have
you been teaching permaculture at OSU? Since 2009. And do you, so 14 years, do you have
former students that 10 years after they graduated or in touch with you and giving you
feedback or checking in and are they still using the skills that they learned from your class?
Oh yeah, absolutely. I mean, there's a different, there's, there's some people that like went the
permaculture route and they're like, I'm doing permaculture, they're permaculture teachers,
they have landscape companies, you know, a lot of my students end up doing that kind of thing.
But I also have students who are like, oh, hey, yeah, I work for the, the NRCS now.
Oh yeah, I work for the USDA. You know, oh, I just got, actually it wasn't one of my students,
but I just, someone just got in touch with me. Oh, I'm going to do the keynote presentation
at the Washington State Municipal Stormwater Conference, right? So like permaculture people,
oh yeah, permaculture person is, is organizing the Washington State Municipal Stormwater Conference,
you know, so it's like, yeah, it's definitely, they're all over there.
So you, you should, you should feel some pride in that, I think.
I mean, yeah, I have moments where I'm like, feel like really satisfied about what I've done. But
like, for the most part, I'm more driven about what I'm going to do, because like, nothing's really
enough, given the challenges that we face, you know, I feel the same way. What are you going to do,
well, you know, people asked me that recently, I'm actually like, what I'm doing right now
is like what I was going to do, like five years ago. So I think really, like I'm going to keep on,
keep it on at this point. I'm have a lot of plans to go other places in the world, more places in
the world, besides the places I've already gone, document these systems, document people that are
doing, you know, revolutionary, large scale landscape transformation, cultural transformation
that are like healing the planet, basically, going to these places and showing in a, you know, fun
and interesting, but also technical fashion, what they're doing here. So they can be replicated. So
I feel like right now, I'm like a, I'm like a amplifier. Right. So like my job is to just to
identify and amplify the good work that people are doing, and then put it forth in a fashion that it
can be replicated or learned from at least. Yeah. You are a permaculture and water catalyst and
diplomat. Yeah, that's kind of what I'm going for. Yeah. So for people listening to this episode,
who may not have thought about this or know much about permaculture, and they're like,
holy crap, this makes a lot of sense. I actually think this makes sense for my community to get
conversations and maybe a group of people thinking and doing this, learning together,
starting this in their watershed. How would you advise them to get started?
Well, you know, they always say, where do you start doing permaculture? Right outside your
own back door, you know? So I mean, permaculture is a, it's a grassroots activation. So the point is,
it's like nobody, you know, you can start permaculture on your, on your apartment balcony.
You know, you can start growing food. Like you can start recycling your organic food waste under
your sink in a worm bed and creating organic, perfect, beautiful worm castings, organic fertilizer
for your like tomato house plants. I mean, there's no, there's no, there's nothing too small.
So, you know, so people, that's the thing about permaculture is everybody can be activated to
doing it in their own lives and then, you know, reaching out and connecting with other people
that have common interests, creating a study group, watching videos together, going and doing
like a permablits. We're like, okay, we got five people that are interested, let's all go work on
my place and we'll transform this whole side yard, you know, and then we go another, you know, we go
work on your place. It's like, it's really conducive to community building and like,
like it's, it's a ground up, you know, organization, a ground up movement. So there's nobody that like
is, is, is, uh, nobody should be priced out, you know, and, and even if you're like a renter,
I mean, there's so much land available. Like there's so many people out there that would
like someone else to grow a garden on their place. You know, young people, I know, I was just talking
to some young people that came by my house the other day who'd recently moved to town and they
were like talking like, oh, yeah, and we put out a thing on like the next door website about, oh,
we're looking for some people that would like, like us to garden their space. And of course,
this is Corvallis. So it's, you know, kind of garden heaven. But they were like, we were absolutely
overwhelmed with responses. There was so, you know, in the same way that, that things are being
passed from the boomers, you know, down the generational shift, it's like, there's a lot
of people out there that have property that would like someone else to take care of the property.
Wouldn't it be awesome if there was some sort of a networked, crowd sourced campaign where
financially wealthy people in small towns and cities across the United States
could donate some land within the the village or city limits to young people to turn into a
permaculture hub before the city and then the social capital and the food and nutrition and
the skills and everything could just kind of spread out from that is something like that
possible. Is that desirable? I think stuff like that's already happening. You know, I'd have to
kind of like go back in my notes and think of different projects. But I mean, I think stuff
like that is fully already happening. Yeah. Awesome. So I know you are a busy person. If you
don't mind, I'm going to ask you some personal questions near the end. I mean, I'm respectful
of your time. I have so many questions for you. I garden, I grow, actually, I grow too many potatoes.
My girlfriend grows around 2000 bulbs of garlic and we grow hazelnuts. I have 200 hazelnut trees.
To be honest, the podcast and my job are making me less resilient in my gardening.
But for the last 20 years, I've had lots of things that I've planted. And I, for me, it's not
about being sustainable as much as it is being with the land and the soil and it calms me down and
it gets me away from the technology and I'm just under the sun and getting my hands dirty and
getting physical exercise and it makes me healthier to do that. But I'm blessed to have a little bit
of land here that we do that on. So, Andrew, given your lifetime of work on sustainability
related issues and given what you've mentioned as the challenges that we face as a nation,
as a world, do you have any personal advice to the listeners of this program at this time
of global ecological crisis in addition to learning permaculture?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I would say, find yourself. Who are you? What is your greatest
potential? What are you going to be? What's going to make you happy and how can you contribute?
