And can you simultaneously contribute to the world and fulfill your heart's desire?
I think that's the goal. And for you, Nate, it's like, well, you could be just a farmer
and you'd be very happy there, but then you might not be exercising your full gift to
change the world. But for some people, just making a beautiful farm and feeding their
community, feeding their family, that's kind of their highest potential. Other people,
some people ask me sometimes, they're like, how come you don't have a farm? Shouldn't you have
a farm? If I had a farm, then that's all I would do. But I have other
God's gifts kind of thing. What is your thing? I have certain ideas and visions of things I want
to do and certain skills that can do that. Don't do what you think you should do. Do what's like
really fulfills your heart and uses your abilities. I love that. I tell my students,
the time is now not to minimize your impact, to maximize your impact, which is a very aligned
with what you just said. So do you change that advice that you just said with your students?
I imagine teaching 18, 19, 20 year olds who are aware of climate change and the economic
difficulties, they are probably more anxious today than they were 10 years ago when you started
teaching this. How do you change your advice to your students? And at the end of the semester,
when you're sending them away, what are your parting words to them?
Yeah, well, there's a thing that people keep saying, the jobs that your kids are going to have
don't even exist right now. You can't even imagine. So I'm like, don't get too fixated
on what you're going to do. Fixate on developing yourself, developing your potential, developing
like knowing what's best for you and how you can best contribute and the job stuff will unfold.
That'll come from there, hopefully. And the other thing I say is work backwards from like,
how do you actually want to spend your day? What's your ideal day? And work backwards from
there because some people are like, I want to be a landscape architect and they think of landscapes
and they think of being outside and they think of planting trees and then they're actually sitting
in front of the computer doing AutoCAD. That's kind of happened to me. So really think about
how you want to spend your day. You're like, I want to be outside all the time. Okay,
then don't become an engineer. And you may or may not sacrifice income, whatever, but none of that
matters. I don't want to be too cliche, but it's like, follow your heart. Your heart knows
what you should do. Yeah. What do you care most about in the world, Andrew?
Yeah, I care most about goodness and about amplifying goodness, really. I think that's
what it comes down to. We very well might not fix the world's problems. This could be just an
exercise right now in our own experience that we're having. So I think whenever I
have some sort of decision to make, a lot of times I'll sort of drift off to the moment of my own
death and hopefully I'm lying there and all my family's surrounding and the angels come down
and when you're reflecting on your life, you're looking back. Regardless of what happens with
the planet, it's like when you're reflecting on your own life at the end of your life, when you
have this flash and you see everything that happened before you, everything that happens
since you were a baby, it all flashed. You're like, did you do the best you could? Did you spread
goodness? Were you kind and loving to the people around you? Did you help the earth? Did you help
the species? Were you a beneficial aspect of the world? The answer should be yes.
So work backwards from there and make sure that at the end of your life, when you cannot
look back, make sure that you've got your boxes checked and that you're good with the earth and
with the universe and with your family. That's one of the most beautiful answers I've gotten to that
question. Thank you for that. I also value goodness and I hope that you and your work can pass the
baton of that to lots of young people. In addition to a wand, a baton, if you had a magic wand
and there was no personal recourse to your decision, what is one thing that you would
do to improve human and planetary futures? Yeah, I think that if I could induce one thing,
it would be that every human gets to have some sort of god oneness with the universe experience.
Hopefully at some point in everybody's lives, whether it's caused by the death of a loved one
or the birth of a baby or something, they have some moment where they realize where they shed
their dramas and their worries and they just recognize their connection. They're just part
of this fabric. If I could blink an eye and wave my wand, it would be everybody simultaneously
sheds the illusion, whatever illusions that they're in and just sees their life and themselves
and creation for what it is. So the shift from me to us, me to we. Yeah, and even
not even identifying with their own body, but just having a moment recognizing that we're just
made up of vibrating particles. When you first started that, you paused and you said,
I would wish every human had, and I thought you were going to finish the sentence with
a hectare of land to do permaculture on. I don't know that that's everybody's thing.
I'm less and less judgmental about what someone's truth should be because I've met so many people
doing so many extraordinary things that are so impassioned by what they're doing that I'm like,
oh, should everybody be agricultural? Well, civilization was built on surplus. It's like,
you have some people that are super impassioned about farming, they can grow more food than
they can eat. Then they can eat. So there's a lot of room for people to do many other things.
So I just want people to, I feel like sometimes I have fantasies that somehow when AI or whatever
becomes sentient, it's going to be some sort of evolved entity that we'll see beyond what
we're able to see with our human dramas and everything like that. I'm just like,
fantasizing. I'm like, what can cause the shift in human consciousness? What can
cause the moment that we all see ourselves in the world in a moment of truth and clarity?
Widespread ayahuasca use, maybe hitting rock bottom and having a gut check as a culture.
Maybe YouTube channels like your own where people learn and experience and have awakenings.
I can envision many different possibilities, but I'm with you there.
So this has been a fantastic overview of you and your work and your knowledge.
I've recently concluded my podcast by asking my guests, who are mostly first time guests,
that this was kind of a general overview of permaculture and water and your work in India.
If you were to come back in six months and take a deep dive on one thing, what is most
passionate to you that could just take a deep dive down one particular rabbit hole of a topic
special to you? Do you have any speculation on that? Yeah. Well, I mean, right now being that I
just got back from India two weeks ago, there's just so much that I could say about
the particular things going on there. I spoke very generally, but there's so many stories
that hold all of these deeper lessons in them of what different groups of people are doing
and the level of impact that they're actually seeing and the scale of large scale transformation.
So I guess it would be a little more storytelling and getting a little more specific to open the
window a little further into some of these possibilities that I've witnessed.
You're a great human being and I'd love to have you back and maybe we'll do just that.
When will those videos be out on India and how do people find those videos and your channel?
Yeah. Well, you could certainly watch the first season by going to Andrew Millison, YouTube,
Andrew Millison. You can go to my websites, andrewmillison.com. It's A-N-D-R-E-W-M-I-L-L-I-S-O-N.
And then also, if you just type in Oregon State University Permaculture,
you could certainly get, well, PermacultureDesign.OregonState.edu is how you get to my OSU stuff.
And on my YouTube channel, I have a playlist called India's Water Revolution. So that's the last
season and that would be a good starter just to see what I did three years ago.
This, we're going to put out the trailer. Actually, we're making a little trailer.
We'll probably have the trailer out within probably by the end of the month or thereabouts.
It's right now, it's March 13th. So probably by April 1st or so, we'll have the trailer out.
And then, I don't know, there's a lot of moving parts to really putting these together. A lot of
map animations and graphics and things that are not that easy to come by. So definitely,
over the next six months, you're going to see these episodes sequentially popping up, for sure.
But you could busy yourself in watching my other videos while you're waiting.
Awesome. Thank you so much for your work and foresight and evangelizing the importance of
maybe a different way of doing agriculture in the United States and globally. And
let's stay in touch.
Awesome. It was great talking to you, Nate. I really appreciate you having me on. And I wish
you the best of luck and look forward to talking again soon.
Thanks, Andrew.
