program that says, if, if I know this person to be so aroused, it's not their personality,
their looks, that this, that that one, they've got a tremendous amount of sexual knowledge. So
they're going to know exactly where I am on the totem pole of sexuality, which is terrifying.
I think there's another aspect that has to do with how do I know this person isn't going to pick up
and take off with somebody else because they've been, they've had their norms adjusted. And there's
another one that says, how do I know that the child, any child will be mine, but more than
anything, my guess is, how do I know that I won't be mercilessly teased? Because everyone will say,
Hey, I saw your girlfriend naked. I saw her doing this. I saw her doing that. And so the,
the assault on the male ego and, you know, just to be honest about it, I think almost none of us
are secure enough to deal with. Oh yeah. I, I know that every guy that I've dated publicly
faces a large amount of sliding in the DMs of very aggressive, you know,
harassment. And, and I'm sure that even after our breakup, they are still dealing with the
harassment because we were at one time a public image together. And I would see some of the comments
and they are absolutely brutal and terrible. And it's even actually one of the reasons why
I'm terrified to have children because I, I think that I'm being the best mother possible by not
having children because I think that the life that they could live could be full of suffering,
whereas they will be shamed their entire life possibly. Whereas, you know, that same statement
where how do you know that's your real dad? I've seen your mom take on many partners, you know,
and like all of these kinds of very hurtful, terrible things and direct assaults on our
construct of masculinity. And this is why, you know, I noticed the other day that Jenna Jameson,
who was obviously a person in an era slightly before yours at the top of the porn profession,
was following me and tweeting about the Jeffrey Epstein situation. And she is pretty aggressive.
And she got her kid in her picture at the top of her Twitter profile. And that is a very aggressive
mama bear who is not taking any shit from anybody. I think, you know, one of the things I've,
you ever see this movie, The Martian? Is that the one with Matt Damon? I've heard of it. I did not
actually see it. Okay. You know how like, it's one thing to get a human to Mars, but it's much
more difficult to imagine how we're going to get a human back. So maybe it's easy to go one way.
I think of planet porn as like Mars, that very often it is, there's a portal into something
where you have a lot to learn. And that's part of the reason that, you know, I was eager to have
you on the program, but it's not clear that there's a return ticket. Oh, I agree. 100%. I think that
it is a very, that's why one thing I was saying earlier is like, is the seal of approval that I
become a scientist, you know, like what, what do I have to do to become acceptable in the public's
eye? Like, do I write an amazing film, a screenplay that now is like, wow, she's more than an adult
actress. Can we talk about a couple of these? Cause I think these are fun. One thing is, I don't
know, do you know the story of Marie Curie on her second Nobel Prize? Okay. So, you know,
obviously it's Polish scientists living in France. Second Nobel Prize, she's told, we're going to
give you the prize, but you can't come to Stockholm to pick it up because we think that you're getting
busy with a married man. Can you imagine, I was going to write a book called Radium Slut,
because of her work with the radioactive element radium. And we were so wrapped around the axle
about her extracurricular life that we couldn't bring ourselves to let her have the pleasure
of a second Nobel Prize given her behavior. Some other ones in this category, which I think are
kind of interesting, obviously you must know the story of Hedy Lamar. So the spread spectrum
technology that allows your phone to keep a call, but to jump from frequency to frequency
was apparently co-developed by her. Now she was an actress who was famous for appearing nude.
She was like the most beautiful woman of her time, early in German films, I think before she came to
the U.S. I think it was German films, not quite sure. But again, highly sexualized female, brilliant
as the day is long. And that these examples, there's another one that I would love to have on
this program. I can't remember her name exactly, maybe Brooke Magnetti. And her pen name was
Belle De Jure. She was studying for a PhD and she was turning tricks as a high-class call girl in
the UK because the stipends weren't high enough. She loved the work. She loved her clients. She
loved science. And so these are all examples of highly sexualized, self-sexualized females
who have been at a very high intellectual level. Now one possibility is that we should
desexualize the work environment and science. However, if there turned out to be a correlation
between outsized performance and hypersexualization in females, we wouldn't be running the experiment
to be able to see whether there was any kind of a correlation. So these are topics which are
weirdly too hard to talk about. And my concern is that we're not built. I mean, one of the things
I've loved talking about these topics with you is that we've managed to keep this. And I think
I'm going to take credit. I can kill the sexuality and sex so that we've kept it pretty much above
board and above the neck and that we need to learn how to keep sex from turning sexy in
conversation because it's too important a topic not to be able to discuss. What do you think?
Oh, I agree 100%. I would like to think that hypersexuality and intelligence kind of go hand
in hand. Well, I think it's a suspicion, but you can't bring that up because the other major force
is that the workplace should be highly desexualized. And because I think that there is such incredible
denial and that there isn't a recognition of female sexuality in the workplace, there's only
a sense in general of male transgression. I think it's very unclear what the way forward is to
figure out what is keeping women out of the sciences. My personal opinion is that it has to
do with kin work, that women are taking up most of the work in caring for children, caring for
elder relatives, and that the burdens of kin work are often prohibitive when it comes to a really
intense career. But I think we have a very difficult road ahead because I think half the
brains of, you know, half the neurons in the world ride on female shoulders, that that should be a
huge source of opportunity, but somehow there's a puzzle of sexuality. May I ask you a different
question? Because you're not, you're nodding. Are you familiar with Christina Hoff Summers,
if you're following Sam Harris, who I think is at the American Enterprise Institute? She's sort
of a second wave feminist, not a third wave feminist. She calls herself the factual feminist.
She's called a lot of attention to the idea that the wage gap where women maybe are thought to get
75 cents for every dollar that a man gets paid for equal work. You have a very unusual situation,
which is that in your workplace, there is a huge wage gap. Oh yeah. Talk to me about that.
There's not only a huge wage gap, I think that there's also like a huge, maybe attention gap,
where on the video films, a lot of times I think they even cut the guy's head out of the frame,
you know? So I think a lot of times the male is almost more objectified than the female,
where he is literally just a phallic piece. He is not anything more than his penis. And a lot of
times they don't want to see the rest of his body, nor hear him speak or anything like that.
And a lot of times I think that they're doing almost even more of the work than the female is.
And we get this opposite end of the spectrum where I can get paid for anywhere from $2,500 to
sometimes $10,000 for a scene that I do. Just for one scene.
For one scene that I do, whereas the male talent can get anywhere from $500 to, well even like
less, like $300 to $2,000 is like the top star in the industry. And my starting rate is already
above those big huge stars. You know, that's similar for modeling. If we took the top 10,
suppose it's supermodel. I don't love the term porn star in supermodel because they get used,
let's just have fun with it. If you take the top 10 supermodels, male and female,
my understanding is that the pay scale is $0.10 on the dollar for the men relative to the females
because there is this super premium. I mean, in some weird way, the females are the males
of the human species. Like peacocks, the adorned gender or sex is the males and the
festoon gender in humans is much more the females. And so there's this very bizarre
reversal that there really is a wage gap in this one area and it totally favors the females.
Is that fair? How should we think about this given that we've learned to think about it in
reverse and you're in one of the few industries where it totally goes the other way?
Yeah. I mean, I like to think of gender equality myself personally. So I don't find it fair
in my personal opinion because like I said, even in the sense of like showcasing the male is not,
he's almost more objectified and they're still dealing with the same struggles that the females
are dating. I'm sure when it comes to dating, I'm sure the male struggles just as much as the
female actress. I bet not. I bet it's pretty bad. I don't know. I bet it's not quite as intense.
I'm not sure. I think that it is like because women have their insecurities. So,
you know, you have to think of this male is working with women who are mostly 18 years old
for almost all of their scenes and he's maybe like a 30, 40 year old man who's looking for a
woman his age and it's, I think, hard for a lot of these more civilian type women to be confident
within themselves when he's going to set, you know, working with these 18 year old girls.
I guess I hadn't thought as much about, I mean, obviously there's a lot of dating within the
industry because people are at least sensitized to what the issue is. Both men dating the females,
females going that, but I do, I know a lot of the men who personally struggle.
I take it back. It's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes I think it's worse
because I think that guys will almost be more accepting than the women. But I mean,
I'm not really sure, but I think I know more women who date out of the industry than men.
I don't really know many men whose partner is not within the industry.
Let me ask you another one. You did your first transsexual sex scene recently.
My guess is, is that you were warned that this could have negative consequences on
your career. You elected to do it. Obviously the topic is very hot and you probably brought
a large portion of a heteronormative audience through something they weren't prepared to deal
with. How did that go? And just keep it so that we can have the broadest audience possible,
but just, I'm curious, is it a political act? Yeah. For the longest time, I was advised against
doing a trans type of scene due to the fact that my agent suggested that a lot of my fellow
peers wouldn't want to work with me because it is like a crossover type performer. They are also
a more high risk performer because of the activities that they do. I think that overall,
in general, my agent just kind of thought it was some sort of a career suicide type of thing where
it could really affect you overall within the industry. For a long time, I took his advice
and didn't want to do this potential dangerous activity. I didn't want it to hurt my ability
to perform with other peers and whatnot. It wasn't until recently that I dated a guy who asked me
to quit porn and I contemplated it for a very long time and had even a retirement date and
everything. Yeah. He helped kind of manipulate me into feeling like I should quit and everything
like that. I finally realized one day that this was not what I wanted to do. I loved my job and
that I would probably later on resent him if I had done so. After our breakup, it was when I
really took control over my job and realized that I want to do things that make me happy and not
really for my fans. I started to create my own content for my website that were things that I
wanted to do and ways that I wanted to portray myself and not in things or ways that I thought would
make money. I kind of stopped caring about the money and was like, I'm going to invest myself and
my own brand and money into things that I enjoy and hopefully it'll translate. One of my things
was always a fantasy of working with a trans performer. That's something that's erotically
interesting or is it politically interesting? Both. Okay. Both. There's something amazing about
a female with a penis. That is just you get best of both worlds to some extent. It was
something that I had. I'm curious. Have you ever been to the Uffizi Gallery in Florence in Italy?
No, I've not been to Europe. Oh, really? No. Okay. Well, here's a little piece of homework.
There's a room in this one of the most famous art museums in the world called the Hermaphrodite room
with an absolutely gorgeous reclining apparently female figure and then you walk around and sure
enough, there's this penis. The shock that we're cued to female indicia and then surprised that
there is this actual different state. This is something that people have been playing with.
This is energy that's been played with for a very long time in much more conservative eras.
And so I wonder whether some people, like there's a community that finds this specifically very
exciting. Oh, I think so. I think that more people are attracted to it than even want to
admit it or even are aware of it. Do you think that's where some of the prejudice and bigotry
comes from as people trying to suppress that they're actually fascinated? Yes, 100%.
Interesting. I had a very large applause to that and a lot of my fans were
so excited and happy to see me do this activity and keep asking for more. And that's actually,
because I shot it for my own website and it's one of my most viewed scenes on my website.
And I've had my website for since like 2015 and it outweighs and reaches numbers.
I would not have guessed this. Yeah, I've got so many other scenes with daddy play and multiple
partners in one scene and like, you know, the incestual things and all this stuff.
I'm starting to freak out. You're getting out of my comfort zone.
I know as soon as I said that one, I was like, oh, I love this scene.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
But I think I'm probably not. Well, I don't think I'm highly judgmental at a mental level,
but I think that I'm quite comfortable with the idea that I'm not really meant to explore
all of the hypocrisies that in some sense, I think I accept that my world is a world of
hypocrisies and that that's actually structural, which is why.
I mean, you could also be facing the fact that you'll get socially critiqued yourself.
Well, there's that. I think that I'm more comfortable
defending very well, here's something that I'm going to get socially critiqued for.
And when we talked about it on the phone, that I think I feel slightly more comfortable with.
The shunning of Louis C.K. was something that I thought the world probably got weirdly wrong
and that the porn world was strangely silent. So my understanding was that he was requesting
to disrobe and to bring himself to orgasm in the presence of fully clothed females.
And when I heard that and I heard that this was his desire to exert power,
I thought, I wonder if that's true or I wonder if this is just some sort of well-known kink.
And it turns out that there was a category which I asked you to look into.
And not only does this kink exist, it seems to be a fairly large kink
and it's coupled to some other kink called female domination. How does that? How do I pronounce
that in the industry? I mean, we call it femdom. Femdom, okay. So what if we got that wrong?
What if to some extent this was a powerful guy who was actually looking to be dominated by females
because that was his kink and then we couldn't actually talk about it in terms of the complexity
and because we're so judgmental and because of this sort of sense that right now the vogue
is to protect very powerless females from very predatory men and we're going to derange all of
sexuality so that that one case can be addressed because that has been a place where we haven't
had good tools. Did we effectively just kind of cancel a human being who was actually seeking
to be dominated? I 100% think so. I think that there's also trouble within the females he was
asking to be dominated by. I don't think that they probably even had the comprehension of what he
was asking for. Well, Sarah Silverman talked about sort of getting it and being down for like,
I want to see you do that. Oh, I would be if he asked me, I would 100% it would have been like,
you know, fucking do it right now. But I think that, you know, even when I first started performing
femdom myself. So this is something that you do? Yeah, I do. And when I, I'm such a sweet,
kind, caring person when I, my first pull the mask off. Well, it was like, it took a training
for me like where, where for my, you can get trained for this. Well, it's kind of like when
you throw yourself in a situation over and over and over and over again, you kind of learn
how to become better and more comfortable in it. So when I, I remember my first femdom scene was
kicking a guy and having to kick him repetitively. And the whole time I was just like, are you okay?
Like, are you okay? I don't want to hurt you. I was hardly kicking him or anything. And this man
flew himself out, covered his own expenses and was there for free. Because this was a niche and
a kink that he had wanted to do. And now I'm at a point to where myself, where I could kick a guy
and not ask if he's fine or not. When, when he, when he's put in the scenario, I won't just kick
any stranger. Well, I don't know. You better watch out there. Oh, no, but my, my point is, is like,
when you're put in this scenario, I have now learned how to be a better femdom. And
I think that the mistake that Louie made was that he was asking women who are not experienced enough
