casual for everyone to kind of have this open love for one another and talk about their bodies
and their sexuality that when I was on this documentary set, it was so bizarrely uncomfortable
for me as the sex worker to remove myself from being who I naturally am, which is like just
comfortable within myself and my sexuality and my body and that I could be looked at as
a piece of meat on their set. So they're like, these men aren't used to seeing
women like this all of the time. So you have to make sure that you're not subjecting yourself in
this way or making them uncomfortable or whatnot. And to me, I think that like, if they were around
that more, if people were just comfortable with themselves and comfortable with their bodies,
then it naturally would be normal and the same and the guy would be able to adjust the lights
without staring at the girl the whole time. Not that these guys were, but I guess potentially,
maybe they would, but they weren't even really given the opportunity. And for us, I think that
there's this casualty in or we're just so casual with one another that the hypersexualness that
goes on on set is just, it's just another playful, casual, normal conversation of it.
So you believe, I mean, not to put words in your mouth, but I'm curious, you believe that in your
workplace bizarrely and quite unexpectedly, maybe issues of harassment, tension, unwanted sexuality
are actually decreased. I personally feel that in my experiences, 100%, like it's,
it's, to me, it's close to none. I've never felt creepy vibes from a director or anything like that.
I'm also very playful and comfortable with myself and jokes. And, you know, I'm not, I couldn't
say that for every female that she doesn't feel maybe possibly offended by certain statements.
But I, I have never felt that there was an a boundary that was crossed in our casual
workness with one another. I've never had any creepy director to be like offering me
things that he shouldn't be or whatnot. It's, it's always in a very playful manner. And there's
always like 10 other people in the room. So it's always like a casual joke or things like that,
where we're all just, you know, naked and, you know, up pee with the door open. It's just like,
we all kind of do. Like we're all just very comfortable with ourselves.
You know, there was a story, and I wish I could, could source it because I've referenced it a few
times, but years ago, there was a naked musical called, called Ocalcutta. And I remember hearing
a story that somebody had found that after being on stage naked in front of an audience night
after night, cause this was a relatively successful musical, that the performers could not go back
to normal life because they had become habituated to the excitement of being viewed by like hundreds,
if not thousands of people. And so, you know, one possibility is, is that in your world,
there is a permanent or semi-permanent brain shift that comes from
experiencing a level of arousal and familiarity that the rest of us will never ever experience.
I would say so to some extent, but even from me personally, to some extent, I feel like even
quite the opposite has happened where now I like favor and desire more the more intimate one-on-one
private sex life experience where it feels more emotionally involved. And I think that's also
because I'm often working with people that maybe I don't know them very well or things like that.
And there is always other people around. So the level of being able to drop your guard,
always and completely is very rare because there is a camera involved and we're creating
a product in the end. And as much as like I can be enjoying myself, I still am put into literal
positions that I can't always be enjoying myself because it's opening up for a camera or things
like that. Right. On your professional after all. Yes, yes, exactly. And so I find even for myself
that it's almost taken an opposite turn where I've now desired that less and less. And when
I first started, that was one of my favorite things was the viewer's, the voyeur aspect of
there being multiple people in the room and enjoying the fact that there is a guy with
a boomstick holding it up who's trying to not look, but definitely obviously wants to.
Got it. Do you see any way in which are the rest of the rest of us in society moving closer
towards pornography with let's say self sexualization on Instagram where you're sort of
part of a mildly erotic feedback loop. If you're a young woman and you notice what, you know,
suddenly a photo you've taken has, you know, 10 times the number of likes on it.
I would say social media has a huge part into doing and kind of almost making somewhat
hyper sexualizing yourself more casual. And I think a lot of it is this desire of engagement
as well as like people becoming an Instagram model or influencers so that they sell products.
I know I recently listened to like a Crystal Lea podcast where he was joking about.
Yes. Oh, he's amazing. Oh, he's hilarious. I love him. And in his podcast, he's making jokes
about these girls who are kind of, you know, smashing their chest together, holding a watch
and they're selling a watch, but nobody is obviously looking at the watch. And it's interesting how,
you know, in every kind of advertising world and media and they use sex to sell things.
And so it's very normal. But now when you're taking the regular girl who's not some Vogue
supermodel where it's like a Kendall Jenner where she's obviously is selling sex, but not
selling sex because it's perfume. These other girls are kind of doing the same thing. And
I think for them that they almost recognize it more so that they are selling sex because
they're not getting this Vogue ad to show that it is showcasing that they're with Vogue.
And I think this is one of the difficulties that a lot of us are having is that traditionally
we've always been self-deceptive about sexuality and that the signals, I mean, even biologically,
just in terms of evolutionary theory, the signals that we send which constitute the sort of language
of sexuality have always been cryptic. They're not sent transparently and in the clear. Maybe
that's more the case inside of the world of professional pornography. But in fact, being
deceptive and self-deceptive is what is normal. And I think one of the things that has been
very confusing is this passion, partially on behalf of like the psychological community
or professional sex educators, you know, be open, be explicit, talk about everything.
And that's never been how sexuality has functioned in what you call the civilian world.
No, sometimes I wonder if it has to do with the fact that people enjoy this taboo sense of things
where it's almost like if it's unspoken, then it's more enjoyable. If it's kind of subliminal,
it's almost like it's sneaking its way into yourself. And then if it is kind of like
less open, then maybe they would have, if it wasn't, if it was direct, then maybe they would
have certain other guidelines that they would have to follow. If this perfume commercial was
obviously transparent with the fact that they are using sexuality to sell their perfume, then maybe
in the real world, the civilian world, they would be like, you can't do that. That's inappropriate.
Our children see these commercials. It's aired on television at regular waking hours.
And I think that probably has something to do with the part of it where if it is subliminal
and it's not direct, then it could be more acceptable to the human eye. And it could be
something that where people are like, well, no, it's a lingerie company that's classy and pretty,
even though it's obviously selling sexuality at the same time.
I think that the issue of deniability. Now, I mean, we were talking, I should say,
this is the first day we've ever met. We've talked on the phone a bunch of times.
One of the people I've sort of pointed you towards is this evolutionary theorist,
Bob Trivers, and he wrote this book. I mean, it's really one of the most prominent
theorists of our time. And he wrote this book called The Folly of Fools that talks about the
evolutionary basis of self-deception as the precursor to being able to manipulate others.
And if you think about, for example, just I had Brett Easton Ellis in the studio,
who wrote American Psycho in less than zero. We were talking about the issue of seduction.
And he said that he wants to be seduced all the time. He doesn't want everything to be explicit.
He doesn't want everything as a mutually agreed upon decision that, in part, what is wonderful
and delicious to him about life has to do with seduction and that seduction involves manipulation.
But in a world where I think many more people are colliding without a common understanding of
each other, not coming from the same backgrounds, there's really an increased propensity for two
humans to get these signals wildly wrong. It's probably always been there, but maybe there's
an increased ability. So weirdly, the way I see it, the civilian world has always been based on
sort of self-deception. And then there have been both the problems that come from that and
the really much more exciting aspects that come from that. When it works, probably there's an
extra magic to it. Any thoughts on that between what translates to mystique? Do you see that when
you're looking at your civilian friends that they're kind of saying, well, I wonder if he likes me?
I got a message. I don't know how to interpret it.
Oh, well, 100%, when it comes to me even just dating, I am a very transparent, open person
in these aspects of where I don't do the whole seduction game. I kind of just am an open book.
And I find that a lot of times it is faulty, where a lot of people do want this type of seduction.
They like these types of games or whatnot in the sense of where they feel like when you're,
and I think it could be because the general public is not so honest and open with what they want,
that it's almost like a shock value, where they're like, well, this girl is just really
being completely open in general with what she enjoys. And it's often something I loop back
around with my therapist, where I'm like, do I need to start being like the more civilian-esque
type of a person to be a more dateable person? Whereas instead of being this vulnerable self,
where I am just constantly myself and say what I like and what I feel in these moments.
Pretty big trade-off.
Yeah, it is. And I often find myself incapable of catering to the general public. I don't know
how to do these own kind of mind games on myself. But it is interesting where I do find that the
most common people do enjoy this type of seduction and whatnot. They don't want things to be so
blunt and almost easy to an extent. There has to be some sort of work involved and trickery.
I believe that it is like a very common theme, at least even in like my dating world. It is.
So, one of the things that I thought was really terrific that I first heard from you
was some of your ideas about how to make sure that if people are considering entering the
erotic arts professionally, that they're making good decisions. You feel that very clearly this
has been a great decision for you. It's worked out financially at a great level. You've been in
the business for a long time. You haven't been chewed up. You seem to have an incredibly positive
attitude. But what I was talking to you about was how uncommon is that? You're obviously in a very
unusual position. You came up with this idea of having a virtual reality simulator of what it
would be like to enter the business. Can you say more about that? Yeah, I think that there are so
many people. I mean, you get to start the industry at age 18. And I think that there are so many
people who don't necessarily start for the right reasons. Even when I first became in the industry,
I was a very hypersexual adolescent. And when I began the industry, it was mostly for money,
though I started off as an extra. I wasn't partaking in these sexual acts. I didn't really
know what I was getting myself into. I had no idea the the concepts of it all and whatnot.
And I think that now, if a young male or female can get the opportunity to really grasp the sense
of what can happen when you join the industry, it would be, I think, a good filter for a lot of
the youth and whatnot. So I think it would be great to have this idea of a virtual reality
that allows people to put themselves inside different types of scenarios. So maybe like
one scenario is you go in and you tell your parents that you've now joined the adult industry. And
one of the reactions are that your parents are distraught. They humiliate you. They shame you.
They disown you. Things of this sort. These are fairly common. Yes. Yeah. I think a lot of people
have parents who are racist. There are some parents who are like, yes, you can do porn,
but not interracial porn. And weird things like that. And so they're making their children racist
by association because maybe this child wouldn't care. They would love to have sex with a person
of another race, but they don't want their father or mother to disown them. So by association,
then listening to their parental rules and guidelines, they will not partake in interracial
sex and things like that. So I think that this would be an interesting factor. And I think it'd
be very interesting to put the parents in these simulations as well for youthful characters or
maybe even older people who get in the industry. So maybe the parents can understand what it's like
to be the adult entertainer and to have their parents be so harshly judging and aggressive and
whatnot. Maybe your parents are in a religious state. You could maybe fill out a little questionnaire
and you're like, my dad is Christian. So how would his Christian beliefs affect us negatively and
put the father in that same virtual reality? And maybe it could also help change the parents to
be more accepting. But they're also obviously the parents who will just be terrible and unaccepting.
And I think there are other ways to put the future stars in the virtual reality, whereas we had
one star rest in peace, August Ames, where she can ask about this. Yeah, she, she had come at
suicide from what I gather, some internet bullying where she did not partake in a sex scene with
a crossover star, which is a star who performs both in male to male scenes and male to female scenes.
And I'm sure she struggled with other mental illness issues and things like of that sort.
And I think that if we were able to put these adolescents in or these 18 year olds or these
people's future stars in the industry, they would be able to get the experience of the
humiliation, the, the tweets and the social media hate that you're going to get the,
the ongoing, you know, struggle with dating. Right. Ashley, but how do you do it? I mean,
I've seen some of what comes back at you. It's absolutely brutal. It is. But I recognize that
when I, when I think about it, when I was a, when I was in elementary school, kids would make fun of
me because I, I'm kind of like a hairy girl. I have like hairy arms and whatnot and hair like, so
they would call me wolf woman or gorilla girl. And I would just start howling like a wolf or like
grunting around like a, like a monkey. And I think that I have always just personally taken
criticism and made it comical. So for me, when I see someone saying some hurtful comments, I'm
always like, hot, you're brilliant. Like it's, it's amazing. It's, it's so hilarious to me. So
I have a different ability into translating how negative terminology and derogatory statements
towards myself actually impacts me. You literally have a tattoo in another language. I don't know,
I don't know which one. It says, oh, is it Chinese? It says, when life gives you lemons,
make lemonade. So that seems to be pretty deep.
Yeah, I've always been able to make things a more positive experience within myself. And I think
that if we were able to help see which people could handle these types of experiences, which
who could handle the shame, who could handle, you know, all of the terrible aspects that come into
being an adult entertainer, then I think it would be a better filter for, you know,
allowing these experiences. And maybe they should have these experiences for the viewers who are
saying the terrible nonsense so that they could understand because I'm pretty much paying their
inflicted. Yes, like, I think that listening to one of the Sam Harris podcasts, he was talking
about to somebody where they were talking about putting men in simulations where they get cat
called or, you know, sexual suggestions thrown at them, where they were now almost able to think
of like, wow, actually, maybe I won't treat women that I don't know like this because it's actually
not okay. And that made me feel uncomfortable. Well, could I actually, I wasn't planning to do
this, but can I give you a compliment? One of the things that really discouraged me from going
into podcasting or doing anything on YouTube is that when I started to see, I think the first
time I was on a major YouTube podcast was Dave Rubin show. And I noticed that people stop the
video at particular places. And they say, what's going on at 1537? And you may not know this,
but the reason that you're sitting to my right is that I have a condition called Dwayne syndrome.
And so the guest always sits in that chair because my left eye is partially paralyzed and it will
not go out. I did not actually have this diagnosed until I was an adult. And as a result, I very
frequently appeared with some amount of cross-eyedness. And my YouTube comments were like, you know,
I remember one comment was, did you see that at 1821? His right eye goes in to check for information
and then it comes back out because it found where it's stored in the brain. And like,
that was like very playful and fun. But then some of them, and particularly the ones having to do
with the moles on my face, really started to get to me. And what I found, and here comes the compliment,
I found, and I have to confess, I can't really watch your really wild stuff, but I have watched
some of your discussion about your body image. And you talk about being small-breasted,
you're very open about this, and saying, I don't want silicon. And I know that I'm supposed to
get silicon in order to earn the big money. And I thought, wow, she's just talking quite openly
