Well, that's one of the things that I'm interested in trying to reopen, which is that during
the 1950s, 60s and early 70s, when obscenity was a much hotter topic, in particular because
of the need to establish a standard by which something might be deemed obscene.
And there were even people who said, we should not have any concept of obscenity legally.
It was very much on people's minds that obscenity and the erotic arts were part of free speech.
So you had novels like Lady Chatterley's Lover or Tropic of Cancer that were deemed
too racy to be sold.
So you weren't even necessarily talking about films or pictures.
Even text was considered too hot to handle.
And for whatever reason, that branch of the free speech discussion has somewhat dropped
out of most people's consciousness.
Are you, do you find that as well?
Yeah, I would say so.
I definitely think that to some extent it's somewhat there and I don't know if it's just
into different degrees where it's like gay rights or things like that, but definitely
nothing really that is necessarily adult related in our triple X community.
So one person that you've worked with who has caught my attention on a number of occasions
is this man, John Stagliano.
And John Stagliano is famous for first porting the concept of gonzo, which was originally
popularized by Hunter S. Thompson in journalism, into porn.
That is, he abstracted it away from journalism and started bringing it into pornography in
the sense that he was using handheld cameras.
He was making use of the switch to VHS from film.
And one of the things that he was doing, if I understand correctly and you should feel
free to correct, is that he was showing females enjoying sexuality rather than being spied
upon by the lens, actually actively engaged for their own pleasure, and that this was
in some weird way a feminist upturning of the concept of pornography.
Do I have my facts even vaguely correct?
Yeah, yeah, I would say so.
So then John weirdly ran afoul of federal prosecutors having to do with a 1973 standard,
which needs to be more in all of our consciousness called Miller versus California.
Are you, is Miller versus California something that occupies your thoughts?
No.
Do you know about it?
No.
Oh boy.
Okay, I don't know.
I'm not a legal expert, but this is, I think this is still the governing case law.
There was originally, I guess you can't check me, but see if this even plays correctly.
My understanding is that in 1957, there was a decision called Roth versus United States,
which introduced the idea that an average person applying contemporary community standards,
whatever that means, would have to find obscene work to be in the prurient interest, that
it arouses passions and maybe makes us lascivious, right?
And that that was followed in the mid sixties by 1966, something called memoirs versus Massachusetts,
which was a much more liberal standard, which said that the work had to in question had
to lack all redeeming social importance.
And therefore, if you could just put one quotation from Shakespeare somewhere in your work, you
were almost certainly going to be safe because anything that was redeeming would keep something
from being deemed obscene.
And then the court revisits in 1973 and comes up with a three pronged approach.
And it says that somebody applying contemporary community standards has to find the work to
be in the prurient interest of sex, that it has to run a foul of offensive standards,
I think on the state books.
And lastly, it has to be seriously lacking in redeeming scientific, literary, political
or social importance.
So not totally lacking, it just has to be fairly lacking.
That is terrifying in the age of the internet because what is a contemporary community standard
when we have one giant community?
If you make porn in the San Fernando Valley, let's say where it's traditional headquarters
has been, what if it gets viewed in Ogden, Utah?
How do you know you're not violating somebody else's community standards?
Are you worried about this at all?
Oh, definitely.
I mean, to me, it's very extreme because what one perspective is to one person is totally
different to another.
Your life experiences, I mean, are going to be completely different.
Even like, you know, religion has a huge play in all of these types of things and I think
that a lot of people just have totally different ideas on what is okay and not okay.
And I think a lot of it is even just from lack of experience or perspective or communication
with different people.
So I think that some people even like, like many even of my own friends have totally different
views on pornography and actors and actresses in the adult entertainment industry.
Once they meet them, they're like, wow, I didn't even think that you guys would even be this
type of person.
I've had people who speak to me directly where they're like, I didn't like you until
I listened to a podcast where I was like, oh, she's like a real human being.
So I think that in general, it's really daunting and terrifying the fact that if I want to do
some really intense hardcore scene that to maybe the general public will think it's,
you know, you know, regular hot porno, you know, but then the there might be, you know,
five percent of the population who's like, oh my God, what did she just do?
Well, and that's just it.
There's no way that you can control where your material will be consumed.
So having a pre-internet, like almost 50 years old decision govern in part who can be
brought up on federal charges.
My understanding was that Stagliano about 10 years ago was brought up and was possibly
facing three decades in prison for making pornography.
Yeah.
You're like 28.
If that would, that would put you at nearly 60 years old before you got out.
Oh yeah.
So what, what do you think?
What are your thoughts on this?
What do we do?
If we, I mean, look, as you probably know, we've been talking about free speech issues in
this intellectual dark web group, for example, and a lot of the problems that we're finding
are not exactly free speech issues.
It's not really the government that's trying to shut you down, but instead it's sort of
the informal, the institutions of civil society, like newspapers and universities that have
suddenly come up with a new concept, which is hate speech.
And even simple biological reasoning is sometimes now considered hate speech.
Do you see any tie in between the erotic community and potentially even the scientific
community and the ways in which these amorphous standards might get invoked?
I mean, I could hope that there is some sort of way that we can change these types of laws
or perspectives and whatnot.
I'm not exactly sure what it would take.
I don't know if there's going to be like some sort of new television series that kind of lights
people up in a different way that now people can have a perspective where they look at
us as like humans and they humanize us.
I think that that's a huge part of it is that we're not given the opportunity to humanize
ourselves.
And I would be really curious to see what it would have to be like if, you know, do we
have to all become scientists so that we get the check of a seal of approval?
Well, I'm claiming that even biologists are now running a fowl of concepts like hate speech.
For example, what if you start talking about a study of trans issues and you discover that
trans is a giant umbrella category where some parts of trans are disorders, some parts of
trans is just nature doing what nature is somehow going to do and somebody says, well,
wait a minute, that's completely illegitimate because you're misgendering people.
I don't think that biology is a way to hide out anymore.
I think that in fact, the biologists and the pornographers are weirdly and quite unexpectedly
somewhat in the same boat now that we have a very potent political strain that's trying to
regulate what can be said and that you guys are in somewhat of a similar boat.
But because there's no, I mean, I would never encounter you in normal life, probably,
because our worlds are just very unlikely to collide.
Any thoughts?
I think that when it comes to, I know right now I'm working on this documentary and they're
following myself as an adult actress and they're also following a researcher who studies sex and
she speaks about how she gets death threats and things like that for being this almost
highly sexual woman, even though she's literally studying how vaginal secretion happens or things
like that. I think that it is like we have this lack of free speech and we have this like,
I don't know if it's also the era of where everyone is just highly offended by everything as well.
I would have thought that through with social media and all these things and even like music,
the way that music has kind of like even become more hyper sexual and aggressive that our culture
would be more accepting to these types of ways of life, whereas rather than kind of see the
opposite side of it, I think that like when it comes to being able to be free with what you
can do and say in sex work and researchers, I'm not too familiar with the researchers,
but I was definitely like, I thought of this book Bunk by Mary Roche when I heard about the
research study of this or the researcher in the documentary where it talked about like,
I think it was like in the 50s or something like that where they were all studying animals,
having sex with animals because it was so taboo and you were like a pervert if you watched two
humans have sex, even though that's the only way to actually study people having sex and to get
real information, you're not going to get, you'll get information about monkeys if you're watching.
Monkeys have sex, but it was like interesting to me that it was so almost pornographic for them
to even be able to watch people and study them even though that's how we're trying to understand
biology and science. Well, I have to admit that I have a couple of odd theories about this and
I was curious how you might find them. One of which is that in some sense, the normal world,
which I understand you call the civilian world, that the civilian world is almost hypocritical
and in denial by design. That is, we aren't supposed to have an accurate picture of human
sexuality because our society is based on what I call load bearing fictions that people are
supposed to present as relatively asexual. Their default assumption that they go around with is
that they are not sexual beings and you're supposed to hide this aspect and then there are
contradictory expectations. For example, you might be expected to wear cosmetics in a workplace
environment as a sign of professionalism, but the cosmetics in fact may be sexualizing, but then
you're not supposed to admit that the cosmetics may in fact be sexualizing. In some sense,
the civilian world is a mess by design because we're not supposed to see ourselves accurately
and that the world of sex workers is bizarrely a truth telling world, a world in which people
are far more honest. There's another one of these which I think is the world community of
evolutionary theorists and believe me, you can't invite those guys to parties either because they'll
tell you things that the civilian world does not want to hear. What do you think about the idea
that is it possible that commercial sex workers are just much more honest and undistorted around
issues of sexuality and that in fact, this is why they have to be excluded?
I would say so. I believe one time when we spoke previously, you mentioned to me,
I could be quoting it wrong, but the real estate effect or something like that,
where it was like the woman can sell you potentially a not a suitable home because
of her sex appeal and where she is dressed in a nice suit. Maybe there's a little cleavage
showing she has the makeup done and you as a general person is kind of,
you're in a phase, you're in a daze because you see this woman almost before you see the household
and I think that with adult entertainers, we kind of like are always so sexually driven and sex is
everywhere, it's our whole lives. I feel like I even personally experience less sexual tension
when I'm on set because we are always naked. They are so used to seeing naked women
that it's not even a statement or a question or anything like that.
Let's dig into how bizarre your workplace is because very often I hear about sexuality in the
workplace and I think, well, what happens when you take something like modeling or going even
further, commercial sex work on the set of a movie? Take us through what you think some of the
major differences might be between your workplace and a typical office. But again, I should just
tell the audience, I have asked Ashley to try to keep this as much above the neck as possible
so that we can have the broadest possible audience and so normally we might be making some jokes
and having some more fun, but we're trying to keep this as classy as possible.
Yes. I could even just say, even the feeling and the difference of how I'm working on this
documentary right now, when I'm on set with that documentary, it is so different than when I'm
typically on set and it's hard for my brain to almost wrap around it because it's a very similar
vibe. They're both sets. We have the same kind of production crews and me, I would naturally
change my clothing right here in the middle of the set and all of these things and not even think
about the guy on the sound. He's doing his job. He's looking at the things because he doesn't care
about me getting nude because that's what he always, every day there's a new girl and a guy
getting nude and when I was on the documentary, they were kind of like, oh no, go to your dressing
room and change and I didn't even think that I could be potentially offending them with my body
and whatnot by just undressing right there because I was like, oh, you want me to change? So
I'll just change right now. I'm like totally comfortable with myself and it didn't even cross
my mind that like, oh, maybe this guy is looking at me inappropriately and he has like a wife or
this or that or they don't want any set drama or anything like that. And so for me, it's very bizarre
to pull myself out of my world that is so normal for us to just be like
casually having sex like when the cameras aren't rolling to just maintain the energy,
maintain the flow. We want to make sure the male talent how, you know, stays erect and
everything like that. And so while they're changing lights and everything like that, it's so casual
for sex to be going on. It's so casual for the male to male. There's even like a lot of male to
you know, gay jokes within each other where, you know, they'll joke about like, you know,
teasing each other off and like doing all these fun playful things. Whereas maybe in the regular
work environment, you would never male to male be flirting with your, you know, co-workers even in
the slightest bit because one, you don't want to become like, I don't know, you don't want all
that some guys are so homophobic and whatnot. But in our industry, it's so
