It is a very simple observation that sex is sexy.
That is almost, but not quite, a tautology.
Yet its implications seem, at least to me, to be quite profound and easily missed given
that one could argue from first principles that sex is ultimately one of the most powerful
forces shaping human society.
But whenever we attempt to discuss sex directly, our autonomic nervous system becomes engaged
if we are not very careful.
As the comedian Tom Lehrer once said, when correctly viewed, everything is lewd.
If you look hard enough, you will see that nearly every sentence has a double entendre,
like that last one.
As a result, when we attempt to analyze and discuss sex and sexuality using our prefrontal
cortex, the conversation almost reliably goes off the rails with a probability approaching
one as our lower brains become engaged, aroused, and amused.
It's almost designed not to be discussable.
Yet there are two groups of people I see who do better than the rest of us in this regard.
Some academics, such as evolutionary theorists, physicians, and sex researchers, and commercial
sex workers.
In this episode, I'm interviewing one of the world's most famous actresses, yet her
name is all but unknown.
She is Ashley Matthews, creator of Riley Reed, one of the top porn stars of our time.
My goal in this conversation is to try to stop sex from becoming sexy just long enough
so that we might learn a little bit more about how the pornography community and its civilian
clientele are now interacting.
We may wish to say that you have never found pornography interesting, but that doesn't
make a lot of sense when you consider that an individual's desire to avoid it doesn't
stop it from affecting society as a whole.
Like it or not, pornography is like dark matter, forming an Einstein lens with an immense gravitational
field affecting everything around it.
You don't have to watch it directly to feel it distorting us by monitoring our hypocrisies
so that it can cater to our denied selves.
It also presents a strange mirror to our society.
As if there were a Newton's law for pornography, it appears that everything we do here on earth
and civilian life is mirrored on planet porn.
They have a wage gap, but one that at least naively goes in the other direction.
When I call Ashley at her office, she has to be sexy to her coworkers simply to be professional,
and she claims that her experience with onset harassment is near zero.
Now, I'm in no position to evaluate these claims, but it takes some getting used to.
And just like another planet, there may be no easy way back from a one-way ticket to
becoming well-known as a performer.
Now I should probably describe the ground rules for the conversation you're about to
hear so that you can better understand the context of the episode.
I asked Ashley to humor me and that we would both try to lay off explicit language for
the most part.
We also agreed that we were not going to talk about sex much, rather we were going to try
to talk around it.
I'm sure the ratings will suffer as a result, but if I'm honest, I'm not really that interested
in interviewing the character of Riley Reed.
I'm sure that would have been fun, but here I get to do something far more interesting
because I'm talking to the person Ashley Matthews who both created her and plays her.
I told Ashley that I wanted to present her in a light in which she has seldom seen.
She is by nature playful and charming, and that comes through here at times.
But she is also hugely successful and courageous as a businesswoman who has stayed for years
at the top of one of the world's most brutal occupations, with her charm and her sweetness
seemingly intact.
The woman is polite to a fault, and humble whenever we speak.
She has few, if any, of the attributes we usually associate with stereotypes of erotic
performers or commercial sex workers.
She has also embraced her own bodily vulnerabilities as assets rather than deficits, and she has
induced others to talk about such things in public.
In that respect, at a bare minimum, she is a role model to us all.
So the subject here is not Ashley as a performer, but instead her as an observer and analyst.
I don't ask her about details of her sex life because I view everybody's personal
sex life, including a porn star, as none of anyone else's business in the healthy society.
If that is what you're looking for, you can find it in almost anyone else's interview
of Ashley.
Instead, in the midst of what appears to be peak shame of a new worldwide shame kink bubble
fueled by social media, Ashley is one of the few free voices having long ago learned how
to turn our shame and discomfort into her profitable business with recurring revenue.
As a result, we get to discuss terrifying topics like the awesome power of the state
to harass and target businesses like hers working within our legal framework.
This is done by trying behind the scenes to make their access to banking and commercial
services far more difficult, such as happened during the Obama era's quiet operation choke
point.
While I find this appalling and disturbing, we also need to discuss other means for facing
disturbing trends that are going under analyzed within the pornographic industry.
Perhaps the most disturbing of these is the mainstreaming and promotion of so-called
incest porn on the tube sites which serve up free videos to anyone with an internet
connection and a willingness to get past modest access controls.
This is a challenge given the obvious risks and concerns to anyone who believes in free
speech absolutism.
I hope you give Ashley a chance and that this gives us all food for thought.
It's a tough conversation, but with a kind and wonderful subject.
Without further ado, I bring you Ms. Ashley Matthews.
Hello, you've found the portal.
I'm your host, Eric Weinstein, and I'm here in studio with a special guest today, Ashley
Matthews.
Ashley, thanks for coming by the portal.
Thank you for having me.
Now, it's an unusual episode of the portal because the way I see it, you are Ashley Matthews,
but you've created a character who's an actress named Riley Reed who portrays a series of
characters in erotic films and shorts.
You have a successful business, you're a successful businesswoman, and I came to know about your
existence through sort of an odd chain of events, which is that when I did one of my
first large live shows with Sam Harris and Ben Shapiro at the Masonic in San Francisco,
I believe that you were tweeting about how excited you were to attend the event.
People said, wow, Riley Reed is going to your event, and I said, who's Riley Reed?
People thought, wow, you really don't know, this is an incredibly famous erotic actress
who is apparently very interested in rationality, psychedelics, sexuality, and sort of understanding
where our country is going from an unusual viewpoint.
You were at that show?
Yes, I was.
How did that impress you?
To be honest, wanted there to be more conversation about all the things, I mean, Sam Harris
talks about all the free will and this and that type of thing, but I think it was a lot
of politic type things, kind of Ben Shapiro and him kind of talking a lot back and forth.
I didn't really get to hear much from you.
Well, I tried to stay out of when they were trying to get into, is there a god, is there
no god?
It's like the sharks and the jets or the bloods and the crypts, you don't want to get in
the middle of it.
Of course.
Right.
But nonetheless, I loved it.
It was great.
Now, what drew you initially to that world of Sam Harris and his constellation of issues?
The first time I listened to him, a friend of mine recommended one of his podcasts about
social media and kind of the, what is it, like how it manipulates you, the manipulation
in social media and social media is such a huge part of my life and my job that I thought
it was really important for me to take a look and understand it deeper in a way that I've
never really even visualized it or even noticed what was going on in the social media world.
And so because I work in it, we kind of all now work in it.
I thought it was kind of like a duty to know exactly what we're all doing and kind of like
helping influence.
So when I first heard that podcast, I was really intrigued by it and thought that it
was, I thought that Sam was like so well spoken and it was very interesting.
And I wanted to look more into his work and whatnot.
I listened to a few more of his podcasts and learned about his fight against religion and
his perspectives on free will, which were things that I've never even heard of before.
And I grew up religious myself.
So to be able to listen to an atheist, talk about all of these things that I kind of always
felt within myself without ever actually expressing it, I thought was really interesting and beautiful.
And I felt like, I was like, oh, here's like somewhere I can relate and things that I feel
to be within me, but never actually expressed or found, I guess, my following or fellow
peers that I could speak to about this.
So yeah, I was very, very interested in everything he had to say and I'm an active listener
on his podcast.
Are you, would you self describe as an atheist if that's an appropriate question?
I would say so.
I didn't think that at the time that I was, but now kind of learning more of what it
is expressed to be, I would consider myself an atheist, yes.
Interesting.
Now, the way in which you sort of cropped up in my life a second time was that I started
looking into the aftermath of something I had known nothing about, which was called
Operation Choke Point.
And this had been initiated under the Obama administration, if I understand it correctly,
where the FDIC and perhaps the Justice Department came to realize that they could put a lot
of pressure on the financial system not to do business with people in certain sectors
of the economy or to make it very difficult for them to get access to regular financial
institutions.
And I recall an article or an interview, maybe it was in paper, I can't remember where it
was, where you were talking about the fact that you couldn't get normal credit and easy
access to commercial banking, despite the fact that you were running a very successful
and profitable business as a businesswoman.
Yeah.
There was a lot of, there was a lot of adult actresses and directors and whatnot, people
who have had their accounts shut down in banking institutions and things like that.
I have had simple things where like email servers where you can kind of like send blast
emails to your subscribers and whatnot, kind of reject me in being able to be able to use
them.
I think like, what was it?
I can't remember what the website was called or whatever.
Mailchimp.
Oh yes, Mailchimp.
That's what it was.
Mailchimp was one of the programs where I wasn't able to use it and there's like many, many
more when I was like building my website, I was trying to like build my website from
kind of like third parties, not trying to follow the standard adult website brands because
I felt like they took a large percentage of our money.
So I was like, what other avenues can I attract that can work with me?
And I was searching for months and months to find someone to like as simple to hold
my bandwidth and whatnot and it was really difficult.
And I ended up having to speak to like specific owners and reach out directly to be able to
be like, listen, this is who I am, this is what I want, would you be willing to work
with me?
And now through that, I work with certain companies where I'm like one of their biggest
clients and I think they work with a lot of sports networking and this and that and still
my adult website is, I'm like their number one client.
And so I feel very fortunate that they would take me on, but it took a lot of research
and a lot of emails being sent out to people to be able to be like, listen, I am not a
criminal.
I'm not a bad guy.
Like, you know, I understand that there are things that make the adult industry complicated
because I have to make sure people are 18 and older and they don't want to be, you know,
giving access to people who are not of the age and how do you find that they are 18 and
all of the retune regulations.
So I understand that there are those kinds of rules that take place that make it a little
bit more tricky.
And so I think that the problem is that so many companies just don't even want to take
the risk.
That makes it a bit more of a struggle for us to try and find legitimate business that
is, I mean, if I refer to you as a commercial sex worker, you're comfortable with the designation.
All right.
So as a CSW, you accept that there are some added requirements for doing this kind of
work.
So that is legit and above board.
Yes.
There are legitimate businesses that want to do business with us, even though I think
that they're missing out on a huge market by not doing it.
And I'm very curious as to some of the reasons why they even don't do it.
It's maybe politically, religion has something to do with it, I'm sure.
