to participate in activities that they are not mature enough for.
Well, you didn't, I mean, here's the thing that blew my mind is that when I looked into this,
I found that there was this acronym for what he was doing, which was clothed female naked male.
And you didn't recognize the acronym and you're in the business.
No, I wasn't. I wasn't familiar with it. So this is what, what I found fascinating is that the world
of kink is so varied that even if you're in the business and you're in it, like, you know,
well, I'm my own niche. I'm not really in the, I'm more of the like girl next door niche. I'm
typecasted. I will never play a milf or things like that because I, I'm more Islamic liberation
front if you're following it. Not in my world, but, but I think that, you know, even for me personally,
I've learned to cater my brand around the typecast that I have. Whereas if I was maybe a more
alt tattoo type female, my brand would have learned to adapt to the audience around myself.
So my, my audience is a specific type of brand.
I guess, you know, just to talk about trends in the industry, it's now possible,
like, okay, Cupid, I think pioneered a blog that used the data component of a dating app,
in this case, okay, Cupid, to try to figure out, okay, well, what patterns can we discern?
Like for example, how old are people's photographs that they use for their profile relative to their
age? And then, you know, an average of 2.5 years lagged or something like this. We now have all
sorts of data on people's sexual proclivities based on their use of these websites because of the,
the sort of the big data opportunities. What have you guys learned about us?
Well, we've learned like there are definitely seasons of even from the type of adult films that
are consumed to the colors that the performers are wearing. So there's like algorithms that they could,
you know, or data that they could track where they know like holiday time, you know, around
now it's like October, or it'll be October in a few days, but like October to I think like February
is the niche of incest porn is huge. And I think that largely has to do with the holidays where
people spend a lot of time with their families. Now is incest porn actually trying to depict
straight up incest, which is I find incredibly disturbing, or is it really incest adjacent
where it's trying to depict sort of step like relationships gone awry? It's both and it mainly
depends on the particular company you're working with. And I think that's only specifically because
the payment processors. So certain payment processing will force you to say step mom,
like minimum three times, you have to kind of establish it multiple times throughout the scene.
Whereas our other sort of a legal requirement where it wouldn't, if it was not, but if the
payment processors did not have any input, then people would do straight up incest incest. So it's,
I think due to the payment. Are you comfortable with that? Me personally, not necessarily. I don't
feel comfortable saying the word mommy or daddy to me. It's also not erotic. It doesn't turn me on.
Got it. I would rather play the babysitter in my, if you want to keep that teen spirit alive.
But I also don't necessarily feel comfortable playing a teen either. Like I had one fan at
one point tell me that they loved my 10 year old vagina and it was because I didn't have a bush at
the time. And then, well, this was a huge trend where we habituated people to seeing females in
a prepubescent state. Yeah. I started growing my bush after that one statement. I was like,
all I needed to hear was that guy say that direct sentence. And I was like, well, this is my only
way of claiming womanhood. Yeah. And, uh, because I do look like a very young adult person and I
play a young person in my films. And so I don't necessarily feel comfortable constantly playing a
yes, prepubescent, you know, a teen, little teeny bopper. Well, and, and I think this is part of,
you know, getting back to the issue of the obscenity decisions. This is, um,
well, I usually come down on the side of free speech. I do think it's worth making the argument
against, uh, which is where we are now. There was a five, four decision and the five, four decision,
um, one of the justices, I believe in the, in the minority wrote saying that there should be no
concept of obscenity was it should all be covered. But because arousal takes place, not in the
prefrontal cortex where we're actually doing our thinking, but it's taking place in the
autonomic nervous system, which we have very little control over. We sort of only have supervisory
control. Um, it makes sense at some level that there are certain ideas that you don't wish to
excite. And this comes across not just in sexuality, like for example, the concept of, um,
fighting words is a defense, um, which is that if somebody riles you up and is trying to get your
goat and you, and you smash him in the face, there might, that might be, um, a mitigating
circumstance where it wouldn't simply be considered assault because the person's use of language
was trying to elicit passion that would likely end in violence. And of course, you know, crimes
of passion, uh, which does have to do with sexuality that, you know, sexual jealousy is
thought to be capable of arousing us to violence. Um, is there an argument to be made that if the
speech, um, or the art is intended to access the parts of our brain that are most primitive and
least under control, that maybe that shouldn't be considered speech at all? I'm not sure because
sometimes I wonder if these type of acts or videos or whatnot are helpful to viewers. Like,
I'm not sure if it's like, instead of the person going out and performing these acts on a person,
a fellow person, they're able to view it on screen and, and because they're,
that's interesting. So it may, maybe the idea could be helpful. It could be because we are,
we are acting, we are an actress and an actor performing and we're, I am not an actual under
age minor, though I am most times playing one, but legally I have to pretend I'm 18 because
the payment processors and whatnot and the laws. So you are a 28 year old woman playing what you
believe to be an underage person who is technically portrayed as being above the age. That's
three different ages that are taking. Yes. 100%. And a lot of the times I, I would like to think
that it's helping people so that they are not actually like, like the incest porn. It's helping
people to not actually take, you know, like experience these activities because it would
be wrong. Your guilty conscience would probably weigh on you. You would be like, what did I just
do? This is a terrible mistake. What did I, what am I doing? This is reflective of some kind of
sickness in our society that I don't, I don't even understand. I mean, I have to say it's quite a
shock to me. Well, you know, something very interesting. My dad married his step sister.
I, I had a girlfriend in college whose parents were stepbrother and sister.
Yeah. There he is. She's not my mother, but it is something where I make like a joke where I'm
like, my whole life is a big giant porno. Like, and it is interesting. He met her when she was
about like 13 years old and you know, he was. So after puberty. After puberty. I forget what
that effect is that if you grow up with somebody, you tend not to be aroused by them at an earlier
age. Yes. Right. So it is interesting to me that like it's, it is real life where you can partake
in these sexual activities and it's not blood related and it is technically legal because
they are step, stepbrother and step sister, but there is still for me a personal element where
I find it unattractive. Yeah. For me, at least myself. Right. Listen, I've really enjoyed this.
I have one final question, but I think that if we don't figure out, you know, I have this,
I'm going to get a little abstract, but I have a theory which is that the invisible world
is first discovered by the visible world's failure to close. That is, for example,
you learn about a, let's say dark matter in the universe, not because you can see it, you can't.
It doesn't have photons bouncing off of it, but it bends the light around it. And so you can see
that there must be something there because all the visible stuff is behaving strangely. And in some
sense, the erotic entertainment complex is like dark matter in our society. It's this enormous
influential thing. One of the things that was very strange was watching how many people literally
would say, who is, who is Riley Reed and, and their faces lighting up with the light that they had,
I mean, they just weren't aware that they were lying. So clearly this is shaping our society.
It's affecting who we are. It's affecting our sexuality. We're not really able to talk about it.
I feel like I'm taking a big risk, which maybe in my mind, maybe not, by having you on the program.
I think that for the most part, the discussion has been exactly the kind of discussion I was
hoping to have with you. So thank you so much for being here. But like my, my final question really
is, what is it that the pornographic world can tell us in the civilian world about ourselves,
watching all of these tensions between men and women? And what would be the best way
of being in dialogue if you do understand why it's so hard to mix these two worlds because
of their two shifts in basic norms? It's kind of hard for me to answer because I've been
in the industry for so long at starting at such a young age. So I don't, I almost don't know what
it's like to not be this world or this person. And sometimes it's hard for me to comprehend how
people cannot or aren't the same or have similar mindsets and perspectives.
I almost wish that every person would just be a performer for a month or two, just so that they
could understand and have a more realistic idea on what happens in, in our world, and then take
that and bring it to your world. Because I feel like we have so much valuable
self-awareness and confidence to offer that the general public is not really,
it's not tangible for them because they have all of these rules of society's standards that you
have to follow. And I think that if people could put themselves in our shoes and could be a performer
for a month, then I think that they would be able to understand the,
the business aspect as to where we are not these crazy criminal-like type people.
I think that it would help them understand the, that sexuality is so fluid and, and how love is so
transferable and like you are transferable where I've, I've personally learned how to
find beauty and attractiveness and love from so many walks of earth in just any human being
basically that I, and I got that from shooting porn where I, I don't know if I would be as
full of love for strangers because I am forced to have intercourse, not forced, I'm not like
held at gunpoint, but I willingly volunteer myself to have intercourse on film with strangers.
And it gives me the capability of really learning to love literally every person around me. And I
think that it's kind of taught me something really beautiful and like accepting within,
you know, my colleagues and literally all the people in the world and,
and I get to see how vulnerable people allow themselves to be with me when they meet me or
their fans of mine, whereas they wouldn't be so vulnerable in the sense of they were maybe even
just speaking to you or, you know, your editor over there. And whereas me, because I am a sex
worker, they, they see me in such vulnerable states that they can also let their guard down and be
the most true of self.
I didn't even let you do that. I mean, you're, you're this absolute master at disarming people
by making them feel non creepy about their own sexuality, which was something I prohibited
you from doing in this interview. And, you know, you don't even need it. I mean, I have to say,
I don't think my listeners even understand this, but I did the first show with Peter Teal,
which was really about innovation and growth. Um, Werner Herzog was about high art. Um,
Timur Koran was about, uh, our relationship to truth. I mean, these are all big themes. Rabbi
Walpie was God and, uh, Jaco Willink was war. And I, I don't feel like I could have picked a
better interlocutor on the subject of sexuality. And now I think what I get from you is a
a bizarrely and challengingly positive view of universal love that I was not expecting.
Um, I'm still not ready to accept it, but I'm certainly going to think about it because
uh, that's a real surprise at the end. Yeah.
Ashley, thank you so much for coming. Thank you so much for having me. I really appreciate it.
I thought this was quite a challenge for myself. We were both nervous about it, but for totally
different reasons. Yeah. Thank you. I really appreciate the opportunity. Okay. You've been
through the portal with Ashley Matthews, alias, uh, Riley Reed. Um, thanks for joining us. And
remember to subscribe wherever you listen to podcasts and go to our YouTube channel,
subscribe there and click the bell so that you'll be updated whenever the next episode drops. Thanks
for joining.
Okay.
Okay.
