about this. And then you didn't shave your armpits for a while. And then you did a YouTube video
about the decision not to shave your armpits and shaving them. And you confounded everybody's
expectations for what you're supposed to do as a big-time erotic performer. And I just took so
much away from that. It was very inspiring that you would be that courageous. And it was something
that personally moved me and helped me a little bit. Also, people don't think my hair is real,
because they think it's a wig, because I'm too old. I'm not kidding you. So that was a great
image from a most unexpected corner of the world. So thank you. Oh, of course. Yeah, I think a part
of that simulation I was speaking about would be about body image, because there are so many
young women that I've met who, like one particular particular model, I won't say her name, but she
said that she had so many fans, and I don't even know what how so many are, but she had so many
fans who told her that her breasts were pointed in different directions, that she had two breast
augmentations. And I could imagine that the people who complimented her greatly outweighed those who
didn't, but people sit and they think about these negative comments, and it affects them greatly
to the point to where they will change their body. I know girls who have had complaints about their
nose or their this or their that, and they very openly go on their Instagram and they talk about,
well, you guys complained about this on my body, so I fixed it. Right. And it's very sad to me that
these people who aren't mentally strong enough put themselves out there and allow the feedback from
some Joe Schmoe, wherever he is, saying these hurtful things towards the women or and men,
and it affects them greatly to the fact to where they actually will pursue action and will change
their body and put silicone breasts in them, which is can be very dangerous. This can be life
threatening. You put yourself under under this anesthesia, which is already a risk as well as
the risk of the poisoning of the silicone. And it's really like, I know quite a few girls who
got in the silicone and then have gotten it removed later. I know a girl who has gotten her
her butt done and then removed afterwards. And these are very extreme life threatening surgeries to
put yourself through over the simple fact of you think your audience will like you more.
And to me, it's obscene where I've not I when I first started the industry, I had my first agent
told me if I wanted to be a big star, I would have to dye my hair blonde and get a boob job.
Right.
And I have done neither of those.
So this is the thing, which is like you really are you don't you're very disagreeable. You don't
take all of the standard advice and somehow it's been working out for you. You know, and I like
let me be a little bit more forthcoming. I don't think I'm entirely comfortable with what it is
that you do for a living. But I've tried to get over that because, you know, you've just been such
a genuine and wonderful person to talk to about all of these things. And so in part, you're extremely
disarming. You get people to be comfortable with the fact that they do have a sexual response to you.
And you get people to accept you on your own terms and you've risen to the top without any,
you know, seemingly any consequence to just being yourself. How did you figure that out
and nobody else did in your area?
I honestly am not sure. I think that to some extent my parents had, you know, obviously a very large
part of that. My mother has always been, she was never like the type of person who took her body
image into consideration. My mother was like an overweight woman who kind of never really dressed
nice. And I think that that kind of helped me a lot too. And she was always proud of herself and
her confidence was always very high. And I think a huge part of my ability to just kind of accept
myself for myself was to see that as a role model was that she still found herself to be beautiful
and loved herself, even though she may have not been the standards of beauty. And sometimes I wonder
if I would be more in my own head if I had this attractive, hot mom who dressed the part and
put on makeup and all of these things where she was not that at all. And she always was very
accepting into whatever we wanted to wear. And like when I went through my goth phase, she would
You did a goth phase?
I did have a goth phase. And she supported and got me all the like funky clothes and all these
things. And when I did go through my like more sexually explicit phase, she was always like very,
very open to everything that we wanted. When I wanted to start wearing like thong under garments,
she was like, Yeah, let's won't go get them for you.
Do you think that you're sort of set at the factory at a more hyper sexualized level?
I do think so. I think that like, I was always around a lot of like sexual activity. I grew up
in like a trailer with my uncles who had a lot of girlfriends, their girlfriends were strippers,
and they were drug users.
So there's a develop, there's probably a developmental aspect, maybe not set at the
factory, but that the that environment.
Yes. And and my, my dad does claim to be like a sex addict and things like that. So sometimes I
wonder if there is some sort of, you know, biological self something in me that is more
hyper sexual than others. And because I don't think that everyone is meant to be,
you know, into sex. I think that some are more than others. I think like Nikola Tesla was a
virgin when he died. And that makes sense. He was studying science the whole time.
So like, I think that there are certain people who are Newton was also pretty asexual.
Yeah. And to me, it makes sense. Like not everyone is meant to be a hyper sexual person.
Like some of us should be studying the arts or sciences or, you know, hunting and gathering
rather than procreating. Okay. I mean, I think I mentioned to you that I had heard a podcast
with a professional colleague of yours, Asa Kira. And she had said, I don't think that I'm an
appropriate role model for all young women. I think that I'm an appropriate role model
for hyper sexual young women. And I thought that was fascinating that I hadn't occurred to me
that we may be partitioned into different groups and that a hyper sexualized young
woman might need an appropriate role model that is highly specific. Do you feel comfortable being
that in your area? 100%. Yeah. I think that since very young age, I had always been a very
hyper sexual person. And I never necessarily had like a role model. And, and I agree. I,
I wouldn't say that I am a traditional type of role model, although I would like to be,
I think at some, to some extent, I, I would like to think that the more average girl could
admire me and look up to me for other aspects and whatnot. And because I, like I said, I, I know,
I have a lot of girls who know who I am from like podcasts and stuff. They have no idea of my,
my work or anything like that. And they just admire me for the way I speak and my opinions on
things. It's very hard for me to integrate. Um, you know, when I've spoken to you on the phone
before, you say, you know, it's been great talking to you, but unfortunately I have to get back to
the set. And I have this like, it's like somebody telling me, I have to go fight the battle of
Stalingrad. Some terrible crazy things about that. But you're like, Oh no, I love my work. And it's
just, it's, it's very funny to see my own discomfort and prudishness proper.
It is interesting. It's very, it's a very bizarre thing for me, even when I meet people like yourself,
you know, and like other types of fans, like I've, because I have these other avenues of
attracting personas, I've had very young adolescents come up to me and ask me for photos
for my podcast with like Logan Paul. And this is absolutely mind boggling to me. And I,
their parent will take the photo and I'm just like, do they even know? And I don't know what
possible to say. Well, this, well, this is the thing. I think that there's a lot of it that's
not personal. Um, when it comes to the trepidation, it has to do with, I have no plan for how we are
going to negotiate all of the issues that come up because in my world, we're all wildly sexually
hypocritical and that's normal. That's, that's the way the civilian world has always been. And
presumably it's likely to be that for the foreseeable future. Whereas I see you as this sort of
dangerous truth telling machine experimenting with things that, uh, you know, that's that are
unimaginable. Now you just went to burning man and burning man is a very odd thing. Um, in
the black rock desert, uh, of Nevada, because for one week, somehow the normal rules are suspended.
How do you find this sort of, I didn't find it. I went once. I didn't find it incredibly hot. There
was a lot of nakedness and there was a lot of play, but it wasn't a wildly erotic experience in my,
in my, uh, understanding. Did you find it otherwise?
I also agree. I did not find it as a very erotic experience and it could just be because it feels
kind of dirty with all the dust everywhere. To me, just hygienically, I'm not really interested.
It's a very creative place. Like the art is astounding.
Yes. It is a beautiful place. And I, I think that it's just a, a place of people to be able
to be comfortable in their bodies. And I think that the fact that it's not hyper erotic is also
why people are so comfortable with themselves because they are able to walk around naked and
look at, looked at as an art piece rather than looked at as a sexual object. Whereas
even an erotic art piece that isn't necessarily going to immediately lead to a, a sense of arousal.
Yes, exactly. They are able in that moment to embrace themselves for who they are because
you'll find young, old, overweight, thin, attractive, unattractive people who are just
nude running around and everyone is just so confident in themselves. And I think it's
such a beautiful environment and place for people to really be able to accept themselves.
And it's kind of sad that that is the one place that they are able to let their guard down.
It was very interesting. I, I remember seeing a woman on a bicycle who had very clearly had
a radical mastectomy and she was totally topless and she did, I mean, aggressively,
she was having the time of her life and didn't care. And there was this sort of,
you know, cocoon of like acceptance and love that was clearly in the air. I don't think it's
an easy thing. Now, Burning Man is this very funny thing that they refer to the civilian world.
As the default world. And so in the default world, it's very tough to get that kind of
radical acceptance. It is. Do you find that there's some sort of similarity between that
deviation from the civilian world or the default world that is Burning Man and the porn set?
I would say a hundred percent. Like a lot of my friends that I work with or a lot of my friends,
I get them to end up working for me. So I've got some friends who are like mainstream editors and
I somehow managed to get them to start editing my adult videos. And I have one that I ended up taking
to Burning Man with me who had such a, he recently told me how he's had such an epiphany within himself
to be able to be so comfortable with his own body and comfortable with other people, but other
people's bodies by simply editing my videos. He's not on set. He's not partaking in any of
the activities or anything like that. But because he's just been editing my videos, he's found that
he's able to have a different relationship with nudity and sex and all of these things. Whereas
in his regular world, previously to meeting me, he was more, I guess, vanilla or follow the
standards of these civil civilian type people where it was like, no nudity, you will never see
him naked unless you are his girlfriend or partner at the time. And now he's in a totally different
place where he said himself, he's like, by the end of Burning Man, I will be walking around naked too.
And I think it's like this ability within himself where he's now, he's gotten to be able to put
himself in the perspective in the shoes of us on set. He sees the delay of when before cameras
cut, he sees like, you know, they start action and there's moments of us getting comfortable
with each other. There's moments of us cutting and just kind of like being natural in ourselves.
We're like taking a water break and everything like that. And I think that there are elements that
definitely have helped people grow within themselves and be able to accept themselves as
they're just natural human self. So it seems to me that there's definitely something to learn
from this weird pornographic universe. On the other hand, I can't see that these lessons will
ever fully translate. So for example, do you remember this horrible number at the Oscars
where I forget who it was, somebody was singing the song, we saw your boobs and it was going through
all of the actresses who'd appeared topless. And the idea being that, well, if I've seen your boobs,
then in some sense, I've got something on you. And I thought about John Lennon and Yoko Ono
doing this album called, I think, Two Virgins. And they're appearing naked on the album. So
let's get it over with. So now you've all seen us and let's, now you don't have any power over us
anymore because it's done. Do you think that there's something like that that at some level,
there's this revelation that you have your privacy up until a certain point. And then when
you've given up your privacy in exchange, somehow you get a comfort with self.
Yes, 100%. I think that there was a study done that showed that women who perform in adult
entertainment or as a sex worker have higher levels of confidence within themselves than
the average woman. And I think 100% that there's something about putting yourself out there to
be so vulnerable kind of forces you to kind of have to not care what other people think or say.
And I think that there's also, as much as you get these negative statements, there are still so
much glorification in that there's still so many people who are applauding you for doing what you
do. Like I look like a normal girl, an average girl who's probably going to college or has some
sort of basic job. And when I go to the store and I'm at Target, I'm a very social person. I make
small talk with anyone. And I often will like, I just start conversations with like maybe this
random 60 year old lady. And we're kind of like, you know, talking lolly gagging. And she asks me,
oh, like, what are you a model? What do you do? And I tell her, well, I'm actually like one of the
number one porn stars in the world. And a lot of times they look at me, they like size me up and
down. And they're like, you, like, you don't have big silicone boobs, you don't have all this injection
in your face, like you. And I'm like, I explain to them, you're also pathologically polite. Yes,
I am. I am a lovely lady, I think. And a lot of a lot of times when it's like an older woman,
she will tell me how she regrets not being more exploring in her life and regrets not being able
to or not have done things that were more adventurous sexually or erotically, or maybe like, I think
one woman told me she wanted to do like nude modeling, but she never did because her herself
was a petite small brunette woman. And it was it's always so interesting to me that the positive
reinforcement I get from older women who are always like, wow, like, I am so happy that you
do that. And like, I wish that I would have been. I think there are a lot of post menopausal regrets.
I was friendly with a woman who I take to be maybe in her mid to late sixties,
who started for some reason as I was leaving San Francisco telling me more than she might have
otherwise. And she talked about how back in the day, she had allowed people to eat their meals off
of her naked body as a kind of performance arts. And she was just having the time of her life
cackling about it. And we were like laughing and making rude jokes. And I thought about the way
in which maybe the part of the problem is, is that men really need women in general in the
civilian world to be much more simple in terms of their sexuality that you want to imagine your
mother and your grandmother typically as somehow bringing forth life with, you know, not multiple
lovers and not having much of a history and that somehow I wonder whether it's male needs for an
idealized concept of woman that make this pressure lifelong and that post menopausally,
many women just say, well, what did I do? I gave up so much of myself.
Yeah, I agree. I do think that a lot of men want these types of desires. And I don't know if it's
biology or what it is. Sometimes I don't even think that necessarily matters. It's probably like
environmental. But I know personally, when I talk to a lot of guys that are my friends, they're
like, I love you and I adore you, but I couldn't date you. Would you make a bet? Does that make
sense to you? No, it doesn't make sense to me. Like, and I don't know if it's because I as a woman
would, I guess, by all biologically would look for the most suitable male and would probably have
multiple children. If it was a primal world, I'd be like, Oh, he's like six feet tall and
big hunky man. And he's like a smart, lovely gentleman. Like I would imagine maybe I would have
these desires to have these different types of children. So it could explain my attraction to
a variety of men. But I also feel like men would naturally be that way too. But I don't know really
what it is. Like, I think I would like, what is it? Some one of the big cats like lions or
something will kill the young of another, you know, it's even worse than that. I believe the idea
is that if the head of the pride changes and there's a new lion at the head, not only will he kill
the young offspring of his predecessor, but that horribly the female lions response to this
is to go into estrus to become receptive and aroused by the killing of their young.
Right? Like, no, I mean, nature is just so crazy. It's so crazy, right? And we can't really
accept this in part. And so my belief is, is that a lot of what you're seeing is the evolutionary
