All right. Hello and welcome, everyone. It is July 7, 2023. And we are in the first introductory
session of the course, Active Inference for the Social Sciences. This is going to be a really
exciting course and journey that we're all going to join and co-create together
with no further ado. I will pass it to, please mute. Turn off the live stream, Aval.
Thank you. Complex systems and feedbacks with cyber physical systems will be a theme.
We told you it would be. I will pass now to Aval for the introductory session. If you're watching
live, please feel free to write any comments or questions in the chat and I'll relay them at the
end. On to the lecture. Thanks, Aval.
Go for it.
Hi, do you hear well? That was a sound issue. Okay, cool. So, Aval, I organized the course.
I had the idea and worked on the curriculum. Do you see the slides well?
Looks good. And just make sure to close the YouTube video or mute it.
So, hi, do you hear well? That was a sound issue. Okay, cool. Okay, I did not know how to do that.
So, this is the introduction session of the course, very unsurprisingly.
My name is Regina Carleau. I am a funding member of Kairos Research and I am a non-funding member
of Active Inference Lab, which co-organize the course. And first, I will basically present
the teaching team. So, we have Danielle, which is here with us, which is a PhD in Ecology and
Evolution, studying and the everywhere in an eco-evo kind of way, who is president and co-founder
of the Active Inference Institutes and who is interested in, among other things, our philosophy
and cognitive security. Then we have Ben, which is also here with us, which is a secondary PhD
candidate in philosophy at the University of Sussex, which, like me, interested in
4E cognition, which is embodied, inactive, embedded, and extended cognition. We don't
need to get into that now. He will explain to you. And in projective processing,
which is basically working on the cognitive science of technology. And then we have people
who are not here today, which are Maro Albarassa, PhD candidate in the cognitive computing at
the University du Québec, Montréal, which is head of product innovation and research at
versus private sector research lab in AI and the mathematics of AI, which specializes in
while active inference. The theory we're working on right now, script theory, which she will extend.
Maybe I will talk a bit of it today, but she will be the one who explains what script theory is to
you. And modernity, artificial intelligence. And we have Laurence Gonzala, also a PhD candidate,
also in philosophy, but in Wollongong, I believe this is how you say it's in Australia, which is
centered in a philosophy of mind. And in the status of information processing, as the term is used in
cognitive science. And then there is me. So I may do career timeline, because when I talk about
what I did, people get confused. I did physics math, I did engineering, I did cognitive science,
I did research in ecology and evolution. I did masters in complex system physics. And
I did one year, apparently, given my timeline, or two, no, more than two of independent research
as a part of Keros research and as part of the French society of academics. Before I started
the PhD, I'm doing now, which is something about the relation between mind and material
culture. We will get into that at some point. And the question and motivation I have are
essentially describing the relation between phenomenology, so the way we experience the world
and physical reality, which I have the fringe view that somehow phenomenology is constructive
of physical reality, which could have weak and strong interpretation, I subscribe to both.
I'm trying maybe more importantly here to explain or at least describe how sociological life
format to say the regularities that in the life of human social life are constructed,
which is hard. And I'm trying to build a research that is effective at doing knowledge,
not word piles, through our work in Keros research. So these are specific references.
You will get the slides at some point. I guess I will publish them on the website.
And then we will be able to check it out if this is of interest to you.
So let us get on the actual relevant content. So what we are going for here is basically explain
the very basic demarch of the course, explain how it's of relevance, how the framework we
propose is of relevance to social science, and present a few case studies to make the case.
And then we will talk about course layout, but this is pretty quick.
So first I'd like to talk about the explanation of cultural dynamics. What does explaining
cultural dynamics even mean? Depends who talks. There are many, many, many, many, many types or
views on what is scientific explanation. I say we can cluster them in three broad categories.
One is a nomological, so it's about laws. And what it does is to take regularities,
just say, here is this regularity. And I consider that these statements, so the law,
has an explanatory capacity toward the regularity. So for example, for those of you who are
familiar with the work of, and I forget names, Foundation, the Foundation Trilogy, I believe
it's Trilogy. This is pretty close to what they call psycho-history. So basically trying to do,
trying to find laws of behavior and using them to predict history in a regular lawful way.
Then we have mechanical explanation, which are more typical of the life science. And what
we do in mechanical explanation is to look at the structure of a system, and model the structure,
and try to use this model to predict specific regularities that are of interest. And you
have an approach to social sense that is, I'd say, quite close to that, which is
close to that, which is chloramics, which weights a lot on the nomological side, but still is
centered on dynamics and mechanisms and explanation by calling onto structure in specific societies.
And then you have a functional explanation, which asks what constraints exist so that the
system does what it is that the system does. Here again, you will also use a lot of contextual
modeling, very often evolutionary game theory, so simulation where we suppose that agents can
have specific traits and those that reproduce more or that have more fitness give their traits
around. And you have the discipline, a field of study of cultural evolution that does that very
concretely by just asking how culture evolves, so what cultural traits can get more fitness and
be transmitted, a very evolutionary centered approach to social change. So to sum all of this up,
basically we explain things by calling onto regularities always. And we can talk about
regularities in the phenomenology, so what the system does in of itself, in the structure,
that is the language stem activity, or in the function that is the constraint that exists over
what the system does. And you have a specific brand of explanatory strategies that try to
legify behavior to make an homological lawful explanation of human behavior and of social
cultural change. And it's not immediately evident how they do that, how they think it's a coherent
idea to begin with, because humans learn, culture change, so what laws could there be
in a field where, which is changing with time always. So in my opinion, it is a more question of
rhetorics than of epistemology, because I do not think the answer is coherent. The answer is,
as far as I'm concerned, that people, they just reify regularities that are observed in
experimental settings, often that are quite heavily fabricated as kind of cognitive laws
of behavior. And because those people usually agree in spirit to the mechanical kind of explanation,
they talk about cognitive mechanism or mental processes, but only in so far that those
mechanisms or processes are explanatory of cognitive laws. They do not do the work of,
you know, looking at the structure and function of the systems. They just claim,
there must be a mechanism that explains the vague law that I have observed over 20 people that came
to my lab. And these laws, they are assumed to scale for the explanation of social activity,
and so you have it, you have the recipe for universal law of social change.
And the, basically, the whole argument stands on the idea that you have a presentation or
mental processes or a cognitive mechanism that somehow entail that the subject's
behavior is regular through time and between individuals. And you never have the work that
would actually, in any capacity, prove it for reasons that we will not get into because it would get
math heavy and renty. So if the rules and regularities of human behavior can change through
learning, through cultural evolution, through whatnot, how can we exactly model or explain
or even describe this agency? This is not doable in an homological slash lawful framework because
when we do natural laws, we look at regularities, we claim, here is a law, this regularity is a law.
So it explains that, you know, it exists. And this is a circle because as far as I'm concerned,
it's a circle, like the regularities explain the regularities which explain the regularities.
There is no way out of this. You can recurse this all day long. The only fact that you observe
the thing is your explanation for the thing. This is not, hopefully, how we do things in
science. And you have a process of explanation that is more complete if you look at
structure and function written large. You can look at a specific system, which is a specific
structure, and you can look at what the system does, the function of the system and act to
specific point of time. And you can look at how this function, this activity, shapes the system
later on at t plus one. You can have, you know, developmental approach to things that is internal
how system unfold, how they learn, how they evolve through time, like that is doable.
There is no law against that. And it could actually work. So, yeah, let's do that.
Let's explain natural phenomenon by describing how the underlying structure work, but also by
trying to explain how it's brought about, how the system's activity explains the way it takes shape
through time. So, a claim that we will make here, that is, itself, it could be contentious,
but we don't have to look at why it is not written here, is that active inference, which is a specific
new trendy theory of human cognition, can actually explain how regularities in the
language, social activity, be constructed through time. And let us look at what active inference
says precisely. So, there is, we won't look at the math ever. We won't look here at the specifics
of this theory. The only thing we are going for is to prove that this theory indeed does
what I think it does, which is explained, or at least described in a non-trivial way,
the evolution of social regularities. So, if active inference framework is true,
then cognitive agents perceive the world through expectation they have developed about the world.
So, perception is an active process. I do not perceive things with my eyes and compute higher
level of traits of what I saw. I basically expect things in front of me, and I will actively look
at the things that are most likely to inform me. And something that is critical about this
framework is that the prediction is also underlies action or policies. So, let's say, trajectory
of action that I enact. I will do the action that I believe I am more likely to do. I will do that
in virtue of me believing I am more likely to do this action. So, in that framework, active inference
is understood as a process of an action of a specific model that is causally shaped both
by an agent's dynamics and environment dynamics. And this relation, well, brings a model that
corresponds in abstract way to the structure of the dynamics of the relation. And this model,
I can also look at it in a way more concrete sense in that it is what underlies what drives
the agent dynamic. You have a duality between the dynamics and the epistemic mental states
that we put, that we project, that we can observe in the dynamic. So, a very important
aspect of this is that it dissolves entirely agency as we would understand the term.
There is no distinct step of perception which informs the agent on what action, on what the
world is like and based on which the agents decide freely what action it will take.
There is a constant prediction of what is going to happen. And this is enacted by the agent
both through perception and action. So, what drives decision here, what drives generally the flow
that underlies the agent behavior is the agent's self-model. And that is, that has
interesting consequences. So, I have notifications, so we'll look at them. Sorry.
What's, let me drink. I will drink. I need to drink.
So, one consequence of this formalism is that normativity. So, the values and norms, it's hard
to go around that word. That drive behavior, they are not, you know, in the brain, they are not
something that the agent abstractly relates to. They are embedded in the very process in which
the agent understand and goges and navigates the world. And this is a very relevant for a
human cultural evolution because, well, we are cultural creatures. We learn expectation about
each other both explicitly by, you know, looking at how people do things and then expecting them
to do the same things again. And implicitly through the very process by which we
relate to other people like norms, like language. And the way you look at this,
this learning through emotion, it can be reduced essentially because of the properties of active
inference to what people call regimes of attention. So, the way I pay attention to things, the specific
things I will look at in my process of understanding and navigating the world,
the flow by which I mean that is the same thing as a set of value and a set of expectations.
So, what is important here is that normativity and values and things like that, they are
embedded in my cognition in a much more basic way than, you know, conscious self-reflection.
Also, of course, conscious self-flection can inform that flow. It is embedded in the shared
expectation I have with other people and there is no Valentino result that I can actually be
reflexive about it. Because, well, the way I predict things, it's based on the statistical
regularities that I have seen in the world. And because the way I pay attention, it's, you know,
entailed by a predictive model of what is going on around me. I'm very constrained,
very much constrained by the statistics I have of the thing I have seen around me.
So, regularities drive how I pay attention, which drive implicitly value and normativity.
And you can add chemical steps, you can add reflexivity, you can add, I don't know,
accountability, you can add a lot of things, but you cannot remove the very basic way in which
cultural values and cultural expectation are embedded in perception. So,
yes, this is a repetition of what I said. The patterns in the flow of attention that are
embedded that I have developed through the very fact of engaging with a cultural niche
and they constrain my actions towards specific outcomes. They entail specific values, specific
norms, and they entail, at least they constrain very, very, very, very heavily the intention
that I'm even able to conceive to generate. So, there is a dual-dibrison equivalent way to see
this, which is engagement with the spiritual landscape. So, every agent, they experience
the world not in the same way, of course, but they experience the same. Let us say that each
person's experience of the world, it predicts very strongly the experience of the world that
all the people will develop around them. So, there are structural properties of the, you know,
landscape of opportunities and perception and possible action that we experience.
There are properties that are transferred between individuals robustly. This is the case, for example,
of norms. So, if I say, if I say, if I look at a law, any specific law, all of the people in the
same country, they are subjected to the same law. So, maybe some of them can just ignore it. They
live too far from the city. We don't have cops here. Maybe some of them are above the law and some
capacity of their relation. But the basic constraints that the law entails, it is experienced by
everyone in a different way. We all expect that specific people will react to specific situations,
specific way. And this is the property of the landscape that we experience. So, the way that
this landscape shapes transportation in a robust way, we can look at, basically, it's as a constraint.
So, not as a directive property of a landscape that I can or cannot experience, but just as a
statistical force that shapes behavior in a specific way. And looking at things like that,
it means that I can see a given social cultural field in two complementary ways.
As a site of agents that navigate common, well, not quite common, but mutually constrained
social cultural worlds or as a set of constraints that produce itself. And the way agents reconstruct
the world around them, in their mind, the way they understand it in a creative manner, it is
equivalent to the way the set of constraints reconstruct itself, which is important because
if I can reconstruct, if I can look at this world as a set of constraints over statistical
constraints for behavior that reproduce itself, I can look at it as a living thing, strictly speaking,
because this is how we define living things, at least in specific sub-branch of system
biology that I believe is relevant, is to be believed about that. So, when we talk about
structural landscape, we can look at them either as a landscape of affordances, this is an opportunity
for action that are experienced and enacted by a set of individual agents, which interact so as
to having some level of coherence between the landscapes they experience and enact. And I
can look at the same landscape as a system of constraints that are exerted over the behavior
of those agents. And that I can define and study with no clear reference to any individual agent
