entities. Whereas regimes of attention refers to the dynamical patterns of attention,
which is to say relevance and salience for cognitive agents. The sociocultural landscape,
to use an example from Avel's presentation, might include the modified niche that includes a monument.
Then a given cognitive agent might, when they gaze upon that landscape in a
encultured fashion, have a regime of attention such that their eyes are moved towards the point
of a monument. But the regime of attention is modeled as a pattern of dynamics of a single
cognitive agent. In active inference, we model attention as covert or internal action.
I want to add something I use, possibly abuse, the term landscape
because it has a very specific meaning slash connotation, which is a space that you can gaze at.
This landscape is a space that you can gaze at. If you go to a more mathematical notion of space,
you will basically find very closely the expectation or formal entailments that this space
represents the set of possibilities accessible to a system. This is all there is to it.
This is not what a cognitive landscape is. It's not the set of possibilities that abstractly
an agent could experience. It is what an agent experiences now, what it can gaze at now.
This is why the notion of a landscape is very heavily used. It does not have a clear mathematical
meaning. It should have because it has a very specific conceptual meaning that is critical
to the understanding we have of cognition and that is not afforded by set theory. Most mathematics
we would use, the brand of mathematics we teach in school and that physicists use,
most physicists, not all physicists. Well, if we consider like Waddington's epigenetic landscape,
or if we consider the surface that variational free energy is optimized on as a landscape,
it gives us a lot of really good intuitions. It gives us something to gaze upon as instrumental
modelers, but it is not the same as the landscape of trees, even though each one of those trees
might be modeled by an observer as possessing a epigenetic landscape or a regime of attention
or a free energy landscape. Well, if anyone has other thoughts or questions, we can consider them.
Otherwise, Ben? Just give me a second. I don't think everyone has...
Do you see the image? Yeah, it's small, but Waddington's landscape. There you go, thank you.
Yeah, Waddington's landscape. So it is very old, 30s, 20s, 30s, I guess,
thing in evolutionary biology. So Waddington is, let us say, the founder of contemporary
developmental biology, and the landscape are basically a dynamical fitness... I do not know
how to not say landscape, that is a problem. They're basically the space in which agents can evolve,
the phenotype of the agent can evolve during its development, and this is a very, very, very
grounded visual metaphor or symbolism, I don't know, for the study of developmental system.
So this is why we told Coffin's landscape for the gazing and for this historical
grounding of the developmental studies in biology. And also, I literally am
paid to landscape archaeology, so yeah, let's overuse it on landscape. That is good for me.
Cool, but it's an example of using our spatial and embodied experience to get a grasp
on different conceptual topics. Ben, you have any comments or I'd love to hear a little...
Yeah, I actually ask about this image. There's a couple of words that I was expecting to creep
into this discussion that did not, which are attractors and rappellers, about when you mention
dynamical systems. I wonder if you think these are useful terms for thinking about,
because attraction goes very naturally with thinking about attention. And I wonder if you
think this is a useful kind of linguistic tool for visualizing the relationship between
social cognitive landscapes and attention?
Do you see the social constraints diagram now? Okay, I wanted to have it, if there is a screen
show laying around, I wanted this to be a screen show. So attractors and rappellers,
yeah, I mean, we're basically talking fitness, when we're talking landscape, we're talking fitness
landscapes, so I guess it kind of entails the notion of attractors and rappellers.
Now, there are many reasons why I'd stay away from demical systems terminology, because, well,
the demical system, they entail the pre-formulation of all possibilities of the system,
which I think is very, very, very wrong to do for biological system and social system systems that
are. But on the go, upon ending the evolution and reconstruction, so I'd stay away from this
formalism whenever possible. And attractor technically mean
subregions that you cannot possibly get out, which exist in conservative system, basically, but
in all cases that we're interested about, it's technically not attractor, and
we can't think of it as attractor to specific timescale, it's okay. But then if we have to abuse
the formalism this much, why not use the formalism? That would be my flow of reflection about this
terminology. I understand attractors as states that have visited more regularly than others,
so is there something about that that's not correct? I will check it out. Yeah, an attracting set
is one that is revisited, but there are, of course, many sub definitions to be more technical,
like the attractor, is it just the point, or is it the basin of attraction? But broadly, on a
landscape, as things shake out, the attractor begets some states that are revisited more
than those that are not. That's kind of the tautological definition of the attracting set.
So, attractor is emphatically not at least under standard definition,
set of states that is visited more often. It is characterized by forward invariance,
so the fact that once you're in, you don't get out. So an attractor is a manifold, so a subspace,
let us say, such that if you're in, you don't get out. Well, there is a basin of attraction such
that if you get in the basin, you get into the attractor. So under, if you look at stochastic
chemical systems, maybe you will get out because it's, you know, stochastic means
with random noise, basically, let us say that. So if you are specifically within a stochastic
chemical system, so an optimal system per se, then you can talk of attractor and think of
things that are not actually, that do not have this forward invariance, just things that you
tend to stay in for a while once you're in. But you are not talking about attractor anymore,
you're talking about some other thing. The functionality is forward invariance. We don't
have forward invariance here, so let's not talk of attractors. I do not. Yeah, that's fine.
We can, I mean, we shouldn't fall down this rabbit hole completely. We can talk about this another
time. Let me go to another great question in the chat. Michael says, a philosophical question.
Science does a beautiful job of describing and building testable predictions of reality but
underweights subjective experience. Human subjectivity arises within experience of observation,
but includes preconditioning as well as experience. How should science-informed observers reconcile
the limits of subjective experience with the limits of objectification?
Science builds good models. Good models are all competent engagement. That is basically it.
So the question of how to build a sense that is effective to information is basically the
question that Pondid Kairos, I would not use the word effective per se, but
you know, that's pretty close. And we'd have to, in principle,
sense this build to create precise models, precise adding does not create prediction error
within a specific context that is a heavily, heavily ritualistic and conservative.
And that would be, you could criticize pretty heavily the institution of science as a
truth-seeker, normative thing. But so you'd have to have a good level of reform to basically enforce
a modeling that are both robust and easy to transmit socially outside the cast of scientists.
So Daniel and I, many other people, wrote a paper on ontology for decentralized science,
which speaks to it. And yeah, so if you get science, you get good models. And once you
have good models, you can navigate competently. But slash and I don't know, but and both what
bend, bend, bend, you would need a heavy level of reform institution of science
to get this process be more, you know, ergonomic efficient comparing and socially influential.
And yeah, I think it's an important thing to do when I try to do it. So thank you for the question.
I'll give another angle on that. Bayesian statistics
qualitatively equates to the explicit provisioning of our priors and how we update those prior
beliefs as new observations come in. We may have high attention to new observations and
update our beliefs a lot. We may not be paying to the attention to the new stimuli and therefore
continue our prior belief. So if we're not paying attention, it's kind of like a belief with inertia
that's greater. And if we are paying a lot of attention, then beliefs change more rapidly.
And trying to capture every single belief that leads to a research team, whether they're in
academia or not, to carry out, interpret, analyze and communicate a certain topic,
that is a really far reaching task. However, Bayesian statistics and Bayesian approaches
like active inference are helping us get a grasp at the preconditioning that does play an essential
role with ongoing experience. So the question of how to engage with extant institutions and norms
and practices is a challenging and ongoing work. But in some ways, the formal principles that help
us understand how context and measurement come together for cognitive entities and groups,
those fundamental principles are being communicated. Maybe also, I'd love to hear about what you're
planning to talk about. Yeah, I'm not sure if I, I'm not sure if I even fully understand the question.
I took it, the question is briefly, I took it to be maybe some worry about the relationship
between the formalisms and computational models in active inference and human subjectivity itself.
So how do they, how do they bridge the gap to phenomenology there? It's a really interesting
question. I know that there are some people who think that phenomenology is human subjective
experience is just going to have these transcendental aspects to it that can't be captured
with by the formalisms. That's something I won't be talking about in my session.
What I will be talking about is, so some of the, so I'm going to speak on some things that did come
up briefly today. So many of the readings that feature in my section are readings that will use
the term predictive processing. So I was going to say a little bit quite briefly about how I think
these different, different, slightly different frameworks fit together and what some of the
similarities and differences are. I was going to say move quite quickly and superficially over
some of the core mechanisms, so precision weighting, predictions, generative models.
And then I was, what I'm going to try and do is before we go on to the subsequent weeks where
we look at collective behavior, norm, normativity, social scripts and things, I wanted to try and
build up a nicely layered picture of what it's like to be an active inference agent in the world.
And so the way I'm going to do this is by swooping over some philosophical territory. So I'm going to
look at the way active inference has said interesting things about philosophy of mind,
particularly in terms of the role of internal representation. If I have time, I'm going to
say a little bit about embodied cognition, some of the four restuff. You got it right. So it's
embedded, embodied and acted and extended. And I'm not going to be able to talk about all of those,
but I'm going to say a little bit about some of them and how active inference kind of brings
interest in debates in that area out. I'm going to say a little bit about folk psychology
and motivated action. So talking briefly about what agency itself is for an active inference
agent and whether it's folk psychology. It's a kind of propositional psychology. So it's a
framework of propositions that we generally use to describe and explain human behavior.
So it involves propositions such as A desires B or X hopes that Y. And it turns out that this
propositional psychology is pretty good for explaining and predicting human behavior,
but it's not. Can you say we it's 70 slay persons? Philosophers.
So do you mean we in the sense that it's a useful framework?
I mean that you should explain what the term is because it's folk psychology is quite specific.
It's not a word that is in folk psychology. Oh, okay. Yeah. So folk psychology is basically
the linguistic framework we use to describe human behavior. So if I want to explain why
Avel goes to the refrigerator to grab a beer, I would say you believe there's beer in the fridge.
You desire a beer. And then on the basis of that, you form the intention to then go to the fridge.
And it's been the subject of a lot of philosophical interest because the kind of ontological status
of those concepts is very unclear. So it's not clear whether when we use folk psychological
concepts, are we saying that those concepts exist in some meaningful way? Or are we taking a more
should we take a more pragmatic approach and say that this is just instrumentally useful,
but we're not actually positing the existence of any kind of brain states or anything like that.
And there's been some interest in work on how predictive processing and active inference
might map onto folk psychology. Are they in a necessary kind of tension? Because obviously
with predictive processing, you have just a very, very limited set of primitives with which to
describe and explain human behavior. So I'm going to say a little bit about that. And then I'm going
to move straight into talking about phenomenology and talking about how certain aspects of the
framework have been said to underpin certain kinds of experiences. So I'm going to use a case study
of addiction, I think possibly depression, but I think I'm going to talk about addiction. And
with this case study, I'm hoping to bring out kind of tie together all of the things that I've
set up to that point and some of the things that you've covered as well. And I should say as well
in the discussion session for my section, we'll have a special guest as well. So we're going to be
joined by Professor Mark Miller, who is a prolific author of predictive processing and neuro
phenomenology type stuff. He's done some really, really interesting work on happiness and well
being depression addiction and really using the active inference framework in some quite
imaginative ways. And he's awesome in discussion. So hopefully you will find the readings for my
section really interesting. And if you do, you'll have a chance to kind of have a conversation
with the author for those pieces. Avel, any closing notes?
Active inference rules, I would say.
One short question. I just want to get it on there while we're here. Brynn asks,
as a psychologist, I am more or less in the business of helping people minimize their
variational free energy and expected free energy. Great profession. But what are the markers of free
energy in the brain or organism? Is it heart rate, neuromodulation, galvanic, skin response,
cortisol levels, et cetera? I say the closest proxy would be sort of those prediction error
things in the brain. So when we have expectations, they are related to the backpropagation of this
information. In fact, the expectation was verited. And this would be the closest
proxy to variational free energy. I do not think it would be the exclusive one,
but it is the main one. And I don't think it could make an exhaustive list. Basically,
anything that is out of order so as to prompt any kind of response of either letting models
of acting on things, it would be a marker of one prediction error, which is not
quite variational free energy, but is also quite not it's so far expected free energy.
I have no idea whatsoever. I don't think this framework has connected explicitly to physiology yet.
It's very interesting question. And all I will say or all I feel like I can say on it is one
thing we're going to talk about in my session is how prediction error is not always a bad thing.
So there's a really nice AON article that came out fairly recently about the value of uncertainty.
And one of the things I'm going to talk about is how predictive processing has
perhaps it can account for phenomena such as playful behavior, creativity,
engagement in challenging hobbies and dangerous sports and things like this and how
we get an account of exploratory behavior and curiosity, which is kind of rooted in the fact
that the creatures like we are for active inference agents, the resolution of prediction
error itself is a good thing. And so in some sense, we're always seeking it out. So I think
it might be a mistake to kind of in it's very intuitive to equate prediction error of free
energy with kind of allostatic load and stress and negativity, but actually it's going to turn
out that that's not the case. Yeah, thank you. And I'll give another type of answer, which is
variational free energy and expected free energy are statistical calculations about
statistical models. So bodies don't have expected free energies. Models that are made about bodies
can have variational and expected free energy. And so to that end, whatever you put in your model
is either an observable or a proposed latent hidden state that you didn't measure.
And you may find that different experiential reports or different physiological phenomena
have different relationships to each other. So indeed, it has been explored, for example,
which neural firing rates are associated with surprise or which hormonal changes are associated
with this or that change in body temperature. When the generative model is made, the deflationary
answer is look at the data and find out which cues you measure are associated with your calculation
