recalled, you say recalled English cropping, I don't know what is wrong, but when you take
the food from the plants, and people have to stay there for very long to cultivate that,
so they cannot, you know, go around and put potatoes here and there and leave when they don't.
So you can just go to people and you will know where the people are and where you can take the
food. And, you know, when the food is going to be, to be, again, I don't know the word, cropped,
because it's cereals, it's always the same time, it's very visible in the landscape,
how far you are from recoating slash cropping. So you cannot really have a way to cheat that.
You can just send many norms, take the food, give it to the city to depend on the population,
and you have a very rationalised, controllable society. And we, we do not know that this is
the reason why we have cities and monoculture, but we do have traces that states very consistently
tried to have big cities and monoculture fields, and mostly they succeeded.
And, oh yeah, this is relevant to active in France, because in active in France,
the way you pay attention to things, it is productive of your world, it is productive of what
cognition you have. And here, the capacity for administration, the capacity for written symbols
that tell what things are, they are critical to a state's understanding of the world. They are
what literally produces the way states pay attention to things. And, in fact, it was a
basically major thing for them to have a world that looks like this. It is very directly telling
about, you know, the fact it creates a world. It's a direct instantiation of that. And that is a
nice thing to do, and I'm happy I did this link. So, this is for the K stories.
Expectedly, you don't see the collections, not all of them. Maybe you're convinced that there is
something there, but most likely you don't see very precisely what is to be seen here. So,
the expectation is that, of course, you develop a very specific understanding of active in France,
the framework. You develop a specific understanding of how it relates to social
science, to questions that are relevant in social science, and you develop the capacity to, you
know, have an informal opinion that's a critical informal opinion on how this relates to question
in social science. So, we are doing the introduction lecture. Hopefully I've convinced you there is
something to see here, if not too bad. And the next session will be in four days, not one week,
four days. It will be about basically the basics of active in France. What you have to know to
understand, not the framework per se, because it's math heavy, but what the framework says about
our life as community agents. So, then you have the discussion. You should know that for each
lecture there is discussion. Lecture is, you know, vertical. Keep on talking, listen. Discussion is
more free form. Every person has a basically authority on how they share the discussion,
but the expectation is that it is a discussion because it's the name we gave to the thing.
So, after the basics, we'll look at patterns of collective behavior. So, how those elements
on the cognition, human cognition, or non-human cognition, they give tools to study the organization
of collective systems, like, and colonies, or societies, but will stay not specific to human
approach. We'll be interested in collective behavior, but we're not
interested in the specific patterns of collective behavior as afforded by human cognition.
Then we'll look at the semantics and semantics, the evolution of symbols. So, think that are
close to the treatments. We'll look at how active in France accounts for evolution of symbol and
what evolution of symbol affords for cognition. And then from here, we'll look at very social
sense things, norms, script, narrative, language. So, how this discussion on active in France and
collective behavior and semantics, they inform very directly, they give a model, specific
principles, predictive model of social human behavior. And then we'll look at, so, my thing,
the way I like to think of it all, which is social constraints. And we'll go back to the claim that
there are landscapes of social cultural commission, and those landscapes can be looked at in,
abstracted from the individual scale manner. And this is explanatory of cultural change.
And then we go for the conclusion. So, we'll be interested in your clinical course. This is
the first one. We'd like to have feedback, a lot of feedback on what you thought of it and what
would make it good. So, that will be for the conclusion discussion.
So, here, I hope that you present yourself. We have not the capacity right now to have
students take the screen and talk. But I'd like to know, you can say in the chat, what is your
background? What are your expectations for the course? Whatever you want to say about things,
the world, preferably being related somehow to the course, that would be nice. But yeah, please
tell the things to us.
That concludes my talk. I thought these slides would be clear.
We have last thing, maybe we considered making projects. So, you making projects that we read
maybe, let me say, grades. But I do not think that we are in capacity to give
standardized, normalized degree or attestation that has any value. So, we decided not to do it.
But if you, so asking you to do things, to do projects is a bit weird if we're not going to
grade it and attest that you did it. But if you want to do it, if you want to write things and
send them to us for review, this is very okay. You can do that. We're not formally invited to do
that, but you can do it. Well, I'll just add a point on that. And then, meanwhile, if anybody
wants to ask a question in the live chat, we did raise this topic of different qualifications.
And it's something that we've been working on and continue to work on in the Institute.
So, potentially in future versions, but absolutely in future offerings, we will have these kinds of
courses. But as I've all mentioned, this is kind of a first run. And so, it's really exciting just
to even start that conversation and see what people are looking for in terms of certification.
All right. So, let's go to some questions in the live chat and comments. So, I'll begin.
Please, please, please. Oh, yeah. Go ahead. I did not make the escalation clear, but
because it is a first and because we're still taking the course, it is
so much more important than you actually tell us what you expect out of it. Like,
what you want or what you perceive will be here. Expect in the active influence sense
that is a bit perception, a bit action. Please tell us about that.
Awesome. In fact, the only way to reduce one's uncertainty is through active engagement. And
one is literally applying active inference when they do actively engage in this epistemic way. So,
I hope that all comes through. All right. A first question from Smomato in the chat.
Does active inference provide us with predictive power, potentially focusing on
human or social scale issues? What does it look like? Or where would you say active
inference provides us with predictive power or unique explanations and predictions?
So, yes or no, depending on the granularity of the question. So, what should look at active
inference and not active inference? Active inference is a branch of predictive processing.
So, it's a family in cognition that consider that your perception of the world is based
on prediction. You have two specificity of active inference within predictive processing.
One specificity is that it says that action are predictive, are based on prediction two.
The other is that it proposes basically a mathematical formalism in which to study that,
that grounds the claim, but also constrained the mechanisms a little bit.
Predictive processing as a family is predictive of many things. It's predictive of the fact that
basically you think you see things, but you are not in capacity to perceive them right now. So, I see
a bit of tissue, no, fabric that is behind my computer, but I know and I see the patterns in it,
but I know perfectly well that the cell that are actually, that have the precision to see those
patterns, they are looking at the screen now. So, I cannot possibly know what the patterns are,
except if I expect it and this is what shaped my perception. So, this is predicted by predictive
processing and what is also predicted is that basically the information flow in the
perception part of the brain, it is heavily top-down. You have more bandwidth that goes from
these cortex to the retina than reti-procli, which is simply not compatible with the
direct perception, passive perception kind of model. It is, however, compatible with the idea
that we predict the content of retina activity and when our prediction is wrong, then you have
feedback. You have perception error propagation. So, this is pure predictive processing.
This is explained by predictive processing. This is contradictory actively with
most conceivable variants of non-predictive processing. So, predictive processing is
predictive and I'd say it's not up for debate, as I know. Active in France, it takes in addition
the idea that the actions are based on prediction. I do not know what work empirical work existed
to check whether this is specifically the case. Maybe Daniel, you know what has been done about
this? Complete your answer and I'll give a thought. Okay. So, there are conceivable empirical
settings that would check that out. I do not know of them, so I will not claim that they exist or do
not exist. What is important to me is the mathematical grounding because most model of cognition
kind of assume that we have computational power that is implemented somehow, somewhere by
meat and this is wrong. We cannot just suppose that the big properties that the brain have,
you know, they must exist somehow, somewhere. We have to actually explain it and this is what the
mathematical formalism behind active in France principle does. It explains that we should expect
a chemical system to be predictive somehow and although it is not directly made in math,
it is pretty easy to see why the brain should have a lot of power at doing that because of the,
you know, very heavy tuned power for chemical attunement it adds.
So, but I would not if active in France is empirically distinct from other
case of predictive processing, I am not sure how. I cannot think of an experiment or empirical
observation that definitely discriminates between active in France and non active in
France predictive processing. I think it exists. Great. Thank you. Well, in many ways active
inference is predictive processing with action under additional sophistication and richness
supported by the free energy principle. These are technical topics that we explore in other
discussions as to whether active inference gives us unique explanation or prediction capacity.
One could look to, for example, the linear regression or any other type of statistical
framework. Linear regressions in and of themselves don't make predictions because you need a target
to make a prediction about. However, given a linear regression model relating to health outcomes,
for example, you might use that model to reduce your uncertainty, which is to say have predictive
power about that system of interest. And so in that respect, active inference has been used to
develop a host of unique explanations and predictions related to a variety of cognitive and behavioral
phenomena. I'll just leave it at that. And I'll read some introductions and such in the chat.
So Robin writes, Hi, my name is Robin. I work in digital governance. But yeah, good.
What makes that I buy active inference as a mechanical model of human cognition is that
you don't really get adaptive, chemical attunement, adaptive action without some variant of
action being predictive. Because the default picture would be that you have to plan a full
action trajectory. But there is no computable way this can be fast enough and robust enough and not
costly enough to underline adaptive action. So you'd be basically, you'd say, I have to grab a cup,
I would look at the cup, see the cup, plan if I move months, and at the movements, if something
happens, if I was slightly wrong about the position of the cup, the algorithm is too heavy for me to
adjust. So you'd not be able to navigate anything at limit information or that is changing. And we
are very good at navigating things that means information which are changing. So until there
is another mechanical model that predicts, you know, attuned adaptive action, I will have to buy
active inference as a model of human cognition specifically, because the math underlying is
pretty solid, in my opinion. Yeah, it's always a great question is relative to what
measurements need a comparator. And so active inference with predictive value relative to
something unspecified doesn't really make sense, but we can evaluate it better or worse in a certain
setting. And so it's important to compare it. So I'll just read a couple introductions. Robin
wrote, Hi, my name is Robin. I work in digital governance. I've been curious about applying
active inference to the construction of governance for digital commons. Great kickoff.
Swamado wrote, Hi, I've been studying fundamental physics. And now I am doing
Cleo dynamics with a current interest in pragmatist philosophy. I came to discover active
inference and see how to apply it to cultural evolution. Under says hello. Anthony writes,
Bonjour. Anthony, Anthony writes background poker player, father, entrepreneur, very little
knowledge on subject, attend cognitive security in Davis, working on project that active inference
is very relevant to expect to learn and engage. And Gina writes, Hi, I'm a biologist and neuroscientist
that wants to understand the theory to do experiments with the escape team.
Cool. Well, people can continue to add on introductions or questions in the chat. Ben,
if you want to ask or reflect on anything. Or I'm sure there's more things to talk about.
Yeah, I thought that was a fantastic introduction. Some very interesting connections that I wasn't
expecting there. Nice to see manufacturing consent making an appearance. And a lot that
I think I can let me turn on my camera. Yeah, certainly a lot that I want to pick up on and
hopefully circle background to in the in the in the session that I'll be doing.
Cool. Cool. By the way, what I wanted to say earlier, and I could check now is that
I believe I believe that manufacturing consent was a Shamsky thing, but it is not. It is a
Leapman thing, which is the guy that basically founded the very notion of public opinion in the
thirties in the book called public opinion. The book is co-authored with Chomsky there, no?
Shamsky was not. It was maybe eight at the time. I very much doubt he actually did a thing.
I'm sure I have a copy of that book on my shelf. And I'm pretty sure of the book
manufacturing consent by Shamsky. The expression manufacturing consent is from a thirties book,
public opinion, by Walter McMahon that founded the whole public opinion thing.
According to Wikipedia, at least I did not looked for a specific book that would specifically
mobilize public opinion because like, what do we mean by public opinion? I don't know.
Le Bon does not go clearly, but maybe something else goes. I don't know.
It's great for that, I can at least say it. That's kind of the interesting question about
multi-scale systems and emergence. If we enable or grant that brains can perceive or do things
that a single neuron can't, but that they have a material relationship to one another,
then is public opinion just like a pile of sand? It just represents the summation
of the nest mates. Or does public opinion represent a singular integrated unit in its own
respect? One that might have to be sampled by investigating the material constituents,
but still being something different from that. I'll just go to a question in the chat,
or Aval if you have a thought. Does a pile of sand have semantics?
I love it. For an observer or for itself? Sorry? Does the pile of sand have semantics for an
observer or for itself? Good question. For an observer, I guess naturally for itself,
clearly not. Really not. That is symmetry. But I can put together brain and public opinion
different coordination mechanisms, but still coordinated systems.
Yeah. Comprehensive systems in a non-fuel sense. If the sand is piling up at the bottom of an
hourglass, it certainly has semantics for an observer who knows about hourglasses.
Michael says hello. Habtivist, greetings, Michael, and asks a question. Please further
contrast the terms regimes of attention and sociocultural landscapes.
Contrast as you explain what the terms are, I guess.
Yeah. How are those terms similar or different?
I do not see. Basically, I propose we active inference people. I do not have the idea.
Propose regimes of attention, so specific patterns in the way your attention flows. As
an explanatory mechanism, let us say what underlies the experience of cognitive landscape.
Cognitive landscape, whatever is the array of things that you as an agent experience as your
world. Then we active inference people also claim that the coordination between individuals in a
cultural agency, so the way we co-construct, synchronize regime of attention, means that
there is a coupling between the landscape that we experience. Landscape that are constrained in
such a way, I will call sociocultural landscape because it is easier than saying cognitive
landscape that are constrained by sociocultural processes. Is that satisfying?
Yeah, it is great. I will just give another view on that. A sociocultural landscape is something
like the ecological landscape or the actual basis materially of our system of interest,
what we are studying in sociology. It consists of inert objects as well as animate cognitive
