in the same way that I can study a dog without looking at every single individual cell. What
you're interested in biology or sociology is usually, you know, a great patterns, not what every
single living thing around thinks of every single thing. So, that was the heaviest it got, probably
over the world course. I do not expect you to grasp all of the consequences of what I said,
because it was very condensed and it was very abstract. But the case I'm making here is not
that everyone has to understand all the math right now. It is that this framework, it does things to
say about relieving question in social science. And to make this point, I will not just, you know,
give the abstract presentation of how it's awesome because we have landscape, whatnot.
I will look at specific fields, questions, case studies in social sense. And I will look at
basically how active in France entails a pretty specific model of that. That is well,
grounded in cognitive sense, and that is relevant, and that is adequate to the study of
living, changing systems, et cetera, et cetera. So, first, a genre setting. Some of you will
know what it is. Some of you will not know what it is. So, a genre setting is something
that is situated in the work on public opinion, specifically. Like, I believe this book is called
public opinion. So, a genre setting, it refers historically also you have a more diverse way
to understand it now, to the role of mass media like journals and later TV in manufacturing consent.
This is a text solicitation from the text of, no, I thought the book cover. I forgot the name
of the guy. I'm sorry, you have to look at the reference. But it is used to study how mass media
can manufacture consents by drawing attention to specific issues and shaping specific expectations
about the world. So, the idea is that you have a role, an active role of the elite, what I call
the elite here, people which have outsized influence of the flow of policy or society.
I will call them elite. And so, those people, they basically transmit norms. They transmit
normative expectations. So, consents to whatever is the thing that they do, that they want you
to do more specifically. And they do so not by telling you do this and that. They do so by
building agendas. So, drawing attention to specific issues in a specific way.
And you can see here, people who are, I mean, it's prevalent in the political life, everyone knows
that. But the US right wing is very, very, very transparent in doing that. And so, this is a meeting
between two experts in a general setting, Donald Trump and Ron DeSantis, which basically have
convinced people that they should not worry about things like, I don't know the price of life,
whether we wage war here and there. Why do we have to pay millions? Why do US people have to pay
millions to get healthcare? But to how LGBTQ democratic people threaten the US life in a
very abstract way, like I did not ever hear any consistent, coherent, believable mechanism
by which they explained how LGBTQ threatened whatever republicans. But they do draw attention
to this topic. They do share the expectation that Democrats and LGBTQ are predators. And they do so
in a way that is able to legitimize themselves as a beacon of the people, to mobilize people to
actually be behind them and do their bidding, and to canalize political life in a way that is
convenient for them, because it keeps them in power. And the role of attention, the way you pay
attention to things in shaping behavior, it's just a redo of what I explained in active inference.
If you believe that the way we, the forces, the way we constrain attention is applicative of
behavior, then you believe in active inference, just express differently. So this is a case where
you have a classical, let us say, concept in a certain sense that essentially reduces the concepts
of active inference. It's not to say, of course, that sociology is irrelevant, and we should just
do cognitive sense. But this is pretty rare to have such a direct response between topics that are
disciplinary, this far apart. So this is something we should definitely pay attention to.
So, second case theory, nationalism. Basically, this case theory is entailed by what I said over
the Republicans, because we move by which they legitimize their rule. It is just say, we share
an identity here, US conservative, traditional values, et cetera, et cetera. And this identity,
it entails a specific norms. And for reasons that we are usually left out of the frame,
I, so elite people run the Sanctis Tramp, Napoli or whoever, I get to tell you what this
identity entails in terms of behavior. You don't get to speak usually because, you know,
you are not someone who has newspapers that para out what they say, what you say, because you have
to keep constantly subject. And this is very consistent with the dynamics by which we constructed
nation states. So, for the historical context, the idea that we have ethnicities, and this is
somehow relevant normatively, like the Slav should organize together, or the, I don't know,
Hungarians should organize together, and we should get to agree to things that we do,
and then do them. It's very recent. It's extremely recent dates. Well, I won't get
into the specifics, but let us say in this specific formulation, it dates from the 19th
century. When you add a bunch of very powerful democratic administration that took hold respectively
of France, the Kingdom, Prussia, and they are the capability to rule most of the social activity,
but they did not have any clear argument why people should, you know, listen to them in any
capacity. And the way it worked is that those administration, they basically started claiming
that they were some representative of a given ethnic and linguistic community. And that in
virtue of being part of this community, you should listen to them and pay them respect and
actively work for their goal to be fulfilled. And of course, it is not that easy to make this
claim. But what happened is they invested a huge deal of energy and organization into actually
having people buy that they built schools, they built prisons, they built
psychiatric hospital, they built a lot of infrastructure that enabled them to transmit
norms in a very robust way and transmit identity in a very robust way. And in doing that, they
managed to embed most of the micro-socialization you could have into their specific ethnicity
and into the normative power they lent to this ethnicity. So at some point, you were, you know,
I always forget, farmer in a lost village in France, you only meet administration at tax time,
so main arm, come and tell you, give your grain and you give your grain, because else you're
dead. And at some point, those people send you a teacher and they send you a newspaper and they
claim, hey, you are French, you have to speak French, you have to be friends with us, you have to
fight our wars. And because there is so much, you know, energy that is spending that people actually
bites or die, that's not the option, because you know, the other side of the coin is that
states that legitimize themselves through our nationhood, they are basically to be all the time
invested in ethnical cleansing, because people who are not the right ethnicity, they are not
considered element of the states. So they have to be submitted or removed, which is a bad thing to
do. This is a very bad thing to do, ethnical cleansing. And I'd like to illustrate this whole
motion of identity capture through the African Renaissance monuments that Abdullah Iwait,
so the president of Senegal, had constructed in their capital. So it's very glorious, it is very
good example of identity capture, because it shows you the norms, it shows your glorious image of the
African man, and it shows how you have to, you know, be supportive of children, show them,
protect them with your big muscle, and give them very well ambition while African women look at you
like they were non-agents, let us say that. So it gives a blueprint around which society should
be organized. It gives you a very specific picture of who this is speaking to, in this case Africans,
because I guess Senegal gets to say what is good for Africa, that is
coherent claim to make, I mean sarcastic, sorry. And why I like this specific monument,
while you have a lot, lot, lot, well, first it's very expressive. You don't, you're the
art de triomphe in France, it serves the basic same function, but it's not, it does not show you,
it tells you, and the African monument, it shows you what it means in a very, well, obvious way.
And the second main reason is this, you have nothing around it, they just put it in a pile of dirt,
and they invested nothing in the infrastructure because they were too busy, you know, keeping
taking money for themselves, I guess. I don't know exactly what did with tax money, but clearly
it was more invested in the symbolism of what African men should do and why they should follow
him specifically, and not in concrete infrastructure. And in most cases, anti-capture is a very
role deal for people who are, you know, captured. This is why I call that capture, because what
you get out of anti-capture is a symbolic sense of being part of the good team, and what you have
to give is usually, you know, the entirety of the work you do over your life, it gets
given to the state or administration that wants you to do things, and yeah, you do things for them,
and sometimes they build infrastructure, but if they don't want to, they will not.
That is very, very, very, very much a bad deal. And I give it away. So National Entity,
it was diffused to school and mass media, it was embedded in micro networks of solidarity,
so typically the African Resource Monument, it gives you, basically tells you that as a
husband and father, you have to give in whatever the state ideology of what was, and then it is
leveraged for mobilization and legitimation and control. And you have another, that's not,
oh, I did not say why it was relevant to active inference. Well, it is relevant to active inference
because all of this is mediated by self-model. All of this is enabled because people have
self-model, and they enact the self-model. And there is no necessity of a reflexive
step where you actually, you know, think about what is your self-model, and you are
expected to do a thing, you do the thing, because you expect yourself to be doing the thing,
and active inference, as we said, you do what you expect to do. So this basically explains
why such symbolic, you know, raw power, it has actual consequences. While if you have, you know,
more rational model of humanity, the question is, hey, why you build big things and not
infrastructure, it would be a rational response. But this is not what people do, people follow
norms. And this is a way to broadcast norms very efficiently and robustly. So due to that,
I'd like to talk about the structure and agency. So there is a constant question in a social sense.
Usually social sense talk about structure, so norms, habitus, way that institution builds
social life. And there is a legitimate question that is asked, which is, if you believe structure
to human behavior, what is the pace for agency? So there are constant debates in every field
possible of social sense regarding what is actually explained by the structure and what is left to
individual agency. And what I want to say is that this question is essentially dissolved by the
model of agency we have. So as we said, agency is exerted through expectation over myself.
So because social structure, it becomes expected, it is enacted through the agency of
these specific people that are within it, not having a position between how strong institutions
are and how attentive people are because strong institution or institution that
basically become embedded in your self model. And so there are people freely, not freely,
it's about them, but from their own accord, they enact those institutions. And this is the whole
thing about an anti-capture which I presented. Nationalistic ideology is strong, is efficient
in building actual mobilization, because it makes you believe that you will actually,
if you were in court, follow the social order it gives, which was not represented,
but pretty rare in a pre-modern institution. Usually, a modern institution are,
I am looking, I have an army, give me food. And when you have legitimation,
attempt to actually explain why I should get the food, these are pretty much justifications.
This is the elite people talking to themselves about why they are justified knowing that,
but you have no arguments and you have that would be actually compelling so as to why
you would have to give the food. And you have no attempt whatsoever to convince people who have
to give the food they should give the food. This ideology is not, they do not talk to the
people they ask things from. They talk to themselves about why they are, they can,
they are legitimate to take those things. And so, yeah, in those case, you have a pretty
evident conflict between structure and agency. Do I do what I am told to do under threat of death,
or do I do any other thing? Of course, most people would like to do other thing,
but they can't, and they will feel that they can't. But if you accept that agency is built through
normativity, through engagement, with a sociocultural field of finances of practical
interaction, you have to admit that structure exists at least in part through agency. Because
what agent believe is legitimate, what agent believe is right, what agent believe is expected,
it is very precisely what constitutes structures. And that is a insight that is at least in part
of the conversation in some field. And I'd like to show why it's the direct conflict
between structure and agency, it does not have a strong grounding. Yes, again, I have said the
thing that the slide would say. There is another thing that is very closer to my core body of
work, which is how active inference affords directly an archeology of cognitive landscape.
If a social organization is made of constraints or behavior,
and those constraints are to some extent embedded in the natural environment of the people,
then we can to some extent study archeological landscape for themselves. We can look at landscape,
like material landscape, the objective study of archeology, and we can make some inference
over the constraints that this landscape entails over collective behavior. I will not get into
details as to why, because it's far call. Making this inference is difficult. But very concretely,
we can ask whether you're a key, so that is that some people get to say to other people what to do,
and certification, the idea that some people are by nature above other people,
they can be embedded in vertical patterning. So you have a claim by people who found me
escape projects, look it up, it's nice. You have a claim that to some extent,
the verification of society around the Iron Age, it is written, it is embedded in vertical patterns,
in material culture, and architecture. And maybe I will not buy the claim outright,
but it is very compelling. If you look at specific architecture, you'll get a specific feeling.
So this is the not cathedral, but maybe basilic or fricadic. I will not try to say the name,
because I do not speak Slendik, and that would be bad. But you have very progressive,
compelling curve toward the sky. You have specific feelings that are
produced by this architecture. And you have a very specific way in which it drives attention from
something wide on the ground to something that goes up. And if I did not make it clear yet,
if we buy active inference, we buy that the patterning of attention, the way you give attention
to things, it carries norms, it carries intentionality. And in first person, by
introspection, I think all of you can very clearly see how architecture drives specific
patterns of attention, and how those patterns elicit specific feelings.
And we currently do not have models that would be very specific and very predictive of how this
work, but we could. This is huge work, but this is doable work. This is not speculations.
And I do not know of another formalism that active inference that would actually make it possible.
And last, I'd like to talk about the favorite work, my favorite thing in social sense, I guess,
which is a scene like a state, Scott's anthropology of states. So the core argument of Scott,
I'd say, it's hard to identify a core argument in that book, but you have ways in which states,
so here, equivalent to administrations, understand the world, understand the world through,
you know, written forms that they can pass around, many people, many institutions to have
actually a coherent model of the world, that is pretty much abuse. And what should be abused,
but is not, is that those models are reductive in the sense any model are. They emphasize specific
information, and they leave out other specific information. And something that is very interesting,
I'd say, is that states they tend to push specific models, specific landscaping,
specific norms in urbanism, specific family norms that build legibility. So the ability
to be understood by the state. So for example, you could have you could have very sparse
settlements that are quite autonomous, and that do the thing, it is a possibility.
So yeah, there is no law or physical constraint around that. But it is far easier as a state
to manage what is very close to it, right? So for a state, it's good to have, you know,
a population that is very close to the center of power. Because those people, they are just there,
you can go tell them what to do. It's simple. And you can you can go ask them things, it's simple,
it's very easy to manage that. And those people, they would need, you know, food to stay there.
So we need some kind of food production model that is easy to take from, that is easy to
organize and go as a centralized institution. And this is monoculture, this is agriculture,
as we understand it currently. This is people that make big fields that make the same crop,
always cereals, well, not always, sometimes potatoes, but mostly cereals. Because cereals,
you know, it's very dense energetically, it is easy to keep. It is easy to transport,
because it is dense and it is, it stay edible long after, you know,
