And I want to be seeking those.
So if people can like deepen their commitment to a direct relationship with reality, which binds them to a certain amount of uncertainty.
As a result, be dubious of being over devoted to any models of reality.
That's very helpful.
Like is almost like a sacred oath at the foundation of it.
And then if that's the case, that's what will motivate them to be dubious of their own cognitive biases and emotional traps and when they feel very outraged and when they feel very certain and when they feel a very clear repulsion to a group that seems obviously bad
or a very clear identity with an in group, they should just be dubious of all of that and step back and say, what's the chance?
And what are the possibilities that I'm being emotionally or cognitively hijacked?
And I'm not seeing the whole thing.
If people can just start to actually have a bias checker in themselves as a value, as a discipline, because they want to be in better connection with reality and truth.
And they know that more than more than anything else, it's their own misassessment of it to check.
That's very helpful.
Then they can start to learn tools that will help them of like, okay, let me actually learn some of how narrative warfare works.
Let me understand how Russell conjugation is used by the left and the right or how Lake off framing is used in marketing and on all sides.
Let me see how cherry picking of data works and how the funding of science works in a way that makes the preponderance of data not necessarily fit the whole picture.
As I start to learn that more, I start to be less manipulated by what occurs in the media environment.
And I'll also simultaneously I want to seek dissenting views that seem earnest on everything.
So when you are mentioning that you will seek people that know more than you about a topic, I will try to seek the people that I think know the most and who disagree.
But who seem in good faith about their disagreement because the dialectic between them, I have more faith in than I do in either of the positions singularly held.
And so if I can see where the IPCC has a standard model on climate change, but both James Lovelock on one side and Freeman Dyson on the other side have done quite thoughtful analysis and come to different conclusions.
I want to say, do I understand why each of them came to the conclusions they do well?
Can I facilitate a dialogue between those perspectives to try to maybe have more epistemic flexibility and come to better understanding?
So these are just examples of a few things individuals can do on their own.
One of the things that looks like is just obviously remove the social media apps from your phone so you don't have a continuous drip of micro targeting.
And if you keep it on your computer at all, curate your own feed so that you're using it as a tool more and it's using you less.
So unfollow all of the things that you're automatically following that are not actually enhancing your sense making and then intentionally follow things that represent different views on every topic.
So there are far left moderate left moderate right far right conspiracy theorist other countries views on every topic I follow.
Because I want to get the parallax on all those views one because I want to understand why huge amounts of humanity are thinking those things.
And two, I want to make sure I'm not missing anything where there's partial signal in what they're saying.
OK, those are good. Let me respond here a little bit.
Let's start with social media. You missed one, which I think is key.
I had Renee Derista on the podcast yesterday.
She's a researcher at Stanford on social media exploits by bad actors mostly.
And she pointed out the one thing that we could all do is ask ourselves three times before we share something.
Is this actually good for the world to share this right because what you read is important.
But we're also in social media.
We are actors in the formation of the epistemic commons.
And when we share something or like on a Reddit platform, we upvote something or like something.
We are making a shaping of the commons.
And so at that point, think three times before you act at all.
I would suggest that's useful.
And now in terms of here, will we pivot to more institutional things?
I would also like to comment that, OK, yeah, I understand that if we really want to think through climate change fully and understand, you know, built-in biases, you know, where are the error bars, etc.
It's very good to start with love luck on one side.
Dyson in the middle and a bunch of guys in between process all that data and come to some conclusion on what might be true and what the error bars actually are.
But let me tell you, that's a job over the pay grade of almost every single human being.
Yeah, maybe if I did nothing else for two years, I might be able to do that.
Realistically, I don't see very many people being able to process high scale, high complexity issues in that kind of way, which then pivots me to what can be done institutionally or as artifacts or in groups to accomplish the same thing so that people can consume the result of a process.
Well, as you know, I'm part of a group that's working on building a project to try to do some of this.
And so I can tell you the thing that we're trying to do that compared to the scope of the entire information ecology and the algorithmic bias on these major platforms, what we're doing is actually pretty small and humble compared to everything that needs to happen.
But it's the highest leverage easiest to achieve things I'm aware of as a starting place to then hopefully be able to have more stuff come.
So for instance, let's take that particular topic, the climate change one.
There's both how do we make sense of the realities of climate change?
Then there's how do we make sense of the right choice for climate change factoring the adjacent issues like US China issues and other geopolitical issues and market issues and things like that.
So one of the things that we're doing is in this project that is trying to kind of upgrade and fix the media ecology and remove the effectiveness of the narrative and info weapons by pointing them out.
So as we make the covert things over to they have more ability to be resisted.
So hosting not debates but dialectic conversations between the best thinkers on topics who are earnest who are willing to engage in a non rhetorical authentic kind of sense making process together and who disagree.
Where the facilitator is both skilled in dialectical facilitation but also understands the topic well enough to be able to facilitate it between these people who understand it exceptionally well and represent the variance in views.
And if someone is oriented to just want to win a debate or be rhetorical we don't invite them on they'd have to agree to the kind of dialectic process.
And then we do things like well what do we all agree on like what what is known what is unknown do we agree on what's known do we agree on what things are unknown and then.
Do we have a different weighting on the things that we think are known or unknown but have some probability on why do we have those weightings that lead to why we have different senses of things.
And so can the can the listener who's watching this.
See what the how the best thinkers think about it see where the differences are see where they should have some certainty and where there's where there's uncertainty and get up to kind of the best general sense of where the topic is at.
We're doing one of those right now with different experts on immunity looking at what is likely to occur for covert immunity long term.
And so topics that are both consequential and debated being able to facilitate a process like that that's one example.
And so this does like you said make it where if it's beyond the pay grade of a person.
Can we make an institution that is doing that that doesn't have any other institutional incentive doesn't have a economic.
Or political or whatever kind of bias and is really seeking to simply be a steward of the information commons and is making their process transparent enough that it can be held to that.
And then things so like one of the things that another kind of thing that we're working on is for any topic that is highly polarized but also trending and consequential where it's not just that we can't solve it if we don't have a shared understanding
but where the disagreement itself becomes a source of open violence in the streets which has obviously gotten worse in recently than it has been in recent history and can get much more worse moving forward if we're not very effective at changing that trajectory.
So one of the things is pick a topic and we do this kind of meta news so an assessment of the landscape of narratives sometimes there's really just two narratives left and right one that are dominant but sometimes there's like.
Seven narratives that are really trending that are really fundamentally different from each other.
So do an assessment of here's the primary narratives in the landscape here's a number of different kind of publications or news sources that are clustered together kind of pushing each of these.
And then let's actually steelman each one let's kind of make the best argument for it so that people who don't believe that narrative can see why some other people who do believe it are compelled by it and have a.
Version of other people that is not just villainizing.
Then and where people are starting to learn to seek other people's perspectives and learn to steelman them.
And then an analytic process that so that first process is kind of inter subjective the next one is objective can we break the narrative into individual propositions and can we try to see what evidence was put forward to support the propositions and then can we look at all the
evidence we can find that either support or refute them and what we'll then do is find where is their identifiable signal in all of the positions.
And then where they're clearly falsifiable things and then where is there a bunch of stuff that has to sit as neither falsifiable nor ver verifiable currently is just conjecture for which we should have no confidence one way the other.
And so this is this process is people go through it helps them do things like learn propositional logic learn how to break down a narrative and not.
Reject or accept the whole thing but be able to see there's probably some signal probably some noise and a lot of conjecture and how to calibrate their confidence margins.
And then how to step back and say based on the things that we can identify that are true across these spaces across these narratives what can we probably say about the space as a whole which is a synthesizing process for the earlier one was a analysis process.
So there's a kind of interpersonal narrative intelligence than an analytic empirical intelligence than a synthesizing intelligence all of which are needed to make sense.
So if we can do that with people that get highly trained in that and it's their full time job to do but then also walk people through the steps.
It'll help them make sense of what's going on and to understand why the conflict is there and diffuse the conflict.
And then also show where each of the different sources are employing whether it's intentional or not narrative and info weapons show where they're putting spin on things of what the original thing.
And that was true was and then the way they framed it show where they're doing statistical cherry picking and if they looked at these other statistics how it would change the overall picture.
So that people start noticing the narrative and info weapons and not being and they start to look for them and they look for them across the political spectrum and ideological spectrum rather than just in a tribal way.
If we can do that for people but also walk them through the steps of how we're doing it so they learn how to do it on their own if we stopped being able to do it they could keep doing it.
These are examples of processes that I think can help upgrade the info ecology quite a bit also when we're doing kind of the news itself just base sense making on a topic before we look at the meta news of how everybody else's sense make my representing it.
When we say what we're able to assess will also show our process of what data are we factoring in what epistemic models are we including so if someone wants to see how did we come to that how did we calculate our confidence they can see it and then they can learn the epistemic models.
So can we make it to where you know you and I both know that understanding tainter helps in the way we understand a lot of things in the world or understanding McLean or Gerard or Bayesian analysis.
Things that people didn't get and they're not going to go read all the books to get them can we just can press the epistemic models into the shortest kinds of essays that then also show how to apply and give sense making reifying power.
And then link them where they're useful so that people can start to increase almost like an optimized public education and how to make sense of the world that will empower civic engagement.
So these are these are some examples of basically how do we start to do a kind of broadcast where people aren't trusting it because of some authority they're trusting their own ability to make sense of reality better because we're showing the transparent process and we're increasing their epistemic capacity and not just making sense of base reality but also making sense of the way it's being represented in the narrative landscape.
I think that this has the ability if we're successful and to start de-arming the effectiveness of the narrative and info weapons and the tribalism and the outrage certainty and increasing people's own epistemic capabilities.
Then if that becomes a strange attractor for a group of people that are attracted to that who start to also engage in higher quality conversation you start to get a cultural attractor that could become very meaningful.
Ah, it sounds really good. I really hope you're able to get this going. And then I think then there's a second order effect and third order effect, which is if these artifacts that are created are compelling and have sufficient production values that they can spread virally and
mimetically, then they can compete in the idea marketplace and perhaps push back some less well formed ideas.
Yeah, and I would say even more excited than viral sharing because viral sharing is mostly not thinking right, it's just being mimetic repeaters.
Um, and I know you and Jordan have talked about this, you know, simulated thinking, but for the most part people especially in say the Facebook environment aren't actually thinking they're just looking at the thing and saying does this conforms to my current thinking ideas that I should repeat it or not.
And if it does, then I hit, you know, share or whatever. So most people are just acting as kind of mimetic filters and propagators where thinking would be, is this true? What are the other opinions? How do I know what kind of deeper process do I do?
Research is just the vetting. Is it true? Thinking is also not just looking externally, but looking internally at what is meaningful about this? How would I go about making sense of this?
And so while viral replication has some value, I would actually hope that a success of what we would do would be eventually the end of viral replication in that way.
And instead say some people who started to get much better at facilitating high quality dialogue, at facilitating dialectical thinking and steelmaning different positions as well as empiricism.
And that those people become parts of everybody's friend group and just start to facilitate not just we're sharing this piece of content, but we're facilitating authentically better conversation in all these other environments.
Yeah, I think that's good. But I also think it's a little bit wishful thinking, I suspect because of the issues of the distributions of hierarchical complexity, the number of people who could really deeply think about these large scale complex issues is small.
But there'll be some number that can engage in it and having more engaged in real thinking and modeling real thinking as opposed to simulated thinking will also help up regulate the credibility of the artifacts for people who are going to be consumers rather than thinkers for themselves.
But this sounds like really exciting stuff. I look forward to watching you guys progress. And I think on that note, we should wrap it up. We're over our normal timeline, but this has been such a fascinating and interesting discussion.
As it always is with Daniel. So thanks for coming on board and sharing your thoughts.
It's just fun. Thank you for this sense making platform that you have shared so much with for everybody and having me on.
Production Services and Audio Editing by Jared Janes Consulting Music by Tom Muller at Modern Space Music.
