Howdy, this is Jim Rutt, and this is The Jim Rutt Show.
Music
Listeners have asked us to provide pointers to some of the resources we talk about on the show.
We now have links to books and articles referenced in recent podcasts that are available on our website.
We also offer full transcripts.
Go to JimRuttShow.com. That's JimRuttShow.com.
Music
Today's guest is Daniel Schmacktenberger.
Daniel's central interest is long term civilization design, developing better collective capacities for sense making and meaning making
to form higher quality choice making towards a world commensurate with our higher values and potentials.
Daniel's an early guest on the show back in EP7 where we explored a wide range of Daniel's thinking, all kinds of interesting topics.
If you're stimulated by this conversation, go check out EP number 7.
Today we're going to be a bit more focused talking about sense making.
And we won't forget that sense making is principally important due to its relationship to decision making and action taking.
So Daniel, welcome back.
It's really good to be back Jim. Thank you for having me looking forward to the discussion today.
Yeah, I think this is going to be great and needless to say it's highly timely.
So why is sense making so important right now?
What I think sense making is always important is we can look at all of the object level problems in the world,
whether we're talking about environmental problems or war or pathways to war or infrastructure issues as coordination issues.
Why are humans choosing the things that they do and particularly large scale behavior type issues?
And that if we want to solve climate change or wealth inequality or whatever,
we have to have humanity coordinating quite differently.
The basis of large scale or collective choice making is collective sense making and our ability to communicate effectively.
And I think that for instance, if we're trying to solve climate change and we're not looking at the attendant issues that are associated,
say the economic issues or the geopolitical issues.
So we come up with a solution that say if the US and Europe were to implement a particular kind of carbon tax and China wasn't
and there was no enforcement mechanism, it would have geopolitical ramifications that are also very problematic.
As long as the solutions we're coming up with to problems are based on that kind of partial sense making,
then you'll have lots of people who care about the thing that is being harmed by the very partial solution that is trying to benefit one thing that actively resist it.
And even if it's not that, even if we had a fairly good solution but we didn't have high quality sense making,
generally where a lot of people didn't understand the issues and were against it.
It's very hard to do anything at scale when you're fighting very high friction of a lot of people disagreeing and not wanting to implement a particular solution.
And right now I would say we're kind of at peak bad sense making.
We're on almost every consequential issue.
Either people have no idea what's true or they're very fervent about what's true in total polar opposition to other people that think nearly opposite things.
You see that in the COVID time with mask wearing and hydroxychloroquine and lockdowns that these got to the level of massive civil tensions in the U.S.
and in other places in the world.
And the question of, you know, is COVID actually an exaggerated mostly hoax or is it a very serious pandemic?
Is lockdown the appropriate solution or does that cause problems that are much worse than it?
Or is systemic racism the biggest issue in America or really a kind of non-issue?
And what are Chinese intentions with regard to the world and how should U.S. relate to it?
Pretty much across all the spectrum of all the most critical issues, there is nothing like shared coherent sense of what is true and what should happen.
And so not only can we not solve any of the problems but then the inherent polarization of the different views on it becomes its own source of civil breakdown.
We're watching a very rapid civil breakdown right now.
And if we can't do a better job of getting people to be able to make sense of the world in a more coherent way and communicate in a more effective way,
then I think we see civil breakdown continue to unravel.
Yep. I'm afraid you're right.
A couple of points I'll toss in is you mentioned scale.
And that's something that I think is fundamental when we think about the problem and that the world is now finally coupled on a global basis at high density.
And that's really only been true since maybe the 1980s.
You look at the growth of, for instance, trade.
World trade previously peaked in 1914 and didn't recover to 1914 levels as a percentage of GDP until the 80s.
Kind of a surprise but true.
Of course, it's continued to grow since and of course the globalization of finance, etc.
And the fact that we are apparently at or beyond the carrying capacity of the earth for our civilization has made the earth itself a global player, right?
And so those things make the game much more difficult.
Hard enough to coordinate in your family, right?
What are we going to watch on TV tonight?
Imagine trying to have to coordinate at a global scale.
And the other is, as you alluded to, the high dimensionality, or we could even call it the complexity of the problems that humanity is dealing with.
These aren't like, how do we make iron into steel more effectively?
And we come up with the Bessemer furnace.
You know, that was a kind of a narrow, limited shot, very big innovation that made a big difference for humanity.
But it's, you know, pretty much one or two dimensions, right?
How to deal with climate change or inequality or how do pandemic spread on a globally highly interconnected network?
Problems of high complexity and problems of high complexity typically are not resolvable by formal analytical methods because the dimensionality of the space of possibilities is too high, right?
We have to proceed by experiment, by heuristics, etc.
Because there are no closed form solutions.
There is no Bessemer furnace for solving climate change, for instance.
Particularly not if we have to address the various domains that you mentioned.
The other, and I think this is somewhat underappreciated by many people, but clearly some of the experts are starting to understand it,
is we have stumbled into a communications ecosystem that was not called for, not designed, that it just emerged, right?
I'm old enough to remember when there were three TV networks and the typical American household watched one of those three at any given hour in the evening
and something like 60 or 70% of Americans got their news from those three TV networks.
What's replaced that has been a cacophony of voices, none of whom have any high status with any high percentage of the population.
I think the other day we were having a chat and I looked up online that Breitbart, for all of its influence, reaches about 5 million unique people directly per month.
So in the old days, that would have been considered a fringe network, but because of its ability to propagate on these social networks
and email and talk radio and all these coupled, highly fractionated networks, we're living in an unprecedented information ecosystem.
I think this is a theme I'm going to come back to, I'd be interested to get your thoughts on it, that this communications ecosystem is just what you'd think any ecosystem would be.
It's a platform for evolution and stuff's evolving very rapidly. That's why I said it was not called for, it was not designed, it's just evolving.
You know, no one directed from on high for Zuckerberg to design Facebook, who God knows what exact reason he actually did it for.
Maybe it was just to get laid, who knows. But it's ended up by good execution and by being at the right place and right time to have created an unprecedented way for people to communicate on a global basis,
which we have no experience in dealing with. So I would put those themes out there as ones that would be interested in getting your thoughts on is global scale, complexity,
and the fact that we have an evolved and radically new communications platform in which to try to do sense making.
Yeah. Okay, we'll come back to the complexity. I'll start with the communications platform.
So, interesting thing about human communication is, even if we're trying to share true information, it's hard to decouple it from agentic interest.
So, if I'm sharing something with you, you're taking it as something that could inform your better choice making, but I'm also taking it as an opportunity to influence your choice making in a direction that's possibly beneficial for me.
So, lying is not a new thing. People have lied or at least just created spin or marketing since forever.
And you can read Sun Tzu and see that the whole idea of narrative warfare and info warfare is a thousands of year old idea and that people actually really crafted how do you get deception right to win war and run kingdoms and things like that.
And then as the media technology changed, the ability to do effective influence increased. Obviously, with the written word, you could scale a message much further and then with the Gutenberg press and then with various forms of broadcast.
And then whoever it is that controlled broadcast has such an unprecedented influence over the whole population. There's so much power to that that those who are seeking to win at the game of power seek to capture and influence the broadcast.
And so we can see that when we look at like broadcast stations being consolidated financially right now by Murdoch or Koch brothers or whatever, that's also not new, right? You see Henry Luce setting up the media empire a century ago seeking to do a similar thing.
Let's own all the magazines. So even when you had that broadcast scenario, there was manipulation that was involved. But from a social coherency point of view, as you mentioned, when there were three channels, it's pretty likely that even if what everyone is seeing has some distortion, they're at least seeing the same thing.
And so they can agree or they can disagree and they did fervently, but they had some basis of shared information about the world to agree or disagree on because most of us have no information about most of the topics that we are passionate about through direct info.
We weren't in Beirut. We weren't in Wuhan. We weren't in DC or Portland when the process happened. All of our beliefs about it are being mediated to us by media.
And in the current information environment, I can find, you know, a Trump supporter and a Biden supporter in two different parts of the country who can scroll their Facebook feed for 10 hours and not necessarily see a single piece of news in common, even though they're seeing news the whole time.
So there's basically no shared reality basis for them to even be in reaction to and democracy just can't work in an environment where people can't have effective conversations and they don't have any shared base reality.
And so we can see that in the US there is no real kind of sense of who are our countrymen where we feel some fealty across, for instance, a left-right divide at this moment that creates national unity and the ability to have something like a democracy or a public or participatory governance.
We have instead so much internal enmity and in-group-out-group dynamics that, for the most part, more enmity than we have towards any external forces, that that's, of course, driving the breakdown and lack of coherence of that system as a whole.
And so when we look at the movement from broadcast to internet, and one of the things we see is like, you were there, you remember well, there was this kind of libertarian idea that that would be awesome because it would remove the ability of a few people who held the monopoly on broadcast
to control the message, everyone could put out their own stuff through YouTube, and maybe the best ideas would emerge to the top, which was like a naive, hopeful thing because when so much content gets produced that there's a billion search results for any topic
and no one could even, like it would take your whole life just to go through the search results for one topic. Then, of course, how do we create algorithms that curate all of this content becomes the central topic.
And so we see that with the YouTube recommendation algorithm and the Facebook newsfeed algorithm, massive machine learning indexing technologies that can actually sort through that.
And then the question is, what is their basis to sort through the information and put it in front of you. And when we had broadcast, the TV couldn't get a lot of information about me directly.
So it had to have very generalized kind of marketing. It could tell more ratings or less ratings. But when I'm on my newsfeed and it can pay attention to what I click on, what I share, how long my mouse hovers over things.
By the time I have liked 300 things on Facebook, the algorithm can predict what I'm going to like better than my spouse can, and then develop a psychographic model of me that is actually better than any kind of psychologist psychographic model of me could be.
Then it curates all the content to my interest, which in a way, but my interest in a very specific sense because these platforms are businesses that have their own agentic interest.
And their agentic interest is that they have a business model that's based on selling advertising, and they sell more advertising by maximizing user engagement, mostly meaning time on site and also sharing and things like that.
And most people don't plan, I'd like to spend six hours on Facebook today, and their life would be better if they got off and went and did something else.
So time on site is usually maximized by getting people to not be in their prefrontal cortex remembering what their plans are, but to get hooked somehow.
So how to put the content in front of me that will maximally hook me ends up being a combination of appealing to emotional triggers and cognitive bias.
When there's so much information and I don't know most of it, my relevance filters are going to pay attention to the things I already know are important, which is going to have me double down on bias.
And the things that scare me or anger me are worth more of my time for kind of evolutionary protective reasons.
So as there's so much content, and there's micro targeted psychographic information about me, and it's curating that feed uniquely to me, not even to a demographic profile, but n equals one optimization to maximize time on site for everyone.
Then everyone gets more bias, and everyone gets more emotionally hijacked.
So you end up in a world where you have not just two competing points of view, but increasingly more fractured narrative camps.
All of whom have less shared Venn diagram overlap with each other.
And everyone is both more certain and more outraged while simultaneously being more wrong because the complexity is such that no one can really do epistemology.
People believe yes or no on climate change or whatever the topic is and almost nobody has tried to read all of the data and model it themselves.
So there's a kind of epistemic nihilism of I can't possibly really make sense of it.
So if I can't make sense of it, there's almost more of an unconscious move to a tribalism of like who are the leaders that I want to be led by and who are the in groups that I want to identify with.
So this environment, this media technology in particular, I think is destructive to shared sense making and to individual sense making in a way that is totally unprecedented in the history of the world and the scale at which it happens.
And then that environment, and it's not that Facebook is trying to make people more radically left or more radically right.
That's a second order effect that's an externality of it trying to maximize their time on site, but using a profoundly powerful AI to do so that's really effective at it that has these very tight empirical feedback loops.
But as it's doing that and everyone is kind of getting more certain and more bias, it becomes easier for other actors that want to move people in a direction to just kind of push them further in the direction they're already trending.
And so then it becomes very easy for other state actors or other kind of, you know, non state actors but that have interest to be able to come and make the right become more right make the left become more left by just feeding them more of the stuff that they're already oriented to going into the chat rooms and being able to exacerbate certain types of dynamics.
And so the narrative and info warfare to turn the enemy against itself becomes radically easy in that information ecology.
Indeed, indeed. Yeah, let me respond to several different points you made, which are good. One, you're right. I've been doing this since 1980. I worked for the source, the very first consumer online system.
And I can tell you, we all thought we were doing great work for democracy and that in the future, everybody might have access to all the information they need and democracy would be better than it ever been before.
How naive we were. On the other hand, I would suggest that there was a phase change that occurred in the economics of online that actually caused it to trend towards the direction that you so vividly outlined.
And that was prior to 2004, 2005, most information sources on the Internet that were of any quality or depth were paid. And so there was an alignment between the person that operated the service and the user to get you the most value as quickly as possible
and get you the hell off because they didn't want to pay for your time online, which was also more expensive in those days.
Around 2004, 2005, the economics changed such that platforms and bandwidth became cheap enough that you could actually fully fund a service at scale by advertising alone.
And suddenly the dynamic that you described came into being where the business model wasn't in alignment with the customer, which is to provide them as much value for as little time online as possible, but quite the opposite.
The revenue source was tightly coupled to time online. So now the platforms, think of them, you know, Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc., have a overriding business incentive to maximize your time online.
And as you say, you add in the new capability to do group of one micro targeting on what hooks you the most, what hijacks your attention to keep you online for as long as possible.
And then to loop back with, I guess you'd call it dopamine hijacking, which is to provide the most vivid, the most insane.
There's been a lot of work on the fact that, for instance, that fake news, which is intentionally designed to be high impact will spread five or six times farther than true news on a similar topic.
And we all know how easy it is to get sucked into, you know, violent arguments on the internet rather than a thoughtful discussion about the pros and cons of a piece of literary fiction.
And so, again, these were not designed in the sense that someone said, hmm, I think we should hijack people's dopamine to make them feel bad about themselves and their neighbors, so that we can have a great business.
It went step by step in kind of a natural evolutionary way from the introduction of fully advertising based products in the 2004 and 2005 timeframe.
And now we get to the next step, which I haven't seen that much about yet.
If we have a system based on dopamine hijacking, if you know anything at all about drug addiction or not so much addiction, but, you know, the adverse effect of certain illegal drugs, there's the concept of dopamine exhaustion.
You know, why do people who inject amphetamines day after day eventually go insane and see their life fall apart?
It's because of dopamine exhaustion.
Dopamine no longer sends a meaningful signal.
You build up a tolerance and you end up in despair, essentially, and depression.
You wonder why things like suicides are on the uptake and why drugs that calm that kind of despair like heroin and other kinds of depressive drugs, you know, a exponential uprise.
Because one of the results of this kind of dopamine hijacking platform is dopamine exhaustion and the related despair.
So I thought I'd put those things in and then again, just sort of point out maybe name something.
The fact that non-state actors and people who are operating in bad faith can use the same tools that evolved for advertising.
I think about that as the affordances of the platforms.
And again, if we think of the platforms as evolutionary contexts, one of the things that starts to shape what gives life in an ecosystem are the affordances, i.e. what can be done.
So once you have micro-targeting that was designed for, you know, rather mundane, you know, trying to sell you a stereo that you don't need or a slightly fancier version of ketchup or something,
those same affordances can now be used for ways that they probably were not anticipated in originally, you know, for non-state actors or state actors or political actors of any sort.
So again, step back a little bit and think about the ecosystem and the evolutionary context in which it provides.
So yeah, it's actually worth just taking a moment on this topic of hypernormal stimuli and dopamine to just simplify radically.
Dopamine is a molecule associated with motivational networks, other things as well, pattern matching and things that we would have motivations,
but kind of feels good to do it again, type dynamics.
And so the things that give dopamine hits evolutionarily are things that also would confer a selective advantage.
And so let's say in a natural hunter-gather environment, pre-agriculture, most of, you know, human evolutionary time has been, it was pretty hard to get salt.
It was pretty hard to get a lot of fat, pretty hard to get sugar because, you know, small amount of berries, lean meat.
And so salt, fat and sugar conferred evolutionary advantage because of caloric density and electrolytes to make it through famine.
So there was an increased dopamine hit on that over, say, leafy stuff that was quite abundant, but didn't have the same kind of caloric density.
Obviously salt doesn't have caloric density, but the other ones.
And so those people who worked hardest to get those things would have made it through more.
So there would have been also a selection for kind of strong dopaminergic response to that.
But that was evolutionarily useful in a time where it was very hard to get those things.
So then we move forward to modern environments where we can make fast food that is just combinations of salt, fat and sugar.
And like run the experiments for maximum palatability, make it not stuff that doesn't require chewing too much.
And we get obesity epidemics because the dopaminergic dynamics haven't changed, but they're no longer evolutionarily adaptive.
Now they're actually anti-adaptive.
And so we basically extracted the dopamine part from the associated evolutionary context and the kind of nutrient part.
And now that creates its own kind of catastrophic risk.
And what fast food is to food and nutrition is the same thing that porn is to sexuality and relationship.
Take something that has a normal dopaminergic process associated with something that has evolutionary advantage for raising kids and bonding and etc.
And just extract the hypernormal stimuli parts devoid of any of the things that would actually be relevant to human life.
And the same is true for what social media relationships are to social dynamics and relationships in general.
And we can see that from a kind of marketing perspective or from a business perspective,
every business owner wants to maximize the lifetime value of the customer and maximize the number of customers.
And addiction is a really good way to maximize the lifetime value of a customer.
And so from the supply side, figuring out how to get marketing that manufacturers demand and even to the point of manufacturing addiction is a straightforwardly profitable thing.
And so we can see a McDonald's or a hostess or a Phillips Morris or whatever could do that well in the domain of chemistry.
But now we have dopaminergic hits that are just as powerful as that that are photon mediated rather than chemically mediated,
can be sent out to everyone, can be personalized to them based on empirical feedback,
and that we can start giving kids with the screens that they're looking at and touching as children
and not control in the way that we would control for you have to be 18 for a cigarette or 21 for alcohol or whatever else.
So I think understanding our susceptibility to hypernormal stimuli and the perverse incentives to optimize hypernormal stimuli
and then for each company on its own to optimize hypernormal stimuli but then for a company that is a curator of other things
where its motive is to maximize your engagement and your engagement with all the things that are maximally sticky for you maximize your engagement for it in total
and to really get that the kind of machine learning AI that's running the Facebook algorithm or the Google YouTube algorithm is a more powerful AI than the one that beat Casparov at chess
that that is maximizing for hypernormal stimuli across every axis for you that it can in the platform.
It's an important piece of context to understand and for us to really think seriously about how do we as individuals and parents and whatever create be cognizant of that
and create some resilience and protection to it factoring how profound it is and as a society how do we start to remove the perverse incentive for hypernormal stimuli
because when we talk about what is a healthy civilization what are the right indices we know it's not just GDP per capita.
I would say one of the inverse indices is addiction the more addiction a society has the less healthy it is writ large and so this is a this a meaningful part of the conversation.
I think that's a very deep insight I don't think I've ever heard it described quite that way but a measure of addictive behavior across all modalities is actually kind of a measure of anti sovereignty.
Yeah exactly.
That's actually deep I'm actually gonna think about that for a second at least in the background but while I'm processing it in the background.
