set of categorical objects onto another set of categorical objects. So just by looking at the
structural form of even, I think, sort of canonical architectures in deep learning,
you can tell a lot about the causal dependencies, the conditional
dependencies that generated the kind of data that you try to classify or to encode.
I see. Professor, this has been amazing. So the final question, the last question that
is going to be a very non-technical, I hope, like a simple and nice question to end this talk,
a light question that I'm sure many people watching would be interested to know your opinion about.
Will we ever fully understand how the brain works and how far have we come at the moment?
Right. A simple question. Or is it a
long difficult one? I appreciate your attempt to ask a light question.
I try. The lightest question one could ask. I think we've come an enormous way and there is an
enormous way to go. And I think there are some principled issues about the understandability
of ourselves that actually get into some deep questions about consciousness and metacognition
and the kind of creatures we are and, of course, the kind of curious creatures we are and have to
be in order to exist. So I'm thinking here of things like David Chalmers' meta-problem or meta-hard
problem. So now in philosophy, the question has moved away from what is it like to be or to see
red. Why do we spend all our time puzzling about the fact that we can see red or experience things?
And, of course, that speaks to this hierarchical model of Jonathan Model, where parts of this
Jonathan Model now have a construct of meanness and meanness in particular experiential contexts,
hence the metacognitive aspects when you think about very deep Jonathan models.
I'm sorry. What do you mean by meanness?
Oh, that's selfhood. The idea that you are... So you have something which you could argue
many lower forms of life, possibly not dogs and cats, but sort of possibly birds, don't have.
You have, a part of your Jonathan Model is a hypothesis or a fantasy that you are a person
and that you are in charge of orchestrating your perceptual influence in your deep Jonathan
models and moving and secreting. Now, you don't need to have that hypothesis or explanation in
order to function quite vibrantly. It's quite a sophisticated being, like a bird, for example.
But you have that, which suddenly creates the opportunity to think about counterfactual ways
of me being. So when I said meanness, I just meant me in inverted commas, less.
Selfhood. Oh, meanness. Sorry. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry.
Just your question. Will we ever be able to understand ourselves? I think it's a lovely
question in the sense that the answer to that may hold the secret to awareness and particular
self-awareness, mean awareness, selfhood, and what particular kinds of Jonathan models you would
have to have in order to even ask the question, am I itself? And then the philosophers question,
can I understand myself? These are really, really, very, very literally deep problems
that rest upon deep hierarchical Jonathan models. I see. Perfect. Thank you so much,
Professor Friston. It was indeed an honor to have this talk with you. I really enjoyed it.
I hope that I didn't try to tire you out too much. I know it took a long time.
He did. And I'm exhausted, but thrilled to have spoken to you. I really enjoyed talking to you.
Thank you so much. Thank you so much, Professor. And I'm truly, truly sorry for taking too much,
is taking too much of your time because it's like one interesting argument brought another one,
and then it brought another one. And I apologize for that, but it was a priceless experience for me.
Well, thank you very much. We could have gone all night, but now I'm worried about all your editing
you have to take. But that's your problem, not mine. I got to have a nice talk with you.
Yes, exactly. Exactly. Thank you so much. Have a lovely evening. Thank you so much. Bye.
