Hello and welcome everyone. It's July 13th, 2023. We're here in Physics as Information Processing
with the third lecture by Chris Fields. So please check out the course website,
COTA document, where you can submit questions, check out the recordings and descriptions of
all sessions and register if you want to participate in one of the discussion sections.
So thank you again, Chris, to you. Thank you and welcome to Physics as Information Processing
Session 3, which is about quantum reference frames. So in this course, we've talked about
quantum information theory, which we characterized as a general theory that describes the exchange
of information, exchange of finite information between two finite agents that are separated by
some boundary. And we emphasize that this is a topological theory, not a geometric theory,
so it makes no assumptions about an embedding space time.
And last time, we showed how to characterize this boundary script B as an array of N,
some finite N quantum bits or qubits, and how to characterize the interaction of the agents,
A and B, with the boundary as an alternating cycle of preparing and measuring the qubits in
this array. And we showed that their interaction could be represented as a sum of operators,
each of which act on just one of the qubits. And we also talked about the need for each
of the agents, A and B, to choose a reference frame for their interaction with the qubits
that defined which way was up. So what the orientations of the qubits meant,
and emphasize that the two observers, A and B, could choose different reference frames,
so different ways of measuring and preparing their qubits that use different meanings for
the idea of up for each qubit. And we ended the last session with a pointer forward toward the
quantum formulation of the free energy principle, which can be stated as the claim that interacting
systems behave in a way that aligns their reference frames. And pointed out at that time
that what this means is that the two agents, A and B, approach entanglement asymptotically,
and that therefore the FEP is a classical limit of the principle of uniterity,
which is the core principle of quantum theory. So we'll see in this session why this is true.
So what we'll talk about today is what reference frames are in general,
how they make observations and actions meaningful, so how they give physics a semantics,
and then we'll talk about the free energy principle.
So what is a reference frame? The idea that physics involves reference frames goes back
at least to Galileo, but was probably familiar well before that, just not formalized in the
way that Galileo formalized it. So the key idea can be thought of in terms of motion,
and you're all familiar, for example, with riding a bicycle or driving a car,
and seeing the world as if it's passing by you at some velocity, with some velocity.
And of course, with respect to the world, you're passing by it with some velocity.
And this idea that velocity is not absolute, but that's relative to some observer who measures it
in some reference frame is the foundation for theories of relativity. So Galileo developed
his theory of relativity, which basically was just a way of converting from classical
velocities measured by one observer to classical velocities measured by another observer that
was moving with respect to the first one. And this provided the foundation for Einstein's theories
of relativity, which modified Galileo's by adding the concept that the observers have to change
information and can only exchange it at the speed of light, which is finite.
So this idea in physics has a long history. Of course, the core idea is that measurements are
always with respect to something or other. And the something or other is a reference frame,
and different agents can choose different reference frames. And this idea is very old. Here we have
a picture of a nubus choosing a feather as the reference frame with which to measure the heart
of the pharaoh. So this goes back to well before the common era. This is about 2000 BCE. So this
is a very old idea that's been elaborated over the centuries as science has developed. And in
the 90s, a fairly big change in how this idea was thought about occurred. In classical physics,
reference frames were always thought of as mathematical abstractions. And an observer and
a reference frame were more or less identified by Galileo. And that identification is carried
forward into Einstein, who thinks about observers, for example, sitting on photons and observers in
spaceships and observers riding on railroad trains and this sort of thing. And always that just means
think of a reference frame that's doing something or other. So a reference frame
in classical physics is essentially just a coordinate system. And these abstract coordinate
systems can be employed in thought experiments. And so they are a way to illustrate classical
intuitions about motion. And in the 90s, as quantum information theory developed, it was realized
that a reference frame actually consists of a physical object. I mean, even in the picture
from the Egyptian tomb, the reference frame is a physical feather. And that means that
the reference frame itself is described by quantum theory. It's some quantum system.
And if you think about reference frames that are familiar, for example, meter sticks for
measuring distance or clocks for measuring time or gyroscopes or batteries or even the
Earth's gravitational fields, which typically defines up for us, those are all physical objects
that can be described by quantum theory. Well, this was an important insight because it led
to the realization that reference frames as quantum systems are unique. And uniqueness in
quantum theory is very strong. There's the no cloning theorem, which states that you can't
reproduce exactly reproduce any unknown quantum state. And that applies to reference frames
because they encode what Bartlett at all in that paper called non fungible information,
which just means information that can't be completely represented in any finite bit strain.
So unless you know the state of a reference frame, you can't clone it since these reference frames
encode more than any bit strings worth of information in their quantum phases of
their unique and their states are unknown. And the consequence of this is that if Alice wants
Bob to use her reference frame to make a measurement, she can't just send him a description.
She has to actually send the reference frame. And this has an important consequence for physics
because it makes all replicate measurements approximate because observers obviously aren't
using exactly the same physical objects as their reference frames. But there's a deeper
implication of this, which is that Alice's ultimate rock bottom reference frame is actually
implemented by her body by her brain. And using any external reference frame
requires having this internal reference frame that makes the external reference frame
meaningful and usable. So for example, this thing is a piece of a meter stick, a third of
a meter stick. But for me to use it to make measurements, I have to actually have some
concept of distance. And that concept of distance is implemented by my nervous system.
And that implementation is my reference frame for length. And it's what gives meaning to
any external measurement of length. It's what makes my measurements of length actionable by me
using my effectors or action capabilities, whatever they are. So my internal reference frames
are what make information I get from the world actionable. And in Bateson's sense of differences
that make a difference, actionability is the core of semantics, something that is meaningful
if I can do something about it. So this idea that we all contain embodied reference frames
gives physics a semantics by giving observers a semantics. And this is new. This is an idea
that never really appeared in physics before, that measurements automatically had to have
some kind of semantics. But reference frames give semantics to measurements.
So here's an example of an embodied reference frame. This is the reference frame that bacteria
use for chemotaxis, i.e. to move toward molecules in the environment that they like,
like sugars, and to move away from molecules that they don't like, like acids. And it's been
worked out in great detail over decades of experimental work. And this is a rough schematic
of the reference frame has three parts. There's the measurement part, which is conveniently located
in the front of the bacterium. And it consists of a bunch of receptors that probe the environment.
And they can bind molecules, which are called ligands, out in the environment. And when they
bind them, they send a signal into the back of the bacterium. And it turns out that there's a
little miniature reference frame attached directly to these ligands, which is this
R and B system, which controls the ligands, not the ligands, the receptor sensitivity.
Then the back of the reference frame is the action component. And it consists of a set of molecules
that control a motor, a molecular motor that derives the flagella on the bacteria. And the
flagella allows it to swim forwards or turn in some other direction. And depending on how it spins,
the creature either goes in the direction of something it likes or it stops and turns around.
And the stuff in the middle is a little molecular feedback loop that represents the amount of ligand
in the environment that the bacterium expects to see. So this is the middle of the reference frame,
and it defines the default value for what the bacterium is observing in its environment.
And if you're thinking in terms of the free energy principle or Bayesian inference, then you'll
immediately see the concentration of this molecule is encoding a prior probability. The bacterium's
prior probability for what its environment is like. And the zero point, the default value
of that encoding, is the ligand concentration in which the bacterium does nothing.
So a QRF in general can be characterized as an expected value, which is here,
the concentration of this molecule, key y phosphorylated, plus a bunch of computation,
which is all the rest of the things in this diagram. So this is a very simple
QRF that's embodied by a bacterium. Here's a more complicated QRF that's
embodied by eukaryotic cells, or more complicated cells like our cells. And this is the reference
frame that makes decisions about whether cells are going to divide. So on the top, you see the
cells' membrane, and there are all sorts of receptors sticking out of it that detect hormones
and neurotransmitters and growth factors, and this, that, and the other thing, many of which
are produced by other cells. And those receptors communicate via a lot of chemistry with the
nucleus, which is contained in another membrane, and so serves as, in a sense, the outside upon
which the reference frame is acting. And what this reference frame does is control
the transcription of large numbers of molecules from DNA. So it basically controls what proteins
the cell is making. And those proteins end up doing something like restructuring the cytoplasm
and actually driving cell division. And the stuff in the middle of this reference frame,
which I've labeled the integrative center, are three molecules called RAF, MEK, and ERC,
and they're connected by positive, by bi-directional feedback loops, and they basically
negotiate the default value of the environment at which the cell does nothing. So they're the middle
of the reference frame that represents the cell's expectation values about what's going on in its
environment. So you can imagine now what reference frames encoded by our nervous system look like.
They're extremely complicated and exist at multiple scales, from the scale of molecules
in cells to the scale of large-scale connections between parts of our brains.
So how do we represent all this stuff? There are many ways to do this, but this is a particularly
simple way. It assumes that whatever's in the middle, which is here called C prime,
is the most general thing that the inputs can give information to, and the most general thing
that can give information to the outputs. And most general here has a category theoretic definition.
So it could be stated in a way that's equivalent across many different
specific mathematical forms. But if you're familiar with neural networks, this will look
to you a lot like the skeleton of a variational autoencoder, and that's basically what it is.
And I don't want to deal with this formalism except to say that it exists and is very convenient,
except to say that we can attach this kind of formal diagram as a representation of a QRF
to our representation of the boundary between two interacting agents. And we can use
these formal structures to drive the measurement operators that actually implement physical
changes on this boundary. And I'll represent this whole business with just a triangle labeled Q
for some QRF that's attached to the boundary. And we can use this simple notation then
to investigate what sorts of structures one gets when one starts to think about systems
as implementing specific QRFs. And here's the structure of the minimal system that we can
really think of as an interesting observer. And this is a system that has some QRF that I've
called E that looks at its environment, the part of its environment that it can actually
observe and act on. And it defines a sector of the boundary of which mathematically is just
the image of this QRF E that the system can manipulate. So this is the part of the environment
or the part of the boundary that the system actually sees and can do something about.
And for this observer to be interesting, it needs to be able to detect the difference between
what it sees now and what it saw just then so that it can decide whether to take some action or
other. So it needs a memory and that requires another QRF that has some allocated piece of
the boundary. Recall the boundary is where classical information gets written in this
purely quantum theoretic formalism. So it needs a memory sector that that QRF could act on.
And then in order to do this computation and specifically in order to write information
to the boundary in order to actually flip bits on the boundary, it needs free energy. So the rest
of its boundary gets devoted to extracting free energy from the environment and exhausting free
energy waste heat, in other words, into the environment. And so it has this nice little
thermodynamic cycle that drives everything else. And finally, in order to tell now from just a
second ago, the information in memory, it needs a clock that marks the information in memory as
not current, so as past information. And if it can store multiple memory records,
it needs to be able to count and say, this piece of remembered information is actually
more recent than that piece over there. So it has to implement a little internal clock. And that
clock is its internal time QRF. And we've seen that QRFs act on boundaries. This clock acts on a
boundary, but it doesn't act on B. It acts on an internal boundary that's essentially the boundary
between it, the clock, and the points at the ends of these QRFs that actually encode information
that's either read from the environment or written to the environment. So already this minimal
observer has a little bit of hierarchical structure, which is that its clock has to, in some sense,
be higher up in the hierarchy than the parts, the QRFs that interact directly with the environment.
So if you have a structure like this, you face a metabolic trade-off. For a fixed amount of
energy that you can extract from the environment, you can allocate it either into learning more
about the environment or remembering more about what you learned before. And so any system has to
make this decision about how they're going to use energy. Are they going to devote it to learning
more or remembering more? And your laptop makes that decision. Memory is cheap for your laptop.
Your brain makes that decision. Memory is much more expensive for your brain,
and all cells have to make that decision. And the universal solution to this trade-off
is coarse-grading memory, remembering things in less detail than you saw them in the beginning.
Andrew, you have a comment. Yes, I wanted to ask a question now before it gets too late. So
two or three slides ago, when we were looking at the diagram of the cone, co-cone diagrams,
I was wondering if the classic bias identified with measurement and preparation,
those correspond to sensory and action degrees of freedom in the earlier picture with the bacteria,
and the classifier in the middle, in that picture, would it correspond to the default chemical
concentration? Yes, exactly. That crossing point in the middle is specifically where the default
is encoded. Thank you for pointing that out. Okay, so let's follow the consequences of this
metabolic issue. If you have a system that's a little bit smarter that our minimal system
that can actually detect and measure the states of objects, it has to do even more work
because it has to encode even more QRFs. So think of measuring the state of some object,
like a voltmeter in a laboratory. If I tell you to go into the lab and tell me what the voltmeter
is reading, then the first thing you have to do is find the voltmeter. And your process of finding
the voltmeter is independent of your process of reading what it's actually saying on its dial.
So in order to measure the state of an object, you have to have two QRFs, one that lets you find the
object, and then the other that lets you measure the state of interest of the object. And we call
these the R-sector for reference that lets you find the object and the P-sector for pointer,
because old instruments used to have pointers on dials that read analog numbers.
But what thinking about object identification tells you is that every object that you can identify
leads to having to sector both the informative part of your boundary and the memory part of your
boundary into two new sectors. One to store information about object identification and
